Hello everyone and welcome to interview with the experts. Uh my name is Alan Lewis and I am an associate professor of medicine at Mayo Clinic. I'm joined together by my colleague uh Dr. Roslin Adigan who's one of our advanced heart failure and transplant cardiologists with a special interest in cardiac amalidosis. So thank you very much Dr. for joining us. >> Thank you for having me. >> What we were hoping is maybe you could start by providing us with a bit of an overview of what is amaloid. >> Oh, thanks uh Dr. Lewis. So, you know, amoidosis is a broad spectrum of diseases that are result from misfolding of proteins and these proteins uh aggregate into forming fibbrals. So, the fibbrals are actually what invade the intracellular cells of any organ essentially and causing endorgan dysfunction. Additionally, most amaloid, not all, could be toxic and also cause some injury to the cell where they to the tissue where they infiltrate. Um, interestingly enough, you know, amaloid has been around for a while. In the 1800s, it was initially considered an autopsy finding and described in do in the literature as waxy and gelatinous. And initially because it's stained with iodine, it was thought to be a starch. And I think we can all appreciate the 1800s is the evolution of microbiology and hisystologology. And the characterization of this structure actually made it known that this was actually a protein substance. And since then they were able to subtype it and see that this is a protein and actually there are different subtypes. And right now there are over 30 amaloidogenic proteins um that we know that cause disease. But I think for the sake of our discussion would focus on the two most common ones which are the hemoglobin light chains AL amaloid and the transyrene amaloidosis that tend to affect the heart. Why cardiac? We all know that cardiac involvement with any form of amaloid usually is a pro poor prognostic indicator and that's why we a lot of emphasis is placed on this because earlier identification and treatment improves outcomes. >> That sounds great. Thanks. Maybe you can tell us a little bit more about how do we identify and treat these patients. >> Absolutely. So, one of the biggest challenges that has plagued the amaloid doses community and I think we're doing so much better now is how do we identify the patients early? Most patients present with non-specific symptoms and we know we've all been in clinic where patients come in they don't feel well um they're short of breath and a lot of times we think of a lot of things but we don't think of amaloid doses and even as providers we've learned about amaloid maybe when we're medical school but you typically don't see it and we've been far removed but in the last 10 years there's been an evolution in imaging modalities and now with the with the approval of therapies to treat it we're seeing more patients pats present. So how do we identify these patients? I always like to think of clinical indicators and imaging factors. The reason why that's important is this patients present with clinical symptoms and a provider has to think of amaloid because if you don't think of it, it's easy to miss. So I always say when patients present with heart failure symptoms um and you start the evaluation maybe you look at an angagram there's no obstructive disease or they present with maybe other non-specific symptoms like fatigue uh shortness of breath and you you try to um interrogate their their other clinical history um and you see things like maybe they've had arrhythmias um or maybe they've also had some red flag symptoms that we talk about that would be something like um has this patient had carpal tunnel and I think that's a big one. And some of these patients you know a median of about 7 to 10 years before they present with overt heart failure symptoms they have clinical they have they might have carponal neuropathy atrial fibrillation spinal stenosis. So when you start to see those associations that should in peak your curiosity to look out for amaloid. Something else that has happened I think in our society is because of the accessibility of echo cardiogram and imaging in general patients actually come to diagnosis by getting a echo cardiogram or some imaging in the setting of maybe evaluating them for a complaint and we see some typical findings. So those typical findings in the right clinical context is another way that we also have patients present to our clinic. So what are those findings? We always talk of increased wall thickness. But I want to caution people because increased wall thickness can be for a number of things. So it has to be in the right clinical context. I would say if you have a patient um with no other alternative explanation for the increased wall thickness, think amaloid. Something else that we also like to re say in imaging is increase wall thickness, reduce annular velocity that shows that the myioardium itself is quite abnormal. And then we talk about a speckled appearance and the amaloid fibros they reflect a kind of a sheen a waxy look that catches your eye. So thickened walls, reduced annular velocity, the speckled appearance of the mioardium and more importantly I know people think of this a lot and is one that people tend to catches people's attention is the abnormal global longitudinal strain that has an apical sparing pattern. You see those signs imaging indices in the right clinical context think amaloid. The last thing I would like to say is this. We all have some patients we see in clinic. Maybe they've had hypertension for years and you find out that for some reason that patient is no longer tolerating their medication. They're starting to be hypotensive. They don't feel well. Autonomic dysfunction is another big clue. So I say clinical findings, imaging findings. And then one other thing, laboratory biomarkers. So remember I said these fibbrals can infiltrate into the intracellular space and cause my injury. In cardiac amalloidosis you start to see abnormal cardiac enzyme biomarkers troponin and also you see the antiprob which is indicative that there's some increased wall stress of injury. Those indices should always pick our intrigue and make us think of amalloid. >> That sounds good. You mentioned echoc cardiography as sort of investigation. >> Um you know you sometimes want to escalate investigations from there to make a more definitive diagnosis. Do you mind talking a little bit about cardiac MRI that nuclear PYP scan that we hear of and cardiac biopsy who when when should we do these things? Great question and I think you ask a very important question that we like to educate providers who see these patients because following the diagnostic algorithm would help you not miss the diagnosis or mistype the type of amaloid doses that have dire consequences. So when you have a clinical suspicion that a patient has amaloidosis um one of the first steps is or maybe they have an imaging is get imaging modality a echocardiogram or a cardiac MRI. So there are certain features on the echo cardiogram which I referred to earlier that would peique your curiosity and on MRI what we see is some abnormal kinetics of the moardium difficulty null in the mioardium we see edema as well so you look at the extracellular volume those things will also be very suspicious for amaloid dosis while those are good initial tests one thing that I have to emphasize is cardiac MRI does not tell you what kind of amaloid there is so when you have a clinical suspicion and you have imaging echo or MRI, the next critical step is that you screen for monoconal proteins. And we want this you know to be very important because screening for monoconal proteins will help you identify the imunoglobiline lightchain form of um amaloidosis which we refer to al amaloid which has a very different pathway for treatment as opposed to atr transyen amaloidosis which is transyen which is manufactured in the liver and is treated separately. So once you get the monoconal when you screen for the monoconal proteins if you do find monoconal proteins then you go down a separate algorithm a separate path down the algorithm where you now get a tissue sample because in those patients we need either bone marrow biopsy or fat aspirate and that would help identify the amaloidosis and subsequently you also want to make sure that you are subtyping the kind of amaloidosis. Why is that important? You can have a monoconal protein that could be mono a monocchonal gumopathy of undetermined significance that we have to follow and that sometimes are called conccommatantly in patients with transit and amalloidosis. Now in the other pathway you have screened for monoconal protein and it is negative then the next step would be cintigraphy like rightfully mentioned in the United States we use a pyro phosphate scan and we have a visual assessment as well as other quantitative assessment of uptake um in these patients. So once you have a patient with a clinical suspicion the initial imaging test and you screen for the presence of a monoconal protein the next step would be if that screen is negative then you can proceed to a PYP or pyrophosphate scan to assess quantitative really and visually. The one thing we also say because there are numerous protocols out there is that when you do perform these we liked that performed with spec imaging that becomes very important because we don't want to misdiagnose patients where we see uptake that could represent the blood pole. We want to make sure the uptake is in the myioardium and really assess and get a good quality study. So once you do that then a question that can come up is can you have a negative centigraphy skin and still have have amaloid doosis. See I'm a mind reader now. So it is possible and we know that some fibro stain better than others. So what we always say is that you know back before the evolution of imaging in the area of amaloidosis a lot of times we did get endomyioardial biopsies. We don't do that as much anymore. However, in those situations where you have a high clinical suspicion, but the centiggraphy study comes back equivocal or maybe negative, you can proceed down to get an endoc cardio endomyioardial biopsy because there are some patients that that is the way you reach the diagnosis. But ultimately when you reach a diagnosis it becomes important to screen to see if the transyrene amaloid dosis is a variant form which is where there is a mutation in the structure of the transitin molecule because that would be important in terms of screening family members and increase awareness versus if this is a wild type form of amaloidosis. Do we treat them differently? Well, there are certain drugs that have been approved in the poly neuropathy space which tends to be more of the way that some of the variant forms present as opposed to the wild type which predominantly presents with a cardiammyopathy. But mostly I think we're beginning to appreciate that they're mixed phenotypes and the most important thing is in patients who have variant forms they tend to present earlier and then we also want to make sure that their family members are aware so we can have enhanced surveillance in this population. Now not to forget the other hand because I think it's important when a patient has al amaloidosis this is the imunoglobiline lchain form of amaloidosis it's an emergency and we want to make sure that they get to a hematologist as soon as possible. So if you have or you identify a monoconal protein, I think it's important um especially for a provider uh to make sure that you have a collaborative practice with a hematologist to make sure that these patients also are subtyped and also they can be initiated on treatment. In the last 10 years, so much has happened in the world of amaloidosis. We have great therapies now. So it's not much of a dead sentence as people thought it used to be and patients are doing better. they're living longer and there's so many trials available that I think every patient should be given and afforded the best chance for management. >> That sounds great. You covered a lot. So, let me try and summarize and see that I've got this correct. >> But the first step is to get a blood test and you're looking for a monoconal gmopathy. Yes. If there is a monoconal gmopathy, then you want tissue. So, you want a bone marrow biopsy or you want a fat aspirate to type is this AL or not? >> Or not. Exactly. And then if that initial monoconal gmopathy screen on blood testing is negative then you're looking for is it another type of amaloid. So you're going to do one of those PYP nucleioigraphy you're looking for uptake on that. And then if that gives you the answer great if that's negative it can still be amaloid. And so if you're worried about amaloid despite that then you go for an endocardial biopsy. >> Absolutely. >> Okay good. I think I got that. And then you mentioned that if it's AL amaloid um this is an emergency. It's got to go to hematology and hematology treats with their usual range of medications. The other types of amaloid you mentioned that there's increasing treatment but I think they still come to us and cardiology to get those treatments. So >> do you want to give us a little bit of an overview of what treatments are available or who you know how do we decide on these things? And I recognize the space has expanded rapidly as you mentioned in the last 10 years. So >> yeah, very exciting though. So yes, so I would focus mostly on transit and amaloid doses which is what we see primarily in cardiology um and where we've had a lot of evolution and and treatment therapies being approved. But before I go there, there are a few types of amaloid doses rare but can still affect the heart. Unfortunately in those forms of amaloid we currently don't have therapies but we do support those patients when they if they present with cardiac amaloidosis or symptoms. So that would be your serum amaloid protein A and that you will see in patients with chronic inflammatory conditions. Then we have the Apo A1 and the Apo A4 which are hereditary forms of amaloidosis that can affect the heart. Not very common but it's still possible and those patients we still manage them manage their symptoms. Now in the area of trans thyroid amaloidosis in 2019 we had the first class of drugs approved which are the stabilizer therapy and these are medications that bind the tetramar transy transythine protein and prevents dissociation. So earlier on I described the p the physiology of amaloidosis where you have a tetramma transyin which in the body functions as a transporter of thyroxine and retinal binding protein. in patients who have the variant form of the disease and the variant form of the disease also in the past has been referred to as the familial form or the mutant form but the correct nomenclature right now is the variant form. Um we see that there is a mutation in certain sequences that can cause pathologic manifestations. So in those patients um you know we see a cardiammyopathy or polaropathy phenotype. On the other hand, we have the wild type patients in the past referred to as cenile amaloid doosis, but we know we see that in younger patients now then it was considered a old person's disease. Um and they've also in the past um been referred to as either the you know this the scenile amoidosis but now is referred to as wild type. Those patients don't have any described or known mutations and current medical therapies doesn't you know treats manages both well pretty well. If you have cardiomyopathy, the first class of drugs, the stabilizers, bind the transyten protein and prevents it from dissociating into the monomers and not forming the fibros that are very pathogenic pathologic. So what happens is in in the attract trial which was the clinical trial that approved the first therapy um the the stabilizer tamitus was shown to bind these tetramma and and at 18 months we saw a a discrim a drop um in in all cost mortality and also in the rate of CV hospitalizations. Additionally, not only does this affect mortality but morbidity, these patients improved in their functional capacity. They walked, you know, further and the rate of their decline was less. Additionally, when we look at quality of life scores, those patient also did better. So, so putting patients on a stabilizer therapy has mortality benefit and morbidity benefits. And this I think is a win-win situation in this community you know and in the last year interesting enough now we have two additional drugs. The second drug is also a stabilizer auroramedus works similarly at two to famed and in the clinical trial was also shown to reduce all course mortality and CV hospitalizations. Now this year we had a third drug and I think this is great for the community. Now this is the first time a silencer therapy is approved in the area of amaloid transyrene amalloid cardiomyopathy. Now this drug this drug was also shown to have mortality benefits and also CV events which was defined as recurrent uh CV visits or or hospitalizations. Now that drug works slightly different. So, viticerin which is the recently approved drug at the new kit on the block as I like to say is a subcutaneous administered drug that is given every 3 months and this is a small interfering RNA that knocks down transyen production in the liver. So with the stabilizer therapy I mentioned earlier they bind already formed transyatin the wild type or the variant and prevent further organ deposition and organ dysfunction. Now with silencer therapy these drugs actually stop or knock down the production of the normal or the varant form of transyretin and in that way also prevent further deposition and organ dysfunction and this is a very exciting time in the area of amlois. >> So that's great. So it sounds like the two major classes are the stabilizer of the protein and then now the ability to silence the genes that cause it. Yes, >> definitely sounds very exciting and changing rapidly. It's hard for the rest of us to keep up. So, thank you for sharing your expertise. >> Um, I guess we're coming to the end of our uh of our podcast here. Any particular words of wisdom you'd like to share with the audience or anything else you'd like to add? >> So, absolutely. If you don't think about amaloidosis, we always say in our clinic that you more than likely in the last 6 months you have if you haven't diagnosed a patient, you probably missed one. So you know now is not the time to miss a diagnosis. Patients are coming. If you have non-specific symptoms, if you have suggestive imaging findings in the right clinical context, we want you to think of amaloid doosis. And that's very important because now we have treatment for these patients. But also equally important is making sure we follow the diagnostic algorithm. So once you have a suspicion, the first step is to screen for monoconal proteins. When you screen for monoconal proteins, then you identify patients that you need to refer down the, you know, tissue pathway and maybe in collaborate with a hematologist to make sure if there's imunoglobuline light chains, you type it and those patients can be referred immedely for treatment. On the other hand, if there are no monoconal proteins, then you want to proceed to a centiggraphy with pyrohosphate scan. And in these patients, if you have an equivocal finding on the pyroofhosphate scan or negative and you still have a high clinical suspicion, those are the patients that we also want you to refer for endomyioardial biopsy because that's important. Now once you have the transine diagnosis, it becomes important to identify is this a variant form or is this wild type because now there's genetic testing. We have enhanced surveillance for family members because we follow the patient the youngest patient which is the index case and that way it gives us good guidance for the family and you know for the wild type we also know that there effective treatments available. Now I will round up by saying this. There's a very exciting research opportunity going and it's now almost I would say a primary prevention clinical trial going on where we're looking at is there any benefit to prophylactively treat people before they actually manifest symptoms because I think the most important thing in in diagnosing amoid patient is recognizing it early because the early we get patients on treatment the better they do. Right now what we have currently approved medications um they they reduce the rate of progression but they do not cause regression. They're exciting clinical trials in the pipeline that are answering that question that how do we reverse organ dysfunction and I think the next few years are going to be very exciting. So recognize the disease, screen the patients appropriately, refer patients that have monoconal protein appropriately for tissue biopsy and collaborative practice with with hematologists. And in the other route, if the monoconal protein is negative, we go down the centigraphy pathway. And the most important thing is making sure that we get the diagnosis and we're sending patients for treatment early. >> That sounds great. Thank you so much Dr. for all your expertise on cardiac amaloidosis and for sharing it with us and thank you for taking time out from your busy schedule to join us. >> I appreciate it. Thank you for having me. Thanks. At Mayo Clinic, relentless learning fuels worldclass care. I'm Dr. Mark Molen, wound clinic director of the Gondavascular Center at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. If today's episode gave you a fresh insight, imagine what a full course can do for your patients. Head to cbeducation mayo.edu and explore our live and online programs, quick ondemand modules, and CME accredited master classes, all created and taught by the very voices you trust here. Join thousands of clinicians who've already turned curiosity into expertise. Level up your practice now at cveducation.mayo.edu.