Welcome to the Mayo [music] Clinic opthalmology podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your co-host Dr. Brittney [music] Scrugs >> and I'm your co-host Dr. Eric Bothan. We are here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. >> Dr. Sophie Bacher is the chair of the department of opthalmology here at Mayo Clinic. She joins us today to share takeaways from the recent annual meeting of the American Academy of Opthalmology. >> Dr. Dr. Sophie Bachri is the McMillan Professor of Opthalmology, a vitra retinal surgeon and the chair of the department of opthalmology here at the Mayo Clinic. Dr. Bach's research focuses on pharmarmacology for age related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy and venus olusive disease. She is also principal investigator on numerous multic-center clinical trials on novel drugs for retinal disease. Dr. Bachi serves on editorial boards including the American Journal of Opthalmology and serves as a current board member for the Association of University Professors of Opthalmology and Women in Opthalmology and past board member of American Society of Retinal Specialists. She has won numerous awards recognizing her work in opthalmology and we are honored to have her not only as her chair but sit down with us today and discuss the recent meeting of the American Academy of Opthalmology. Welcome Dr. Becker. >> Thank you Eric and thank you Britney for having me today on the podcast. >> Yeah welcome. So first question. So you were the program director of the retina subsp specialty day. I love retina subsp specialty day. So my question for you is planning this, this must be like a huge undertaking. How do you do it? What is it like to plan this? And um why is it so important for our community? >> Yes. So uh so great questions. Um so I've been on the program committee for about four years and um during those four years every Tuesday evening myself and um Anna Strange who's been key to this and my three other uh program directors met um every Tuesday >> every Tuesday evening for about a year and it was quite a process to put together the topics the faculty you know gather the feedback from previous years and not only formal feedback, but of course the informal feedback that we hear from our colleagues. Um, and then we had to decide, you know, are we going to do anything new this year? Um, and so they were the basic, you know, sort of building blocks. Um, and an would always keep us, uh, you know, on track for our Tuesday evening. So, uh, I apologize, Britney, if I haven't been able to make any of your commitments on Tuesday evenings, but, uh, with all the teaching that you do, >> it all makes sense. >> Uh, so now it makes sense, right, where I've where I've been and what I've been doing. So um so yes uh it takes a it takes a very uh long time. Now uh the other thing is you know we had to decide you know what to do and one of the new things that we added this year is perspectives from other specialties because as retina specialists we tend to go to retina meetings a lot but you know maybe there are updates with neuropthalmology or you know cataract surgery that it's really important that that we know them. So we actually brought in experts for a synthesized talk um in various other specialties as well. This podcast is particularly fun because I think for one of the first times we're just going to we're talking about our recent academy meeting >> um and the unique position you have in in recently helping to lead the retinal um subday >> for me highlights the importance of how much subdays become a critical [snorts] if not um for some people the most valuable aspects of going to the academy. I I for my my in my journey 25 years ago um the meeting was the most important part and the subdays were a little bit of a smaller venue. Can you speak to just as as you just led this massive retina meeting, subday meeting, can you just talk about how valuable subdays have become >> at the academy because I just it seems like now it's >> it's really important for the run community >> and it's a very huge draw for the academy to have strong subdays but you know comment on that because in the leadership journey I would imagine your perspective is valued in that. >> Yeah. So to tell you how valuable um it it is I mean we had almost 4,000 uh attendees. So so that really speaks uh volumes. Um so as you know there are a lot of meetings in retina and every meeting has its flavor and its purpose and some meetings are more abstractbased, some case-based but if you're going to go to one meeting a year, you want that meeting to be highly curated with every topic covered. Um but yet you also want to have a place for new innovations as well. And so we very thoughtfully pick the topics, make sure that there isn't any overlap. And we had a place for what we call the late breakers uh where um uh where people can submit uh you know abstracts uh so that we can really hear the latest data. And so when people come you know it's almost like a course that they're going on. And I think that that's that's what's important that you have speakers who are acknowledged to be experts uh in their field. Uh you have the talks curated, but you also have a mix of panels and debates um and and new innovations as well. So I think that's why it's so popular. >> 4,000 attendees. >> Was that the biggest meeting so far? Is that >> for subday? >> I think so. Hm. Do you have any uh you know my appreciation of subday is it allows the specialists to go and showcase what's new in the field and what's coming but it also allows people that are attending the meeting that are not retina specialists or for my case as a pediatricologist they in pedes days when we've had them on that you allow the either trainees or comprehensive individuals to come and experience what's going on in the specialties. any any appreciation for how many of the 4,000 were core retina specialists versus broader AAO community? >> That's a great question. I certainly don't know the numbers, but we can certainly dig in. Um, but we do have a system at the academy such that when you register for one subsp specialty day, you can roam freely uh between the others. And I think that highlights how important it is to plan your journey into AAO because it can be quite overwhelming. >> Yeah, that's important to remember. Um, thanks for sharing that. So this every year has a theme correct. So the theme this year was bright ideas, bold discoveries. Is that accurate? >> Yes. Um so you know we chose that theme very very deliberately >> and uh what we wanted to do was reflect the creativity that's going on uh in our field. We wanted to reflect the innovation >> but also we wanted to reflect the bold discoveries what's coming out of the masses of data that we have uh in our field. Um, and as you know, when we get new discoveries, when we get new data, it can really challenge uh some of the existing paradigms we have. And so that was why we chose it. And hopefully the meeting reflected uh the title. Well, what did you think, Britney? >> I loved it. Yeah. >> Okay. for both of you, but for you as a leader, I just would say as someone who didn't get to attend, I was international at the time, but what from a scientific perspective, what areas stood out in retina that you were, you know, excited to hear about at Subday this year? >> So, in retina, we're constantly looking not just for therapies, but for cures. Okay? And now we might be somewhere in the future between a therapy and a cure. And a cure is what I define as a a one-time, you know, one-time treatment that that's done. And I think collectively as retina specialists, we are looking to reduce the treatment burden for patients. And so, uh, there was a lot of discussion about sustained release, drug delivery, um, about gene therapy, um, and how we're going to incorporate those into our treatment paradigms. you know how often we going to see these patients how often and how are we going to image them now um there's also discussion about imaging um two imaging is on two ends uh you know one side is uh multimodal imaging getting more precision imaging you know more AI and then on another side is AIdriven home monitoring as well >> and um obviously there's a role for both and it's typically a combination of they they'll come into clinic and get the multimodal imaging and then in between uh you know get uh some home uh OCT which we're all still waiting on coming into practice but but hopefully soon. >> Okay. So I need as a non-written specialist. So you have your breakfast, you go check your OCT m, you know, it gives you values on how fluid fil your retina is and then you decide how quickly to schedule your antiv or what would what do you monitor at home and how does it change a person's care? Like what would be that concept? Because I think it's fascinating, but where is it where might that go? >> So you've just asked the million-dollar question, Eric. This is what we debate. This is what we discuss, you know, over retina, breakfast, lunch, and dinner. You know, how are we going to do this? Right? We have data. Um, do I as a physician want to be pinged for every change in fluid or am I going to set a threshold for a certain patient? Um, and then are we going to treat continuously and extend therapies? Are we going to treat as needed? Um, there is so much and I think we'll try things, we'll pivot, we'll change things and uh we'll see where the field takes us. >> So there is a lot of exciting innovations at AAO 2025. So maybe one or two could you think maybe share with everyone what you think is really going to be a gamecher for the next year the next 12 months? What do you think is going to change practice? >> Yes. So um so really great questions. I think we've got a lot of clinical trial data coming out in the next 12 months. And that's going to include uh some of the uh medium-term uh delivery for antiv and beyond. And so there's going to be discussion about how to incorporate a nine-month implant, a 12-month implant into your treatment paradigm. Um, you know, I presented on MCTEL, which it used to be thought of primarily as a vascular disease, but now I think increasingly we're recognizing it as a neurodeenerative disease. Um we talked about how imaging has come, how there's better phenotyping and recently um um uh a delivery a drug delivery device was uh approved as well and so uh many retina specialists are now incorporating that into uh their practice. So we we talked about that. Um certainly in in your field as you know of retinal degenerative diseases there are a lot of exciting trials. you know, many are early but many are later stage and um there's just a lot that we're looking forward to quite frankly. >> Okay, I need to ask another non-retina question as the what remind me what MACtel is and how that fits and why what was important about the clinical trial um results you presented this year. >> Yeah. So, uh MCTEL used to be known as juxaphobial tangictasia. You may remember that from the BCSC books. Um now it's it's abbreviated as as MCTEL but you know we talked about uh the journey as to how these trials became possible. We talked about, you know, the family that funded these trials. Uh the think tank that was behind um the natural history uh trial that was able to bring us, you know, phenotyping and genotyping. And then uh we talked about the silary neurotrphic uh factor and that's you know uh and its importance in uh preventing further retinal degeneration. The other thing that is interesting about the trial is that the endpoint was based on anatomy. It was based on slowing down the ellipsoid loone zone layer of the OCT and preventing uh further deterioration of the anatomy and and there were other end points as well. Um but they certainly weren't the traditional, you know, black on white visual acuity. Um, and that tells you that we're really looking to prevent disease progression and identify disease and treat at an earlier stage before the traditional black-on-white um smell and visual acuity is is affected. >> Okay. >> Maybe for the listeners, can you share how that implant is done? >> Yes. So, it is a surgical procedure. uh we we participated um here in the phase three clinical trial and um once the implant is delivered to us uh in the operating room it's a small incision and we uh place the implant and it hangs from a sclerottomy much like other implants that we've done in uh retina and in uvitis and um it then releases the neurotrophic factors. Obviously we have to we have to close this incision you know very carefully close the sclera the conjunctiva over cells inside the >> implant but yes there are cells inside the uh uh uh the implant they're released and it is said you know from previous implants that have been expplanted that um it may be active for you know 14 to 15 years which is pretty exciting. >> Yeah. talking about just leadership. So you you shared, you know, about this journey of the length of time and the investment in in uh weekly calls to put together a subday. Those those listeners out there that have been in their own specialties involved in meeting planning can appreciate how challenging that is to, you know, get a theme, fill it out, make it attractive, you know, um cutting edge, innovative. Talk about the leadership journey, could you? because you're, you know, we value as a leader for our department, but when you lead a a nationwide effort of gathering input, I'm sure there's a lot of opinions, >> uh, a lot of ideas and a lot of, you know, decision-m that has to go in. Talk about the leadership journey behind the scenes of taking it from let's develop something that says bright ideas and bold discoveries to opening morning. Okay, >> that's a great question. So, as you know, change is one of the most difficult things of leadership. And the easy thing would have been to just show up on the calls and say, "What what did it look like last year? Okay, these speakers look great. Oh, this guy can't make it. She can't make it. Let's just replace those two people." That's the easiest thing to do is get a template and follow it. But we certainly looked at the template. We took the feedback into account and there were a few things that we wanted to change. Um, one of the things is really looking at um the contributions of individuals. We didn't want somebody speaking more than once. So, you couldn't be a moderator and have a talk and maybe submit a late breaker as well. Okay. So, there were people that we saved for late breakers because they they usually, you know, submit. And some of them were reaching out saying, "I usually get invited. Why wasn't I invited?" And we said, "You know, we're saving you for a late breaker. You always have something great to submit, you know, at the last minute." Um, there was also diversity of thought and opinion that we need to bring in. And so that means bringing in new people um really scouting out you know who the emerging talent is um people who uh perhaps you know younger or haven't spoken before and getting them involved into the program. But that also means that some people who are used to being on the program every year may not be on this year. And it doesn't mean that they're kicked off the program. It just means that we have a very broad faculty and we're deciding you know which talks to include who to include you know who to rotate off who to bring in and and obviously that can be difficult for some people who are who are used to delivering a similar talk every year. So the change management I think and navigating those conversations with people was um was definitely tough. Um I had you know three wonderful co-program directors and they were always bringing in ideas you know giving feedback letting us know about a talk that they heard recently perhaps at an international meeting by somebody and you know you should you know think about this person for example so we're definitely open to um to new perspectives and new ideas. >> I had another question about the meaning itself. >> Go for it. >> So we that that's the prep gathering ideas. >> Can I think Dr. Bach one one second? So I was able to speak at retina sub subday this year and so thank you to the program you know committee and for allowing people like myself who are early career to speak. Um but when I was given the opportunity the program team said you know what are some of the topics that you feel like would be really meaningful in the space and give us your top few. And they I think they reviewed them and said okay I think this would make sense for the for the program. And so I went through the last few sub days, you know, the last few years and I picked a topic that had never been presented before and it was chosen. Um, and it's just it was, I think, very wellreceived. Um, but thank you. Thank you for giving like a new topic a chance to be on that stage and me as a new, you know, vitinal surgeon. Um, it was a really good experience. >> Well, thank you for agreeing, you know, thank you for participating and giving, you know, a great lecture. And as I as I shared with you, what we really want is we want where science meets the clinical practice, right? >> We want physicians to be sitting there going, I learned something. That's my take-home nugget and it was practical. I will implement this either next week or I will table this for six months when you know uh this drug, you know, comes into my hands. >> Um and really that's what we want. We don't want anything esoteric. We don't want anything that's too early phase, but we want real clinical pearls and nuggets. So, thank you. >> Yeah. >> All right. >> One of my ch Well, I was going to say one of the we talked about the prep and then morning of >> one of the challenges when you organize meetings is stay on time, stay on task. I just was at a meeting where um the presenter mode gave you an alert when you had 30 seconds left to wrap up or a minute left and then it got a red alert for the last 15 seconds and then it shut off the mic. >> Oh. >> Um and then you it turned it back on for like [snorts] 30 more seconds. You could get a little more. I think one of the hard parts is when you design a meeting is you want to have enough presentation time complemented by enough discussion time but actually stay on time. Comments on that from what you've learned as you advise people planning meetings in in terms of that balance. >> Yeah. So I I've learned the hard way. I've had the black screen. It hurts dramatically. Luckily it was early on in my career that I had time to rectify that. Um so no we did not have a black screen but um one of the good things about subsp specialty day is that we're able to involve trainees and uh we have several trainee volunteers who sit there in the front row and run those timers so that they give the speaker that one minute that 30 second you know heads up and I have to say that there are speakers that are renowned for going over and we went and talked to them personally beforehand that you know this year please make a please make a real effort um you know in that because I mean they didn't need the extra feedback that they know it they've heard it before but really important to keep things going. Um the other thing we had is really long discussion times and so I would say there's a little bit of few minutes fluff in there if if we really go over time but the feedback that we've had is that attendees love discussion >> and they also love debates and debates is another section that that we prepared. you commented earlier about how this year you made an intentional effort to make sure part of subday included other specialty um topics that interfaced complemented with the retina program. You know, comment on that or how did that go and what was your feedback? >> So, the feedback I had is that that it went really well. I mean if you look at the demographics of most of the attendees from retina subsp specialty day you know they learned how you manage glaucoma you know neurop neuroopthmology you know years ago if not decades ago right sometimes you just want that overview you know what imaging do we recommend now for a glaucoma patient right what are the latest drugs you know tell me quickly briefly what is your treatment paradigm you go from A to B or do you do A and then add Um and then um you know if you look at the space of intraocular lenses and what's changed uh you know I mean when I trained it's it was plain lenses and torics and now wow the extended depth of focus the multif focals I mean the menu is huge and you know I learn a lot by being at Mayo Clinic and speaking to my colleagues every day when we share patients and they may they may share or you know ask me a question about you know what lens to put in or you know how we're going to integrate glaucoma management into the retina plan. So I learn every day anyway. But I have to say sitting there and getting a dactic overview is just it was just invaluable. >> Wonderful. >> So we've talked a lot about the programming of subday and these lectures and wonderful program. I very much enjoyed it. Can we talk a little bit about the networking and the social aspects of AAO and specifically the sessions that maybe help people with um you know decisions in life and getting a job and having mentors. We speak to speak to that a little bit. So um retina subsp specialty day as you know is very uh sessionheavy but you know there are breakfasts breaks lunches and receptions uh that are associated with it um that that many people come to and that's where the informal networking you know goes on um there are a lot of fellows that are there with their mentors residents who are there with their mentors and of course that's an opportunity to meet um other people you know in the field so you always have that sort of informal networking um which is super important. Beyond that, there's a lot of formal networking sessions set not just by retina subsp specialty day or any subsp specialty day, but really by the academy. Um, you know, the young opthalmologists in particular have had a very large investment. Um, they have yo networking events and and lounges. Um, and there are sessions for opthalmologists at all stages of life. um whether they're graduating from training, whether they're considering you know retirement and the next phase. Um there are sessions on you know financial decision making. Um the thing with the academy though it is vast. It it's huge and one has to comb through the program very carefully. You know probably weeks before you go there and really set up a plan because sometimes these sessions are concurrent with other sessions you might want to go to as well. >> Well that brings up in terms of tips. So we you brought up the O's. One of the it is intimidating to um and exciting to go to academy the first time as a young opthalmologist, a trainee. Um what advice would you have for someone heading to the academy the first time whether they make the retina day or not? How do you help them package uh up approach the the meeting to have success? >> Yeah. So I think at whatever stage you're at, you really have to have a goal in mind. You can go and you can sit there and you can roam from room to room but I think that's highly ineffective. So uh what is your goal and it's a combination of many things. Who would you like to meet? Who would you like to network with? Are there any courses in particular you want to attend because you are currently learning a new skill right? So many courses at the academy so many wet labs. Um so I think you have to have a goal in mind. You have to go through the program and you have to set set up your itinerary for navigating the program. Remember also there's a humongous exhibition hall, a lot of partners from industry and you know you'd want to meet with them because maybe there is a new piece of equipment that you want to bring and integrate into your practice. Um maybe there's a new clinical trial that you want to bring in. Um so so many opportunities you know to partner with opthalmologists and industry partners but again I think you have to have a goal and a purpose just really just like anything that you do and I think if you do that yes it's going to be an exhausting meeting but it's going to be a very fruitful uh productive uh meeting as well. Okay. From a Yeah. From a leadership standpoint, are there any, >> I don't know, surprises or lessons that you would want to share with someone who's about to take over or about to be in leadership um at their specific meeting? Um I'm sure you you've learned a lot over the last few years. >> Yeah, I would first of all say that, you know, making any change is always, you know, harder than you think it might be. So I think it's important to listen to people, you know, to get feedback. There are always people who have different opinions, right? And what's hard is, you know, balancing out the opinions. So, one opinion might be, you know, this meeting was great. Don't change a thing. Keep it the same every year. And another opinion might be, you know, we need new people in this. We need some new perspectives, right? And then you have to kind of balance both. You have to balance the tried and tested, those that you know will come. They're going to deliver a great uh, you know, uh, a great talk. It's going to be well um, accepted. is going to be loved with giving people an opportunity and you know maybe taking a little bit of a risk on on some people. Now I would say the program directors are going to take less risk if when they bring on the new people they tell them various things like you know for example for me this year it was let's be on time but let's keep the talk clinically relevant. I don't want anything esoteric. I want people to take home valuable nuggets. So, I think having those one-to-one conversations and helping mentor the new people is really going to help elevate uh the program. >> I really appreciate this time connecting with you. One of the things you touched on earlier was this connectivity. I missed AO this year because I was international, but I will admit the thing that I so valued have always valued about academy. And I think what is in the subday probably is a microcosm of that is this connectivity of like-minded passions, interests, perspectives. um towards our goal of caring for patients better. Can you speak to just when you think back over your career, you know, meetings like academy or your subsp specialy days, you know, what what brings excitement for you to go? I know it's work. I know your strategy to kind of what do I want to get out of it, but what are the joys when you look back over when you fly home saying what parts of academy, what parts of your meetings uh do you appreciate most? >> Yeah. So um the parts that I appreciate most >> it's really about the networking and learning new things. I'm in general I'm a curious person >> and when I listen to a talk and I learn something new you know typically I I take notes you know on my phone or whatever piece of paper I happen to have >> and and I bring them back and the first thing we do is when we're in our retina hallway discuss it with my colleagues. Did you hear that talk by so and so you know what do you think of this device? Do you think it's worth bringing in to try? you know what what do you think about that that trial that's coming you know should we be enrolling patients as well um so those conversations when I first get back home I think are really exciting I think the networking is great you know we have amazing colleagues in retina and opthalmology and industry and everybody brings something to the table um the other thing that I like about AAO is is networking with our alumni you know the people that we've trained in our training programs that have gone off to do great things and getting those updates about how they're contributing to their community, their science, you know, their institutions and and that's always very inspiring to see um the impact that we have made um you know on the upcoming generation and and really to follow their progress. >> I want to shift gears for my last question if that's okay. So hearing your introduction, you've done so much and such meaningful work. And I know as our chair, we're all really happy that you're in leadership. You've just been amazing to work with and um to be mentored by and to work alongside. So with that said, on a personal level, you've done all of this. You were on the program committee. You are on all of these editorial boards and um we're impressed by you. But my question is what's motivating you at this stage in your career? Um and I yeah thank you for what you do but talk us through what's your motivation. >> Yeah so at every stage of my career I've had I think a different motivation. Um I will say that unlike a lot of people I haven't actually planned everything the way I the way I ask my mentees to plan that what they're going to do next. I have to say things have been it's kind of been a little organic. For example, when I started um my goal those first few years was to just be the best clinician I could, you know, do research, do clinical trials, you know, really get my feet wet with with with everything. And then um I also at the same time when I saw some inefficiencies and things, I was definitely passionate about systems improvement and quality improvement. And so, you know, I got into that and I think um you know, people recognize that I was able to make changes and and most likely that's why I got asked to, you know, um to dig further into uh leadership. Um but but I've loved everything that I've done from, you know, reviewing papers. I mean, what does reviewing papers do? It adds quality to the literature that we read and it sifts out the things that are just not done right and lead to the wrong conclusion. for example, right? Um research obviously that is that answers questions that we wouldn't otherwise have the answers to. So I think that's super important. Um but at this stage now what I love doing is making an impact. and making an impact. I know it's a broad term, but you know, when I look at the young people that we bring in and and we hire or even the mid-career people that are looking to change, you know, trajectory, you say, well, why are they coming here? What can I do to help them? What resources can we give, you know, to help them? And that's an impact beyond what I can do alone, >> right? You know, as I look at things that we can do for our department and for Mayo Clinic, again, it's setting up systems and processes that are going to outlive any one of us. And as you know, I'm super excited about the direction that we're going in, you know, Mayo Clinic with AI and the digital health and, you know, our uh opus network. Um, again, it's just the next, you know, frontier. Um, so I think that's what motivates me right now. It is different. I still love to do um what I previously did but again if I can give those opportunities to others who are starting at that phase in their career I think I can make a bigger impact at this stage. Um yeah I' I've learned a lot through leadership and one of them is you know mentoring and also delegating as well. So, >> well, I think the success of the retina day speaks to I think what we get to experience daily in our department is that, you know, we we appreciate your leadership um in raising up others and being collaborative and bringing in new ideas and just um in that um mentorship connecting role kind of vaultting and and elevating what we do for better impact whether on a national scale at a retinal meeting or here at home at Mayo Clinic. So, thank you for being our guest again because we love having you here on the podcast. >> Well, thank you very much. And you know, I will just add that I have appreciated working with individuals who are engaged and motivated and share the same mission and passion, you know, that I do that it's ultimately about patient care, but how we improve patient care is by the research, the the quality, the the leadership, the sustainability. Um, and when I get to work with amazing individuals, that really makes every day of mine just worth worth living and worth coming to. >> So, thank you. Thank you, Dr. Bacher. >> You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast on our website, YouTube, or on most podcast platforms. >> Thank you for listening, and we definitely look forward to sharing more on our next podcast. [music]