In 1968, my father was in a car accident in Portoviejo, Ecuador. After the accident, he appeared to be in a state we all thought was fine, but as the weeks went by, we realized there was some kind of brain damage because he began to lose his hearing, his ability to express himself, and his vision—everything started to change. At that time in Ecuador, doctors couldn't determine his true state of health, and his health began to deteriorate so much that by Christmas, we were simply expecting a fatal outcome when we met a friend who recommended the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. As a last resort to save my father's life, we did everything possible, and he traveled to the Mayo Clinic on January 1, 1969. There, he was immediately treated in the emergency room and underwent brain surgery, where they were able to cure him. Sixteen days later, we brought my father home completely healthy, and it was a great joy for the family to have my father with us for another 23 years, because from that day until the day he died  He enjoyed 23 years that he shared with us, especially with me, since I was 11 years old at the time of the accident. If my father had had a fatal outcome, I wouldn't have had the opportunity to have a father and share experiences with him, and everything a father gives to his children and grandchildren. For us, the Mayo Clinic is our alternative after God. We believe in God, and we believe that after God come the doctors at the Mayo Clinic with their humanism, their honesty, and the entire Mayo Clinic team, who truly demonstrate to us great human quality and respect. Something that always strikes me is the great respect that exists for different cultures. Sometimes there are stereotypes about Americans being cold and having rigid rules and inflexible laws. However, when we meet people from different cultures at the Mayo Clinic, they are very respectful and treat us with special affection and care.  The year 1969, when my father first went to the Mayo Clinic, our whole family has been patients of the Mayo Clinic in one way or another. Years later, I think around 1980 or 1981, after I started coming to the Mayo Clinic just to accompany my father, I also had a checkup, a general checkup. Thank God I haven't had any major health problems until recently when I had to have spinal surgery. But the Mayo Clinic has always been our first choice for family medical care. My mother also had surgery at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, where she had a total knee replacement. My siblings have been patients of the Mayo Clinic, my nephews have been patients of the Mayo Clinic, my children have been patients of the Mayo Clinic. My youngest son, when he was 15 months old, had a complex problem with his kidney, a very strong infection that damaged his kidney, and he was operated on at the Mayo Clinic at the age of 15 months. It was an extremely difficult situation for us. The human warmth of the medical staff and all the staff at the Mayo Clinic made this experience much easier.  It's been easy for us as a family. My wife has also been a patient at the Mayo Clinic, and recently we had some medical questions about my 4-year-old granddaughter, who has also been a Mayo Clinic patient. This means that four generations of Poyles have been Mayo Clinic patients, from 1969 to the present day. We have many stories to tell about the Mayo Clinic because our life as a family was always intertwined with it. My father, until the moment he passed away, preferred to be treated only by Mayo Clinic doctors. So, for many years, we routinely came to the Mayo Clinic twice a year. My father had surgery, and all his medical care—or rather, for the last 23 years of his life—was exclusively provided by the doctors here at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester because at the time he lived there, we didn't have any other options. There was only Rochester, Minnesota, as I was saying. Well, at one point he broke a bone in his leg, and it was impossible for him to see a doctor there because he refused to be seen by one. Medical care in Ecuador. We always saw him as feeling so comfortable at the Mayo Clinic that he surrendered himself completely without any fear. On that occasion, we traveled with his broken leg on a commercial plane to Miami. In Miami, he had a complication; his blood pressure spiked, and we had to take him to a local hospital. He refused medical attention in Miami, so we had to take an air ambulance and fly at night from Miami in March, when there were still lingering effects from the winter. We arrived at the clinic at 3:00 a.m. the next day. That's one of the anecdotes we remember with great affection and nostalgia about the Po family's relationship with the Mayo Clinic.