Facebook has really changed how we do orientation at male medical school. We no longer have that have to operate with the assumption that nobody knows anyone. We used to worry about learning their names because we didn't want them to feel isolated. Well, they know everybody by the time they get here because they have developed their own Facebook p. As soon as they get appointed, they get invited into the Facebook page. MMS class of 2013. Everybody who we've appointed is a member of that class because they don't want to miss anything. So when they come first day of school, it's like old home week. They've already known and this, you know, our student body is nationwide. So the kid from California already knows, the kid from Tampa, the kid from New England already knows the kid from Phoenix. And it's just, it saves us that effort. we can put that time into things like um the health care system in America today or you know spending time on curriculum things as opposed to the time and money we used to spend on socialization because it is important that they they recognize and know each other and be able to build that teamwork that's such a a value to the school and to Mayo Clinic. So the teamwork has already been established. They've planned they've camped they've planned camping trips before they ever get to the medical school as a positive impact from one they come as a coalesed team and two it saves us money. So you know and what a lot of the faculty might perceive as fluff we can now cut that fluff because it's not necessary to for the you know the the socialization things that we used to do and those things aren't cheap when you start 50 students times $10 for this mill or $20 for this trip to Lansboro to do the ropes course. you know, we've we've stopped it because we found they're like we already know everybody. But it allows us to then go straight to the core, you know, of Mayo Clinic and of content, actual curriculum content. And you know, I tell you, we we really marvel at the savings and the ability to reach to focus on the things that I won't say really matter, but gives us a jump start on curriculum, gives us a jump start on on um on on other orientation things that are specific to Mayo Clinic that they would not have been able to get. And it also allows us, you know, they've established this this coalesed group so we can do things just work better. But things just work better because there's not this awkwardness about who are you and where did you come from. They are it's like they're already a family.