I'm Bob Jeske, one of the core faculty at the Mayo Clinic Family Medicine Residency in Mankato, Minnesota. I joined the program as full-time faculty in 2006. Some of my areas of focus include geriatrics and nursing home care as a medical director over at Whispering Creek in Janesville, which is a facility we cover. I also head up our POCUS, or point-of-care ultrasound program. As a former athlete, I enjoy sports medicine and get the privilege of helping lead our orthopedics and sports medicine curriculum. Our group at Mayo has just continued to grow and expand in Mankato with their orthopedic and sports medicine coverage and we have opportunities to do sideline coverage in many of the area high schools and even some of the colleges. So I really enjoy teaching because I get to work and learn right alongside with the residents. I love the questions they ask of me and the way they push me and motivate me to stay up to date every day to provide the best care that we can to our patients and provide the unparalleled experience that patients expect here at Mayo Clinic. I think one of the things that really sets us apart is how much we focus on an individual resident's career goals allowing them the latitude to have the maximum elective time so that they can pick rotations that are going to benefit them in their future careers. As a physician of faith one of my focuses has been to make our program a welcoming and safe space for other physicians of faith to have a place to train according to their values while also providing the superb and necessary clinical care that patients deserve. Outside of work, I enjoy staying involved in the farm operations with my dad on the farm I grew up on. I enjoy deer hunting and fishing, both open water and ice fishing. What makes Mankato such a great place to live, work, and train is that it's a small city that has all the amenities you need multiple great local restaurants shopping but also quick proximity to a major metropolitan area in the Twin Cities. One of the things I love about Mankato are the miles and miles of trails that it offers for walking, running, bike riding or even winter activities such as cross-country skiing or snowmobiling.