Stefano was born in 1997. A year and a half after his birth, he was diagnosed in Ecuador with pelvic nephritis. I think it was possible, and he was very ill, on the verge of sepsis. When we decided to transfer him to Rochester, to the Mayo Clinic, we have always had complete confidence in its professionalism. It's the last resort we find after God. I always say it exists at the Mayo Clinic for us, for the whole family, because he was my youngest child after having my first two. After 14 years, he was the baby of the house, our family's toy. It was very hard going through with Gino Stefano because he arrived at the Mayo Clinic so ill that they couldn't even access his veins anymore. We suffered a lot. We arrived, as I said, with the whole family, with my young children. And there are these human beings, sent by God, at the Mayo Clinic— such wonderful, humane people who gave us not only the professionalism of the doctors, nurses, and the entire team at the Mayo Clinic, but also the human warmth we needed at that moment.  We arrived during a storm season in the northern part of Rochester, and there was a strong tornado. We took my two children, who were young at the time, 11 and 12 years old. They allowed us to stay with them at the clinic for the first two nights; they gave them a room. As parents, we didn't feel very safe having our children with us that night. So, for us, that month we spent at the clinic, Gino Stefano's surgery was a success. We returned to our country, and during that month with Gino Stefano, my husband met a human being, an angel, whom I call Kay Kaywell. She's a nurse at the Mayo Clinic, and she became our friend. We had to bring Gino Stefano for his checkups, and we maintained a beautiful friendship. Through us, she was able to adopt her only daughter, Maya. For us and for her, it was a very beautiful relationship because we are Maya's godparents.  My husband indicated this because they have had that relationship with the Mayo Clinic, which for us is like part of our families. Now that we have the opportunity to have another option and not have to go all the way up north, we have the option of Jacksonville, where he arrives. Well, he's only been out for four weeks since his surgery, and as his wife, I've been accompanying him as well.