Welcome to Mankato, Minnesota, which is nestled along the Minnesota River Valley with surrounding Maple and Oak covered bluffs. The area population is just over 55,000 people and demonstrates the perfect balance of urban life with surrounding rural farming communities. Mankato and North Mankato both offer quick and easy access to restaurants, shopping, and events without the compromise of traffic or crowds. Downtown Mankato provides a fun atmosphere with a variety of restaurants, patios, shops, and a sculpture art walk. Also located downtown, are the Vetter stone amphitheater and Mayo Clinic Health System Events Center, which host a variety of athletics, concerts, and events. Mankato supports three tertiary learning centers, with the largest being Minnesota State University. MSU participates in both division 1 and 2 sports, which brings competitive athletics to the area. On weekends, you'll find a lively downtown kept youthful by the college community. For upcoming and or establish a family's. Mankato also has a Children's Museum, local YMCA, and multiple parks for kids to play, learn, and enjoy. If a quick day, or a weekend getaway as desired, Mankato is conveniently located just 80 miles southwest of the Twin Cities with easy access to big city amenities, as well as the Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport. We'd like to welcome you to Mayo Clinic Health System Eastrige. Site location for Mankato Family Medicine Residency Program. On the east side of the clinic, we can see our volunteer community garden. This offers not only fresh produce, but also educational resources and recipes. The gardens available 24/7 to all of our patients, as well as our staff and the community. Just a short walk from the garden is the main entrance to our beautiful clinic, which is home to not only our residency program, but also several other outpatient family medicine providers and pediatricians. Eastridge Clinic provides access to urgent care, laboratory, and radiology services. When patients first walk through our doors, they're greeted by friendly receptionists and excellent scheduling staff. Eastridge Clinic's layout is organized into a pod system with each pod consisting of providers and designated nursing staff. The family medicine pod includes a nurse's station, procedure room, faculty offices, and our residency work room. When you step into a residency work room, you can immediately feel a sense of comfort, camaraderie, and family. Our space is a safe place for residents to precepts patients, ask questions and socialize with faculty and fellow residents. It also is the best place to find a stockpile of sweets and the bottomless candy bowl. Residency brings a time of joy and opportunity for learning. However, along this journey, there will inevitably be questions. We're fortunate to have readily available and experienced nursing staff, faculty, and co-residents to offer their support, insight, and wisdom. Each clinical room offers a clean and comfortable space for patients and is equipped with the necessary tools for a complete physical exam. Multiple rooms are furnished with adjustable massage tables for a more extensive musculoskeletal exam and osteopathic manipulative treatments. Furthermore, our residents have access to procedure rooms which offer more space, lighting, and resources necessary to perform various procedures including dermatologic, gynecologic, newborns circumcisions vasectomies and more. Just down the hall is the community room, or many of our didactic lectures, meetings and conferences are held. Located three miles from Eastridge Clinic is Mayo Clinic Health System - Mankato, a community-based hospital that brings the resources and expertise of Mayo Clinic to the community and the region. It provides access to 24/7 emergency care, Level 3 trauma center, labor and delivery, level 2 nursery Critical Care Medicine, Inpatient Behavioral Health Unit, Andrea's Cancer Center and cardiac catheterization lab, MCHS Mankato was well supported by multiple specialists onsite with quick and easy access to additional resources and consultations from the world renowned Mayo Clinic, Rochester. Throughout the three years of residency rotations at the hospital provide a multi-disciplinary education while maintaining a patient-centered model of care. Residents build rapport with staff through direct communication with nursing, hospitalists and specialists during internal medicine teaching service, inpatient resident work room and call room provide a comfortable area for learning, documenting, and bonding with fellow residents. Conveniently located just across the hall is the physicians lounge, complete with coffee, snacks, and curbside advice. We're not providing patient care, Mankato offers a variety of outdoor recreation opportunities. One popular destination is Sibley Park, which is located at the confluence of the Blue Earth and Minnesota River near downtown. Sibley Park is home to a playground, petting zoo, softball fields, and plenty of open green space to walk, enjoy a picnic, or relaxing the sun. In the winter months, simply park is transformed into a spectacular holiday light display, which can be admired on foot, bike, or in the warmth of the vehicle. Just across the river sits Land Of  Memories Park, which offers an 18 hole disc golf course, river access and camping. The surrounding river valley provides endless opportunities for exploring on the mini-trial systems, which are frequented by hikers, joggers, bikers, and outdoor enthusiasts alike. For those who want a more intimate experience, the many rivers offer a new angle of the bluffs from the seat of a kayak or canoe. Outdoor recreation in Mankato has no limits and can be enjoyed year round. The winter months bring excellent cross-country skiing, snow shoeing, fat tire biking, and downhill skiing and snowboarding at Mount Kato. Mankato, Minnesota is a wonderful place to live, work, and play. Wherever this journey of medicine takes you, we sincerely wish you the best and hope you consider Mankato Family Medicine Residency Program.