Healthcare is what I've done for almost 25 years. Where I work, the stretchers all have blue linens. And to be on the blue sheet is a completely different experience. >> After muscle weakness began to affect his movement, Dr. Rakesh Perk was diagnosed with ALS in 2020. you get this diagnosis and you know within 3 to 5 years you're uh you're no longer >> initially working with a care team close to his home in Orlando, Florida, Dr. Perk was determined to find a way to preserve his quality of life and possibly help others. got the test results back and um they told us what the mutation was, this specific gene. And so we started kind of researching and reached out to physicians, researchers all over the country, all over the world. We have three children and they all have a chance of inheriting this gene. To date, there isn't much out there for people who get diagnosed with ALS. There's not a lot of treatment. >> That's when they learned about the work of Dr. Bejorn Oscerson, a Mayo Clinic neurologist. >> Individualized medicine is not just providing individualized medicine. It is taking care of the individual. >> After nearly 2 years of testing and preparations, hope came in the form of treatment in April 2024. >> For Dr. Perk, his genetic abnormality is an extremely rare cause of ALS. So we worked with our outside partner to develop an individualized treatment made just for him and he is the first person in the world who has received this treatment. This gene stopping therapy can shut down the production of the protein by tackling the gene abnormality at the RNA level. We've been able to stop his disease progression and we are seeing some really really exciting early results. >> One year after his treatment started, Dr. Perk and his family have hope. The process has also changed how he approaches his work in healthcare. >> Not only has it made an impact on our lives, but it honestly it's made an impact on the way I practice because I realize now what patients need beyond healthcare. >> For the Mayo Clinic News Network, I'm Alex Goitis.