 and alfalfa. Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your co-host, Dr. Brittany Scruggs. And I'm your co-host, Dr. Eric Boethan. We are here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology medicine and more. In today's podcast, we visit with Dr. Michael Repka, current president of the American Academy of Ophthalmology. Tune in to hear about AAO leadership efforts, including advocacy from Medicare to medical code values. Dr. Michael Repka is the David L. Geithen and Feduniac Family Professor of Ophthalmology and Professor of Pediatrics at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Dr. Repka currently is vice chair for clinical practice and division director of pediatric ophthalmology and adult's trabismus at the Wilmer Institute of Johns Hopkins University. He is president of the American Academy of Ophthalmology. He serves as AAO director for government affairs, is a past chair of the FDA's Ophthalmic and Dermatologic Advisory Committee, a member of FDA's Ophthalmic Device Panel, and is the AAO's CPT advisor to the AMA's CPT editorial panel. Dr. Repka led the pediatric eye disease investigator group funded by the National Eye Institute from 1997 to 2009 as chair and currently serves as a member of the operations and executive committees. Welcome, Dr. Repka. Hello, Michael Repka. Happy to be here. We I must admit for me personally as a pediatric ophthalmologist, someone who's been in your spheres of PDIG and a friend, it's an honor for me to have you here. I've been struck and I think Brittany appreciates the phenomenal roles of leadership you've had and the impact you've made in serving various organizations and we were delighted to have you come on the podcast today to share a little bit about AAO and what you're doing in those spheres. So again, that's a privilege for you to be here. Great, thank you. So if you could just tell our listeners, what is it like to be the president of AAO and what does a normal week look like for you? I'm sure you wear a lot of hats and have a lot of competing interests. So walk us through a normal week. So Brittany, the good part about being president of the academy is there are a lot of other people who are doing a lot of excellent work and you get to be the leader of that. That workload is over, spread over such a large number of volunteer ophthalmologists and the board of trustees. So in an average week, I probably do several hundred emails, but much of those are with my other academy hats, either CPT or government affairs. The president, of course, does field some questions from our members and certainly questions from a lot of our staff about ongoing issues. But it never ends, if you will. I mean, there's something every day, if not every hour. But again, the professional teams that the academy employs, both in San Francisco and in Washington, really make that a pleasure. I think for most ophthalmologists that juggle their day, even managing their office, it's hard to imagine how you have the bandwidth and climb to the status of AAO president. Just for those people that don't know you as well, could you give us a snapshot of, you mentioned a couple of roles there. What has been your path and leadership up through the AAO ranks? How did you get to be president and what were your footprints looking back? Great question and it's certainly been asked many times. It actually started in 1989, so many years ago when I was just a few years out of fellowship. The academy needed somebody to run a task force on CPT coding. And of course, early on I had a great deal of interest in numbers and we were early computerization of billing records. And so I was learning the numbers and it at least fit. And so I went on to chair that task force, then ultimately became the CPT advisor for the academy. That moved on to health policy because of course codes and health policy and ultimately practice management all revolve around the same thing. And I was doing similar activities with our own department because as in many academic institutions, many people just want that billing and administrative stuff to be handled. And it just was something I liked doing. And then other committees and other tasks over the years led to a secretary job for Dr. Dunbar Hoskins in which I was on the back bench of the board. And ultimately that after a few years led to David Park making me medical director for government affairs and then ultimately in Stephen MacLeod's tenure having a chance to do the one year of presidency, which is truly an honor. I'd like to, if you could for the listeners summarize in an AO presidency balance, I'm sure yours is weighted more towards advocacy and CPT efforts because of your background. But what are your biggest hats? As AO president, I know you have teams to help you, but what would be your big buckets that you're serving regularly? Right. So the academy does have directions and people come up in the academy mostly in education because that's certainly the first and most important thing that the academy does for our members. The second big hat is membership, sorry, is membership and meetings. And the third is government affairs. And so volunteer ophthalmologists sort of go in one of those tracks and as we get further along that's when we actually begin to learn about the other sides of the organization. And most presidents do choose an area to focus on. Jane Edmonds last year was in education talking about surgical coaching and other things to improve lifelong learning for ophthalmologists. I've been focused on Medicare reform, which I dare say I'm a failure in because you can see we're here at the end of the year and Congress has not even begun to debate publicly. Although behind closed doors, they're certainly talking about it and understanding there's a need. I think we should talk about that. Amen. Let's go. It's a big topic, but when you started as president that was one of the priorities that I have heard you speak about, that your priority was to tackle Medicare payment reform. And navigating that is extremely complex. It's complex policy. So I'm curious, where do you think the biggest problems are and what do you want to see addressed in maybe the next one to two years? Well, the Congress has to get over some of the short-term problems that they've been dealing with in terms of physician payments. In terms of last year, we had a reduction. In this year, we sort of were made whole, but we're falling way behind inflation. The roots of that, of course, were sown back in 2015 when Congress last attempted Medicare physician payment reform with the macro legislation. And that really went a ways to advancing how payment was going to be done. It hypothesized what would turn out to be an unrealized dream of moving most physicians over to advanced payment models or alternative payment models, which just haven't been able to be developed in a manner that is able to both save money and encourage value care. That has to be brought back. It has to be resurrected as a topic of debate of how to get us to go to that next level. Many people at that time just figured, well, there's enough waste in the system, whatever that was, and nobody was really willing to define it, certainly on the professional side, at the level necessary. Certainly we have lots of health policy experts who tell us what we should do on waste, but I'm not at all convinced that they really see it from the physician's perspective. So now we need to get Congress back engaged. And unfortunately, we're at the end of the non-election year, so our window of opportunity, honestly, for 2026 is probably close to closed. We'll have a couple months where Congress may do something, but because we don't have a spending bill, we don't have a finalized budget. The time is probably going to get taken up with that, and we're going to get delayed once again. We certainly have met myself, our staff, our CEO, have met with various members of Congress and their staff, and I think it's clear everyone recognizes the system is now at an impasse or broken, and we need to go somewhere different. But to get the political will, and frankly, the majorities in Congress to actually agree, is currently a long shot. Yeah, that was my question. How much is the appreciation there that it is broken versus, and not knowing how to make change versus with the changing faces and topics gaining the bandwidth that it is an important topic, but people have empathy towards the situation, but it's just getting a hammer that fixes the problem is a long ways away. Right, as well as, Eric, get the budget for it, and there's this mentality that the budget can't have more dollars or new dollars brought in, and that unfortunately continues to handicap the Congress in moving forward. Now I will be the first to agree that we obviously do not want huge budget deficits. We can't afford to pay for absolutely everything that people want to do in the Medicare physician payment system, but doctors also need to be treated more fairly compared to the rest of the providers in the system. In other words, we're not accounting, we're not receiving some of the benefits that other parts of the program are, for instance, hospitals or outpatient facilities or even skilled nursing facilities. They all operate under rules that have allowed positive updates for each of the last 20 years, and we have not. I'm going to take one thing that you said and maybe rephrase it and then add to it. You said that policymakers potentially don't have the clinical insights, right? They don't. They don't have the clinical insights that we have, and so we need to have a voice when it comes to policy change. The question is the ophthalmologist listening, instead of getting frustrated, what are some very practical ways that we can get involved? I know that your team goes to DC, meets with people, but what can we do on the ground here other than just get frustrated? And specifically talking about Medicare payment cuts and Medicare payment instability. So those would be two of the important issues, Brittany, and of course the other is what coverage policy looks like. But there are certainly ways for people to do these things locally. Every member of Congress is home usually from Thursday evening till Monday morning, and the House of Representatives members, so the Congress people are usually in district offices which are frankly close to where you work. Getting to know them, stopping by and saying if you need any help on medicine, on ophthalmology, I'd love to sit down with you and talk about that, or your staff. So we need lots of voices in the community. We certainly pay a professional staff to meet with them and their DC staffs, but it really is critical for the doctors and the staff in the communities to know about these issues that really bother us. And it's hard. They're worrying about farm legislation, military legislation, social security. It's just a very difficult time for any member to know or be an expert in even a few fields, so they really do need help. Obviously, the second thing is donations. Donations to their reelection campaigns are unfortunately part of our system. They're how we get access. One might not like to say that, but it's a reality that elections cost a lot of money to run and the members need the money. Or the candidates for election who support policies that we prefer. They need support, our support, whether that comes from the national medical packs like Optpac, Optomology's political action committee, or private donations or individual donations, I should say more accurately, to them. Lastly, getting to know even carrier medical directors in your region. It was a long, awful job. Many people started doing it and said, I don't want to go listen to discussions of the latest cardiac advances or the latest problems in other aspects of our field, perhaps in ENT. But when the Optomology issue was to come up at a carrier advisory committee, we needed interested Optomologists willing to talk, willing to write, willing to speak with and call some of the medical directors who are at least set up to be responsive to us. You brought up Optpac. I know that for people that when they renew their membership, we have these opportunities. Certainly at our national meetings, there's pushes to have contributions made to support and protect patient care in our practices. Many people give this their state academies to have advocacy advanced locally. Can you talk about the importance of Optpac in addition to your local community support? How is it different? How is it utilized? What happens when support goes to the AAO through that fund? Contributions to Optpac, of course, have to come from members of the academy. They're not a PAC that can accept outside contributions. It is a nonpartisan Optomology PAC in the sense that we support both Democrats and Republicans on issues that matter. Largely, it's in payment, in Medicare coverage. Those kind of activities allow us to support as a group members of Congress, both Senate and House of Representatives. We do not participate in presidential elections. We don't participate in local elections. We really are at the federal level. That's what's allowed under the law. Again, it buys contributions to various members showing our support, but also getting us FaceTime with the member, both during mid-year forum when ophthalmologists travel to D.C., but also year-round when I go to D.C. or our staff goes to the Hill or Dr. McCloud or other members of the Board of Trustees that come to D.C. I'd like to talk about codes. You brought up earlier your history, and I'm certainly well aware in my subspecialty, or our subspecialty, appeads your role in understanding, communicating, and helping to process codes. On a national level, it's always this sort of black box of sending in information about what we do and how codes for billing procedures get valued and then later on correlate to billing. You've been one of the sausage grinders of evaluating, processing, and advocating for codes. Can you talk about how the code value process works and how it's updated over time? Sure can. It's extraordinarily long. What people wish is it would happen that I get a new code and I have a value next week, but that's not our system. Today, CPT is the way physicians in the United States report CMS and AMA. Both organizations work on the updates. There are annual updates of CPT codes where new codes are added. A few are deleted, and others are modified. Those meetings appear three times a year. They're open. Everybody who wants to see that portion of the casing of the sausage filled is certainly able to ask to attend. Certainly members of our industry go, as do members of much of the medical industry around the country, do attend. Each of the specialties has an advisor. Ophthalmology has a number of advisors. Myself for the Academy, the American Society of Retina Specialists has an advisor, as does the, as do the society's cataract and refractive surgery and oculoplastic surgery. In general, we may write an application for a new service. Usually if it's a new device, the company submits that and goes through the process, and the Academy and other advisors from across medicine will comment on it. The act of getting a new code simply is not, is agnostic to cost. It does require something to be done more than once a year. It needs to be done. Some indeterminate number of times that we can say it's done across the U.S. But fortunately that threshold varies by the amount of the denominator of the population eligible. You wouldn't expect a surgery, for instance, for glaucoma to have to have the same number of procedures done per year as something for heart disease. They just are at different levels in terms of the patient denominator, and that's taken into account. Once there's a new code, if it's a Category 1 code, which is one that CMS usually but doesn't always have to pay for, gets valued. The value is set from surveys that go out to our members, their randomized surveys. Depending on the service, we send a few hundred to a few thousand out. It goes out with a bland cover memo signed by the CEO of the organization. So right now Dr. McCloud asking you to please fill out the survey, which can take 20 minutes, 25 minutes. It's shorter if there's just one code on it. It's longer if there's a family of codes, such as when we had to value OCT with the new OCT and geography code that became part of the 2025 fee schedule. Members will say how much time it takes, what resources are used, and then we take that information to a panel called the RUC, or Relative Update Committee, which is a private group of doctors. CMS does not control though, although they do participate in terms of commenting during the process. Members of the RUC then debate a value and come to a consensus valuation, which is then submitted to CMS. CMS over the years has accepted most potential valuations. Perhaps over the last five years they've become more aggressive in deciding that the valuations submitted by the RUC are too high and have been unilaterally, well, they sort of control the payment. So it's both unilateral, but it's in their power to reduce it to something they think is more fair. They may often use a crosswalk strategy to put out that value. Now they put out the values or publish the values in July of the preceding year, and then the public gets to comment. And sometimes if we comment that you guys got it wrong, you lowered it too much, they'll fix it, sometimes they won't. That process is in their hands and they can reject or agree to complaints from the host of interested stakeholders. That may be industry, if it's a technology, that may be largely medical societies, if it's not technology. But even individual members can write in and you'll see some codes where there are 100 comments. Sometimes they look a little duplicated, which they are, but the CMS will then comment, 100 physicians said something about the valuation being incorrect. They won't actually identify which, but if you look at the letters that went in, you can sort of figure out who made what comments. And then they publish a value in November and then that becomes the rule of the land on the 1st of January for Medicare fee for service payments. I have a question for you, Eric. So when you were in training, how much training did you get on CPT and codes and billing, et cetera? Nothing. Not much? No. I think that's pretty standard across most programs. So question to you, Dr. Rupka. What can trainees and early ophthalmologists, like early in their practice listening, what can they do to be more informed and make sure that they stay empowered and that they're, they know what they're doing when it comes to billing and CPT and coding? How can we get better as a community? So there are many consultants and even departments and compliance offices in our institutions and our training programs that do some of that. The problem is it usually is not tossed at the residents very much. In olden times, I certainly remember one or two leading manufacturers in our space who had coding seminars for senior residents during the springtime of their third year. And that probably would be a good idea for people to at least get some brief exposure to the system. You're not going to learn it, of course, sitting in a lecture. It really is going to require hands on. The programs most compliance offices put out for the universities, I think including my own, are purposely and necessarily generic. And so it's hard to learn. I do worry that some of the coding tools, which actually make coding faster or at least putting in claims faster, may cause further failure to understand the background behind codes. There's a whole lot of verbiage that sits in the CPT book. But most young faculty or most young clinicians never open or have to open a CPT book anymore, either electronic or paper. So I do think we are missing the boat on that. In some ways it's because simply there's not enough time in a resident's day to learn it. But some will be interested and they will take it on early on in their practice. You bring up time in relation to the coding. My understanding is physicians have continued to wrestle with managing their practice, keeping their practice afloat, with stagnant billing or receipts to keep up to inflation. They've become more efficient. And many tools that we have in our practice help us be more efficient. There's a conversation, at least I've understood, that as efficiency has been evaluated by CMS, is that becoming a contender or how would I put it, a negative against the billing of codes or a conversation piece that's affecting code value? Absolutely. And it really starts next year. But the story about efficiency is, of course, what physicians have done over the last three decades, whether it be in office practice, learning how to use ancillary personnel to make their days more efficient, how to use EMRs to make their days much more efficient than they were. There's always been this background buzz that, oh, CMS is going to see how many patients you can see in a day and then set an arbitrary cap based upon some timescale for each code build. They've never done that per se. But what they are looking at for 2026 and, in fact, implementing for 2026 is something that is simply called the efficiency adjustment. And that efficiency adjustment factor at a negative 2.5% on practice expense, sorry, on work value units for surgeries, for testing results, imaging results, is effective next year. So it's going to be driving down some of the work values in all, in many physicians' armamentaria. It's not going to affect their E&M coding. It's not going to affect their ICodes, but it is going to affect every test they order and every surgery they perform. And it's going to take each of those codes down differently depending upon how much physician work is in those services. So a test, for instance, has much less physician work, so we'll go down a bit less. Physicies have much more physician work and we'll go down more fractionally. But I think that's the beginning of the... Yeah, that's not what I would expect. So how is that going to affect physician reimbursement? Down. Just generally even with surgery. What's the rationale that the surgeon-involved efficiency would be dinged more than technology-based efficiency? Yeah, that's exactly right. And that's simply because in this formula, which isn't based upon any study on any data, it just says we're going down 2.5%. That is really driven. The services with greater surgical work, physician work and surgery would be that compared to testing because interpreting a test is usually pretty quick because you're not doing the test, you're not getting credit for the test. So yeah, surgical codes will be hit proportionately greater when you look at the overall price of the code. How is this going to affect subspecialties differently? So retina versus comprehensive ophthalmology? So the more E&M or iCode services you do, the better you are because the good news for them is those dollars coming out of one hand are going into the dollars on the other side so that surgeries, testing will go down.  will go up. I know that's a great point. Yeah, it's just interesting to think through practices and certainly a meaningful issue for so many people understanding each year there's a new wave of financial challenge in the billing process. Right. So, Brittany, the one thing then you said about subspecialties, and that's really clear. When we've run various models, we can see that difference if you compare uveitis, neuroophtha, to a busy cataract surgeon, or a retinal surgeon. The difference is the former are going to go up and the latter are going to go down. Okay, let's talk about practical things. So yesterday I did 65 injections in a half day. And I think that's pretty average for a retina specialist. We see a lot of patients. So we have an injection clinic here, so it's very efficient. But even despite 60 to 70 injections in a half day, we still have a hard time making money because we have so many patients who have Medicare and Medicare doesn't reimburse well and the payment cuts have really impacted everyone. So the question to you is what's the solution? And five years from now, what is this going to look like for us? And are we going to have to change what we do? And how do we get paid? So the first thing is we have been in the process of having letters sent to the Hill by some of our congressional champions to say this efficiency adjustment, which by the way was complained about between July and December by nearly everyone. So getting champions to write letters to HHS and to the administrator, Dr. Mehmet Oz, to say this is unfair, what's the data to showing this? Yes, what this could do though is reduce access for some of the services whose valuation is relatively low and increase access for services where the valuation has gone up. It's a pretty common economic principle in our industry as well as many others. But yes, you would have, you know, that would not be a good outcome for you. Can you share when you look at the advocacy broadly and we zoom out a little bit, how is the academy managing, you want to assume all boats rise between comprehensive practice and sub specialty care? We just touched on the nuances of these code valuations on a micro level. But backing up, how does the academy balance advocacy for the breadth and width of ophthalmology versus subspecial interest? Yeah, so every year we convene basically the president or president-elect of all of the societies and we convene in Washington in January to talk about the problems for the upcoming year, the various problems that each of the subspeciality societies is having. And we take that list of problems and ultimately develop a priority worksheet for the DC office for that calendar year. And so we're a few weeks away from doing that again. But there are issues like valuation of E&M codes that went up a few years ago and the I codes did not follow in parallel. The global surgery period has not been fixed in terms of reimbursement. So we recognize that some are going to succeed. We talked for instance with Neuroop who said we have to support this valuation and the fact that it's being paid in part by the globals not being expanded in the surgical codes, all surgical codes. That's just a difference of opinion we're going to have to have. And that makes sense. And certainly they took the opportunity to write their letter in support of that change. But most of the time our issues are not really different. There's not really a difference between a retinal specialist or a cataract specialist in terms of overall reimbursement issues, coverage issues. There may be things that if you were in the retinal specialty society, your staff would key on and pay all your attention to the valuation of 67028 for instance. Although for us that's a huge volume for everybody across the field. So sometimes we have to pay attention or the most attention to the most common problems. But we try not to ignore any. There are other problems that are beyond our scope. And there are things like Medicaid reimbursement which is near and dear to APOS, my colleagues, our colleagues there. But that's a problem of 50 state legislatures plus Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia, the Congress in funding, the Academy of Pediatrics, family practice. There are others that really have to lead that because that's where the bulk of the activity is. And so medicine although some days doesn't appear working together in DC, at least on major issues, we're all in the same place. I mean there's always jockeying for the better advantage but that's what you would expect in the program. So I think we also listen to everybody and try and figure out how we can help even if it might have a slight negative impact on some. I had a question about trauma. I mentioned it prior to this meeting that we could talk about different things including trauma. I certainly am aware of the challenges or sort of the hot potato for ophthalmologists and practices managing trauma and the difficulty it is in different regions of our country to have access. What's Academy's current thoughts, engagement and program development? What are you doing in trauma? So trauma has been a priority of the Secretary for Education for about a half dozen years. When Chris Rappewano was Senior Secretary, he and Dal Fajardo, who is Vice President at the Academy, developed a training program, literature program, how to talk to hospitals about contracting for call. Chris has made that his signature project for his presidency in 2026 because it is a big issue. We are talking with, have been talking with the American College of Surgeons who designates what the requirements should be for trauma centers at level one or level two, what the access to eye care should be and really explain some of the problems including there's no slit lamp, there's no indirect ophthalmoscope in the ER of the trauma center, there's no OR capacity to do eye trauma. The equipment doesn't work, there's no nursing. The list that our members have developed is extensive. This has been a subject of a number of council advisory recommendations to the Board of Trustees over the last decade. And so we continue to work on it. The College of Surgeons is convening there a panel of the surgical, sorry, of the ophthalmologists who are on their, or our colleagues, ophthalmologists who are on their ophthalmology specialty panel who is having work with the trauma system people in January to further refine who can, who should and stating at the end of the day that no one must but we do need to get people willing to do trauma call to care for patients. We also know that the academic medical centers are feeling overrun, their residents are feeling overrun in terms of the volume of cases being transported to them because of inadequate coverage in the community. So it's a multi-pronged effort. There is a whole set of resources for trauma up on the Academy's website. They will be launching or announcing a toolkit to help members with this process. And I think at the end of the day, like everywhere, this is going to come down to hospitals compensating ophthalmologists fairly for providing a service that keeps that hospital designated a level one trauma center. Until those negotiations happen in a clear fashion, probably we're going to continue to swirl around the issue. Can we talk about resources a little bit? So you talked about the toolkit and that the AEO website has a lot to offer. So my last question is just as president of AEO, what are some of the resources and tools that you do offer that maybe are underutilized or that you want to make sure that the listeners are reminded that are available? Yeah, I think, Brittany, almost everything there. I think about what I forget to utilize is constant. And probably the most important tool for many of us is the iWiki program that really is a fantastically rapid resource for finding out almost anything and the huge number of people that have helped write in keeping that program going. My thanks to Chris Rappawano for keeping the Will's Eye manual up there, which you have to remember is present. And then practice management tools, they're all there. Most of them are open for ophthalmology members. You don't have to be a member of AAOE, the Association of Ophthalmology Executives. So lots of stuff there. The Academy continues to work on getting indexing to work more slickly, and I think that all of those things should improve. For advocates, the most important set of documents turns out to be the OTAs or Ophthalmology Technology Assessments and the Preferred Practice Patterns. Those documents really help us drive coverage policy for whatever techniques we want to do. They really are listened to by the committees that evaluate those kind of documents, the evidence-based committees at the carriers, so at the commercial or at the, well, they're all commercial carriers, whether they be Medicare Advantage, Medicare Administrative Contractor, or just commercial insurers. They really do look for us to talk and expect us to talk levelly and not over-optimistic in those documents, and truly they do meet that level of rigor that is perhaps not unique in medicine, but really is special in ophthalmology. Okay, my last question will go to the current trend where lives are so busy, it's hard to get young ophthalmologists involved in administrative roles. So we've highlighted many of yours. We didn't even talk about PDIG today and your leadership of that research organization or co-leadership. My question would be this, given your motivation in leadership of these organizations and participating, what's one experience you've had as president of the AO that has really captured your appreciation of why it's so valuable to serve, why this organization should be contributed to, and how that might motivate a young ophthalmologist, wondering if they should sign up for a committee? Yeah, well, Eric, I'm on my trip to my first panel meeting, that is the CPT task force. I had no idea whether these ophthalmologists would listen to me or even care what the program I was doing. Dare say, I never thought I would end up in the bottom or somewhere in the basement of the Capitol with about 20 presidents of various medical societies across the country, meeting with the doctors caucus in the bowels of the Capitol, really talking about the next stages, what we needed to do for Medicare reform. It's quite a direction shift and it was a great experience. Some of those doctors in fact share alma mater and so forth, so that was nice as well. But so much work to do, and even though they're doctors on the Hill, they don't seem to be able to move our target very rapidly. I certainly appreciate your leadership, your gifting, and just your presence, your voice and being there. Those of us in APOS have always cherished that voice, and for those of us in ophthalmology, just appreciate your leadership of our organization to do those things. Whether in the basement of the Capitol or our national meetings, we appreciate your voice at the table, and certainly appreciate your voice here on the podcast. Thanks for being here and thanks for reminding us to be an advocate for our field and for each other. I think it's important to also remember to talk to people who make these decisions. This is really hard work, so we appreciate you being our leader. Brittany and Eric, thanks very much for the opportunity. I think everyone should remember that going and talking to the politicians is important because we can be excited about the new technology that we've learned about that we're using and get them excited about it being the next step for their constituents and our patients to make their eye care better. Thanks again for today. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology podcast on our website, YouTube, or in most podcast platforms. Thank you for listening, and we definitely look forward to sharing more on our next podcast.