Well, my injury, I uh hyperextended my neck and uh dislocated, fractured my C3 and four. So, they had to put screws in to lock the bones together and straighten it back out. And then, uh I was in ICU for about five days and uh I came to the rehab unit five days later and started from there. And it was very tough in the beginning because the soreness in my neck and just from surgery recovering from surgery. Um like one of my first PT sessions were tolerate being in my chair. Just sitting in my chair was a was a part of my physical therapy. So I've came a long ways in that sense. In OT, occupational therapy. I am doing arm workouts where I'm strengthening and working on my movement my fingers, wrist, um all kind of functional things. PT we are doing standing and walking motions with me and uh just strengthening my trunk to my legs and everything. Right away after surgery I didn't have any feeling from about the top of my shoulders I could feel and then after that down I could not feel a thing. And uh they told me I'd have 3% chance of getting anything back. About a couple hours after I could raise my left shoulder a little bit. That was my first movement was a little shoulder raise. And then every day I could feel just maybe just a tad more than I could before. My first leg movement was my toe. That was on Thanksgiving. And From there, it's just slowly picked up different movements. After being here three months, you get comfortable with a lot of people. You see a lot of same people here and I really like it. Uh they really definitely made me feel at home, all very friendly and stuff. Um I'm very comfortable with everyone. They made a lot of fun being here. It could be pretty slow and not very exciting, but they make every day pretty exciting and they they'll get more excited than me when I do something new or do something better than before. Like they love seeing improvement and Mayo's definitely been a great experience. It could make it kind of slow or boring and be nonchalant just not fun and definitely been fun and it been very nice. I'm a hard worker and uh had to work for everything, you know, where I'm at today. So, so it's another definitely haven't any experience like this, but it's been fun and just through hard work with sports and school definitely carries over to hard work through therapy. I definitely want to get better. like I just I want the best improvement, the most improvement I can possibly get and I'm going to work extremely hard till I can achieve all of that. Um I've been staying positive just through improvements and uh my faith in Christ and it's been it's been some a bumpy road, but it's it's been good.