I'm glad I did it. I don't regret it. Penny Wheeler loves feeling lighter on her feet and healthy again. Gastric bypass surgery allowed her to hit her targeted goal of weight loss. Penny says her weight began to sore after a successful fight against cancer. At her peak of 330 lbs, all dieting solutions had failed and doctors gave her a dire warning. If you don't have the surgery, you will die within a year. And that was an eye openener right there. Mayo Clinic gastrointestinal surgeon Dr. Michael Sar performed a rueny procedure. He explained to Penny it would decrease the amount she could eat as well as the length of intestine where food is absorbed. He also explained it would not all be smooth sailing. Like Dr. Sar said, I'll do the surgery, but you have to do everything else afterwards, which I did. Regular exercise is a must. She also had to make radical changes to how and what she eats. Some changes dictated by her newly sensitive digestive tract. Milk gets me sick. You know, like I was not lactose intolerant before the surgery, but I am now. Vitamins and calcium supplements are now necessary to fill nutritional deficits. Patients on heart medications or immunosuppressive drugs need to be monitored more closely. Dr. Sar says nearly half his pre-bypass patients struggle with depression and even successful weight loss can create emotional strain. Spouses may have trouble. You know, you get comfortable with your spouse and then one of them loses weight and the other doesn't. There's there can be some um jealousy there. They may lose some of their friends. Scarring from Penny's bypass contributed to an intestinal blockage which required follow-up surgery. But Dr. Sar says there are major benefits as well. Diabetic patients often see their insulin usage or medication needs drop dramatically. Likewise, high blood pressure becomes easier to control. We expect 80% of people to decrease the amount of medicines they're on, 50% to get off their anti-hypertensive. For Penny, the benefits were lifesaving and lifechanging. I'm very happy. I'm Dennis Doda reporting for Medical Edge on the Mayo Clinic News Network.