I didn't even know actually that GIM existed as it is. I had just from the outside assumed that internal medicine here was like internal medicine elsewhere. Somebody I'd met within the division a long time ago in some of my training, sort of describing what GIM is and I was just sort of blown away. General Internal Medicine at Mayo Clinic is really unique. We are specialist generalists. General Internal Medicine at Mayo Clinic comprises the best of both outpatient and the opportunity to practice inpatient care. It's that solid middle ground for people who have those chronic complicated conditions but don't really have a direction to go to. They come to us. When you think of Mayo Clinic, you think of people coming from all over the world to find specialists who can help manage their rare diagnosis, and GIM is essentially the front door. From the moment you walk in the door. It is about the patient, from schedulers to ancillary staff, to the nursing team, to the DOS team. Everyone is here for the patient and working for the patient. One thing that sets Mayo Clinic apart from other institutions was that General Internal Medicine consists of multiple small specialty clinics. Within our department. We have a much more collaborative environment compared to other institutions. We are housed under one umbrella and we can actually talk to each other even on the same day in trying to figure out this puzzle. General Internal Medicine branches out into multiple different clinics. You can continue to work in that diagnostic pathway and have that be your primary practice. You can choose to diversify out into things like the Women's Menstrual Sexual Health Clinic, Men's Health Clinic, Breast Clinic, Fibromyalgia. You're able to really find a niche and the department works with you to find what you're passionate about and helps advance the career that you envision for yourself. From my perspective, if you want to be a good clinician, you need to have, besides the clinical practice, research and education as part of your practice no matter what. My research really ends up informing my clinical care and my clinical care also ends up informing my research and then both also inform my education side and I feel like I've been able to pursue those three shields, been able to embrace them. Our senior associate consultants gets something called a seed time, which is 20% of their time that is protected for them to start doing research, start getting involved in improving their skills, and that helped me to complete three or four publications right off the bat in my first year. In two - in two and a half years, I've reached what I could now have reached in seven years. I love that I can balance my research or teaching talks or my clinical work with and enjoying my time with my family at night or on the weekends. It is a very friendly community. It's very active, so there's a lot of activities to do all year round just because I think Minnesotans are active people. We live in a neighborhood where we feel super safe. When the children get home from school, they throw their backpacks in the house and they run out in the street and they play with the neighbors and if you look out the window, it's just kids and bikes and dogs and footballs and all those kind of things. When it comes to hobbies, anything with food, I love getting to go to new restaurants. I think the most recent three have been the new Cuban, Filipino and Korean places that we've had here in Rochester, which has been great. If you have a passion, if you have something that you really wanna dig deep into it, embrace it because you'll be supported here. People will be excited to learn from you, they'll be excited to lift you. I feel like the opportunities here, especially as a generalist, they're limitless.