- Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Welcome back to Mayo Clinic cardiovascular podcast series, interviews with the experts. I'm your host, Sharonne Hayes. I'm a non-invasive cardiologist and vice chair for faculty development and academic advancement for the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine here in Rochester, Minnesota. Today I'm joined by Dr. Tahir Kafil, who is assistant press professor of medicine and a member of the division of structural heart disease here in Minnesota. His areas of expertise include multimodality, imaging, sarcoid, pericarditis, and myocarditis. Welcome. - Dr. Tahir Kafil: Thank you so much. Very happy to be here with you today. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: So today our topic is global practices in cardiac imaging for cardiac sarcoidosis, the building of an international consensus. So Dr. Kafil will share insights with us affirming that cardiac imaging is a cornerstone in the diagnostic workup and management of cardiac sarcoidosis, but also associated with tra with challenges. And these include the fact that the indications for the use of advanced cardiac imaging may vary from institution to institution and even between clinicians at the same institution. So he'll share with us the results of a recent international consensus for the use in cardiac sarcoids. So I'm looking forward to, this is probably, I'm practicing differently than my colleagues. Right. So to hear from a big picture perspective, how is cardiac sarcoid usually diagnosed and why has that been problematic? - Dr. Tahir Kafil: That's a, that's a great question. At its core, cardiac sarcoidosis is essentially an autoimmune disease characterized by inflammatory granulomas that infiltrate the heart. And cause generally, you know, one of three symptoms, either life-threatening arrhythmias, high grade heart block, or a cardiomyopathy or heart failure, there's big picture two groups of patients that we see. The first is patients who have known, established sarcoidosis elsewhere in their body, such as if their lock, so pulmonary sarcoidosis. So if patients with sarcoidosis elsewhere suddenly develop cardiac manifestations, that would be one group. A second group are patients who are presenting de novo for the first time with one of these symptoms or cardiac manifestations. Often later on they will be found to have sarcoidosis elsewhere in their body as well. But these are the two big groups and you know, often we'll see young patients presenting with heart block. And so a lot of our patients come through our electrophysiology colleagues, but they can come through to our cardiac sarcoidosis clinic from, you know, several different channels. But it's important to consider it, especially if you have a young patient presenting with these symptoms. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: You got together with a group of international colleagues to come up with some recommendations and you use the Delphi methodology. Tell us about that, for those who are un unfamiliar with that methodology and why it might be an advantage for this. - Dr. Tahir Kafil: Absolutely. So the Delphi methodology is actually a, a very robust way to build consensus. And it's certainly used in a lot of different disciplines and maybe underutilized in cardiology. So we did this very large multicenter study. We ended up having 89 international experts, 61 centers, 13 countries. It took three years. And so what we did was, in a sort of systematic way with iterative rounds, we helped the group develop consensus. So the four features of this methodology are, are number one, the responses are anonymous and this bypasses the problem of if you have very, you know, dominant folks who can, you know, dominate the, the conversation by sort of leveling the playing field. We hear from all the experts, there's multiple iteration, we give feedback to the panelists there, therefore, you know, they can revise their responses. And then we sort of statistically summarize. Now the place where this methodology works best is if there's significant heterogeneity, either due to a lack of clinical data or evidence or if there's strong disagreements between experts. And so, you know, cardiac sarcoidosis was the perfect scenario. If you look at a lot of the guidelines, they really don't, you know, they scratch the surface in terms of the, you know, thousands of permutations, different clinical challenges. So what we did was we got all of these experts together and sort of, you know, we avoided their confrontation between them and we sort of gradually helped them develop a consensus in a nuanced approach. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: So if that took place over three years, presumably some of that was virtual or asynchronous answering questions. And and presumably you brought them all together at some point? - Dr. Tahir Kafil: Yeah, so, so, so we did, we used a red cap and you know, our steering committee was, was built of, you know, all the, the, usually the folks who write the guidelines and they helped us sort of snowball and, and recruit local experts. It's important to note that, you know, we, we ensured that we had a balanced representation of, of academic experts and clinical experts. 'cause there are a lot of folks out there who see a lot of cardio sarcoid patients, but they may not publish as much. We ensured there was multidisciplinary representation. And, and so, and we also ensured there was representation from all of the world who wasn't just a US study. We had, you know, Europe, Asia, everyone was, was represented - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Very interesting. So the suggested algorithm for imaging and suspected cardiac sarcoidosis used pretest probability. Now we all know about that in patients with chest pain and coronary disease. So tell us how this was defined for cardiac sarcoidosis. - Dr. Tahir Kafil: So, great question. So in order for us to operationalize and, and get consensus, we had to define the, the terminology very clearly for the experts. So what we said was, if someone has a low pretest probability, it's defined as there's cardiac symptoms, but there's no objective cardiac testing abnormality. So the troponin, the BNP, the echo, the holder, all of these are normal. Moderate pretest probability would be if you have the cardiac manifestations and at least one cardiac test is abnormal. And then high pretest probability was you have the cardiac manifestations and more than one cardiac diagnostic abnormality. And this framework really helped us develop how to approach imaging and that sort of carried through throughout the rest of the study. - Yeah, so I'm sure you considered lots of different, all the different perhaps cardiac imaging modalities. So tell us a little bit about, you know, the pros and cons of MRI versus PET and the order in which you, your group came up with how do we use these imaging modalities? - Dr. Tahir Kafil: That's a great question and one of the most common questions that I get is, does MRI have to be first or can we do pet first? So one of the things that this study really helped us see was amongst cardiac sarcoid experts, we consider them to be equally important co-primary modalities, and they provide complimentary information. So one of the, our goals of this paper was an easy to use, clinically practical and useful algorithm. So going back to the, the the low pretest probability scenario. So if you follow our, our central figure algorithm, if a patient has a low pretest probability and they have the cardiac MRI as the first test, and it is a high quality cardiac MRI, if that is completely negative, then that's sufficient to conclude further investigations for cardiac surgery. Exactly. The, the flip is also true that if someone has moderate or high pretest probability, then the experts generally want both. And there are several scenarios where due to limitations of MRI or the pet, it, it may not, you know, it might be equivocal for example. So the experts use these in, in the moderate to high pretest probability range together. And I think what does depend on local resources, so one of the things we found from this study was access to advanced imaging and multimodality imaging really varies across the globe. So at some academic centers like ours where we can get MRI the same Wednesday afternoon at other centers, the wait time can be over six to nine months. So in, in those settings, if you can get the pet faster, for example, you know, that's, that's reasonable. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Yeah. So if I'm hearing you, MR MRI is generally the first one if it's available, but depending on skill and availability, pets is honestly as good and certainly preferable than waiting for an MRIE. - Dr. Tahir Kafil: Exactly. And and again, just to emphasize that we consider them to be, you know, cold primary and, and provide complimentary information. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: So say somebody's been diagnosed with cardiac sarcoidosis, how did the experts decide how often to do follow-up imaging and what type of imaging should they like, do they recommend? - Dr. Tahir Kafil: That's another really great question and one of the central questions that our study, you know, set forth to answer. So what we found almost immediately was there was significant heterogeneity across the world and also within the same institutions. Now, once someone has established cardiac sarcoid, PET is generally used to follow treatment response. And so the, the question for us was how often to do this? And so our consensus really emphasizes the balance of the diagnostic value and how are you changing management versus the risk of radiation exposure. And so one of the things that we clarified was how to, you know, a framework of how to approach this. So the first question is how will it change management? So if you look at our algorithm for when to repeat, the first question is, are you changing the immunosuppression? So are you starting immunosuppression, are you augmenting, are you decreasing or stopping immunosuppression? So that's the first question. And then the second question is, what was the patient's response? So if they improved, if they, you know, unchanged or if they got worse, these would guide you in terms of when to repeat it. And so if you look at our central illustration, we nicely, you know, show with this pathway a sort of practical and a generalizable approach of how to judiciously use a pet. And this is again, you know, it's incorporated in the guidelines, but, but our approach is also generalizable to non-academic centers and centers outside of the US as well. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: But you've referred to the central illustration several times, so I'm assuming this has been published. Can you tell me when and where so those who are listening to us might be able to seek out the original images and all of that? - Dr. Tahir Kafil: Yep. A absolutely. So it was published earlier this year in the Journal of American College of Cardiology, correct? Yep. Yep. In the cardiovascular imaging. And it was titled Global Practices and Cardiac Imaging for Cardiac Sarcoidosis. And again, the nice thing about is it very much took a pulse of what is the state of affairs for cardiac sarcoidosis research and, and where do we go next? - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: So obviously you've talked about there being differences across countries, across institutions, and also you said part of the gap is, and why you had to come to consensus is because you didn't have enough evidence to actually inform things. So a lot of times at the end of these processes say, what did we need to know? What do we wish we had to base these on? What were the areas of priority research that were identified by your group? - Dr. Tahir Kafil: Absolutely. So that's a great question and one of the take home points from this study was, you know, for sure all the statements where we got consensus was very helpful, but all the prompts that we did not get consensus were immediately research questions. So it was a very rich repository of research questions. And I think I I I got lucky in that I struck a very rich vein of all the experts were so interested in these questions. I'll give you a few specific examples of priority. So one is in cardiac MRI. So when we asked the experts, should Blake Aline enhancement be quantified, there was consensus, yes, absolutely should be quantified. It's important. But when we probed further and asked, okay, what method should be used to quantify, there was no consensus. And then when we tried to ask, okay, so if we're quantifying is important, what is the threshold? How much is important? And, and there was no consensus on that either. So I think this was a nice example of, you know, priority area of research similarly for FDG uptake on, on pet, which is, you know, generally a marker of inflammation. Now the experts agree it's very important for treatment response and we need to reduce the FDG uptake, but we didn't reach consensus on how much to reduce it. We didn't reach consensus on whether full eradication should be the treatment goal. And so this is another area that's very rich and, and and and important for, for research. And of course there is also the phenomena of clinically silent cardiac sarcoidosis. So these are patients who have known pulmonary sarcoidosis. They've had a patch that shows active cardiac inflammation, but they have zero cardiac symptoms. And so this was another area that, that a lot of experts, we, you know, we had a lot of great time discussing this about what to do in this, this scenario. But, but I think the nice thing about the study was every prompt that didn't reach consensus is, is ready for, for a research study. And you know, we really emphasized from this study a number of points. One, the importance of multidisciplinary approach to this complex disease condition. Number two, the importance of centers of excellence and really trying to, you know, concentrate the knowledge. And then number three, collaboration between these centers of excellence. And I think there is a lot of excitement in the community to work together and try to help find answers and help our patients. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Well, you know, I I think not everybody gets to participate in an experience like this and really contribute, but also it sounds very exciting that you got to interact with and learn from and share and teach all of these folks. So I imagine you formed some new research or clinical collaborations and maybe some friends. - Dr. Tahir Kafil: Absolutely. This was a, a fantastic opportunity to, you know, really know who are the, the key players in cardiac sarcoidosis across the world. And a lot of research that we're doing is multicenter. So a lot of friends and, and connections and a lot of the research we're doing here at Mayo taps into this global network of like-minded individuals. It's a small community and it's, it's a fantastic group of people. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: And, and, and I I'm sure you are, as people who may not know who are listening, we actually have a sarcoid clinic here at Mayo Clinic, a place that you practice and, and that is also an opportunity for patients and referring physicians to send patients who can get state-of-the-art diagnosis and treatment, but also potentially be involved in a clinical trial or some other research. - Dr. Tahir Kafil: Absolutely. We have several prospective trials that we're working on. And the, the cardiac sarcoidosis clinic at, at Mayo Clinic is a fantastic resource that I think people should take advantage of, and we have one of the best teams in the world. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Yeah. Well, thank you. I know we do, this wraps up this week's episodes of interviews with the experts and I'd like to thank Dr. Kafil for joining me today and discussing this really important topic. - Dr. Tahir Kafil:It's my pleasure. Thank you for having me. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: And we look forward to you joining us next week again for another interview with the experts. Be well - Announcer: At Mayo Clinic, relentless learning fuels world class care. I'm Dr. Rajiv Gulati, chair of the division of Interventional Cardiology. If today's episode gave you a fresh insight, imagine what a full course can do for your patients. Head to cveducation.mayo.edu and explore our live and online programs, our quick on-demand modules and our CME accredited masterclasses created and taught by the very voices you trust here. Join thousands of clinicians who've already turned curiosity into expertise. Level up your practice now at Cveducation.mayo.edu.