- Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Hello, I'm Dr. Steve Kopecky, preventive cardiologist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. And today it's another one of our interviews with the experts on cardiovascular disease prevention. It's my great pleasure and privilege to introduce my colleague and friend, Dr. Kyla Lara-Breitinger. Welcome Kyla. - Dr. Kyla Lara-Breitinger: Hi Dr. Kopecky, how are you doing today? - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Doing great, thank you. And and Kyla is a, a very unique cardiologist in that she got a master's in nutrition from Columbia before she went to medical school. So she understands many of these issues of which most of us, including me, maybe got 20 minutes of education in medical school about nutrition. So Kyla today our, our subject will be heart healthy diet, how to evaluate your patients. 'cause this is one of the things that takes so much time. You know, we can't sit there and ask a patient for 30 minutes, what do you eat for breakfast, lunch, and dinner? What recommendations do you have for us on how to do that? - Dr. Kyla Lara-Breitinger: Absolutely, I could totally relate. There's only so many minutes and you're a cardiologist or you're a clinician and your patient. The last thing they wanna talk about is their diet. Since they're not necessarily seeing a dietician. And so what we found as a solution is to find a rapid dietary screener that can somewhat correlate to a standard way of how we normally look at diet, which is through 156 questions to look at the quality of someone's diet. And then we base it off of something called the healthy eating index, which is a national kind of standard of how we determine the quality of someone's diet. And so we were able at Mayo, with Dr. Kopecky being one of the co-authors, we were able to develop a shortened nine item food questionnaire that takes a few minutes to complete by a patient that can tell us with pretty good correlation how filthy someone's diet is. And so it was a matter of deducing 156 questions that you can ask to get a comprehensive view. And we kept trying to come down and come down and come down on the questions without changing the correlation through very involved statistics. And we came about nine different items that include things like servings of fruits and vegetables, servings, complex carbohydrates, legumes nuts and seeds, how many sweetened beverage and sweets are you intaking types of low fat dairy, high saturated foods and different things like that. And how many servings of fish and sea food food you have per week. And so what we do then is we have either the patient complete this mini eat before they even come into the clinic. So in the ideal setting, you would hope that your electronic medical record can send this to the patient to reduce the amount of survey burden for you know, your medical assistant or the person at the front desk or then nurse to do. And so if you're unable to do that, having the patient while they're sitting down in the waiting room waiting for you to complete this for three to four minutes and then by the time you as the clinician are seeing the patient, you go through all of their questions and you have a few minutes to see the results and you know if they have a poor, medium, or healthy diet. And then you can look at their questions and how they answered and say, Hey, I noticed that you have, you know, six servings per week of high saturated fat foods. Could we find a common ground of what you're eating that's very saturated and can we replace maybe three times a week of something less saturated? And that could be done much more quickly than saying, tell me about your day and what you ate yesterday. And then they were gonna say, well, I traveled so when I travel. And then they go on and then it's 40 minutes and you're like, oh my gosh, we didn't look at your echo. We didn't look at your cath. Like what did I do? - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Yeah, no, it's a very good point. So the now the mini eat that is, is that a, a questionnaire that someone can download and use or how, how do they go about that? - Dr. Kyla Lara-Breitinger: Absolutely. And so we were able to offer and develop a free external website. It's mini-eat.org. So you do not need to be inside of our academic institution. It's open to anybody who needs a way to standardize the way they assess diet in a quick way in the clinic. Obviously they're gonna be more sensitive and more specific and more accurate ways to check diet as we know this is a way, it's a clinical useful tool to do something quickly to then act on it in a way that is meaningful to the patient you're seeing. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: That's great advice. And to point out, you mentioned earlier the healthy eating index, which really is more of an index of Mediterranean diet, fruits, vegetables, legumes, things like that. So what, when you'd start to recommend about diet, do you include a dietician frequently or do you like give 'em a few tips and then if they need more help a dietician, how do you incorporate that? - Dr. Kyla Lara-Breitinger: Yeah, and that's a great question because it depends on how much nutrition education that person has. If they're someone who goes, you know, hard for like HIIT boot camps, they're doing CrossFit, they've lost weight before, I've seen that they've done like formal dietary programs, then maybe asking them about seeing a dietician to find opportunities or gaps in their diet that maybe they don't realize are blind spots versus somebody, you know, we do offer this to our Mayo Clinic patients when they see us as cardiologists. If we feel like they don't even have a basis, then having a one-on-one comprehensive review and evaluation by one of our nutrition dieticians in our cardiometabolic or even cardio prevention clinic is fantastic because that gives them a one hour, 45 minute to one hour dedicated time that they may have never had ever in their life, maybe in like third or fourth grade. We all do health as a class and there's a section on diet and there's section on something about fruits and vegetables. But with the mismarketing of food and all of these ideas that this is healthy, this is not, it's some, it can be very confusing for a consumer to decide what it actually healthy and not depending on who they're around, what they're influenced by and where they come from, so. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Good. Yeah, great advice. And then is there, what do you tell 'em about ultra processed foods? Is there a simple, you know, simple elevator conversation with that? - Dr. Kyla Lara-Breitinger: Yeah, because that can get as technical as a nolva classification system, right? That was introduced in Brazil to determine if anything has any real food in it. So the quick elevator thing is, hey, if you're grocery shopping and you're not in the perimeter and you're getting all your food in the pantry, if that food has an ingredients list that's paragraphs long and you barely recognize anything and you put it in your pantry and three months, six months, one year later you open it up and it still tastes good and it's addictive and it's salty, that's probably ultra processed foods. And so that's the difference between ultra processed and then but processed foods, right? We know that, you know, some canned vegetables, frozen things, they're processed, but those aren't bad for you. And they, some of the, our foods have to be processed to be able to store and reheat. But the ultra processed foods are the ones that have been on the rise and they're associated with anywhere from a five to 10% increase in mortality, overall mortality, cardiovascular mortality. And the average American, based on one of an and Hanes study looked at the average American adult consumes 7.5 servings of ultra processed foods per day. Yeah. There's only three meals in a day and really you should only be snacking if you are twice a day. So where are the seven and a half servings coming from? I don't know. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: It's ubiquitous, isn't it? Yeah. The recommendation is three servings a week. Good luck on that. You know, I know the, so is there a single, you know, we're gonna have a another session later in this series on, you know, how, what to tell patients to eat. But you know, briefly, is there a single thing you try to, you know, emphasize to them, you know, on what to eat? - Dr. Kyla Lara-Breitinger: Yeah, if I can, for the average American, with the average amount of information on nutrition, I ask about hydration first. Whenever you're hungry, think about what you're doing. Are you distracted? Are you upset? And are you thirsty? People tend to eat more salty food, which are ultra processed, but they're actually thirsty. Water follows salt. And so they end up eating more then drinking water, have a glass of water. The other thing I tell them is, you know, if you can limit refined carbs, which are ultra processed foods and go for complex carbs, you'll eat a lot less. And so if there are people lastly who over consume, I say, you don't need to change everything drastically overnight. If you could cut the portion down of what you eat and maintain what you're eating, you're not restricting the type of food you're eating, but the amount. And if that's more important to you to keep on eating the food, you will never negotiate that, eat half of it and drink more water or have more of a vegetable and then don't eliminate something or save half of your food when you're out and pretend you're gonna take it back to your hotel room or back home or throw it away. But at least you had it, but you add half of it. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Yeah. Yeah. Wonderful advice. I wish we could more achieve that easier in the future. The, and then what about follow up? Do you usually say, okay, here's the one time hit and go away and and, but you tell 'em to come back in six months or - Dr. Kyla Lara-Breitinger: Right. And as a clinician, right, you have other responsibilities and the likelihood that your practice is gonna let you see someone in a couple weeks or in a month to just talk about diets? Probably slim, right? Because there's not a lot of reimbursement. But we have, what you could introduce in your practice is having nursing visits. There's a lot of nurses who are very into health, health coach certifications. You could have RN visits where it's almost like a weigh in and then talking about, hey, I noticed Dr. Lara, Dr. Kopecky mentioned in their note that you're gonna make these changes. How is that going? Or even a follow-up visit, people need touch points to know, someone's gonna call me or I have an appointment, did I make this change? People want human touch, not artificial intelligence, not text messages, et cetera. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Yeah, that's all such great advice. So to, to summarize Dr. Lara-Breitinger, you've mentioned to us about mini eat, mini-eat.org, that patients or, or providers can go on to use that, download that use that app and that's really a great service. You've talked about the fruits, the vegetables, legumes, the classic Mediterranean diet, maybe some oil, olive oil extraversion is ideal, but you know, it's, if you're gonna cook it to a high temperature, it's probably not that. All that anti-inflammatory, we will have a future episodes on what to advise patients specifically. And then finally, you mentioned about ultra processed foods, which is the bane of our, of our existence in this world right now we're all eating way too much of it and we'll talk more about that in the future. So Kyla, any final parting words for us? - Dr. Kyla Lara-Breitinger: No, I really hope that this was a quick way to kind of find a way to even introduce the idea of diet in the practice. I'm looking forward to changes that are hopefully gonna happen in the coming years with dye colorings and ultra processed foods. You know, if there's a time to change it. And you know, I'm sure many of you out there have seen the different social medias with fruit loops coming in Europe versus Fruit Loops coming into America. And the degree of difference for the same type of product we're Americans. We need to make sure that we have the leadership that says, and no more of that, we need high quality food for our children to reduce this obesity pandemic. And so I'm looking forward to changes and I hope to continue to contribute alongside you. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: That's great. Well great. Thank you for joining us and we'll speak again in the future. And thank you all for listening to us today.