And you, Marco, I needed a kidney. Marco, if my kidney will do, go ahead. You have my heart, you have my kidney, and whatever you need, you know I'll always be there for you. My name is Marco Antonio Sarmiento, I'm a chef. I have a wonderful wife, she's the best thing that's ever happened to me. She's spontaneous, affectionate, and has a huge heart. He decided to get a general checkup, and that's when we discovered he had diabetes. He'd come home from work and not want to know anything but lie down and sleep. He'd walk 20 steps and get tired; he'd have to get up. One day the doctor told us he was going to need a transplant. It was very difficult for me. I was like, 'Am I going to die? What's going to happen?' I never saw it as something so serious until recently when they told him he was going to need a transplant. When we saw he was going to need a transplant, we were scared. I think he was the most worried of all. The doctor recommended my clinic. We didn't know much. I had heard it was a good clinic. When we got there, we were very confused; we didn't have the right information. When we got there, the doctor started explaining that...  We were afraid that I was a good candidate for a transplant, that everything was going to be alright, like my life changed a little there because I said, well, there's hope. I met this Marco when they arrived here at the Mayo Clinic looking for a kidney. They're a couple, a married couple with a lot of love, united from the moment we went in to check in. The receptionists were very kind to us, so we started to feel that trust. They make you feel like you're at home, like family. They really care about you as a patient. It also happened that he arrived today, although I'm glad to see you. The doctors give you a hug, I mean, that's incredible, isn't it? Marco needed a kidney. The best option was from someone in the family who could be a match. There was no one in his family, and that's when I told Marco, "And my kidney will do for you, go ahead." until a tree of Wisconsin laughter and passes Stranger Strategy. If we can help because there isn't... I know that the kidney didn't go directly to Marco, but I know that it went to someone who really needed it, and it's  As if it were for a picture frame, please let's be more aware and help each other by donating. Ah, the kidney's reaction was immediate, my body accepted it and then I started to feel the difference. It's like I was reborn. I can play basketball with my kids, I go with Emiliano to play soccer for a while, which he loves, I cook with them. As families right now, I think we are extremely happy to envision this moment with family, better than anyone is right now. [Music] I have learned that sometimes the most insignificant things, like being with your families, are the most valuable. The most important thing is what is around you and sometimes you don't see it.