This is Aging [music] Forward, a podcast from Mayo Clinic about the science behind healthy aging and longevity. Each episode, we explore new ways to take care of our long-term health, the health of our loved ones, and our community so we can all live longer [music] and better. I'm Dr. Christina Chen, a geriatrician and internist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. [music] And in this episode, we are talking about a topic that is central to men's health. All about testosterone and the role it plays in vitality, strength, [music] bone and muscle health, sexual function, and even emotional well-being. What [music] happens when levels decline? And what's the difference between normal aging and true testosterone deficiency? When should men consider testing or treatment? These are all questions that we're going to explore today. I am joined by Dr. Scott Collins, [music] an internist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. He is also the medical director of Mayo [music] Clinic men's health clinic with a joint appointment in urology. His clinical and research work focuses on various [music] men's topics including hormone balance and sexual function. Welcome to the podcast, Dr. Collins. >> Thank you for having me here. >> You know, we hear about testosterone. I think the average person thinks this is a hormone that has a lot of impact on our muscles and sexual health. And that's kind of the general understanding, but what exactly is it? What is its function in the body outside of just sexual health? What else does it do? >> So testosterone is a steroid hormone that does a lot of things. It is needed for healthy libido, for erectile function, for maintenance of muscle mass, for preventing excess body fat from accumulating. It also helps keep our bones strong. It also helps in the regulation of hematopoesis. >> And yeah, just for our listeners, hematopoesis is the process of creating new red blood cells. >> Yeah. So there's a lot of systems that testosterone impacts other than what we usually hear about which is usually the sexual characteristic and drive maintenance. >> Mhm. So let's talk about the changes that start to happen when our testosterone levels begin to decline. Uh muscle mass for example becomes more difficult to build and maintain as a result and our hormones change too. So when does that process start? Well, testosterone changes are going to be the main age related change through the endocrine system in men. And I hate to say it, but starting around the 30s, 40s, that age group is when the data shows that it starts going down by one and a half 2% or so per year. And uh that is part of normal aging due to basically hypothalamic and pituitary which are centers in the brain that regulate hormones throughout the body having age related changes. >> What would you say is the difference between that normal pattern versus true testosterone deficiency? Where's that threshold where it's abnormal? That's going to depend first of all on the presence or absence of symptoms. And then the other thing is there is a biochemical definition of low testosterone. And the most common guidelines say basically if they have a total testosterone of 300 or below from the urologist's perspective or 264 or below from the endocrine perspective and then also looking at the free testosterone as something to help interpret that level that plus the symptoms is how you could define a pathologic state. And so just to quickly define free testosterone, basically all the testosterone in your blood is either bound to proteins or unbound, which is free. So the free testosterone is the more bioavailable form and the levels are measured differently when testing, >> right? But if somebody has lower testosterone values, say without symptoms, in other words, if their testosterone was checked for some reason and it was revealed that it was lower than expected, but they feel okay, then that is not necessarily indicative of pathology. And that also goes with the fact that we don't really have a good age specific reference range. When I think of testosterone, I think like 250 to 950 as a normal range for that to be in. And you know, a 30-year-old and a 90y old are going to be very different. >> But individualized numbers and targets, that's really tough, especially if you're trying to help a patient who really likes data and is pretty black and white with numbers. >> So, thank you for clarifying that. I I think it's it's hard to find that that accurate reference range. And plus, like you mentioned, that the symptoms make a big difference as well. Can you describe some of these symptoms that people typically feel with low testosterone or low tea? >> The most specific symptom and the most frequent symptom that I think really indicates the presence of low tea is decreased libido. The patients I've seen who have really low testosterone are often not motivated at all for any sexual activity. There are things that intellectually they may see and they be like, I should be interested in this, but I'm not. But then it doesn't really bother them. A lot of them also have decreased motivation, decreased energy. As far as erections go, you have to have a pretty low testosterone for the erections to be impacted because a lot of men who have age related or vascular related ED think there's a testosterone problem, but there actually isn't. And then the symptoms get more vague, such as the inability to maintain muscle mass, or I'm in the gym and I'm not getting the same results I used to get, or I'm tired, or I can't focus. It's interesting you mentioned that because there are symptoms that are clearly related to low testosterone, but then there are other symptoms of low tea that can seem representative of a totally different condition. Can you share some examples of that? >> An example that I've seen quite a bit are men like in their 60s,7s etc. who have unexplained anemia or like a hemoglobin of 12.4 or something like that. They've had endoscopy. They've had their peripheral smears, a lot of the basic tests for anemia. And oftent times people don't think about checking testosterone as a cause that's true of that. And in those situations, treating with testosterone will resolve the anemia and that's actually been reflected in the tea trials and some of the other large testosterone trials. H I read an interesting statistic recently that men in general compared to 20 years ago, they on average have 25% lower testosterone compared to previous generations. And I thought that was really fascinating. Is there anything to suggest why things have changed over the past couple decades? I don't think it's really known because some of the data you're referring to is basically across different populations where we would expect these things to happen. Whether or not it's more obesity related, untreated sleep apnnea related, lifestyle related, it's really not giving an explanation other than just time >> and then of course there's environmental factors. >> I think you're right. I think this is probably a combination of things. There's no direct one influence, but just if you look at the demographics and how we've all changed as far as our health trajectory, there has an increase in obesity, sleep apnea, the foods that we're eating, the way that we're moving and exercising, all these lifestyle >> changes perhaps in combination have some influence there. And if I may, mentioning obesity, sleep apnnea. >> Sleep apnoa is a common villain in a lot of health problems that my patients have. And in my mind, it's guilty till proven innocent because it can be not as easy to detect as we think sometimes. >> It is a cause of significant low tea. I've seen men have testosterone values in the hundreds. And remember, we think basically 3 to 900ish for normal. And if they're in that low low level with untreated sleep apnnea, we've treated them and they go to five or 600. >> And and the reason is that some of the derangements in the nervous system from sleep apnoa can impact the release of regulatory hormones and just wreak havoc on that regulation. And then that gives them basically what we would call a secondary low tea. And one of the reasons why I like to treat low tea patients is because it is a detective game because there's a lot of things that can cause hypogonatism or low testosterone. >> Let's take a second to explain the difference between primary low tea and then secondary low tea. Primary is when low tea is a result of issues with the testes and secondary basically refers to low testosterone values that are caused by testosterone problems with the brain. specifically the hypothalamus and pituitary gland. Dr. Collins, can you give us some examples of both primary and secondary low testosterone? >> A primary disorder would be if they had a testicular injury, an infection causing them not to produce testosterone and sperm or like someone who has certain chemotherapies that can happen. the other ones are going to be caused by regulation problems from untreated sleep apnnea, metabolic syndrome, and all of those other things. >> Thank you for sharing that link between sleep apnea and low tea. We often don't think about that association. You know, there's a lot of people with sleep apnnea who can't tolerate CPAP and the positive pressure devices. And it can also mask anemia, too. If you're not breathing well, your blood counts can be high, but should be low. And then we sort of forget the tea [music] aspect of it. So as far as testing and and diagnosis, when do you think men should be tested for testosterone? mentioned like with symptoms, but if we know that the levels are going to naturally decrease, should it be just routinely tested anyway? >> As a general rule, testosterone usually is not checked, at least in most practices that I'm familiar with, unless there's a reason >> because it often can be misleading. It can cause confusion. I usually test if the person expresses concerns and then we discuss and through shared decision-making think it would be a good reason to look at it or if they have any of those symptoms that I had mentioned earlier as more of an investigative thing. And then another thing that's really important with testosterone testing is there's a lot of variance in testosterone. Both the Endocrine and Urologic Association guidelines recommend two separate values. And it's important to have these values done between 7 to 10 a.m. because these are values that can change based upon the time of day, especially in younger men. If you see a 30 or 40 year old, it's vital to do it early like that. If somebody's 60, 70 plus, I mean, there's probably not going to be as much variation, but still we need to compare apples to apples. One of the most important things is the free testosterone bioavailable. If those are low, then the total really is irrelevant because that is what correlates the most with the symptoms. Got it? >> That's why in my practice and then in our urology group's practice here, we have a certain threshold based upon our lab that if they're below that with symptoms, then they're the ones who would be expected to benefit from testosterone replacement therapy. So just to summarize, it's two separate tests at least two days apart. >> I don't know about the two days, but two occasions. >> Two occasions. Okay. Okay. Yeah. >> Testing total first and then free to kind of confirm. >> Now, the way a lot of labs work, it's going to be ordered as total and free together as a package. And that's just the way that it's done for logistical reasons. I mean, some places if you're just looking at one value, it would be reasonable to look at the free tea, especially if you had a value in the 300ish range, especially if you have a patient with symptoms in that range and you really wanted to determine the validity of the total testosterone value. >> Beyond testosterone, are there any other labs or evaluations that should be done together? You mentioned regulatory hormones. >> The FSH, the LH, which are pituitary hormones, can help us distinguish between the primary testicular problem or the secondary basically brain problem. And if it's a primary problem, it's very easy to diagnose because your FSH and LH will be marketkedly elevated because your pituitary is using a megaphone and yelling with FSH and LH telling the testicles to manufacture testosterone. And there's a normal feedback loop when they make testosterone. It goes back to the brain and keeps those hormones within a certain range. But if the testosterone isn't produced, then it yells more and more. And so that's a slam dunk diagnosis. The secondary is much harder because your FSH and LH will be mid-range or maybe lower than expected. But another thing, especially if you have a really low total testosterone such as less than 150, it's important to look at prolactin and then also do a pituitary MRI. So prolactin is another hormone that the pituitary gland produces and this is the same hormone that actually stimulates milk production after childirth. Now why do we need to look at prolactin and perform a pituitary MRI? Because some people can have benign brain tumors called pituitary microadinomomas or if they're large macroinomomas which basically inhibit the production of pituitary hormones and that can be a cause of this as well especially if the patient has visual abnormalities, headaches or actually lactation from the breast in a man because of the prolactin that's secreted. So all this is just to create a more comprehensive picture of what are other secondary causes of >> OT because before anyone is treated part of the appropriate workup is to determine one is it primary or secondary and two we need to know why. >> So moving ahead let's say we've determined that someone is highly symptomatic they've got low tea and evidence suggests that this person would benefit from treatment. Let's talk through some of the therapy options. how do we treat it and who are the ideal candidates for testosterone replacement therapy? So the ideal candidates are going to be men who have unequivocal testosterone deficiency based upon their values and from their lab work and then also based upon the presence of symptoms and that is actually standard of care to treat them to get them to a normal hormone level. And there's multiple guideline issuing societies that tell you where to replace testosterone to, but they pretty much all agree on around the middle of the normal range. So that's what we do um routinely for those patients. Where it gets murkier is where you have especially older people who have some possibly age related decline and who they don't have values that would actually merit treatment per se. And then another group is middle-aged men. I hate to say like my age. And in that group, the data that shows benefit from testosterone replacement therapy, the best data is in men in their 60s basically who had unequivocal low tea with te's in like the 2 to 300ish range. >> Can you share what are the different delivery methods? How do you choose between all of them? And what are the pros and cons? I let the patient decide. In most instances, the most common ways are basically going to be an injection or through a topical, which would be either a gel or a patch. The injection is cheap. It's been around for a long time. We have two different injections. We have testosterone cypionate and testosterone ananthate. And uh I most commonly use testosterone cipionate simply because I'm more familiar with it and because it's going to be less likely to have some peaks in the serum levels when you're dosing them. And with this you know they're getting the drug whereas with the topical probably a quarter of people don't absorb it as well. Then the [clears throat] other thing is that the topical can also cause dermatitises and there's also a transference risk. So you don't want to hug your three-year-old granddaughter and have them have precocious changes because of [laughter] that. And so I basically let the patient decide for their lifestyle what would work. But with the injections you can get peaks and valleys. Another thing is with those peaks and valleys, especially if we're really wanting to keep a lower value, I would lean toward a gel or a topical because I feel like I have more control over keeping them in a lower range instead of some of the ups and downs with the injections. The other question I get is what is the difference between prescription testosterone replacement therapy like you mentioned versus testosterone in other contexts where people can get just off the shelves on the market as far as performance enhancement and >> just using it recreationally. >> What's the big difference there? So all legitimate testosterone products are prescription. Okay? >> And it's actually a class three scheduled drug from the DEA because of the abuse potential. >> The over- the-counter things, there's a lot of supplements that make claims about being able to increase testosterone levels, but they're not going to directly do that. And so testosterone replacement is going to be through those preparations I mentioned. But what is concerning is there are some ways that patients can get these through certain channels where they will do what they want, if you will, >> and I've seen people really harm themselves doing that. And then there are also some proprietary clinics that want to basically treat symptoms and they work outside of the guidelines that I've mentioned, but they also use other things in addition to testosterone replacement therapy to basically counteract some of the side effects that they may get from testosterone. >> Yeah. You mentioned some of the risks earlier with non-prescription forms. Are there risks surrounding testosterone replacement therapy in general even if it's prescribed safely so to speak? >> So we can start with side effects. Some people will get some acne from it. One of the risks and side effects is having a higher libido. >> That's a good side effect. >> And some people can get gynecomastia from it. When men develop enlargement of breast tissue, some people get some fluid retention with it. Some people may feel more hyped up with it. And those are some of the effects that are common. But as far as more dangerous type things, if someone recently had a heart attack or has an active cardiovascular condition or something, I would use some caution. If someone has a propensity to thrombophilia or blood clotting, that's another thing we have to think about. If someone has untreated severe sleep apnea, that's technically a contraindication. Oh, interesting. Though there's a lot of patients who I have who do have sleep apnnea who are treated then they can be on testosterone replacement therapy in the right settings. One thing that patients need to realize is testosterone replacement therapy is essentially male birth control because when you're shutting off the FSH and LH, then your testicles are not going to be able to make sperm. So, I always have that caveat with patients that no matter what age they are, if you want to maintain your fertility, then we need to treat you differently as far as that goes. And you mentioned cardiovascular issues earlier. There used to be this idea that testosterone replacement therapy could lead to potential cardiovascular complications. Is that still the case? >> There used to be a lot of concern about major adverse cardiovascular events with testosterone replacement therapy. In fact, the FDA mandated that the pharmaceutical companies who make the testosterone preparations conduct a study and pay for it themselves to look for basically cardiovascular safety. And that's what the Traverse trial was. And it's a really well-designed trial of over 5,200 men in their 60s on testosterone gel versus placebo for several years. And some of these men were high risk for heart disease. And the people treated with tea versus placebo did not have any more cardiovascular events. >> Okay. >> And so when used properly, tea is safe. But another thing that was really valuable from that study is the reassurance regarding prostate cancer. We didn't see a huge amount of people getting cancer if they were treated. So another reassuring thing. >> Yeah, thank you. You just answered my question is like cardiovascular health and prostate health. That's the risks that we've always kind of learned about, but it sounds like the research has shown the safety in those situations. >> Yeah. And then also prostate events. They used to voice a lot of concern about urinary symptoms due to age related prostate growth, narrowing of the stream because the thought was giving them more testosterone, they may have bigger prostate and more obstruction. It's actually the contrary. People actually do better when they're treated with testosterone with regards to lower urinary tract symptoms. >> [music] >> We talked a lot about the natural changes in testosterone as we age and things that we can do about it as far as treatment, but is there a way we can counteract it over time? Are there natural ways to boost our own testosterone, whether it's through lifestyle, exercise, or the diet that we eat? >> That's basically the answer. like lifestyle, diet. When I see low testosterone values initially, that's one of the things I think about as far as the secondary causes. And I may say, before we could even consider treatment, we need to see if you're able to lose weight or get your diabetes under control or get sleep apnea treated or get into a better exercise regimen. And so that is something where treating those underlying conditions can help and have an intrinsic improvement in testosterone. And so the testosterone values are often a reflection of the overall health of the patient. >> And have you found a lot of success to that when people do implement some of these lifestyle changes? Do they have as much of an impact compared to medical therapy? It's usually more modest because a lot of those people are usually really overweight or have problems that are very challenging to treat. One thing that I think will be interesting to observe and we won't have data on this yet because it's so new, but to see what like the new GLP1s will do. Oh yeah. Because there's so much robust data talking about how they reduce cardiovascular risk and men in their 40s and 50s, how they are now FDA labeled for sleep apnoa and they are just wonderful for weight loss and helping people restore better metabolic health. My assumption would be that that would certainly improve testosterone. >> I feel like I keep hearing about more and more benefit to the GLP-1. So, we'll see how it impacts men's health as a whole. >> Yeah. >> Let's talk briefly about men's sexual health. And I I recognize this could be a whole another separate topic on its own, but you know, testosterone clearly affects sexual health >> and men. How does that impact >> healthy aging for men, their vitality, their well-being? Where does sexual health play in all that? When you mentioned vitality, aging, one of the things I've learned as a person who practices sexual medicine since 2019 is that you should not have agism when you're looking at basically someone's libido or sexual appetite because I've seen 30 year olds who tell me they're celibate and I've had a 96-year-old have a penile implant. And so it's a very personal thing and it's something that varies according to just where that person is in their life and that is their normal with our society's influence on men being hypersexual or that alpha male type mentality. I've had multiple patients, men in their 50s or so, who are worried about their health because they don't have as high of a sex drive as they perceive they should have. And just counseling patients and reassuring them, you know, once we've worked up the biochemical aspects like fatigue, millions of things impact it. >> Right. Right. No, thank you for that reminder. That's really important. In my practice in internal medicine, I see a lot of erectile dysfunction as well, but usually it's some type of vascular cause, you know, diabetes or a medication impact, for example, SSRIs. >> I've had a handful of people with low tea as what I thought was a cause. And >> for my practice, I haven't had a lot of great success treating erectile dysfunction with testosterone. And I'd love to hear how you approach that, what you've seen and success stories from your end. >> So when I think about erectile dysfunction, basically what I tell my patients is that blood vessels, hormones, nerves, and psychological components can help or hinder erections. And from the blood vessel perspective, especially in the older population, basically men in the 40 to 70ish age range, 50 plus% are going to have ED. So, it's very common. I reassure them of that. But the other thing that's important to think about, especially in men in their 30s and 40s, is that if someone has earlier than expected ED, that sounds vascular in history. I do cardiovascular risk assessment on them [snorts] because that can be a canary in the coal mine for underlying heart disease and can basically give us a wakeup call to get someone on a statin or correct underlying metabolic issues. I see men of all age groups with different nerve related issues. I see young men with multiple sclerosis or other neurologic diseases who have ED from that. I see men with diabetic neuropathy who have ED from that. I see people who have had colctal cancer surgeries who have ED. So, not just prostate cancer surgeries. Then the hormone part restoring them to the normal tea. I can't think of a really good example of a patient having a benefit from that part. But the other thing I think is the most important is the fact that this head controls the other one. And I see men from 18 to 100 with performance anxiety. And I tell them I hate the word performance even though it's in the definition of ED >> because they're not, you know, giving a performance. They're having >> a bodily function. But that comes with so much judgment and so much pressure that when you have anxiety of the performance type here, you can have basically your fight or flight activated. And I tell patients when you're running from a bear, you don't have an erection. [laughter] And that's not just because you're not thinking about it. You really can't because your body is shifting its resources elsewhere with your autonomic nervous system >> and basically confronting that and then working on the causes of the performance anxiety is really helpful in treating that. I see 20 year olds who have healthy anatomy who because of profound anxiety can have that problem. But I saw several 50-year-olds in my clinic this morning who had significant performance anxiety. And it's almost always the man himself that I'm seeing and not their partner who is putting that pressure on them. >> I think we're going to have to have you come back for part two of just like sexual dysfunction cuz that there's so much to talk about. So many I'm sure you've >> had a lot of success stories. Are there any that really stand out to you where you have noticed a great outcome with whatever management you were able to guide them through? Whether it's testosterone replacement or helping them through their ED, just something that really stands out to you that made a big difference in their lives. >> One example, an extreme example of a testosterone case was a man in his probably 50s. His wife brought him in because he wasn't motivated enough to come in. and he had some visual field abnormalities, just didn't feel right, had developed some breast tissue enlargement, profound ED, but he just didn't care. He had no libido. He had a testosterone that was essentially undetectable. >> Oh, wow. And basically he had a pituitary microatinoma. But before he had that treated, I gave him an injection of testosterone in the clinic before he left. And he let me know several days later that he wow didn't realize how poorly he was feeling and treating that direct disease. When I saw him back, he was a new person. And so that's a really dramatic example, but it shows when you have that [snorts] level of disease, then when you know what the cause is, you can certainly improve their lives. >> Yeah. Yeah. So at the end, he didn't need continued testosterone. He just needed that pituitary adenoma. >> Exactly. Yeah. >> So we always like to understand and hear about how our guests perceive aging and you know what healthy aging means to you. How do you personally age well? So when I think about healthy aging, I think about your lifespan and your health span, >> which I know is are popular terms to use these days, but >> anecdotally I see the young old and the old old >> and the common theme between the young old and the old old is physical activity. I see octo and nananogenarians who are still world travelers who do 100 push-ups a day, who swim for 45 minutes a day in cold lakes. And these aren't people who are doing extreme levels of exercise or anything. It's just like a maintenance of their body. These people who maintain their body, they do well. But when you have people who have higher age and worse health spans, that's when aging looks unpleasant because you're seeing their coorbidities. And so when I think about aging myself, that motivates me to work out, you know, work on my weight and those things because I want to be able to preserve that health span as much as I can. >> And enjoying the finer things in life, too. >> Exactly. >> Well, Dr. [snorts] Collins, thank you so much for sharing such useful information today in such a concise and understandable way and just bringing all the science and data into it. I think >> our takeaway is that testosterone is just kind of one piece of the puzzle to all of men's health. And so it plays a big role, but it sounds like there's a lot we can do to preserve it as well. And so I hope we can all walk away today with some useful information about how it can continue to take control of our health span. So thank you. >> All right. Thank you for having me. So, that's all [music] for this episode. Hopefully, you're feeling a little bit more informed, inspired, and empowered. If you have a topic suggestion for [music] a future episode, you can leave us a voicemail at 507-538-6272, and we might even feature your voice on the show. For more Aging Forward episodes and [music] resources, head to mayoc clinic.org/agingforward. And if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us on your podcast [music] app. It really helps others find our show. Thanks for listening and until next time, stay curious and stay active. >> [music]