This is Health Matters, a podcast from Mayo Clinic, where we discuss the latest medical advice, news, and research to help you live a happier and healthier life. My name is Kristen Meinzer. I'm a writer and journalist. And this episode, we're talking about advanced prostate cancer, also known as metastatic prostate cancer. The prostate is vital for reproduction, producing a key component in ***** that helps ***** travel through the reproductive tract. On top of that, as we all know, urine flows through it. But how does that all change with the diagnosis of advanced prostate cancer, and how can we treat it? Our guest today is Dr. Elizabeth Heath, a genitourinary oncologist and chair of the Department of Oncology at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Dr. Heath has led large-scale research initiatives with the goal of integrating research and clinical practice, translating scientific discoveries into real -world treatments. Dr. Elizabeth Heath, thank you so much for joining us today. Thanks for having me. First, we've mentioned what the prostate does, but where is the prostate? Well, it's a very, very small gland that only exists in men. And it's sort of nestled very deep into the pelvis right by the bladder. It's about a walnut-sized organ. So when it's internal like that, it can be a little bit tricky to understand what its role is and who has it even. So you're saying the prostate is located deep in the body. You can't actually look at it or observe it. So how would somebody know if they need a prostate screening? What symptoms might they feel? And what would a screening actually look like? Loaded question. You know, the debate rages on about if you find something early enough, does it really impact how long you live? So really, the right thing is, one, being aware that that organ is there. And sometimes what's hard is, you know, as men age, you have urine issues. So maybe you're peeing slower. They're always saying, well, my stream isn't as strong as it was when I was 22. You can have problems with feeling like you don't empty your bladder. So any and all of these, you could look at not just your symptom intake, but also number two, your primary doctor typically will do a digital ****** exam using their finger to not be so graphic. But some men don't know what it feels like and quickly just going into the ******. And in that exam, you can feel the prostate. So if it's big or at least bigger than what one anticipates it to be or you feel bumps and lumps, then that's a worry. You should have a what we call shared decision making moment, meaning you're going to have a conversation with your primary physician about do you feel OK about the as part of your physical exam? And then the second is how about the blood test? And just for our listeners, the blood test we're talking about is the PSA test or the prostate-specific antigen blood test, which is a standard blood test. You can do that or the digital ****** exam, but it's best to do both for accurate screening. Now, at what age should someone start getting these prostate screenings? The approach has been really, really heterogeneous. We're very enamored in cancer care about guidelines because guidelines means there's some level of agreement on best practice and guidelines also mean that your insurance plan will cover the test and the procedure. So, you know, the American Neurologic Association, American Society of Clinical Oncology, American Cancer Society, everyone's got a different sort of guideline. So depending on the organization, I think 50 is sort of the age that for many, many years was the starting point. But 45 is also a very accepted starting point to start screening, especially if you have a family history of it or if you're at a higher risk group, like being an African-American man. So those kinds of circumstance, maybe you'd want to advocate for yourself to say, hey, you know, my dad and my granddad had prostate cancer. Maybe I should start screening. So here's where patients can step in and say, what can I do? Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. What causes prostate cancer? Well, when I figure that out, I'll be retired and on a beat somewhere. I think that's the big question because having a big prostate doesn't mean you have prostate cancer. It just means you have a big prostate. Many men can experience that as they age. One in eight men can get prostate cancer. That's a high number. And as you get older, that number just, you know, your risk increases. But like anything else in the cancer world, there is some trigger. You know, I think there are some genes that we have that might lend itself to having a higher risk. So we don't know exactly the one trigger, but we are doing so much in research, not just ourselves here at Mayo Clinic, but so many other investigators worldwide, because we'd love to know the reason. Now, you already mentioned that African-American men tend to be at greater risk for prostate cancer. What other factors put someone at greater risk? I think the family history piece is becoming much more relevant. And again, it doesn't mean that if your granddad or your uncle or your dad or your brother even has it that you are automatically going to have it. But being at that higher risk means there's probably some shared genes that don't work right, that you happen to also inherit. So one of the messaging we've been trying to get out is patients for sure with either advanced or metastatic disease should get inherited gene panel testing. We sometimes call that germline testing to look at some of these factors that might run in families. Now, if you say, well, gee, how common is that? It's actually not super common. About 10% of men will have that sort of based in their DNA. Doesn't mean you're going to pass it on. it doesn't mean that you're at severe risk yourself, but it is important to know that risk isn't zero. It isn't 1%. So in our world, 10% is still very meaningful, but 90% of the time, nope, that has nothing to do with anything in my family. And this is other risk factors, maybe environmental, maybe something else. And all of those studies are definitely ongoing. So different conversations these days than even five years ago. Now, you mentioned that one in eight people born male will develop prostate cancer in their lifetime. How prevalent is advanced prostate cancer? It is still not the majority presentation. So if you look at everybody who walks through the door, we're still looking at a good 10-15% may present and the metastatic space. Many men will already have some symptoms of urinary troubles that might alert them or their family or their health care provider to say, maybe we need to investigate since sort of COVID. We see more patients presenting with advanced metastatic prostate cancer. That, you know, breaks my heart because this is a test around $30 in most health systems that could tell you a lot. Yeah. But when we see more patients present and a classical presentation would be, I have back pain. I thought I just pulled the muscle and now, you know, went to the ER because, boy, I'm really struggling with this pain. It's just getting worse. And in the workup of trying to find out what's going on in the emergency room, they see metastasis in the spine. and then PSA is 3,000 and there are other issues ongoing. It's our goal and I think everyone's goal that treats prostate cancer patients to never see that because we have great treatment compared to 10 years ago, but at that point it is highly unlikely to be cured. Dr. Heath, you mentioned urinary issues and back pain as being symptoms of prostate cancer. What other symptoms are there? Sometimes you just have an unintentional weight loss. Your appetite goes down and next thing you know, you've lost 20 pounds without trying. And those are subtle signs. Some other folks can feel really, really tired. Just, I would have done this a year ago, but I just can't imagine myself doing it. Some other folks just feel not right. I've had many people say, I don't know what it is. It's not one thing, but I do get aches and pains. I just feel unwell. I think all of that are all signals. You know, we're all easy to say, well, like I did too much today. I mean, your back pain or your feelings should go away in 48 hours or so, right? Once you rest up, the human body will bounce back and you're sort of back to your natural state. It did persist. Whatever the symptoms are, pain or urine issues or difficulty walking or just feeling unwell, don't wait. you know, contact your *** or whoever's your primary provider and say, something's happening. Can you check me out? And let's talk more about getting checked out. You already mentioned the digital examination. You mentioned the PSA blood test. Let's talk about a couple of the other types of diagnostic measures. There are different scans. There's biopsies. What do those entail? You know, even until recently, we relied on CAT scans. That's when you lay down and it is a two, not the MRI that everyone is like, oh, no, I'm claustrophobic. But CAT scans are done so routinely now. So very readily available. And then we tend to also do a nuclear medicine scan called a bone scan. So that kind of looks at your skeleton to see is there drama going on in your spine, your pelvis or your ribs. That is traditionally the accepted way to do a further staging workup for people with prostate cancer. So for example, if your blood test is showing up at a level of 200, and normally maybe you're at a 1.5, we have a problem. That means that number is generated from some cells floating around in your system that's spitting out this protein that we're measuring called PSA. So that's been at least the tried and true way and sort of the gold standard. Now the imaging studies have definitely advanced. So we now, whenever possible, also try to get a PET scan. And a PET scan is what we call more of a functional study. We want to see what it looks like in a more dynamic level in the body instead of just a picture in time. And doing that, there are different tracers that we use. And fortunately, in prostate cancer, there's been big advancements in the last several years of using a newer tracer called PSMA, prostate-specific membrane antigen. So that's a little flag that sits on the prostate cancer cells that the tracer you put into the patient can glom into that, kind of bind together, and then you light up on the scan. So ideally, that is a test that now has moved forward in rapid pace over the CAT scan and bone scan, but not every community has access to a PET scan. So it's really important that even if you can't get that, a standard CAT scan, bone scan is absolutely just fine. But if you can get access to a PET scan, it certainly is helpful. And then many times the urologists really like the MRIs of the prostate itself. So as we're thinking about how advanced is it, is it kind of bumping up around the bladder, is it touching the ******, how widespread is it to the lymph nodes? When done, and it's only to the prostate, there's so much information that the team gets from that. It's now become much more standard, and most communities will have MRI access. Around age 45 to 50 is a good time for those with prostates to get screened for prostate cancer. Some warning signs might include issues with urinating slower, a weaker stream, or difficulty emptying the bladder. Back pain that won't go away, unintentional weight loss, fatigue, and just your intuition that something is wrong are all good reasons to screen as well. The screening can include a PSA blood test and a digital ****** exam. There's also scans and biopsies. A PSMA PET scan can use tracers to visualize the advanced prostate cancer in your body. And if that's not available where you are, a standard CAT scan and bone scan can work too. Some doctors will opt to have an MRI of the prostate as well. 10-15% of those born male will get metastatic prostate cancer. And while we still don't know what causes it, we do know some risk factors. Being an African American male, for one. If you have a family history of prostate cancer, you can also look into inherited gene panels. Environmental factors can contribute too. So if you think you're at higher risk, take it upon yourself to reach out to your provider. Next, we'll talk about treatment options. So let's say someone is diagnosed with prostate cancer and they find out it is advanced. What are the treatment options for advanced prostate cancer and how do they work? I have to say that landscape has changed tremendously in the last five years in a way that the treatment options even in the next year or two moving ahead will expand. That's the great news is that we have lots of different options. What's hard is people want to hear with these we can cure you and in most cases we cannot. However, we can give you lots of years of life on treatment with a focus on quality so that you're living your best life still but having your prostate cancer controlled. I think the cornerstone of most of our strategies, though, is to make a man menopausal. I call it menopause because the treatment, however we're getting this treatment done, is to remove the testosterone because testosterone is feeding the prostate cancer cells. So when I explain this to men, they understand, for example, in breast cancer, that estrogen drives a lot of that. In prostate cancer, it's testosterone. Now, men are in general very fond of their testosterone. It helps with ****** drive. It helps with their energy. And as we age, their testosterone levels go down naturally. When we have cancer involved or the prostate, we make it go down not naturally. We do that by our interventions. And they can be injections. They could be pills. In certain cases, it could be surgery to remove the ********. Now, that's not something we do very much of these days, but it still is a role in case a patient is interested. So we're very mindful that there are consequences to the man. Just like women go through menopause, the symptoms are similar. So the hot flashes and the night sweats and the weight gain, lack of energy. So we try to counsel men to really fight against that, you know, get more energy by watching what you're eating, increasing your exercise, being much more proactive and engaged with your primary care to watch your cholesterol and your blood pressure, everything that we're supposed to be doing. But here it's really accelerated because we took your testosterone. And this is really a hormone deprivation therapy that we're talking about. Now, let's talk about other treatment options, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, radiation, and so on. Well, I think the second big message I hope our listeners take is that to just remove the testosterone is not enough. Yes, the cornerstone is to remove your testosterone. But in today's day and age, after all these many, many studies and many men who have participated in these studies, it's called treatment intensification. By adding additional drugs will prolong your survival even more. Most of it is pills, additional hormone pills. Many people call them ARPES, androgen receptor pathway inhibitors. And in some sense, as one of my patients said, so with the shot, you made me castrate. And now you're really got to make sure that I'm even more castrated by adding the pills, which are hormones. Is that right, Dr. Heath? Yes, in some sense, that patient is absolutely right, but we're doing that to be able to extend survival. Chemotherapy has a role in some patients who really have a high burden of disease. For example, in the liver, we sometimes will add chemo to the mix. So now instead of a doublet, the shot and the bill, we give a triplet, a shot, a pill, and chemo. So there are nuances, and this is where having a prostate cancer expert can really pick the best strategy for you, because it is all about what's appropriate and what's the best fit for the patient. So it's not a one-size-fits-all. And chemotherapy, just as a reminder for listeners, is usually administered directly into the bloodstream, right? Yes, it's intravenous or IV. And it's usually just one drug called docetaxel. Many of these drugs have been around a long time. And you asked about immunotherapy. We're actually one of the disease types that's not as responsive to immunotherapy in the classical sense. So there are immunotherapies that are out there, literally approved for 26 other cancer types. And prostate cancer is not one of them. Unless in the whole testing your genetics and everything, there's a marker that says, oh, you might benefit. So that's a little bit of a nuance, but really available for about 3% of men at this point. Okay. And what about radiation? So radiation is such a unique field and area of study that is really, I mean, exploded in the last, I'd say, 20 years. One of the things that is important is we tend to do a very multidisciplinary approach in treating prostate cancer. Even in the advanced setting, you say, well, you said it's spread. Why would I need to have radiation involved? And the answer is because they may have a role to play. So as an example, sometimes even though you have spread disease, radiating the prostate in low volume spread disease cancer might be helpful. There are also radiation that you can give to spot areas. So for example, you have some areas of disease in your spine, but the thing that really bothers you is the rib because it keeps nagging at you. So radiation can be given to the rib and make your quality of life better. So it's really engaging all of our tools to help the patient not just manage on an okay level, but on a great level with their disease. Now, radiopharmaceutical treatments, is that in the same family as radiation? It is, but even so much more unique because radiopharmaceuticals is an area that we call often theranostic. So that's a merging of the word of diagnostic and therapeutic. So as we talked about that PET scan, knowing that the PSMA PET scan can identify areas that light up in the body and it binds to that tracer, there is an actual drug that can go after those areas that light up. So that medication has been shown already to help prolong survival and it's becoming earlier and earlier in the incorporation of when you're newly diagnosed metastatic. So when I say the field is changing in the next year or two, there's also probably going to be changes in patients who have the BRCA mutation. And maybe right up front, we'll have to give you a medicine that tackles that gene mutation versus waiting when it's later in the patient journey. And later in the patient journey means at some point, your cancer gets super smart and it doesn't require testosterone to move and then as it develops resistance ways to sort of hey i'm just going to grow on my own and use other things in the in the blood or in the body that we call that castration resistant so that means whatever you're doing is not doing enough anymore what else do you have so these are the areas that these newer drugs are traditionally hanging out in but now, moving up even earlier, i.e. right when you're just diagnosed with metastatic disease. Now, you mentioned this is a lot for a patient to juggle, but I imagine also the side effects are a lot to juggle. What are the side effects of all these treatments? Yeah, in general, they are specific to the drugs. As I mentioned, those pills that help intensify the original way to get rid of your testosterone, it's fatigue. Sometimes it raises your blood pressure, but in general, hormones tend to have more hormone -like side effects. Chemo does have the traditional chemo side effects, but I remind our listeners, chemo comes in so many different flavors and numbers that in prostate cancer specifically, we only give typically one at a time. There are other cancers that we treat that we give three to four drugs together at a time. It will and it can affect the blood count. So we monitor that. Many of these drugs have to go through the liver to be processed. So we monitor that. And at the end of the day, depending on what chemo you give, we're really intentional in explaining to the patient, these are things that we can expect because there are other chemos with just slightly more unique side effects. And what about the radiopharmaceuticals you mentioned? Now, the radiopharmaceuticals, they can have effects that are unique to that class. So, for example, one of the annoying side effects but not life-threatening is dry mouth. It can be bothersome. Sometimes it's so bothersome that we have to stop the treatment, but more often it's not. But all of these drugs and every single time we treat patients, we always worry how your bone marrow is handling it because we're really fond of your red blood cells and your white blood cells and your platelets. I love blood. I love having it. Yeah, we all love having it. It's what places go. That's our resource to make sure that things are oxygenated and we can function. But sometimes when we disrupt that with a lot of the medicines, we can't get compromised. So your team is really mindful of that. It's probably why we check blood all the time we're on the right path and we have to modify the treatment. radiation has a completely different side effect profile. Most of the time, just spot treatment, there's hardly any effects except for pain relief, which is wonderful. The prostate radiation itself has a different side effect profile that really depends on where they're radiating and how long, mostly urinary and GI based. But as you can tell, the uniqueness of each modality and then each class of drugs is always considered when we're thinking about the treatment plan. So we're not going to be like, well, I'm going to take this one off the shelf and this one and good luck to you because it's not just a one-time treatment. Most of these things are ongoing. We want to make sure you're tolerating it. So in that sense, it's also helpful for the patient to know you're going to have to come back. So I think sometimes a lot of folks are like, okay, well, I got my marching orders. Now what? Well, now you do the treatment and now we have to weather through it. And when the side effects happen, we will tweak and change and modify. Some patients have no side effects and they're just like, I don't know what you're talking about. I feel great. And in those cases, you know, we count it as a blessing. But in general, you're just hanging out with your healthcare team, you know, and hopefully for a very long time so that we can ensure that you're living your best life. Yeah, hopefully for a long time. How likely is it for someone to survive advanced prostate cancer? You know, upon presentation of things go well, you can be six, eight years longer even. And that's with the tools today. So not counting the tools of tomorrow, I think we're going to continue to extend that. And I say that not for our listeners to go, uh-oh, she put a number out there. There are some disease states that are so aggressive that, you know, we're in trouble and not here on this planet in two, three years. And I have had patients that are around for 15, 18 years. It is a very, very different disease in each man. And there are so many factors about, you know, what is your family history? What are the gene mutations? How did you respond to something? Where's actually your cancer? So depending on how much cancer, how little cancer, all of that kind of boiled down to how that person's journey is going to be so different than the next person's journey. While in most cases metastatic prostate cancer can't be cured, there have been many recent advancements that are expected to improve life expectancy. These can give patients a better quality of life and a means of controlling the condition. The first method is hormone deprivation therapy, inducing a sort of menopause by removing testosterone, which feeds the cancer cells. This might take the form of injections, pills, or even surgery, and can come with symptoms like hot flashes, night sweats, weight gain, and a lack of energy. But removing testosterone isn't enough. Providers may need to intensify treatments, and pills like ARPES can help extend survival. If the cancer doesn't respond, chemotherapy might need to be added on top of that. There are different types of chemo, each of which can come with different side effects that can affect blood count or even the liver. Radiopharmaceutical treatments are usually used early on after diagnosis and can go after the lit-up areas in the PSMA PET scan. Patients undergoing treatment might suffer from dry mouth. Then there's radiation, which can be used more generally or as spot treatment in specific areas and offer pain relief. Though if it's spot radiation, there can be urinary and GI -based repercussions. While those who respond well to treatment might survive an extra six to eight years, some can survive and thrive for much longer. As research advances, new drugs in development may improve those numbers even further. Next, let's talk about how to live well with metastatic prostate cancer. Living with cancer is so much more than just treatment. What other lifestyle changes or modifications should folks expect when undergoing prostate cancer treatment? Because we take away the testosterone, there's this condition called metabolic syndrome that can happen. and that's really in a way I think about it as accelerated aging. Your cholesterol can go up, your blood pressure can go up, your risk for coronary disease increases, your ****** risk increases, your weight gain. So we can fight that. We can fight that by being proactive. There are some of our folks who have never seen their primary doctor until now. So in that case, we may want to have more frequent follow-ups so that cholesterol can be checked, that the rest of your overall health, especially your cardiovascular health, is checked and maintained. I can prescribe sort of the treatment algorithm for the cancer, but then there's the rest of the human body. Many men with diabetes get it. We have to make sure that it's not worsening your diabetic numbers. Men come with cardiovascular disease already. We have to make sure that this isn't the treatment that's going to somehow worsen that condition. Many of the things that we can do can also be offset by increasing your physical activity. I'm not saying run a marathon. I'm just saying whatever you gotta do to get off the couch is really ideal. So many of my own patients have said, all right, I'll get a Fitbit or use my smartwatch or my smartphone and just start figuring out how many steps I do. I've had men join the Y and go swim because their joints aren't happy. I have a lot of mall walkers. So there are different alternatives that don't cost a lot of money. If you have a home gym and you want to walk on your treadmill, maybe instead of, you know, doing it sort of, well, never, to at least every other day for 20 minutes. And then the third ask, when I see patients as well, is to really be mindful of what you eat. What I always say is a heart -healthy diet is a great cancer-fighting diet. And heart healthy tends to monitor foods that are not so inflammatory, you know, more Mediterranean, less processed food, less carbohydrates, minimal meat, no pop. That's a big one. There are certain organizations like the American Cancer Society that have cookbooks and that might help you. But usually it's just a strategy and sort of what do you want to eat versus not eat what's available to you in your community, in your household. Those things, people can really say, okay, I can make my shopping list by doing this. Those three prongs right there seem to come up again and again on our show, regardless of what type of ailment, cancer, anything else. Now, do you have a success story, an example of a patient who is dealing with advanced prostate cancer, and can you tell us how they dealt with it, how they lived with it, how they moved forward in life? Well, I think many of us in the field probably have several of these. A patient of mine that is actually a health provider himself. He was a nurse anesthetist. So very much into the run of the OR and has been doing it for 35 years. And he presented with low back pain that just kept going and going and going. His wife is also a nurse practitioner. And so she says, I think you're in denial. So they ended up going to the ER and he unfortunately had a PSA of 3,000 and metastasis everywhere. Fast forward, he actually entered several clinical trials with me and was able to get access through a trial with one of those early ARPIs, the androgen receptor pathway. Those are hormone pills. And that was the game changer. Even though they seem mainstream, they were all in clinical studies. There were nothing that was ready to go. And he was able to get on one of those early studies. And he was an outlier. We saw his PSA just plummet to nothing. It went from 3,000 to zero. He stayed in that state for five years. And classically, it's sort of four years. So he was already doing much better. and he literally was my success story because it's the timing was that every time oh this wasn't working there was a new product and it was on a trial so he's like I'm your poster child for clinical trial and at every turn when he was ready we had a study for him and at that point We're now 14 years out. And he was like, I should have not been here like, I don't know, 12 years ago. Is it right? Keep going. Keep going. And he actually passed away, not from prostate cancer, even though he had a tremendous amount of cancer in him, he did not pass away from that. He actually unfortunately fell down and broke his hip and then just couldn't get out of the hospital, one infection after the other. So was that related because he was weak? I don't know. But it wasn't because he had, you know, his bone marrow conking out or anything. It's just he had an event happen. I view him as a success because he enjoyed his life this entire time. And he lived with really horrible metastatic disease if you look at him on scans. But if you look at him in person, he was thriving. And many of my experience with patients, they also called themselves cancer thrivers. And I love that term. and this gentleman was thriving. There were some bad moments, usually right when the drugs were sort of not doing what they needed to do and he already knew what's the next trial doc. But it's also just understanding what was important to him. There were life events in those 14 years that were meaningful for him. His daughter got married and there was a family reunion somewhere. I mean, you name it, we went through it. But that's the kind of strategy that was helpful to him because he was in the know. He was in the healthcare industry. And, you know, we in the healthcare industry are the worst patients on the planet. He couldn't get away with anything because his wife was awesome. But it was really, I think, just knowing that he was living the best life that he could. And I think the nice part is many, many of us who treat prostate cancer patients have many of these stories. And my gosh, really defying the odds there, his story. Wow. Now with our last minute with you, just curious, are you excited about any upcoming research or innovations in advanced prostate cancer treatment? I'm usually excited about everything. And let me just tell you that my passion is drug development. We had nothing in 2004. We barely had one chemo that did not extend life. Here we are, honestly, in 2025 with so many options is astonishing. The drug development pipeline in prostate cancer is exciting. There are more genetically targeted agents that are just completing studies and most likely would advance to full evaluation. We have other radiopharmaceuticals that are in the pipeline. So ways to kill that cancer differently and also to image them differently. So we're thinking even more broadly about how to tackle the disease. We've become also much more involved in the molecular blueprinting of these cancers. And what does that mean in terms of future research? So there is a lot, a lot out there. And we just don't have enough time to get to them all, but we are all trying. And that's what's important. It is a collective group of us globally invested in the mission, and we're parsing out the work. So not every single group is doing the same thing, and that's what matters, to really amplify the opportunities for new drugs for our patients with metastatic prostate cancer. Wow, that is such a hopeful note to end on. Dr. Elizabeth Heath, this has been such an informative and fantastic conversation. I've learned so much from you today. Thank you so much for joining us. Thank you for having me. What kind of lifestyle modifications can we make after diagnosis and treatment? Well, after removing testosterone, metabolic syndrome can accelerate aging. Cholesterol and blood pressure levels can increase, as can risk for weight gain, coronary disease, and ******. This is where we can be proactive with frequent follow-ups. Your provider can also help you make sure your treatment doesn't worsen pre -existing conditions like diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Next, you'll want to prioritize exercise and eat a heart-healthy diet. That means staying away from inflammatory foods and opting for a less processed diet, fewer carbohydrates, minimal meat, and of course, stay away from the soda. The landscape of metastatic prostate cancer treatment has changed so much in the last 20 years. And with ongoing research and new innovations, who knows how much more that will change in the next 20. Okay, that's all for this episode. But if you've got a question, a topic suggestion, or a follow-up question about this episode, you can leave us a voicemail at 507 -538-6272. We might even feature your voice on the show. For more Health Matters episodes and resources, head to mailclinic.org slash healthmatters. And if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us in your podcast app. It really does help others find the show. Thanks for listening. And until next time, take care and stay healthy. Thank you.