Welcome to Mayo Clinic Sleep Medicine Podcasts, a series for physicians, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other health practitioners treating sleep disorders or interested in learning about state -of-the-art advances in sleep medicine and sleep health. I'm your host, Dr. Michael Silber. And I'm your co-host, Dr. Mithri Junna. We are both consultants at the Center for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Thank you all for joining us for today's podcast titled, How Long Should Adults Sleep? And When? We're constantly told that we live in a sleep-deprived society, and there are many reasons for this, including shift work, internet, the structure of modern families, and maybe economic difficulties as well. These are all potentially contributing factors. But what is the optimal length of sleep? How much is too much and how much is too little? And furthermore, does it matter what time within the circadian cycle we choose to sleep? To answer these questions, my guest today is Dr. Michael Silber, professor of neurology and a board -certified sleep medicine specialist. Mike, thank you so much for joining us today. Perhaps we could start first with the American Academy of Sleep Medicine consensus statement on sleep duration from 2015. How much sleep did the AASM recommend for adults? Well, thank you, Mithri. The AASM had a consensus conference, a whole lot of experts who reviewed the entire literature and then used one of the so -called Delphi consensus method to vote on what they thought was the correct amount of sleep for adults, and they came to the conclusion that adults should sleep seven hours or more to promote optimal health. And that was the basic conclusion. They stated that less than seven hours sleep, on a continuous basis, of course, had adverse health outcomes. So that was a strong recommendation, widely publicized. And what was this recommendation based upon? Do we know if there are deleterious effects to sleeping too little? Well, the group reviewed extensive literature on sleep deprivation, very careful studies, multiple types of studies, and came to the conclusion that shorter sleep, certainly less than six hours, though some studies were less than seven hours even, did result in increased incidences of metabolic syndrome, including type 2 diabetes, obesity, hypertension, and also the consequences of that in cardiovascular disease. In addition, increased depression, increased cognitive difficulties and, of course, increased errors and accidents. So they had a lot of things that they looked at in detail. Now, the one that gets the most publicity is that of mortality, of course. And the biggest study was the well-known Kripke study in 2002, where they looked at an amazing number of more than a million participants and then followed them prospectively. And the questionnaire they were given initially said something like how long do you sleep on an average now of course when you ask that question and they answer four hours a night say you don't know whether this is due to profound insomnia and they're trying to sleep more or whether it's due to voluntary sleep deprivation, "I sleep because I work until one in the morning and then set an alarm for five to work out before I go to work for instance." So those are put together I don't know if that makes a difference. And then they followed these patients and they saw clearly that there was increased mortality the shorter time you slept. And that started becoming significant at six hours, but it really grew as you got shorter and shorter. There have been other studies and a meta-analysis looking at all of these studies. The Kripke one was so enormous that it overwhelms the other studies. But the final meta-analysis suggested the risk of too little sleep starting at less than seven hours had an odds ratio for increased mortality of 1.12. That was statistically significant. But I think we've got to put all this into perspective. That means a 12 percent increased mortality, which isn't huge. We're not talking about 30, 40 percent increased risk, but the risk clearly is there. And what is the mechanism? Well, most likely it's vascular disease from all the other studies. It's most likely vascular pathology. So that's what that recommendation was based on. And there is very good evidence that long-term short sleep is bad for one's psychological health, one's physical health, and one's performance. So what about the other end of the spectrum? Do we know anything about too much sleep and whether that's helpful or not helpful? Well, the Kripke study showed the classic U -shaped curve that I think most sleep specialists are familiar with, that if you plot hours of sleep versus mortality, not only is there a rise at the short sleep, there's also a rise with long sleep. But other studies have not been quite as clear on that. And the AASM consensus statement stated that greater than nine hours is probably suboptimal, but it's uncertain from the data, though the mortality studies showed a rise there as well. If that's true, the mechanisms are somewhat uncertain, and we know there are times when greater than nine hours is necessary, such as recovery sleep if you've been sleep-deprived, especially during the week. So I don't want anybody to take away the idea that if one night you sleep for 10 hours, you're damaging your health, or for that matter, one night you sleep for four hours, health. These are long -term epidemiologic outcomes, but the long sleep is less clear than the short sleep. That's very helpful, Mike. So we know that sleep duration and timing in the modern world are so dependent upon the availability of artificial lighting. Can you speak to how sleep might have been different in pre -modern times? Well, all this came out when a historian called Dr. Roger Ekirch wrote a book called At Day's Close about the history of sleep. And here is the book. I don't know how clearly you can see it, but it's a historic book looking at the history of sleep. And within that book, there is this fascinating chapter on sleep in pre-modern times, medieval times and renaissance times. In other words, before gas lights came in and sort of Victorian and pre-Victorian times. And it looks like there is an extensive historic literature on how people slept at that time. And it looks like from the historic research that many people went to sleep at sunset and then they woke up in the middle of the night, around about 12 or 1, got up and spent several hours awake doing whatever they wanted to do. If they were artisans, they went to their workshops and worked. If they were scholars, they did scholarly things. If they were thieves, they went and did criminal acts. Some couples found this was a good time for intimate activities but it was a huge number of people did this and then they went to sleep again and this was actually called first sleep and second sleep and there's descriptions of how wonderful first sleep is and that's very interesting, because of course we know that first sleep would be when you got most of your deep slow wave sleep in three sleep so it's interesting when they knew nothing about that, that people recognized that was the deepest stage of sleep. And then they woke up at sunrise and went about their activities and seemed to have no ill effects of this at all. So this caused the so-called biphasic sleep, caused a considerable stir in the sleep community because, you know, we live in a society where consolidated sleep is thought to be the norm. You've got to go to bed at a certain time, fall asleep quickly, not wake during the night and wake up in the morning. That's ideal. But this suggested maybe that isn't ideal. And of course, Southern Europe has had the siesta culture for centuries, where people go to bed in the heat of the day and sleep for a few hours in the afternoon and then stay up considerably later than we do in northern climates. And is that harmful? Nobody's really shown that it is. Now, the siestas seem to be decreasing as the whole world becomes more homogenous in its habits. but that's another form of biphasic sleep. The most famous proponent of biphasic sleep was Winston Churchill, the wartime prime minister of Britain, who early in life, before he became prime minister, worked out that the way he could be most productive was to go to bed in the late afternoon and sleep for a couple of hours and then work late at night. And he said later that that's the way he got through the Second World War when he became prime minister at what was then a fairly late age of 65 or 66 and managed the incredible stress of leaving Britain during the war, that's the way he said he managed it. So that's biphasic sleep, but maybe it's not quite like that. So do you think then, Mike, that biphasic sleep is the normal human pattern? Can you tell us a little bit about studies that have been done in primitive human societies? Well, a very well -known PhD sleep researcher at UCLA called Jerry Siegel, who read all this and said, I don't know if all this is really true. And Jerry is a very skeptical thinker. And like all great scientists, he wants to test things experimentally. And somehow he found the funding to put together three expeditions to go and find hunter-gatherer societies that are still around today, and they went to Namibia and Tanzania and Africa and to Bolivia and South America and investigated sleep in these really hunter-gatherer societies. And they had very good experimentation. They measured light, they measured temperature. And what they found was that there was no biphasic sleep whatsoever. And these people seemed to go to sleep not at sunset, but when the temperature dropped. Many of them stayed awake in the evening, even though the sun had set, and they talked, and they played music, and they slept more when the temperature dropped and woke up in the morning when the temperature rose. And from the idea that we're such a sleep -deprived society now in the 21st century, they found their total length of sleep was not much different from what we have, 5.7 to 7.1 hours a night on average in the different societies. Now, of course, sleep in a hunter- gatherer society is not sleep in a lovely, quiet, dark bedroom with a soft mattress and pillow. So environmental factors might have also reduced sleep time then. So that may not also be normal human sleep. But nevertheless, he found no evidence for a biphasic sleep pattern and came to conclusion that what the historians were talking about developed in Northern Europe with the long, long nights further north. And that biphasic pattern was probably specific to the North European society and also not the intrinsic pattern of humans. Very interesting. So how do we take all of this knowledge together and apply this to modern life, Mike? I mean, should we all be striving for consolidated sleep, or do you think biphasic sleep is an acceptable alternative? I think there's a wide variety of normal sleep that's acceptable. I think total sleep time we can't compromise on. We should all be striving for seven hours or more a night, seven to eight hours. I think that gives optimal human health. Of course, there are many factors involved, such as people who say, well, I try, but I've got insomnia, and that's understandable, and one has to adapt to that. The circadian rhythm disorders. But for people with relatively normal sleep, we should not be depriving ourselves voluntarily to less than seven hours sleep a night. But when we get that, I think is very variable. I sometimes have patients, often older patients, who come to me and say, I'm really troubled. I don't have much to do in the evening. I go to bed at nine o'clock or so fall asleep easily and then I wake at one and you know it's quiet it's nice I pick up a book and I read for a couple of hours and it's just a nice time to do it then I go back to sleep and I sleep till eight or so in the morning - am I harming myself and I tell them no and you don't have insomnia either - insomnia must have consequences - you just have a biphasic sleep pattern. It's perfectly okay. And if people want to take siestas or siesta-like sleep in the afternoon and they're getting enough total sleep and they're not sleepy during the day and they're not distressed, I think all that falls within the normal range of human sleep. It's the sleep deprivation, which may or may not have started with gas lights and then electric lights and now, of course, electronic apparatus and the internet and everything else that we have to fight against. Mike, as always, thanks so much for sharing your expertise with us today. Are there any final messages that you would like to leave for our listeners? Well, again, avoid sleep deprivation. Think about that seven hours. But how you put your sleep together, I think, has to fit with your own genetic and environmental and social situations. And I think some flexibility and variability is just fine. Wonderful. Thank you all for joining us today. We hope you enjoyed this podcast. If so, please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in sleep medicine and sleep health. Thank you.