50 years ago, doctors at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, opened the doors to modern open heart surgery using the heart lung machine. Back then, you had about A-50/50 chance of making it off the table. Now, you can be 98% certain that you'll survive. But doctors at Mayo Clinic say that's not good enough. They're using methods developed by the aeronautics industry to make surgery even safer. Air travel is very complex, but very safe. A main reason for this high level of safety is the time and research the industry put into designing technology that's userfriendly. For example, everything the pilot needs is at his or her fingertips and he or she can communicate with a crew at any time. This design makes it less likely for the pilot to make errors. Such highly tuned orchestration grew out of an aeronautics discipline called human factors. They developed approaches to dealing with the complexity of the of the aircraft like checklists to to help the human cope with this very complex machinery. And that's what surgeon Thorov sunt hopes to do in the operating room. What human factors brings to us in the operating room is trying to understand how to prevent errors in medicine. If an if an error occurs, how to capture it quickly before any harm is done. Dr. Sun is teaming up with quality care expert Sarah Henrikson on a study to see if observing what happens in the O can help them understand how to make the process better and safer. You can see how the camera used in the study may have caught an area where communication could have been improved between the surgeon and the profusionist. He or she is the person who runs the heart lung machine which is a very complex piece of equipment. So I may give a command here. I'm actually faced away from the profusionist. They can't see my mouth. They can't read my lips. Uh, and I'm talking down into the wound. So perhaps rearranging where people stand could improve communication. And we think that there's a lot that we can learn by watching how the team functions. Making surgery safer for those who put their lives in their medical team's hands. Dr. Sun says some of the other issues that he noticed from observing how his operating room functions include distractions caused by beepers going off and people walking into the room. He hopes to use the information from the study to make operating room safer and more efficient. He also says that by encouraging other members of the surgical team such as nurses and technicians to speak up if any issues arise will add safety in the O. For Medical Edge, I'm Vivian Williams.