It doesn't matter if you have a specific medical condition. Everybody should have a list of their medications, of their doctors with their contact information, of their preferred pharmacy, and where they go to get their supplies. Um, keep it with you, keep it in your wallet, saved on your phone, in your emergency kit, so that if you need it at the time, it's easy to reproduce. You don't have to worry about contacting your doctor's office or healthcare facility, and you can bring it with you in the event of evacuation. So, in addition to having your list of daily medication, which has both the name, the dosage, and the frequency, you want to keep them separated in their individual bottles. Additionally, if you're traveling with these medications, the other thing that I would caution, especially if you have children or teenagers with you, is be sure you know where those medications are at all times. You may be very careful about keeping your medication locked in a cabinet at home, but if you have to evacuate, your child may be just as uh likely to check in your pocketbook for a, you know, a mint or a piece of gum and find your pill bottle and get into that. So, you need to be careful and know where they are at all times. Uh really advocate getting a generator for your home. And this can be very helpful. Uh generators when operated safely and in a controlled environment can be very helpful because they can keep your food from spoiling. They can keep some of your medications which need to be refrigerated intact, but you need to be careful and use it uh safely. We don't see it as often anymore, but carbon monoxide poisoning is still a prevalent disease across the United States. The majority of the exposures to carbon monoxide happen from portable generators. Clearly, if you're going to be using your generator, you want to use it only outside, never in your covered patio or porch, never in your garage. and make sure that is in a well ventilated area. Gasoline generators are not the only cause of carbon monoxide. Charcoal, propane grills can produce it just as much. Kerosene or any other combustible furnace produces carbon monoxide. And you never want to use these items inside the house. I have definitely taken care of patients before in my emergency department who brought their propane grill into the kitchen to use and expose their entire family to carbon monoxide. When you're preparing for a storm, or really you should be doing this at baseline, you want to check your smoke and carbon monoxide detectors at home on a regular basis. These are designed, most systems, to operate even in the event that the power goes out, and they'll function on batteries for a certain period of time. They're extremely important because carbon monoxide is an odorless, colorless gas that's produced from the combustion of any type of organic materials, wood, charcoal, gasoline. Um, and when it's detected, um, you'll be alerted that you need to get out of that area. Without those detectors, there is no signs whatsoever that there is going to be carbon monoxide in your home until you start to get symptoms. And typically, by the time you start to get symptoms, you won't recognize that it's coming from a problem such as carbon monoxide until it's gotten pretty severe. So, a lot of people think that during a storm, you need to be extra careful as far as rationing your food and clean water supply. Now, hopefully if you prepared for the storm, you have one gallon of clean water per person per day. If you don't, that doesn't mean that you need to ration the water because you risk getting dehydrated and all the other medical problems that go with that. Drink the amount of water that you usually would need, and that typically is eight 8 oz glasses or two quarts of water per day. And if you run out, that's when you're going to want to reach out to the local resources such as your storm shelters, your Red Cross, FEMA, and find some additional water rather than worrying about just getting through it yourself. You need to be mindful of the symptoms of dehydration. Generally, for all adults, we recommend 8 8 oz glasses of water, which is about two quarts, daily under normal circumstances. If you're going to be working in the yard, sweating, losing more water, you need to drink additional quantities to account for that. The symptoms of dehydration will be feelings of lightadedness, maybe some dizziness, feeling like you might pass out, or certainly if you have a high heart rate or low blood pressure if you have a portable battery operated device to check that at home. One of the symptoms of dehydration that will present first is decreased urine output. The symptoms of dehydration will be feelings of lightadedness, maybe some dizziness, feeling like you might pass out, or certainly if you have a high heart rate or low blood pressure, if you have a portable battery operated device to check that at urine output. So, in addition to all of your supplies and toiletries, food and water, you need to make sure that you have an adequate amount for all the members of your household, including the children. And you want to make sure just with general storm and hurricane prep that you have some items that are easy to to pack and and store that can keep the children occupied so that they're not anxious and scared and know that life goes on. A lot of people before a storm uh may think because the water's going to go out, I'm going to fill up some vessels in my house with water in case there's contamination with sewage or anything. And unfortunately we know that children can drown in very shallow water. If you're filling up your bathtub, you need to put a baby gate in front of that door or keep the door locked so that you know your child is not going to get in there and accidentally get into the bathtub. Same goes with buckets of water on the floor.