I'm Dr. Elizabeth Bradley with the Mayo Clinic Department of Opthalmology and today we'll be talking about IGG4 related disease of the orbit. We'll start with the case that of a 56-year-old woman who presented with right eye swelling for one year, dupia for 6 months, her left eye had been bloodshot for three months, and she had a three-day history of left flank pain. Her past medical history was significant for chronic sinusitis for 20 years, asthma for five years, non-inssulin dependent diabetes melodous and controlled hypothyroidism. Her past surgical history was significant for a right submandibular gland biopsy nine years previously and an orbital biopsy 10 years previously. This had been her appearance at that time of the previous right orbital involvement 10 years prior. At that time she underwent right lacrimal gland biopsy which revealed dacrio adinitis with a reactive lymphoid hyperplasia and this responded to intlegional steroid injection until her most recent presentation. Her clinical exam was significant for a visual acuity of 2060 on the right and 2030 on the left. She did not have an afferent pupilary defect. She does have righttosis as seen in the slide as well as a right upgaze deficit. She also had 2 millm of left proptosis and left conjunctal injection temporarily. She had a right cataract which explained the 260 vision and the remainder of her intraocular examination was normal. Because of her orbital findings, she underwent orbital MRI scanning which revealed diffusely enlarged lacrial glands bilaterally and left lateral rectus muscle enlargement. Her 2003 lacrial gland biopsy was re-evaluated. The H& stain on the left shows a marketked lymphopplasmacyic infiltrate and on the right is the IGG4 imunain showing many IGG4 positive plasma cells. The patient was referred to hematology for IGG4 related disease. Labs were drawn including a serum IGG4 level which was marketkedly elevated at 1790 milligrams per deciliter with the upper range of normal being 120 milligrams per deciliter. The patient then underwent CT scanning of the chest, abdomen and pelvis. Her CT scanning of the chest showed left axillary lympadinopathy. In the abdomen, there was fullness of the pancreatic tail and retroparal and iliac lympadinopathy shown on this slide. Additionally, she had partial urinary obstruction from retroparal soft tissue infiltration which explained her 3-day history of flank pain. The patient was treated with 40 milligrams of prennazone daily for four weeks as initial therapy and although she had a good initial response, she flared on 30 milligrams daily and prennazone also exacerbated her hypoglycemia. She therefore was changed to treatment with retoximab which was started 2 months after diagnosis. Her initial treatment was 800 milligrams weekly for 4 weeks followed by a maintenance dose every two months. This slide illustrates her treatment response and we can see that the soft tissue swelling has markedly improved as well as has the conjunctal injection and the left proptosis. Perhaps more impressive is her radiographic response with complete resolution of the soft tissue swelling superiorly and normalization of the left lateral rectus muscle. So what is IGG4 related disease? It is a fibroinflammatory disease that was first described in 2003 in this description of cases of autoimmune pancreatitis related to IGG4 and the disease has a characteristic hystopathology across many organ systems. This slide describes the epidemiology and general clinical features of IGG4 related disease. It is a disease of middle age with male predominance. Patients present subacutely with few constitutional symptoms. Patients typically have a history of allergy or attopic disease and lesions can be either tumactive or fibroic. Many diseases fall under the umbrella of IGG4 related disease. From an orbital standpoint, we're familiar with mculitz syndrome, eosinophilic angioccentric fibrosis and inflammatory pseudotumor. Other common systemic conditions include autoimmune pancreatitis and retroparitinal fibrosis. What do we know about the IGG4 molecule? It's the least common immune globbulin and unlike the other immunog globulins, it does not bind compliment. It does not form immune complexes and overall appears to have anti-inflammatory properties. For these and other reasons, its role in IGG4 related disease appears to be secondary, not primary or causal. Serum levels do not correlate with disease severity and in fact a third of patients may have normal IGG4 levels within the individual patient. However, serum levels can be followed for treatment response because of the difficulty making the diagnosis based on serum IGG4 levels. The primary diagnosis is made based on hystopathology. Changes can include a dense lymphoplasmic infiltrate, storeform fibrosis and obliterative phabitis, although the latter is rarely seen in orbital disease. Secondary diagnostic criteria are tissue and serum IGG4 levels and IGG4 to IGG levels. This slide shows typical hisystopathology from orbital specimens. On the left is the dense lymphopplasmacyic infiltrate seen in our patient's lacrimal gland biopsy. On the right is an example of storeform fibrosis. This slide shows tissue stained with the IGG4 imuno stain. The left panel shows an IGG4 to IGG plasma cell ratio greater than 40%. The right panel shows more than 50 IG4 positive plasma cells per high power field. A range of ocular findings can be seen in IGG4 related disease. Our patient exemplified the eyelid and periocular fullness that are seen in the vast majority of patients. She also had stbismas and proptosis which are seen in about a third of patients. About 10% of patients will have optic neuropathy or scleritis. Patients can also have zanthalasma like deposits in the eyelid skin as well as numbness related to involvement of the infraorbital nerve. and 10% of orbital cases are associated with a malt type lymphoma. I'd like to run through a series of clinical images that show this range of ocular findings. The first is that of a 45-year-old male with pancreatitis and eyelid swelling who had undergone previous lacrial gland bulking and you can see upper eyelid fullness particularly on the left and those zanthalasmalike changes of the skin. This patient also had significant swelling of the right parotted gland and the submandibular gland. This image is that of a 57 year old woman with asthma and chronic sinocitis who presented with eyelid swelling and she had bilateral lacrimal gland involvement as well as the zanthalasmalike change of the skin. This patient is a 69year-old gentleman with a 30-year history of autoimmune pancreatitis and new diplopia who presented with proptosis as well as marked swelling of the infraorbital nerves bilaterally. This patient also had optic neuropathy related to the IGG4 related disease. The top panel shows his visual field before treatment with rettoximab and the bottom panel shows clearing of the visual field post retoximab. Several treatment options are available for IGG4 related disease. Patients without organ threatening disease can be observed. Most patients with orbital disease however will be treated. Our initial treatment is predinazone 40 milligrams daily. Patients who become steroid dependent or who have steroid related side effects are typically treated with rottoximab delivered as one gram every 1 to two weeks for two to four doses with a maintenance dose every two months for two years. We also have experience with intlegional steroid specifically triumpsinolone or kennelog 40 milligrams per ml delivered in a 1 to one and a half cc dose into the lacal gland. In all cases, treatment failure can be associated with fibrodic disease. This slide illustrates intlegional steroid response. The left panel is the patient before treatment and the right is after kalog injection showing significant reduction in the lacrimal gland swelling. To summarize IGG4 related disease of the orbit, consider IGG4 related disease in patients with the following conditions. multi-systemm orbital disease particularly in the context of pancreatic biliary or GU disease or other soft tissue swelling patients with bilateral orbital disease and a history of allergy or attopic disease and patients who have radiographic evidence of extraocular muscle lacrimal gland and infraorbital nerve involvement. The opthalmologic findings are periocular not intraocular with IGG4 related disease and the majority of patients will have elevated serum IGG4 levels but a significant minority will have normal serum IGG4 levels. Tissue is needed to make the diagnosis of IGG4 related disease with specific findings including lymphopplasmacyic infiltrate storeform fibrosis and IGG4 positive plasma cells. 10% of lacrial gland disease is associated with lymphoma and current treatments for IGG4 related disease include local or systemic steroid and rettoximab. Once again I'm Dr. Elizabeth Bradley with the Mayo Clinic department of opthalmology. Thanks very much for listening.