Hello everyone. Um Jackson, greetings everyone. I am Trudy Jackson and a role member of the Navajo Nation. And I welcome each and every one of you um from wherever you're at whether in a in in an urban or rural area or or or from a tribal community. We're welcome to the indigenous health topic. And um so what we'll do is we'll go on to the next slide. Um see And and so basically um the indigenous health topic um is um an event that um has been started over by the Mayo Clinic and then therefore we bring in different speakers um and each um individual um has some connection over to um natives Um, Aya, can you go to the next slide? >> Let me work on this here. Let's see. Are you seeing the >> Okay. Now, okay. So, a quick housekeeping is we will have time at the end of the presentation for Q&A. So, make sure um to put that over in the chat um in the Q&A um um um box and uh we will be um monitoring that. So, um please feel free to ask any questions um as well. And next is we'll be introducing our presenter. our our guest speaker this month is I'm very honored and pleased as the host for Indigenous Health Topic as this is my first one um that that I'm hosting and it's a pleasure to introduce Megan Lka of the University of um Minnesota and I will hand it off to Um um Trudy. Hello, my name is Megan. Um, Minanquay. [clears throat] Um, Minanquay is my Oji boy name. Um, and my tax name is Megan Lodka. I am from the White Earth Pea Band of Ojiway in Northwest Minnesota. Um, my dad is al uh also um from the same tribe. My mom is non-native. She's from southern Indiana. Um, I am a mother, a daughter, a sister, an auntie, a cousin, and a friend. Um, thank you again to Trudy and Isla for having me today. I really appreciate you bringing me on board to share our knowledge. Um, so yeah, today we're going to be talking about sustaining our roots and closing the generational gaps in indigenous food practices. Um, keep in mind I am Ojiway and so my teachings come from the northwest region of Minnesota along with the tribal nations of Red Lake, Leech Lake and the Minawakatan Sue communities in southern Minnesota. I would like to take a minute to recognize that I'm coming to you from the lands of the Ojiway people, the Sue people, the Hadatsa and the Mandan. Uh they are nomadic people who are caretakers of the land and continue to do so today. I also want to recognize my elders um migu for attending. I want to recognize um our past seven generations and apologize for any mistakes I might make. And I also want to recognize all of you for attending Migu and also for our future generations. Again, Migu Biz and thank you for listening to me today. So, here I am with my daughter and my two sons. Um, I am a partner. I'm super tradish. I am a hunter and gatherer. I am not a beater. I've tried many times. I cannot be to save my life, but luckily my daughter has brought that on. Um, I am a um independent education consultant with my LLC, Oji Boy with me. And that's how I'm presenting to you today. Nothing in this presentation is affiliated with the University of Minnesota Medical School or the Center of American Indian Minority Health where I'm a community liaison. I'm also a board member of the Minnesota Indian Education Association and I hold a proud seat there. Um, I speak with a lot of calendar. Um, I love my native humor and pride. Um I am a cultural trainer for the state of Minnesota through the Leech Lake Tribal Nation. Um there are 11 tribes throughout Minnesota and you can see in the upper right hand corner um those tribal nations. Um I'm a language speaker and a language learner. I'm also a medicine keeper. And these teachings have been brought to me by my wa and the elders around our tribal communities. So this is just this first video I'm going to play is just a little glimpse of what life is like as a mom with tell you they don't feel good mom. >> [music] >> Come here. Come here. Come here. >> So that is some medicines for when my kids get sick. I like to, you know, doctor them up as best I can with how I know how um and the teachings that my dad gave me. I grew up very traditionally in the woods um harvesting, gathering, hunting, fishing, trapping, um gardening, preserving. And as a younger child, I didn't realize I just thought this is the way you lived. And not until I was a young adult did I realize I was living in a traditional way. So now we're going to bring it to the history of the United States. So as we all know, Turtle Island was occupied by a vast population of Native Americans who were thriving communities. But when the United States was established, native health became political. We were no longer in charge of ourselves. [gasps] So this this history of our health happened with the first contacts. The first contacts brought over diseases and colonization. They then expanded to the west of Turtle Island. When America became a country, that's when treaties were established. Treaties brought us goods and services such as commodities and healthcare. We also suffered great historical trauma throughout our indigenous communities which led to epigenetics our DNA with three generations being impacted and then also following with health disparities. So let's get into that. the timeline of our health. In 1491, that's when we were thriving. In 1492, Columbus came over to the islands and had the first contact. This was followed by Spanish contact in Florida along the east coast. So, this is the less famous version of uh colonialism. The Spanish came in um with Catholic Christianity teachings. Uh slavery started at this point. Intermarriages started happening and then followed by this into the 1600s. The pilgrims arrived on Wampaoa land in the east coast which is most famously known as the Mayflower, Plymouth Rock. Um, and after the pilgrims arrive and the Wampaog take them in, heal them and get them established on Turtle Island. That's when we start to see the influx of more Europeans, more disease, um, pushing us away from our homelands and deeper away from, um, our non-native contacts. [sighs] So, as we know, America became established, the new world, so they called it. In 1776, the American Constitution was signed. With the signing of the American Constitution came treaties. In these treaties, Native Americans were promised lands, goods, and services, and that established our reservations that we live on today. These treaties went from the 1600s and some of them are still um not being upheld today. With the development of the constitution came acts of law and bills um impactful on our health. In the 1800s, Indian Health Service was established and the United States War Department to keep natives at bay away from forts. Ports were put alongside reservations to contain the natives and also put in place to um not only contain but dictate and control. So Native Americans went to the forts for trade or to receive their goods and services, health care and uh commodities. They were in contact with the troops getting spreading disease around and the government blamed this on Native Americans. And so they started to phase into the American Indian Removal Act. And throughout the 1800s, this is when um the greatest losses occurred, boarding school era started and um kill the Indians, save the man motto came to be. So what impacts of all this colonialism occurred on indigenous health? So we saw conquest and enslavement, missionization, our loss of tribal dynamics and we had high rates of immunity and exposure. These impacts cut cultural ties, cut land ties um with our traditions, our families, and most importantly our lifeways. Um, also we didn't know how to counteract um these foreign diseases that were brought over by the Europeans. So our health took a huge toll. Um, our food situation became dire because we were dependent on those commodities that were promised to us. Um most of us do know that in history commodities those these goods and services promises weren't always upheld and true to today. Um we see IHS our Indian health service severely underfunded by 47 billion each year. So this is this is continuing to present day. So why is land so important? So why does land matter so much to Native Americans? Government systems throughout history have failed to recognize and understand that land is a genetic connection to indigenous peoples all across Turtle Island. the the disruption of land use for indigenous people has stripped them of identity, food pathways, and has had these historical consequences. So, what are these consequences? Um, first I'm going to take you to the BIA site and show you where the um reservations are throughout the United States. So, if you could just bear with me a sec while this loads. I am in a rural area. I have bad service. Um, okay. So, this is the BIA Indian lands of federally recognized tribes. You can see here I am in this larger square up here in northwest Minnesota. Um, Trudy, I think you're down here. And um then Isla, she would be over here in this area of of Minnesota. So the green highlights reservation areas. Over here in Alaska, there are also many different highlighted areas. But you can see on the eastern region, there are not a lot of established nations. But if you think back to the history, this is where colonization began in Florida and and on our east coast. So I'll get back to the slideshow. So disruption and the historical impacts of reservations, treaties, goods, and services. So health disparities in Native American communities. We have higher rates compared to our white counterparts of type two diabetes, heart disease and cancers. The type two diabetes is a generational impact because of commodities, rations um and losses of our traditional food pathways. And Native American youth are 64% more likely to have or have pre-type 2 diabetes than their non-native peers. And this is an alarming thing in our youth. Um we want to stop we want to stop this cycle and we want to start educating them on how how that can happen. And that's going to start with our food pathways. So Native Americans have modern food pathways and then also traditional food pathways. So we're going to go over modern versus traditional. Modern food pathways look like the big box stores, grocery stores, supermarkets. A lot of it is um on the inside processed foods, on the outside whole foods. Um reservations often experience food deserts. And the USDA definition of a food desert is a lack of whole foods and availability to grocery stores within one mile of your residence. So for me, the nearest grocery store is 10 miles away and the nearest Walmart is 35 miles away. So I live in a food desert. Um, most reservations throughout Turtle Island are rural communities and call and are highlighted under a food desert. With food deserts, we do have gas stations and convenience stores. Um, convenience foods impact our health even more, raising our rates of obesity, heart disease, and type 2 diabetes. So, not only do we have the genetics of heart disease, obesity, and type 2 diabetes and cancers, but we're also consuming foods that impact our health with higher rates of obesity, heart disease, heart disease, and type 2 diabetes. So, it's really a double whammy for us. Um, and I want to take a minute here to look at this next map. This is from the department of agriculture. It is um the food atlas. And down here we're going to look at where the food deserts are in the United States. So you can see here, here I am over here in uh northwest Minnesota. Rural Minnesota has a high number of food deserts. That again, that's no grocery store within one mile of our homes. So about half the state. Um and then over here we see even higher food deserts in New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, Idaho, Oregon, Washington. Um and then trickled trickled throughout uh the east coast. we see less food deserts um but a higher population of people. So more urban communities throughout um but down here in the Midwest we do see some more. But one thing I want to highlight here is the overlap of the map of reservations and the map of food deserts and how these two critically align. So, I don't know. Do the math, but might be intentional. Um, remember the government wanted to kill the Indian and save the man. They wanted the they wanted the native race to dissipate so that they could have what we occupied. So, location is everything when talking about food. So, what do traditional food pathways look like? Uh, over the next few slides, I'm going to be playing some videos um and showing you my way of life in Northwest Minnesota. So, I'm going to start with spring. It's our closest uh season. We're going to be coming up on uh eskeigma, which is sugar bush. This is a video. >> [music] >> So, that was us opening up Sugar Bush. We had to snowshoe in, tap the trees, and get our maple sap. Um, these are my language. Uh, this was with my language family. Um, there was a group of us that met monthly and did things like this together. um and and spoke the Ojob language So, my next video is going to be about gathering. Um and this is something that um my kids and I do in the springtime. And this one is about fiddlehead ferns. My sons and I went out exploring tonight and we scored some fiddle head ferns. We saw washed them up, sauteed them with [music] some corn, some celery and onions, mixed it with some wild rice and some grass-fed beef and turn it into a hot dish. Hot dishes are a big thing here in the Midwest, and my kids are always down for a hot dish after a big truck in the woods. And it is so gratifying to source your own food and know where it's coming from. They're really proud of that. So, this is kind of some spring activities for traditional food pathways here in the Northwest. Um, then we're going to move into winter. I skipped winter. Well, spring summer, sorry. We'll come back around. So summertime is a time of eating well, power trail, camping, living free, traveling, um working hard to fill your freezer and stock up on all of your things. Um so this is me here at the Leech Lake Pao. This is my son, Osh. He caught this sturgeon. Um it was bigger than him. He he went out. Um this is a white earth lake in on our reservation. It's our favorite place um to fish and to go to. I My dad fished this lake. He taught me how to fish it and now I'm teaching my kids. Um we spent a lot of time here as a family. Over here in the upper leftand corner is Goz and O and their lake trout they caught on Lake Superior that they're super proud of. And then Nandonis, my daughter Elliot, is sitting on a cedar tree. Um this is when this was part of our fishing trip, but we also gathered medicines. So intentional days having fun being together with my children and we're harvesting and we're gathering and we're just living. This is just our life. This is how we live here. Um sturgeon are sacred to us. They're only in White Earth Lake on our reservation and they're in the rivers as well that flow to spawn and things like that. Um, so we don't eat the sturgeon. [clears throat] O said that he felt that he was an ancient one and threw him back into the lake so that he could tell the others that O was there. So now we're into fall um when we're full on gathering. This is Ningos Jake Wawaskke Jake goes my son's first kill and traditionally in our culture the mom um and the women in the family process that. So this is our this is Jake's processed deer that my daughter and I did together. And then tallow what we render down and and use that for medicine making. And then these are all of teas and medicines that I gathered and collected throughout the summer months in storage for the winter time to stay healthy. Over here is some squash and berries that I put in the freezer for my mom and dad. And then up here are some um manomomen or jib mowan cards. wild racing cards. And I was going to show you a little clip here of what wild racing is like. Sorry again. Slow internet >> taxes. >> Always ads. >> Now taxes. >> Okay, this is about white earth. They're making wild rice here on the White Earth reservation in northern Minnesota. It's a time when the inhale they take to the lakes with our rising poles, our canoes, our bow ganuk, our ricing sticks. And it is a time our families gather to harvest our most sacred of foods. Manomomen. Manomomen or wild rice, the food that grows [crying] on the waters that we were instructed in our migration story to go to the place where the food grows on the waters. It's our most sacred food, first food eaten uh by a young person, a baby and usually the last food served to the elderly is served at our feasts and ceremonies [music] where there is wild rice and manomomen. There are nishnabic people. We take to those lakes and rivers and we pull through to collect our wild rice. It's hard work what our people are doing. But we're very very proud as Nishnavic people of being the people of the wild rice that we can feed our families, feed our bellies, and feed our souls as our sacred food. We're also the people who are able to make a living for our families through [music] our wild rice. Our community fought long and hard to stop the genetic engineering of wild rice and has also worked to try to keep some of this wild rice and the value added in our communities as large corporations took our wild rice, domesticated it, and now 95% of the wild rice that is marketed in the United States is coming from dyd rice patties in Northern [music] California. We don't call that wild rice. We call that tame rice. Doesn't taste like a lake. doesn't smell like a lake. This is our people coming in. We're proud this time of year and our families are able to eat and we're able to bring some money home for our communities and for the winter. This is our native harvest [music] wild rice being purchased at Lakeside. This is on our one of our trailers and uh we were good. We paid the best price out there for the rice so that people could get the best money for that hard work they had. families going home with hundreds of dollars for a day's work, which really makes a difference in our community. And they're proud. A lot of these people, young men, this is something they're really, really proud to do to continue their traditions. Our rice comes into our rice mill here on the reservation. Uh this time we're hauling it in our horse trailer. Uh sometimes we use the big the big trailers, but sometimes we use a horse trailer when that's what we have. and we're happy to be able to offer our wild rice here. We're going to be parching this rice for our families, our community, and for our customers. Thank you for joining us. So, this this video was made by the White Earth Land Recovery Project. Um the land recovery project is something that has been happening on our reservation to get get sections of our land back. Um the tribe has um established that wild rice is ours and people can't take it any longer to massroduce it. And so those those are some things that our nation has done to keep keep it taken care of. So wild rice harvest and deer harvest are very big things in our community at my house. It's like deer hunting is another holiday where everybody comes home and for some reason now I'm the camp chef. probably cuz my mom is older. Um, but we keep the tradition happening and that's something that I know my mom and dad are proud of. So, now we're moving into winter and I have a few more videos here for us to watch. But in the winter, we make spaces for each other like we're doing now. It's our storytelling time. We're building our community. We're gathering. We're feasting. And we're we're visiting our elders. And we're learning more from them. So, here's a few things that happen in our winter months. >> I dare you to let me completely free e-commerce store. pre the winter solstice is a really key time for a lot of indigenous peoples. In Nishnab culture, in my culture, uh we see it as a time of big change. The winter solstice is the shortest day of the year and the longest night of the year and it leads us into the winter season. [music] Traditionally, Nishnabek have seen the winter as the storytelling season. [music] So, it's when things calm down. Uh there's not as much to be gathered or prepared out in the [music] bush or on the land. We're with our families in our dwellings and we're passing the time with our kids by telling stories. So, the winter solstice really marks that season of storytelling to come. And it's something that I think is really valued amongst a lot of communities because it does reflect that [music] time of togetherness and that opportunity to share stories and culture and so on. So in in a lot of indigenous communities, I think the winter solstice is something that's marked in the same way as Christmas maybe or the new year or [music] another one of those seasonal sort of dates on the calendar, right? So, it just means, you know, we're going to get together. We're going to hunt down for the winter and share some stories, eat some good food, and hopefully celebrate who we are as indigenous people. >> Winter solstice. And this is a story about winter maker. Winter Maker brings our season of winter. >> Oh, sorry. >> Was here. It didn't seem to go away. It was constantly cold. And so Nanabouju had to figure out something to do to make the winter maker go away. So he decided, as Nanabuju will often do, that to trick him into coming to a feast. So he invited the winter maker to a great big feast, spread out all this food. And the winter maker started eating. And the women in Nanabuchu's household kept bringing out more and more food. And the more and more he ate, the more and more he started to sweat. And as he sweated, he threw off more heat. And the snow started to melt. >> And then the winter maker realized that he'd been tricked and threw down all the food, got up and left. And just before he left, he turned around and said, "Don't forget, I will be back." And of course, winter always comes back. He He'll be gone in the spring. Things do warm up, but he'll be back. You never forget that. So, this video here pretty much is what my backyard looks like right now if you guys are wondering. Got a bunch of snow over this last week and it is a winter wonderland out there. So, I'm going to take you to this last video on winter and these are some of the games we play. The 14th annual Ojiua Winter Games took place this week at Lac Flambo Grade School, giving students the opportunity to participate in a variety of traditional winter sports. The Ojiua Winter Games were founded in 2012 by Wayne Valier, an Ojiua language and cultural instructor. Valier is well known for his deep passion for sharing the traditions and culture of the Anisha people with younger generations, emphasizing the importance of learning the Anisha language. The language is the nucleus of our culture and it's our identity. Okay. So through these games we help our our young people to to obtain their identity. Fifth and eighth grade students participated in six events rooted in Ojiua culture. Some of the contests included archery, hoop and spear, snowshoe races, and snowake. Valiard took some time to explain the origins of this popular event, always tying the stories to the language. A millennium ago, our hunters were getting bored. Somebody threw their spear and it slid on the ice. And the other guy said, "I bet you I can make my spear slide farther than that." So he slid his and hence hence the games. So pretty soon somebody made a special dowel. Wow, that looks like a ganabic. That looks like a snake the way it slides on the ice like that. So hence the name Gona Ganabic, the snow snake was born. Tribal President John Johnson stopped by to see his grandson take part in the games >> for our indigenous kids here and all the youth that attend our school. It is games for them. You know, it is competition and the better they get at it each and every year as they're growing up. It's teaching them a lot of values about their culture and their people and where it came from hundreds of years ago. >> Valier sees the teaching of his culture as a duty to the elders that taught him. elders that protected the culture through a time in the not too distant past when they weren't allowed to practice Ojiua traditions. >> Our elders, the ones that held the knowledge, became very apprehensive on letting it go. So, gaining their trust was a big one and then them sharing that with me and then in turn I made a promise that I would share it. I would share it with the next generation. The Ojiua Winter Games give students an opportunity to have some fun and connect with their culture. Reporting in Lacto Flambo, I'm Carrie Blador, News Watch 12. >> Lacto Flambo is a reservation in Wisconsin of OJ people as well just across the bridge from Duth. Um yeah, so those are some things that we do around here. Um the center that I'm part of just hosted um Ojiway games where they had uh we started on Friday night with storytelling and then on Saturday we had snow snakes, snowshoeing and ice fishing demos. So we're still actively doing these things in our community as well. So now I kind of want to take a moment. You guys just got a lot of information thrown at you in a short of amount of time to think about and pause for the seven generations behind and the seven generations ahead of us. And some of you might be thinking about your grandparents, an auntie or an uncle. Um, you might be thinking about your children, their children, your future great-grandchildren. And now we're going to kind of switch gears over to we've learned about the history and things that we're doing now, but what are our next steps on how to sustain this for ourselves as indigenous people in modern times? So reconnection epigenetics plays a role in our health. Epigenetics is a three generational impact. If a grandma experiences a trauma, two generations will experience that trauma in their lifetime. So research on this began in 2010 and is happening present day. And the reason why we need to understand is because we gain an understanding of who we are and our history. And this is important for our health and our healing. So as we heal, we rise. We become stronger, even more stronger than we already are. This image is of the medicine wheel. The medicine wheel is used throughout indigenous nations across Turtle Island. Um our our medicine wheel reminds us to live mino bam. Mino bomad is living in a good way. Um reflecting on our relationship with the land as our kinship. A key is our jibway word for earth and a key has everything to take care of us. This is a reciprocal relationship. We take care of her. She takes care of us. We take care of the water. The water keeps us alive. We practice responsible harvesting. We share. Um, and even though our Native American population is about 5%, our people are caretakers of 80% of the Earth's biodiversity. So a small number taking care of a huge platform. So where do we start with all this? Uh small practices start making big differences and through that is living a decolonized life. So on this slide I have western concepts of living and then traditional indigenous concepts of living. Uh traditionally we lived in a community whereas our white counterparts you raise your young they go off into the world you did your job you're done. In indigenous community we we have generational caretaking. Um this this leaves us with our interconnectedness that medicine wheel concept of mental, physical, emotional and spiritual wellness. Uh a whole body approach to health. Um and what what sustains us uh day by day with western ideologies. We have the dictation of land, the MI complex, uh ideas that there is never enough um white ideologies of superiority over um non-white counterparts. We see Christianity and sin. So there's a lot of shame and then the concept of kill the Indian save the man which is wanting to eliminate a entire race. So I want to take a minute to recognize what's been happening in Minnesota. We are actively seeing our government take people and placing them under arrest throughout our metro region just because of the color of their skin or how they talk. And so they're showing up at public schools and taking kids and and placing them and detaining them and then sending them away from home. And if you remember the boarding school era, that's exactly what the government has done. Um, so living, we're still living and reoccurring traumas in brown communities. Um, and so if we're understanding that this has happened before, how can our generation handle it now in in this healthy way of interconnectedness, mental wellness, physical wellness, taking care of each other. So, in our wild rice video, this is the Ojiway migration story. We're we're told to go to the land that grows food on the water, which is our wild rice. Our wild rice is our oldest, most sacred food tradition. >> [snorts] >> Um the Oji way traveled along the Great Lakes region and then finally settle set settling where we are today. So they occupied all this all this land, not just this little green square I am over here in northwest Minnesota. Um but sustaining this lifestyle, this was hard work. This was a long journey and our food is what brought us to where we are today. So on the left here is a picture of wilder harvest in the 1930s happening on White Earth reservation. And now we're doing wild earth camps in our communities for our youth. Our local White Earth um tribal college extension office hosts along with our food sovereignty program. Um it's just a chance to do these traditional practices um in a modern way but holding true to the tradition and the importance of wild rice in our community. So how can you maintain traditional foods in your life? Remember we're in food deserts. Some of you in urban nation, urban populations don't have access to gardening or foraging. So, I really want to encourage you to seek and educate yourself and your family on the local area you're living in to start introducing them, them being the traditional foods, to your everyday lifestyle. Think of this as family recipes. You want to learn because you haven't. You want future generations to learn because you haven't and you want past generations to learn because they couldn't. So connecting with your community and holding spaces of learning together. Uh feasting the seasons. This could just look like the first day of fall. You have your family's favorite meal and you celebrate the coming of the season. Just as winter solstice was talked about in our winter mo uh videos um celebrating you know with food and family and community. Food is our culture. So healing intergenerational impacts of our health and our food pathways. It's important to acknowledge the past that has happened to understand it and then to have active prevention. And now we can go into some Q&A. Thank you all for listening today, which thank you Megan. um on behalf of all of our listeners, I think you really provided a comprehensive overview of the background and some of the systemic issues, but also modern practices. And so, a couple of the questions that are in the Q&A sort of touch on that and maybe you could go a little further based on on what people are asking. And for those that have questions and haven't posted them yet, please use the Q&A feature. Um, our first question is, could you please share your resources that you've used to create this presentation, specifically the peer-reviewed source that describes the connection with genetics? And that came relatively early on in the in the presentation. Um, but it also is um, somebody else asked about the epigenetics topic. So where I pulled that information from was National Council of Family Relations. So it's ncfr.org. Um the National Institute of Health also has um influence of integrational trauma on epigenetics and that is EMC.NCB ncbi.mlm.nih.gov. >> I'm not going to try to do that as you're saying it, but maybe you can send it to me and I can uh we can include it in the email that goes out to the group, too. Or if you want to drop it in the chat. >> Sure. I'll just click on it and drop it in the chat. >> Okay, that's great. Thank you. Yeah, thank you for that. And thanks also for sharing a lot of those videos. Those were um really great to see the different voices uh and and pictures too. So another question in our Q&A uh you know the title of the webinar is closing generational gaps in indigenous food practices. So this is kind of a two-part question. How do you propose we best do this in an urban setting where many native people may not have access to fishing and hunting and gathering uh and don't have access to elders who can pass on this knowledge? And then on the flip side um in a rural setting, what if families don't have access to the equipment needed to hunt and fish and forage and process the food? So taking taking that conversation a little one step further. >> So in our urban areas we do have tribal offices that are extensions of our reservation offices that host and hold camps and traditional teachings. So, I would seek out within your community what's happening in your areas for these events. Um, keep in mind seasonality is important. Um, it when it's time to tap trees, it's time to tap trees. We can't schedule to tap trees on March 8th because we don't know if it's going to be the right temperature. Um, we don't know if the sap is going to be flowing. Uh, we also have to align with laws. You know, we can't go to the state park and tap trees as indigenous people, although we should be able to do that, but we just cannot. Um and so looking into your wildlife and wetland areas and um you can find those on your state DNR websites to find which areas you can gather from and forage from. And then um you know doing doing your research. Where are you at? Where do you live? What region do you live in? what is locally available, what can you source? A lot of our small businesses, our community members that are creating these goods and services for us to look into. Um so if you in both the rural and urban setting um for rural community members that don't have access to the equipment um reach out to your tribal nations. Um, partner up with family and friends to start your supply of what you need to uh sustain your seasonal practices. Um, sugar bush isn't done just by me. It's done at my brother's house. My dad made us our cooker. Um, the kids run the pull the buckets and the bags. And just like with um deer hunting season, we do it together, we process it together, we package it together. Um we're keeping that community. And so as indigenous people, don't be scared to ask each other for help. Um it's within us to take care of each other. And um I feel like we all have a responsibility to keep our teachings going and and doing this together. And I want to point out that that's a big reason why I wanted to present on this topic is because there should be no gatekeeping in our traditions, values, and our ways. Um, if we want generational impacts to start happening, it has to start with us. And I know that some of our teachings are sacred and, you know, not appropriate to share with everyone, but our daily living practices should be shared so we can keep these going. >> Great. Couple more. Um, as we round out the presentation, um, this person asks, "I'm curious to hear your perspectives on recovery from eating disorders while trying to maintain connection to culture instead of the more western ideals." Um, so this can go into the respect piece and your mental and spiritual well-being. So we need food to sustain ourselves. Um our struggle is our spirit connecting with our mind. Right? So finding that right balance for your for your whole self, finding your whole self balance. What what can you do to connect your mind with your belly? Um and then also the sustainability piece. we'll always have enough. There's never there's never going to be you're not going to run out of anything. And so holding true to those um concepts will will help you with that. Um remember native people need all these elements for their health. Um, so somebody with type 2 diabetes needs to not be under stress because if they are have chronic stress, their blood sugars are going to go up and so they have to maintain their mental well-being for their physical well-being. Um, and it all just coincides with each other. >> Thank you. And I think we have time for one more question. Um, this one is, uh, should native people who are not from Minnesota and do not have an urban land office also reach out to these urban offices if their reservation is elsewhere um, when they're looking for cultural connection opportunities? >> Read that again. Um, should native people who are not from Minnesota and don't have access to an urban land office, um, should they reach out to urban offices if their reservation if they're looking for cultural connection opportunities? Um, is it okay to reach out to to um offices across different reservations? So are they so they're a Native American not they're an indigenous person not from Minnesota >> right >> I would say go for it our Ojiway and Dakota communities are very we like to embrace our visitors and we like to share and feed you and take care of you and help you And so if you are somebody that is wanting to connect to community, seek it out of those gatherings. Um I just think about MIA board of directors that I'm on. We are like we all live in Minnesota. We live literally from the top to the bottom of Minnesota, but we also are from tribes all across the United States. And so it um uh nishab is the term for original people. And so you are you are a nishab as an indigenous person. You are an original person and we're going to we're going to non-native or native our communities are going to take you in and and support you in your learning. And someone else asked in in the chat to the host and panelists, um, as someone who lives far from family on the reservation, how can I do my best to apply my experience in an archaeological anthrop anthropological topics to feel like my work is having a positive impact on not only my family? And it sounds like what you were just saying, Megan, you know, getting involved, getting involved in different groups, talking to people, sharing your stories, uh, is a great way to grow that connection. >> With that, those topics, I would say seek your elders out in your communities. >> Great. Trudy, we'll turn it turn it back to you. Um I just wanted to thank everyone over for your time and spending time with us. And um c can you put up the the slides the closing slides? >> Yes. So, um just like um