All right, I'm gonna go ahead and get started here. Good afternoon everyone. Y I'm Karina SabiQu. I'm hosting our webinar session here today, indigenous health topics. And before we get started, I'm going to go ahead and go through a few housekeeping items. All right. So, as always, if you've joined us in the past, we always have some time at the end of the presentation for questions and answers. Um, if you do have any questions um, throughout the presentation, please feel free to drop it in the Q&A um, button. It should show up somewhere on your screen depending on which device you're on. But that just kind of helps to kind of um, keep it organized. And then um, usually I like to see where everyone is logging in um, throughout Indian country. So feel free to drop in the chat um your name, where you're from, tribal affiliation um and just want to welcome you all here today with us. All right, so guest speaker this afternoon, Friday, January 16th, is Leia Ashley. I remember your name correctly because you said Princess Leia the the first time I met you. [laughter] All right. um she will be um kind of just telling us about her journey. So, returning to our traditional lifestyle in new and meaningful ways. I'm really excited to have her as a guest speaker. Most of you um some of you may know her from her social media post. Um it's really exciting to have our youth um present and share their stories. So, I'm going to go ahead and pass it over to Leia here. All right. Yo, here. Let me share my screen real quick. All right. Can you see that? >> Yes. >> Yay. All right. Before I start, I just want to say a big thank you to Karina and the Mayo Health Clinic for having me as a panelist on this little webinar series. It's uh a great opportunity because I feel like I've never gotten to be in a position like this. So, it's like it's amazing. It's really cool. I'm stoked and excited to kind of just share a little bit more about myself and who I am. Um so, yeah, let's start from the usual the usual way. All right. So, So, today is Friday, January 16, 2025. I hope you guys are having a good old year, a good New Year's. Oh my gosh. Um, Leia Ashley. And before I start, I just kind of want to go through a little bit more about what I'll be talking about today. Here. How do I do this? How do I >> Are you trying to move forward? >> Yeah. >> Oh, there you go. >> There you go. >> All right. So, kind of just why why am I here? Who am I? What's the vibe? So, here's a quick breakdown. So essentially, I just kind of want to share my story and just kind of share more about my experiences growing up on the res uh Navajo reservation, my journey to college as a first generation low-income student. Uh I feel like there's a lot that could be said about my journey through educ uh like through my educational journey and uh also just like my new found language journey through social media. I feel like in this day and age um learning and like especially with well I guess with language it's kind of been like a hard um thing for a lot of people to learn and since there are like more people on social media I feel like that was the route that I kind of chose to like start you know dabbling into and also just kind of practicing more of like what I enjoy doing um as a uh a content creator if if you will. Um, and then also I'll just be talking more about like returning to traditions in a modern time. Uh, and before we start getting into all of that, I kind of want to share um a YouTube video that I created like probably see like maybe like a few years ago, like two or three years ago. Um, it's probably one of like my favorite YouTube videos that I made. I haven't actually made like another storytelling type of YouTube video. I am working on one though. I am working on one, but um this one's just more about like my experiences growing up on the res. And I hope you guys enjoy it. So, here we go. Benj This is my silence. So, it all started when I was born. I was young. I was cool, calm, and collected. So, flash forward a couple years to about there. Oh, go back a little bit. Yeah. There. Here. I've worked here for about 19 years, I believe. And by here, I mean my grandparents house on the Naval Reservation. Yep. Yep. I've lived with them ever since I was four. And I basically grew up as a res girl. >> I played basketball. >> Popped the ball again. >> Watched my cats >> scary. >> Um, first attempt. Uh, >> more basketball. >> There's ants curling on me. >> Became a big jokester most of the time. Got you. >> More basketball. >> I will say the short t-shirt are a signature safety. my shoe. >> It just sucked. >> Look at the sun. >> I've always had a deep appreciation for everything around me. But on a serious note, my grandparents are the people who made me who I am today. >> Yay. I'm Leia. I'm a 23-year-old student at Dartmouth College majoring in Native Americans and studies modified as human design. And I am just a chill guy. A chill guy who's kind of slow sometimes. Where's my phone? I was like, where's my phone? >> I am a hardworking, intelligent, wonderful, and inspiring, brilliant human being who loves grandparents very much because they truly did make me who I am today. Let's take a trip. My grandma taught me how to make dough and then my bread, to not be wasteful. She taught me how to clean and to not be lazy. And if there's something that needs to be done, then get it done rather than waiting for someone to tell you what needs to be done. And through evening walks taught me to have appreciation for everything around us. She taught me to be kind and patient and she taught me how to read, which is something I need to get back into. But here's my first rod. My taught me how to drive. Taught me that sweets are a beautiful thing. Taught me to be independent and chop wood. They taught me to have fun. and I think they're the most hardworking couple I know in my entire life. In August of 2021, I was fortunate enough to attend Dartmouth College in Annover, New Hampshire, which is approximately 2,500 miles away from home. The experiences were new and exciting until it wasn't. The change was hard. The weather was cold. The trees were in the way of my everyday view. And I started to struggle with my anxiety and depression. At this point in time, I was rarely home due to financial circumstances or I felt like I wanted to be somewhere, but I didn't know where I wanted to be. It wasn't until I truly started to work on myself or when I realized how fleeting these moments are. Each time I come home, I realize my grandparents are getting older and time isn't going to wait. Someone told me that home will always be the same. But the thing is, the people aren't. I needed to go back. After nearly a year of not being home, I returned to listen, to learn, and to try to hold on to these special moments because these moments are continuously shaping who I am. Absolutely. Woohoo. Oh my gosh, I always love watching my videos back. It's just so fun because it's like, "Wow, I really did that. I really did that. I really went through all that, you know, just it's a good uh reflection for me to always go back and watch a bunch of things, which is also why I love like digital content and like making different types of media because it's like it's like a whole archive of just memories that I get to keep and look back on and it's it's it's beautiful. I love it. I love it. But I hope you enjoyed that. It's a little bit more about uh myself growing up on the res. So, here is more about me in this little slide. Here we have um me and [laughter] me. So uh I am a res girl through and through. I grew up with my grandparents on the reservation for all of my life basically. And I am also a recent graduate from Dartmouth College. I graduated this past well I walked in this this past uh like June. Um but I had to go back for one last term. So I finished this last term in November. So I'm all finished and done. And I majored in Native American and indigenous studies modified with human center design. So essentially Native American studies uh mixed in with like AI guess design type of engineering but surrounded uh around humans. Yeah. Yeah. Uh I also uh dabble into some digital media content. So mainly uh Instagram and YouTube which is [clears throat] the two platforms that I enjoy most. I think for a long time it was interesting because like I was like antisocial media and like I I mean I loved making like content and stuff like that but like for a long time I was just like I am not going to have any social media and so I didn't until uh this past um I'd say this past last year uh probably before the summertime or like during the summer time actually I was just kind of making videos and I just like you know what I'm just going to post one, why not? And this one, this is at the time when I was like getting into my fitness grind. I was like, you know, just on the res and like doing all these like like making up all these like funny like cool but like helpful like workout routines like while I was home. So, I just kind of working with like different resources that I had available to me and I just started recording myself and then I started like making little like stories um I guess uh what are they called? just little reels and posted one and then I was just like this is kind of cool. I'm going to keep doing this and just kind of track my progress this way. So that's how like my social media started was like through um uh working out and getting into that little fitness grind that era fitness era and I'm also a da language learner. um that eventually evolved into me uh realizing that the Navajo language um well is has been a big goal of mine. Uh [clears throat] sorry, I'm also kind of sick, so like my throat is just like dry and it keeps like dying out on me like halfway through when I'm like speaking. Um but yeah, so I uh it's always been a gold mine probably ever since I was in like high school. Um, I wasn't like the the brightest student growing up, but like I was just like, "Oh yeah, I really want to learn." Um, but I never really took the initiative to. I think I was always just like kind of uh influenced by other students too when you know they didn't think school was important. So I was like, "Oh, school is also not important." But I'll talk more about that in a little bit too. Um, so that's about me. What do I have next? Ah yes. So we'll start from the beginning. [clears throat] We'll get into my story mode. So I feel like all of you know my whole journey kind of started with like sports. So when I was in like uh I'd say probably fourth grade, fourth or fifth grade um I went to school uh at Nukem Newm Elementary School, Newm Middle School, Newm High School. Uh so I really wanted to do sports. I don't know why. I think it was cuz I had a friend who was doing sports, like one of my best friends at the time, and like uh she did she was doing cross country and I really wanted to I really wanted to run. I was like, "Grandma, grandma, can you um can you sign this paper for me?" She was like, "What is it for?" And I was like, "It's for me to join cross country." And then she was like, "I don't have gas money." Oh. Because at the time like the the school they didn't offer like um after school buses or like buses that ran to like the games. [clears throat] So I had to like really beg her because you know we didn't have a lot of money and like it would just be a lot for her to like drive back and forth to school. It was probably like 15 to 20 minute drive to school um and back. So I was just like come on grandma [laughter] like please please please. and she finally said yes. And thank God she said yes because like I feel like if she didn't, I definitely would have taken a different route in life. I'm not sure how that would have worked out and I don't want to think about that, you know, but bless. Thanks, Grandma. I appreciate you. She's at home right now. Um but yeah, the beauty of sports, it kept my grades high all the way uh throughout middle school, high school. I think that was um one of the the main reasons why like I just kind of started to take school more seriously at the time. It also kept me out of trouble. I was constantly at practice. I um developed like different routines and like I just kind of like started to build myself as a person. Um, so like I really enjoyed playing basketball and during the summers I would like go outside and just like dribble and do like basketball dribbling like drills on my own and like it was super hot or like I'd be up till like 2 a.m. My grandma would be like, "What are you doing out there?" I'm like, "Grandma, I'm trying to be a baller. I'm trying to break ankles out there." Um, yeah. But it was it was it was a good time. Uh, and then that kind of just kind of it kept going. So, like I just was constantly active like throughout the entire year and I just started trying different things. So, I got into like softball. I got into uh track and field. Track field. Field. Track. Track and field. Yeah. Yeah. Track and field. And yeah, so I'm an active person now. I mean, I don't really play like any of those sports anymore, but like that was just kind of like a a whole the whole history of, you know, my activeness and my fitness, I guess. Um, yeah. And then I guess that yeah, led into high school. So, I wasn't the best student like in terms of schooling. I honestly did not like school at all. So, um, there was a a a switch flip is what I like to call it. I was like, "Flip switch, switch, flip, flip switch." But that was like during my junior year. Um, I remember I just wasn't like doing as good as I wanted to until my junior year. I was like, you know what? This is going to be my year. This is going to be a good year. I want to make it my good year. And during that time, I was actually like one of the first students who got to um join this like new it's like a dual credit program that the one of like the schools that was built in I think it was Kirtland. I don't know. It was called Bon Wilson. Anyways, they're like a dual credit like college program. And I was like one of the first students who like got to um I guess volunteer sign up to join this um program. And that year I was my first year actually getting a 4.0. And that was like a big accomplishment for me. And um it was it was a it was a good way for me to also just gain experience and like join uh like get experience into like college courses and like kind of you know diving into that that like realm. [clears throat] And yeah, here's some pictures of me. There's me running. I think that's in like Dashi on the left side in the middle. That's me probably playing against like Zouri. I was a point guard. We are a really small team. I'm a really small girl. I'm like 5'3. [laughter] So I was trying to be a baller, but the the height jeans, you know, they were not there. I was fast, so maybe I don't know. We had to look back at my film, I guess. But yeah, I really enjoyed playing basketball. Here's all of my not all of my pictures, but here's some pictures. Next. Okay. Yeah. So, after I graduated from um Newcom, I ended up doing a post-graduate program. Uh well, actually in high school, I like had to graduate during uh during COVID. So, it was like 2020. uh let's see. I'm trying to think because during co it happened in like March. No, I think it was March. Yeah. Uh that's when like school shut down and everything. So like during that time I just kind of was at home being a bum, you know, just chilling with like my family and didn't really know what I was going to do cuz I remember um like I applied to Dartmouth because one of my cross country coaches, she's like a big influence on also just like my life. Oh my god. And like my journey. So like um she went to Dartmouth. Uh and she's just an amazing person. She helped me out like so much with everything and like is a big reason why I feel like I also, you know, got to where I am too. There's just like so many people. Sorry, I'm like thinking like about all these people who like helped me get to where I'm at. And like um yeah, so I applied to Dartmouth just like regular decision that year. uh and did not get in. Uh which was it was it was it wasn't like a bummer or anything, you know, it was just like okay cuz also I didn't really know what Dartmouth was. It was just like I kind of want to go because my teacher got to go. My coach got to go and she's cool and I want to be cool too. So I'm going to go to there too. And yeah, I didn't get in. That was fine. You know, wasn't a big deal. I just kind of sat in the basement and watched TV and chilled and uh did some farming. lots of farming actually um during co and then it was probably after I graduated our graduation was so funny too cuz it was like so windy and like since it was co we could not like have a regular graduation so like we had like we did like a float type of thing float situation so like we decorated like my grandpa's truck and like we did like a drive-thru graduation thing but it was hella windy and like all the decorations were just flying off And like I was trying to sit in the back of the the the what's it called? The tail the truck bed. And that was it was just the whole it was [laughter] it was a time. However, we done did that. Uh and at this point I was just like, "Okay, I don't really know what I'm going to do. I don't want to go to school like in New Mexico. I just kind of, you know, didn't really think much about it." And then my cross country coach reaches back out and she's like, um, well, like her son was going to a post-graduate school in Massachusetts called North of Mount Herman and the dean of enrollment was asking if there was like any other native students who uh potentially wanted to go out there too um for like a like a post-graduate program. And I was like, you know, yeah, why not? like I I can um I'll look at the application and I'll get you know I'll apply. And like I was looking to this application and this application had it was like so much more intense than like Harvard's gradu like Harvard's like application. I remember looking at Harvards and I was like oh hell no. But then this one I was looking at it again and I was just like oh my god. But I was just like okay I'm just going to do it anyways. So like I locked myself in the basement was just like downstairs like every single day. He gave me like a week cuz it was also past like the enrollment date and he was just giving me like um time to fill out the application. So I was like, "Okay, cool." So I sat down there, filled out the application probably for like a week straight and I finished it and I got it into him and he was just like, "All right, you're you're you're good. Like we get you out here and and get this get this going." So I was out in Massachusetts at North Mount Herman. It's like a boarding school. Um very beautiful, very pretty. Uh, and that was like a 34- hour drive. And my cross country coach um drove me and her son like all the way out there. So, it was also like probably maybe my second time like traveling across the country. [clears throat] My first introduction to what culture shock was. I remember people talking about culture shock and I was like, I don't really know what that is, but here we go. And I, let me tell you, I was shocked culturally. Well, I was like the only native student who was there. Um, there's very little people of color, but I essentially went to this post-graduate program to fill in gaps in my education like English and grammar and math and sciences and, you know, all of that that jazz, that cool jazz. Um, and it was also just a good experience like to get off the res. I got to, you know, I wasn't I was scared. I was homesick, but it was fun because I got to do all of these cool new things. I got to continue in sports, too. Um, that middle picture right there is me uh getting an award for most improved reader I think. I can't even see it actually, but I know I got a book out of that. Like it was like a a book award, a board book. I don't know. Um, got to continue playing basketball and that was fun. And these girls were tall. They were tall. Like I don't know what I was doing playing varsity basketball out there, but I was playing varsity basketball out there. But yeah, during this time too, um I my my eye was still on Dartmouth and I was like, you know, I really just want to go there because oh, also during the time when I was in high school, um I got to go to this career fair with um Von Wilson uh dual credit program that I was talking about. And uh I went to the career fair. It was in Kurlin. And I remember usually I like hang out with my friends, you know, hang out with them, go to like what whatever like presentations they wanted to go to or whatever. But this time, for some reason, I like branched off and I was like, you know, I'm going to go to my own room and, you know, discover something new. So, I went to this like uh room and it was labeled flying programs. So, I sat in there, learned about flying programs, and they were like, "We have a challenge for you. So, we want you to like go out and like ask, you know, any of these college like booths if they have flying programs." So, I was like, "Okay, cool. I can do that. So [clears throat] whenever the presentation was done like I went out and like was just kind of a little nervous, a little scared cuz you know a little shy little res girl. Um and I remember seeing this like real big guy. He's like sitting at this table. He's like he looked like Hagrid from Harry Potter and I was like bingo. [laughter] So I went up to him and I asked him um if they had flying programs and he was like yes we do. we offer um Native American flying programs and regular flying programs, too. And I was like, "Oh, sick." And this table was Dartmouth. So, I applied to their flying program. And I don't really remember the process of like applying or anything, but I remember getting accepted and like I got to go out to Dartmouth before going to this post-graduate program. So, I had an idea of what Dartmouth was like and like what um what it had to offer. and also just like seeing their Native American community. It was it was beautiful. I enjoyed it a lot. So when I got back to Oh my god, my voice is like dying out. So when I got back to um uh North Mount Herman, I decided to try again. So like I was going to like after school tutorings and like I remember going to like this English like professor. It was funny because there was no one else there. Like every single evening I went there was nobody at tutoring like for anything. So, I was just like, damn, am I the only one who's struggling right now? [laughter] Which was it was it was interesting, but it was also really nice because I got to like take advantage of that and like really just like I I kept going. I was just going and like um got a lot of help on like my common app essay and uh that was like one of my um [clears throat] it like reflected on like the first application I did. It was like more about like the Saab story, you know, about growing up and like, oh yeah, like please accept me because I had a terrible life type of thing. But then I realized that's not the right like route to go. Um cuz after talking with like one of my English teachers there, he was just like, "What's something that is cool? Like what is something that you know, something only you could possibly have done or something that like you think may have changed like a path in your life for yourself or something like that?" And I was just like, you know, so I just started telling him the story. He was just like, "What do you really like?" And I was like, "I like basketball." And he was like, "Okay, so what's something about basketball? What is something that you've done? What is something that's cool?" And so I started telling him about this time when I was in middle school. We had this um old house like next to our house and uh I think it was like a relatives like long time ago. And it was windy like one day and this house just like blew over. So like it blew over. There was just, you know, a bunch of wood and everything like on the foundation of the concrete and like uh one day I just decided to start moving it like off. I cleared it off and I um once I cleared off all of the wood, oh my god, during that time I also stepped on a nail. That was crazy. I never experienced that before and that was crazy. I had to get tennis shot and everything. Anyways, um after that there was this like thick layer of sand, probably like four inches or something and I um ended up getting a shovel and I had to I was just like cleaning it off till I got to the cement and there was still like a lot of sand on Oh my god, there's a lot of sand on the ground. So I had to, you know, grab my broom, start sweeping. I had I had a plan in mind. I had a plan in mind. [laughter] So, um, once I finished all of that, I brought my basketball goal out there. Essentially, I wrote my comment app essay about me making my own basketball court out of that. Um, that fallen house thanks to the wind. Bless. Um, yeah. So, that was really cool. And that's, you know, what I wrote about my essay. Um, just kind of like that determination and, uh, that drive for what I want to get. and you know if I want it then I'm going to get it that type of vibe. And so after that uh spent a long time like proofreading and like you know going over it and like finding the right words and I applied early decision that time because I was like I know I want to be at Dartmouth. I want to go to Dartmouth. Um, and so yeah, I I applied and I waited. I continued my my journey in playing basketball in that last uh few months I had at North Mount Herman. I also did um kayaking and like biking. It was beautiful. It was so beautiful out there. Oh my gosh, I wish I could show you guys more pictures. I should have put more pictures. I don't know why I only chose three. [clears throat] But yeah, it came the next year. I think it was like January, early January is when I got my accept acceptance letter. Um, I was stoked. I was hyped. Like I remember like opening the the little portal and my heart was just pounding and I was just like, "Oh my god." And then I got in and I just was had to be quiet, but I was like trying to, you know, it was hard to contain myself. I feel like I'm a pretty loud person sometimes. I'm also like a very like energetic person, so like containing myself is hard sometimes. But we did it. We did it. And yeah, I was just really happy about that. Let's see what I have next. Yes. And then we went to Dartmouth. So this Yeah, after I graduated North of Mount Herman, I got to go to Dartmouth. Um it's like not even that far away from uh North Mount Herman, probably like two more hours up. So it was in the same vicinity. Um this one's in New Hampshire, though. Uh yeah, traveled to Dartmouth. Um spent all four years there. I got to do some really cool internships. The one on the bottom right is with uh Native Like Water. They're located in California and San Diego and they're uh an awesome nonprofit that I got to learn how to surf and I got to work with youth and learn how to rock climb and just learn more about the cultures out there and like just all the people and the communities and that was such a good time. I was another uh internship that I did recently in Seattle, another nonprofit. There's just like so many opportunities that like school really [clears throat] uh opened and offered for me and like you know just gave me these different experiences. I also got to be a part of this um indigenous living languages group that my best friend her name is she uh created and I got to be the treasurer, got to be a cool member and we got to do some fun activities and just like share uh share a good time with each other. um learn more about our languages, how we say different things. And I also just like love talking to other people about language too. Like I don't know where this [clears throat] like love for language and just learning came from. I guess it just kind of developed throughout my my life. But yeah, it it's been a it's been a really really amazing time. Um, oh yeah, we called ourselves the illst. Like ill. We call ourselves ill. So it's like indigenous living languages. Ill for short, but we were the illst, you know, like the illst. Um, yeah. And that middle picture here is me and my grandma. That is when I walked in the the the spring. It was fun. It was cool because that was their first time like actually leaving New Mexico, too, and coming all the way out to New Hampshire. I was so happy that they were there. Um, my grandpa couldn't make it because he had to stay home and take care of the house, which was unfortunate, but he didn't mind. He didn't mind at all. We brought him some merch. We brought him back some Dartmouth merch. Um, and then same, the picture on the top right, that was at our Native American um, it's like the the graduation ceremony we had. It's like the blank the blanketing ceremony, and those are all my best friends. They're all there. Oh, this is such a good time. I love reflecting. This is your sign to reflect on last year and have a good old new year. This is so cool. It's like a little portfolio for me. Uh, yeah. And then I graduated from Dartmouth recently. Um, and it has just been a beautiful time. I mean, it's been wonderful, lovely. Let's see what I have next, actually. Ah, yes. So, I also dabbled more. So while I was at school, I was also working on, you know, a bunch of um media, different ways of I guess kind of learning the the language on my own. I um like I said earlier, like the language is probably one of, you know, the hardest languages to learn. So like for me, I um it's hard for me to learn I feel like from like schooling or like from textbooks. So, in my head, I was like, "Okay, if it's hard for me to learn that way, then like I'm going to use those same resources, but like find a way to make it easier for myself to learn." And I'm a visual learner, so like really kind of trying to dumb things down and like make it simple, I think, is the way to go. And like yeah, I just started, you know, creating this like different types of stuff like has anyone asked you like the queue go like what time is it? And you know, just making stuff that's also like um very modern. I feel like whenever you're especially like Dualingo, too. Like I like Duolingo, but like I I feel like it's not super helpful because it's like may you walk in beauty, you know, that kind of like [laughter] that kind of like um like phrases. It's not like phrases that I feel like you would use like on a daily basis. Um, so I guess just kind of like being very repetitive and like really trying to get certain um topics down visually and then being able to go back and be like, okay, like this is how you say this and then like, oh, I forgot. I'm going to go back to this. If that makes sense. So like Instagram for example has been a really good way for me to kind of use that and also just share it with others. I mean at first it was just kind of like a way for me to like just keep track of my progress like I said with like my fitness too was just to keep track of my progress. But then [clears throat] once more people like started telling me that like, oh, you're you've been helping me with learning my language and like you've been super like, oh, like this is an easy way like an easier way for me to learn or you know, it it was kind of weird at first cuz it was just like it kind of is still weird actually. And people be like, "Oh, like you're a good teacher." And I'm like, "Oh, really? Thank you." >> [laughter] >> Um, but yeah, I guess just kind of like trying to find an easier way for me um to learn the language has been also very helpful for others. And I guess that's a cycle that I've also never really seen before. Um, maybe I just haven't taken notice to things like that, but like seeing it like come through has just been it's been really cool. It's been awesome. and telling the time like this for example also just helps me like break down the words and like simplify everything. So like is like the [clears throat] clock. Um Iggy is like referring to like this this okay is referring to like the long hand and like this specific long hand is at like the hour. Um and then the is like the hour that it is heading towards and then you know is the time. So, putting that all together, just like uh simpling simplifying it, and then also adding in like these um what are they called? Conjunctions. I don't know. I I'm as terrible at grammar, but conjunctions. I think that's what it's called. Um like or then you can say and then breaking it down even further. And then this one on the right side is um doing like the the date. That's I feel like that's something that I enjoy doing is because being repetitive once I said so like in a lot of my videos I like to start with this specifically because it's like I feel like the more you hear it the more you'll start to understand like what they mean and also just like start saying it yourself if that makes sense. It like practices um helps me practice with like the months, the days of the week, the dates and also the year for a second. I was I kept saying like, but it's like 2026 now and not 2025. So like training your brain to like >> [clears throat] >> identify like the different numbers and stuff like that. Whoa, I didn't know I could draw on here. Can you guys see that too? Here, I'll tell you guys a happy face. Boom. Boom. Okay, that was terrible. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, so today we can say today. So, DJ um this one I guess was so DJ Saturday. I'm supposed to add a G O here. Okay. Pretend I wrote that real nice. Then you have no. So, that was how you would say it. So, this is like the English version. And um if you want to see more of like all of this, it's all on my social media on Instagram, which I'll share with you guys later. But let's go to the next one. And I'm stuck. I'm making a mess. Fire. I can't music. Here's the deal. Here's the deal. Yo, here's We're going to translate this book. Oh, I know how to say this one. street. Here we go. This is foreigners. Yeah. So, that's an example of a real that you would find on my Instagram page. I just like to make fun content like that. Like in this one, uh this is a way I also like to learn. So, I just like finding simple things, simple sentences, and working with my grandma. I feel like that's uh been a big um a big bless blessing slash uh a big help for me is having my grandma and my grandpa there. And I mean sometimes they probably do get annoyed with me being like hi hi hi like constantly asking them like how do you say this like how do you say that? And it's just like it's it's [clears throat] it really pushes me um to yeah continue to ask for what I want to know and like just being curious and it it's always a learning process and like I think learning a language definitely is hard like any language. So like it just takes um a lot of repetition. It takes uh determination, a lot of will and I feel like that is something I started to develop over these past couple of months. And having this uh this platform and like having people also like being like follow on this journey has been amazing because it's just like it it cool to know that what I'm doing to help myself is helping others and like vice versa. It's like a community that I feel like has kind of grown together and like I'm very happy because like it's like a reciprocal relationship I feel like and I'm really happy that I know I get those those positive like comments about how these ideas would help them work with their children or like work with their grandparents as well. It's been really cool, really fun. [clears throat] and returning to culture. Don't mind my drawings. So, this here is [clears throat] is one of maybe my second rug that I wo. Um, this was when I got back from it was this past summer. I got to I got to sit down with my grandma and weave again. The last time I wo was probably in middle school. And at that time, I wasn't about weaving. I was like, "My back hurts." I was like, "I don't want to do this anymore." [laughter] So, I didn't weave um until I was back at school and I was like, you know, I kind of want to start weaving again. Uh just kind of get back into it. So, I asked my grandma. I was like, "Can can you set up a loom for me?" And she did. And I got to to weave with her. And this one on the the left here is the one we just finished. I got to see the whole process. And here's me at two great heels. Yes, I sold it. Oh. Um, and then here's my grandpa. He's like one of the Well, he's the call him supervisor. I call him supervisor. I said we I call him supervisor cuz he comes in. He'll just be like, you know, checking in, observing. He'll make a little joke or something, grab like corn nuts and like walk out. [laughter] But he knows how to take down the rug. So, he taught me how to do that. And I know how to do that. And then there's me and my grandma again at Two Grey Hills. Um, this is a Two Grey Hills design. And what makes it two Grey Hills is the natural dyed wool colors. So it's basically brown, light brown, black, gray, white, and very beautiful designs. I love looking at the archives. I got to meet with um the owner of Two Grey Hills uh store and his wife and we just got to talk a lot about the history of Two Grey Hills and also got to see so many beautiful rugs. Like there were so many different rugs, different sizes, and uh so many there's so much history there, too. There's like so many books from like 1920s, 1930s, and I got to I got gifted a book, actually. And it's, you know, it's just learning. A lot of learning. I just love to learn. I feel like Yeah. Yeah. Learn something new. Learn something new every day. Oh, yes. Okay. And lastly, because I know the time is almost running out, I wanted to do a quick story time. So, this one I haven't read at all. So, let's see if we butcher it or not here. I don't know if I can put that there. All right. I have this book. Oh, you can't really see it. Okay. Anyways, I don't know how you fix this. There you go. So, this is called So, this is Little Herder in spring. The one I've been reading on my Instagram is Little Herder in autumn. So, this one's a new one since spring is coming up. Yeah, it is written by Ann Clark and illustrated by Hook Danette Sosce. So, shout out to them too for being cool people and building such a beautiful archive. And I got this from um a trading post probably like uh I feel like a year ago in I think it was Kirtland. I don't remember what the trading post was called, but they had a few of them. It wasn't a big stock, but I was just like I'm going to get this. And I did get it. I did got it. like Yeah. [laughter] Okay. So, let's start from left to right. All right. Yeah, this is Oh gosh. Huh? Oh, wait. Oh my gosh. See, this is like the the process of like reading. It's fun because it's like you get to pause and then you get to like just kind of look back over it. And for me, this is like fun because it challenges my brain to like use different muscles of my mouth that you know and also just like eventually you start to read faster is what I I'll say. So, I felt like that was kind of butchered a little bit, but I feel like for the most part that was pretty good. But yeah, I hope you guys enjoyed this morning when I crawled under my blanket and stood before my hogan my mother's hogan's door. No, just kidding. But I Yeah, thank you guys for listening. I think that is pretty much all I have. Love your life. That has been a big saying that I have really carried forth. These are the three things actually that I've been carrying forth. And uh I think very important, take care of yourself for your children, take care of yourself for your people. Spread those good vibes. You know, always have a good day. I think starting your day and having that good mindset is also just, you know, a way to go out in life and just, you know, know that you're going to have a real goodter day. And then, yeah, love your life because it is important. You matter. Everything matters. And like you send that love out, you're going to get that love right back. U but yeah, I'm happy to answer some questions and I really am just excited to see what you all have. And how do I get these markers this marker off of my page? Let's see. Erase. Tada. Clean. That was that was an amazing story. It's um really good to hear more about your personal journey and how you've gotten to where you are. So I'm very inspired by you leading our youth and you know and reconnecting to the culture and also trying to learn you know learn and read and write the language. It's really amazing to see that you have your grandparents there also to help um teach you and support you on your journey. So, thank you for sharing that. Um also, congratulations. You just graduated. That's an amazing um feat that you've done. So, congrats. I'm looking forward to hearing more and following you on um your social media accounts. But we do have some uh questions. I seen a couple come in through the chat, but I'm going to go ahead and jump into the Q&A chat box here to see what we have. All right. So, one of the questions I have for you is, "What advice would you give to urban healthc care facilities and how they work with our our native relatives?" with um you said native healthcare facilities and how they work with relatives. >> Yeah. What advice would you give to urban healthc care facilities and how they work with our native relatives? >> Um I feel like listening to them for sure first off. Um for wait sorry you said urban urban healthcare facilities working with native relatives. >> I see. I see. Um yeah, I mean uh being respectful obviously. I mean I I don't have much uh experience in I guess healthcare facilities but I feel like yeah being kind um accommodating to their needs or things that they have to say. And I feel like I mean I I don't know if I am answering that at all, but Sorry. >> No, I think you're good. I think just treating them like that's your your family, your relative, right? >> Yeah. Yeah, of course. >> All right. Um there's another question. So, knowing what you know now, what advice would you give to your younger self? >> Um to not be afraid. to not be afraid to to trust in what I want to do. And um I guess being confident in my abilities cuz I feel like reflecting back then I definitely was not in that headsp space. I feel like I was always so nervous. I mean I feel like even a year ago I probably would not have agreed to have jumped on this panel, you know, and done something like this. So, it's just like being confident and being true to myself has definitely opened up a lot more doors and like opportunities because it's just like I'm just I don't know just I guess kind of just having that mindset that things are going to be working out and like what you the work you put in is the work that you're uh what is it the you reap what you sew or something like that. Um, and yeah, uh, just being kind, being kind to yourself is also a big one. Um, I definitely was a lot like very hard on myself. I feel like growing up just because I I held myself to like high standards. Um, and now it's just like things aren't that serious. I feel like I mean you're a person you have these hard times and like it's okay to feel those feelings and it's okay to you know feel like everything might be crushing down on you and it's just like one step at a time like things do get better just be kind and gentle to yourself and yeah love your life. >> I love that. Thank you. Um so I'm going to look into our webinar chat. I saw a few questions. Um, I don't know if you can see the chat box, but there's also just a lot of people kind of um, commenting on the presentation. Um, very glad to see you here and just enjoying your story overall. But I'm going to jump to um, Caroline Blackhead's question um, comment. So, she said, "It's wonderful to see a young generation getting back in the language. Living with your grandparents is definitely a blessing. Do you are there any DA immersion schools around where you live? >> In terms of immersion schools, um I definitely think there are some. I think there um I remember seeing in probably one of the news articles actually that there might have been um like elementary schools that are starting unless I'm just kind of bringing that out of nowhere but there definitely are um I know there are efforts and you know immersion uh I think um schools that are happening res um I just don't know too much about them. And I'm sure there's like so many other like native language Navajo language speakers um who are also, you know, in the youth and who are doing the same work that I'm doing. But, you know, so it's like my story is not unique at all. It's um it's just something that I am choosing to to share with others. And uh but I would love to see more immersion schools. I think that'd be really cool. Um, I would also love to uh I know I feel like most times it is starting with like the younger the younger generation, but I feel like having an immersion school for um older people would be really cool too. >> Yeah, thank you. Um, just a question for me um before I jump to the next question. So, you said that um you started living with your grandparents when you turned four or around the age of four. So, um, they must have spoke Navajo to you since you were younger, right? Kind of just taught you the language. >> Um, yeah. So, yeah. Yeah. Um, well, I guess well, I was around my grandparents when I was Yeah. around when I was just small, small girl. So, um, I remember I well, my grandpa, he was the one who would be like he would just like say animal names and he would just be like, "Nan, like say it, say it." And like I would just be like, you know, I didn't really know what they meant, but he would just kind of say those to me and I would just repeat it. And um I think the thing with that though is like, you know, I I think there was attempts to to teach it and pass it on. But like school um >> Mhm. >> I think schooling is definitely a big uh interruption in that uh learning progress cuz it's like I had to learn English and then you're learning English throughout your entire schooling. And I feel like for people who um for students who, you know, didn't get a chance to like even pronounce things when they were younger or like whatever, it's like hard for them to to retrain their tongue um to to speak a a language that >> you know uses different tles [clears throat] and you know the way your mouth moves. So it's like I guess that's kind of um what am I? I would consider myself a a heritage speaker. So, I'm not a native speaker. It's Navajo is not my first language at all. It's just a a language that I heard growing up like all the time. Um, yeah. And now I'm just trying to to reclaim that and actually have it be a dominant language that I really want to start using. >> Awesome. All right. Um, Ilia said, "So, you are you are so full of joy. It is inspire me. Inspiring. What is next for you?" >> What is next for me? Well, right now, um, definitely I'm weaving I'm weaving another rug. I started one. This time it is, um, like basically solo me with my own designs. And so I just been like, you know, jotting down. Um, I carry a notebook around all the time. So I like am just like constantly journaling, constantly drawing. So like I I'm creating different like rug designs. I don't know. I just have a bunch of I have all these ideas that I feel like go on in my head. Um, and another another one is like definitely continuing making more language, learning more language content for myself. And I definitely want to I think one of my goals is to um uh find develop an easier way to to preserve and help others learn the language, too. Um, I think it's a it's a what is it? It takes it takes a village and I I am very willing to to to put that work in to have you know more people join in on this journey with me too and just to support one another as well. Um so that's something I want to do. Still brainstorming but I am building an archive of different resources. um trying to find out different ways to uh I guess yeah document and preserve different things and I think visually that is something I want to do through like film making either film making or um podcast I think podcast would be cool I don't know there's just different like I have like I tap into like all these different like creative like little uh things [laughter] and it's really fun for me so definitely something along the lines of that and just continuing to live life. >> Yeah. And there's so many different platforms now that you're able to tap into. So, I think you'll you'll be able to find your space or even have multiple avenues to get um information out or share what you're doing. So, looking forward to seeing that. [laughter] Um we have another question here in the Q&A. So, what advice do you have for your generation and the younger generations to help keep the language alive and help the elders in your community? I think um advice I feel like uh I mean I I feel like it's honestly up to them, but I mean if I were to be more encouraging about like you know connecting with your grandparents more, connecting with your parents more. Um I think nowadays it's hard. I look around and everybody's on their phones and it's like it's kind of it's kind of sad because I enjoy talking with my grandparents, you know? I I love to to hear what they have to say and like there's just so many stories that, you know, I feel like most grandparents probably take to the grave nowadays and it's like I want them to be heard and I want to hear what they have to say because it's definitely um you learn a lot through it too. And uh yeah, so some advice that I would give um to the younger generation is just to take a break from your phone now and then and just you know talk with your grandparents. Ask them about their day. Ask them about uh your I don't know how did my mom grow up? How was I you know how did I grow up as a young child? Like cuz I learned that I was naughty. I don't really remember, but I learned that I was a a very um a chill but naughty kid. Um yeah, there's a lot to learn out there. I don't know, just I'm a big fan of talking with family and talking with just other people as well, too. Get yourself out there. I think it's uh there's no need to be scared, too. And in terms of the language, if you're scared of, you know, speaking the language, I definitely feel that. I feel like it is scary to talk to, you know, someone who is fluent because it's like you don't want to be judged, but I feel like you're you're you're you can't avoid those type of people. But I mean, I feel like if you find the people who are willing to like talk with you and eventually like you'll start to feel more confident. I mean now I start going around and be like yach you know to anybody too and like even just learning a new word is really really helpful and it makes me so happy when someone's like oh like you know I learned this new word because of you or like this is a new you know something like that it's just like it's really cool um and I would just encourage you know take one thing take things one one thing at a time uh don't put too much stress on yourself it's beautiful language I encourage you all to you know to learn a language age if if you're so willing. >> All right. Thank you, Leia. Um going to just read this last comment we have here. So, somebody's been following your Insta for a little while. I also shared your Instagram there for anybody. Um and they feel so honored to hear your story. Keep posting and energizing our youth to remember the importance of their heritage and find fun in learning. You rock. Yeah, for sure. [laughter] >> Yeah, this is also not just for youth. I feel like it's for everybody, you know, no matter how old you are. If you want to learn a language, you definitely still can. And that's Yeah, that's all I want to say. >> Yeah. You um you also mentioned you have do you have a YouTube channel? >> Oh, I do have a YouTube channel. Yes. Yes, I do. Should I share that with you guys? >> Um, sure. We still have um some people follow alas right now. So go ahead and post it in the chat for anybody. Also, um I just posted a survey link in the chat for those who are still on. If you could please um click on that link and provide some feedback, that'll be helpful for our indigenous health topic webinars um moving forward. And are you going to add it to your Oh, there. >> I was like, how do you get back to the to the main thing? Um, let's see. >> Oh, you're find trying to find the chat. >> Yeah, it's also um linked in my Instagram page, too, if if that's >> okay. >> Yeah, this is like a a >> There's another question that just came in. >> Yeah. Would you consider working with health care systems in need of da speak speakers for patients? That would be really cool. Um like working as like AI think yeah working with more native speakers would also be helpful. I think one of my ideas was to go and visit um um what is it? What are they called? Like um elder elderly homes. elderly homes because I know there's like a lot of um elderly who don't have family and you know just it I definitely can feel like it does get lonely and sad in there. So like going over there and bringing my good old book and just you know practicing. >> Oh my gosh, they would love that. I think >> and it would be awesome to just like talk with them and also just a way for me to practice the language too. So that was something I had in mind as well. I think that'd be awesome to do. >> All right. Well, I'm going to go ahead and leave you with the last um and final words here um as we end our webinar. It has been a wonderful pleasure to have you as our guest speaker. Um really excited we had this opportunity to host you. Um I did earlier in the chat post the YouTube channel cuz this um video was [clears throat] recorded. So, it'll show up on YouTube probably about a week. I think I shared that with YouTube, Leia. So um um you can share that with whomever it is external um but yeah just spread the word um and I'll leave it to you to to have the last your last thoughts. >> Yay. Okay. Well, thank you guys for listening. Appreciate it so much. Um and yeah, I'm happy that you guys are all here. Happy you guys got to listen in from all over Indian country. Uh y from the Navajo Nation. Um I am very happy uh super blessed and I looking forward I hope that you got something from this uh webinar today and my dogs are going to be asking. So I'll leave it right there. Love your life. I'll see you guys later.