Hello. Good afternoon. Yes, Alyssa, you all should be on mute um that are joining. All right, good afternoon everyone. Welcome everyone to Indigenous Health Topics. I'm Karina Sabiq. I host Indigenous Health Topics. I'm here with my colleague from Arizona, Trudy. I'm located here in Rochester and really excited for this conversation today. I will be going through a few housekeeping items. So, let's go ahead and get started. All right. So, we will have time at the end of the presentation for a Q&A. Please add your questions using the Zoom Q&A function that you will see at the bottom of your screen. Um, let us all strengthen our community. Please introduce yourself in the chat. Let us know where you're from, where you're logging in from. Um, I know we have everyone signed in from across the nation. So, it's always good to see where everyone is at and your tribal affiliation as well. So, welcome all. I'm going to go ahead and introduce our guest speaker. So, Dr. Victoria O'Keefe, she is associate director at the Center for Indigenous Health at John Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. And today she will be speaking on strength space research. So, really excited for this topic today. I'm going to go ahead and hand it over to Dr. O'Keefe >> Wondo. Thanks so much for the invitation and for that introduction and thanks for um everyone who's joining. I'm just going to share my screen and my slides. Okay. So, I'm really excited to talk with you all today about uplifting our community and cultural strengths and health research. And just want to start with um an introduction and grounding myself and who I am and why I'm involved in this work. Um, I'll also share about the Center for Indigenous Health at Johns Hopkins University where I'm privileged to work. I'll provide some background information um, and why we really need indigenous strengths based research um, alongside two example projects that I've had um, the pleasure of working with big teams on. um one focused on how do we conceptualize how do we think about indigenous strengthbased research and then also um another ongoing project where we're developing a survey measure looking at connection across generations. Um I'll provide some conclusions and then we'll have some time for questions and dialogue together. So, just to share a little bit about myself, I'm a citizen of the Cherokee Nation. Um, I'm also a member of the Seinal Nation of Oklahoma. Um, I always like to share that, um, my late grandmother, Virginia Feather Rivas, is a big inspiration of mine, um, who you see pictured on the bottom left. Um, my grandmother was a community health representative for the Cherokee Nation and she was a first influent language speaker. Um, she was also a basket weaver, a seamstress, a bead worker among so many other talents that she had. But she really taught me the importance of working with and for our community. Um, when I was getting my PhD, she told me, "You're going to get your degree and then you're going to come home and work for your people." and what she was speaking to were our Cherokee community values that we um are responsible for upholding in our daily life. Um my mom was born and raised on the Cherokee Nation reservation. Um this is where my mom grew up right on this creek in Oklahoma. Um and my dad is from Cleveland, Ohio. Um and that's where I was actually born and raised. I'm a clinical psychologist by training. Um, I went to Oklahoma State University where I focused um on um suicide prevention within our native communities as well as clinical training and um I joined the Johns Hopkins Center for Indigenous Health in 2017. Um so the world of public health was very new to me but I like to think in many ways um that was my grandmother's influence for me to jump in the world of public health since she was a public health worker herself. Um, so one of the things that I like to share also about my background is in much of my education, um, you know, and the places that I grew up, we didn't have a lot of topics about our communities, about contemporary issues. when I was an undergraduate um as well as in graduate school I noticed a lot of academic articles and books were written first by a lot of non-indigenous people and on top of that a lot of them were really focused on risk on deficits on disorders and I didn't see the amazing community and cultural strengths that um that we know are present in our communities and that my family has passed on to me represented in research Arch. So that's really been a motivating force for me um in my work as well as my personal life is to contribute to this larger change that we as indigenous peoples deserve to be in all spaces. This includes academia and research and to be really working with and for our communities on strength-based work that reflects our communities. So that's really the focus um of this talk today is really how can we uplift our communities and make sure that our strengths and our cultural strengths are really present and uplifted in our research. So just to tell you a little bit about the John's Hopkins Center for Indigenous Health, we were founded in 1991 at the John's Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health um within the department of international health by Dr. Matu Santosham. Um Dr. Santosham is an infectious disease pediatrician. prior to founding our center, he um established a really close relationship with some communities in the southwest and because he had really trusting partnerships with some tribes in the southwest that um really provided the foundation for our center to grow um over the last few decades. So our mission is to work in partnership with communities to advance indigenous well-being and health leadership to the highest level and our vision is thriving indigenous communities worldwide. In terms of the work that we do at the center for indigenous health, we have four main cores that guide our work. So we do research and evaluation. Um, all of our work is community engaged or community- based participatory research in which we partner with communities to develop strengths based research addressing public health priorities and share our solutions with the world. We also have a wise practices core and what this means is that we don't want research to just be published in academic journals to not be accessible to communities to not be used in communities. So, we really um make sure that tribes and urban native communities and indigenous communities are able to take the programs that we know are working with communities and adapt them for their own communities as well. We're also really dedicated to educating and training the next generation of indigenous public health scholars and public health workers. And then finally, our policy and advocacy corps is really working to accelerate equity through policy that can transform access to health and education as well as uplift tribal sovereignty. So just some key highlights about our center for indigenous health. Um we have been around for more than 30 years. Um we currently have collaborations with um more than 185 indigenous communities across 29 states in the US as well as four countries um around the world working with indigenous communities. As I just mentioned, we're also really um really excited and motivated in terms of education and training. So we have um trained nearly 5,000 students, faculty as well as community mental health worker or sorry community health workers um at different stages of their career. Um and then in terms of our work, our work has impacted millions of people worldwide. So again, some of the the public health solutions, some of the programs that we're running um have been shared um and delivered with folks around the world. We today we have more than 300 faculty and staff working at our center. 80% of our cent's employees are indigenous. over 90% of our teams are working on the front lines of their own communities. Um, and then this map shows where we have partnerships. So, the states that are in teal or where we currently partner with various communities. And then you'll see these um symbols with our center logo. This is where we have offices. So, I'm located in our Baltimore office on Piscatoaway and Suscohanic uh lands. Um we also have an office um near many of you if you are located in Minnesota um Dr. Melissa Walls um who is anishab leads our Great Lakes hub in Duth Minnesota. We also have um numerous offices across the southwest. Again, that really stems from our founding um with tribal nations in the southwest. And then our newest hub um is led by Dr. Don Warren who's a Lakota and that is in Rapid City, South Dakota. So we really value placebased work where um the work is really led by for and with our communities. some of the core themes of our work. Um we work a lot across a lot of different topics from infectious disease prevention, uh family based health promotion and early child development, mental health and adolescent youth development and empowerment, environmental health training and education as well as policy. So with that background, um I also want to just start to um dive into the topic today of strength-based research and and really why we need strength-based research. So, I'm sure many, if not everyone who's attending um understand settler colonialism and systematic policies of genocide and land and cultural dispossession and forced assimilation that have been and continue to be extremely destructive to our indigenous families and communities ways of living and being. Um this includes numerous policies um including the boarding school era as well as many others. Um but this um the impacts of these policies continue to be present in many of our communities and settler colonialism and impacts and these historically traumatic events um as well as broken treaties. continued discrimination and other social, economic, and political injustices really continue to drive health and mental health inequities that we see in many of our communities today. Um, I won't go through all of the statistics. Um but you can see numerous disproportionate impacts across um mortality, across mental health, across substance use um chronic diseases as well as education and employment. And so when we think about research um today, there is really this undeniable link between western research as it's known today and colonialism and imperialism. So when we think about the research that many of us are taught in universities, the type of health research that's privileged in academic peer-reviewed publications, there's really a tension um between Western research as it's known and the ways that our communities see research. Um and this information comes from the amazing book um decolonizing methodologies by Mauy scholar Dr. Linda to Hiwai Smith and she talks about how as indigenous peoples and lands were colonized and uh knowledge and research was also a colonized activity by Europeans and that type of research and eurosentric research was built on the foundation of really focused on western knowledge and methods. So when she talks about the phrase research through imperial eyes, what she means is that there became this um this way in research that western ideas or euroentric ideas are the only ideas that western research is the only research that counts as real or actual research and that the western world defines who's a researcher. And so this quickly became a context in action demonstrating othering where the west or euroentric um countries are us and indigenous peoples became them and were treated as objects to study not communities and humans with voice with autonomy with self-determination in their own right. So when we think about research today, there are different ways that we can look at research. So again, um unfortunately a lot of institutions continue to um really follow a western paradigm of research and sometimes that research can be used as a tool of colonialism. However, research is not new to our communities. Our peoples have always been observers and researchers and scientists. Um, our communities have indigenous knowledge systems that have provided for us for our health, for our well-being and life. So how do we move away from the colonial harms of research and towards research as a way of healing, a way of reclamation and led by for and with us. So there's a call and movement by many communities and leaders and healthcare providers and indigenous scholars to uplift and prioritize approaches that um really uplift and strengthen our health, our mental health and well-being through our cultural strengths. And again, we have knowledge systems, we have values and traditions that have promoted health, well-being and life for generations. So how do we uplift those knowledges and those strengths within the context of research today? So in terms of indigenous health research specifically um there's really been this focus on deficit risk pathology. When we look at the field of strengths and what do we mean by strength-based research, we often get definitions from fields like psychology and social work that tend to focus on resilience or positive psychological constructs that really focus on the individual um and individual characteristics and experiences that again stem from these really eurosentric epistemologies rather than indigenous knowledge systems. So, how do we move towards indigenizing strength-based research? Um, there are some indigenous authors who um wrote an academic article about the need to move away from resilience as this individual attribute that's internalized within a person and towards collective and cultural strengths within our communities. So with that background in mind, I want to share just two studies um two projects that I've been working on um over the last few years with large teams um both at the Center for Indigenous Health, but teams across the country as well, really engaging community members um and indigenous researchers really trying to move towards what is indigenizing strengthbased research. So the first um study that I want to talk about was really focused on that question. How do we define an indigenous strength-based approach to health research? So we took on empowering indigenous voices to bring forth new conceptions of what strength-based approaches are to health research and how they're defined. And by coming to a more precise or holistic definition, we hope that this definition can guide indigenous wellness research. So our research team that led this project was an all indigenous research team and we used a methodology called group concept mapping. which is a structured method for organizing ideas on a group um of a group on a topic of interest. So it brings together both qualitative and quantitative data. It's inherently participatory and I'll go through each of the different phases and you'll see um the ways that this type of research is really engaging participants in the whole process. So there are three phases to group concept mapping called idea generation, data organizing, and then interpreting the data. And I'll go through for our specific study what this looked like. In terms of our participants and collaborators, we had 27 indigenous researchers who were proposively invited to participate as well as co-author the paper. Um we asked the researchers, what areas of health and wellness research do you work in? And you can see the results here. Um so most researchers reported working in topics um focused on mental health um substance use as well as traditional medicine or traditional healing but also many other areas. And um just to note, the researchers could choose more than one category because um many of us and many researchers work on lots of different topics that are really driven um by community. We also asked how many years have you worked as an indigenous health and wellness researcher? And you can see that um at the lower end we had a few researchers who worked who are newer to the field of research and have worked for two years up to um a maximum of 46 years. So we had a pretty big range with a median of about 10 years um working on indigenous health and wellness research. We were also curious about where um these researchers were doing their research. So, um, as you'll see, nearly half said rural or reservation communities, about a quarter reported working with urban or suburban communities, and then um about a quarter said other. So, when we conducted this study, this was an online study. uh we use a software called group wisdom which is um how you can conduct a group concept mapping study and the first phase again is called idea generation. So, we asked all of the indigenous researchers to complete this statement that you see here on the screen, indigenous strength-based health and wellness research. And then you'll see this line. And we asked them to think of as many ideas as they could think of that complete that statement. So, they came up with 218 unique responses. we as a research team um reduced that statement set to 94. Um what we mean by that is if there were responses that were pretty much the same, we combined them. We also um took out irrelevant statements that didn't seem to respond to the prompt. So that left us at the end of phase one with 94 final statements based on what researchers thought of indigenous health and wellness research. So the second phase of this project was data organizing. So what we do is we um go back to the indigenous researchers and we give them those 94 statements from phase one and we say sort or categorize these statements in groups that make sense to you. So each person puts the different statements together and then they also rate the importance of each of those statements. And then in phase three, interpretation. This is where you invite participants to come back and help you interpret the data. So this is where you can see um this process is constantly going back and forth between the research team and the participants. So, we held two virtual meetings to share the results and share interpretations of the different cluster maps that um came from our analysis. And we also had all of the participants help us name the clusters um so that it really came from them in terms of what do these categories mean and how do they name them. So we found from the full project that there were six main clusters of these statements or categories and again these six clusters were named by the participants. Um I'm not going to go through all of them but I will share. Um the first cluster is called decolonial research exists resists persists in the face of colonialism. And when we talked about and looked at the statements under this cluster, our participants really talked about how strengthbased health research by and for indigenous communities exists, resists, and persists despite ongoing colonialism displayed by Western institutions like academia. Indigenous researchers are often faced with navigating western structures in the pursuit of conducting their strengths based research. And though these western structures like things like funding can intersect with indigenousled research, indigenous health research is not defined by or confined to these structures. So we had really collaborative discussions about each of these clusters and the statements that came within these clusters. And just to give you a a closer look at the clusters and the specific statements that fell under a cluster, you'll see that this is cluster six, which was named centering indigenous ways and cultures and research. So again each of these statements responds to the prompt indigenous strengthbased health and wellness research should feel like ceremony should be driven by the heart etc etc. So these all came from the participants um statements. So we also wanted to take these six categories or clusters and talk about how do we create action around this? You know, we have this framework, we have these six categories about indigenous strengths based health and wellness research, but what does that actually mean? Um how can we propel action around this? So we developed some actionable recommendations that align with each category. Um I won't read through all the recommendations but I just want to highlight a few recommendations because they have important implications not only for indigenous health research but for all research. So for example one recommendation is funding agencies and institutions should support strengthbased health research. So, it's really common um when you see a request for proposals or um a funding agency put out a call for grants that often the topics say you have to measure substance use, you have to measure um risk, you have to have specific measures that are really um again deficit based. So this recommendation is really focused on flipping that and saying you know how do we support strengthbased health research topics in terms of providing funding and proposals that really support that. We also talk about as a recommendation research should lead to action. So research shouldn't just be published. It shouldn't just live in an academic journal. Um research should really be focused on action whether that's narrative shifting, advocacy, services, um policy work, capacity building. So again, these are all recommendations that um may benefit all research and community teams, not just indigenous communities. And this is our published article. It's available to the public and it's open access. So anyone can read it um in especially in more detail. Um I just hit some of the highlights but there's much more detail about the process of the study as well as what we found. And so the second example I want to talk about is an ongoing research project that um I've been leading with another group of amazing indigenous researchers and community members to develop a survey measure about indigenous intergenerational connectedness. So, as I mentioned before, uh many of us as indigenous scholars and many of our communities are calling for more strengths based work. That includes measures that we can use in our surveys. Um that can be used to evaluate programs that could be used in research studies. Um, I did a webinar, I think it was about five years ago with diverse tribal community members attending and I remember one of them asking um, in the Q&A section, so are you all going to create more strength-based measures that we can use in our communities? And that just really stuck with me that there is this call, there is this want to have more survey measures that really reflect who we are as well as our ways of knowing and being. So intergenerational connectedness um encompasses cultural values and beliefs that um were part of a continuous history. So many of our communities um have values around connection across generations that we have deep connections to past ancestors and future generations. And you see this work in many of our communities all the time um thinking about um past ancestors and future generations. And so when we think about this work in the context of public health um or health research or program development by communities, a lot of this work can strengthen identity. It can promote health and wellness and it can also prevent mental health and behavioral health inequities. Um but there have not been any specific measurement tools to really understand okay is there a way that we can um measure connection across generations. So we have an ongoing study um a mixed method study that really uses community- based participatory research to develop an indigenous intergenerational connectedness measure. So I'm going to share just a little bit about the first aim of our project which um the goal was to really just characterize and identify components of intergenerational connectedness using qualitative research methods. Um we have also completed aim two which is um creating measure items collaboratively based on that qualitative research and we are in the process of um pursuing a larger validation study of the measure. So that's some future work that we'll be doing. In terms of our community-based approach to this study, we have two different groups who have been really key in guiding this work. We put together an indigenous measurement development group or IMDG um we're calling for short. This is a group of six um native researchers with experience in indigenous measurement development as well as connectedness research and they have helped us with planning data collection um even conducting some of the interviews that we did and interpreting qualitative results. And then we also had a national community advisory board with four members representing five tribal nations. And they have also helped guide the study in numerous ways in terms of informing data collection um interpreting our findings and again how do we move what we've learned into creating this survey measure. So we in terms of this first qualitative phase we held 23 in-depth interviews to characterize and understand intergenerational connectedness. So we had 23 interviews with 21 individuals. They ranged in age from 25 to 77 years old. Um most of our participants were female about 67% 24% were male and 9% were two spirit and participants represented a total of 24 tribal nations and first nations. So in terms of our analysis, what we found um is three major themes in terms of how do we understand connection across generations. So the first theme is dimensions of intergenerational connectedness. The second is facilitators of And then third is qualities and outcomes. Um I'm going to talk about each of these on the following slides, what they mean and some examples. So in terms of dimensions of intergenerational connectedness, um each participant described the relationships that comprise their sense of feeling um connected across generations. They often did this by sharing stories about connection to their ancestors, to elders, to grandparents, aunts, uncles, parents, cousins, athletic coaches, teachers, friends, siblings, and children. And this is just one example of um one participant who um spoke about connection to future and she said, "I feel a connection with the younger generation with unborn to know that in taking care of this cultural and traditional knowledge, I'm also then helping to make sure that it's able to be passed on and that it's part of that continued cycle in terms of facilitators. That second theme that we found, we found that participants often discussed values, traditions, and activities that are facilitators um that can strengthen intergenerational connectedness. So, we called this theme facilitators um things that strengthen connection across generation. One of those examples that came up is land. So this participant said, "I think the land is a big part of how I feel connected to my ancestors. Going back home to their reservation, there's just a deeper sense of connection there, I guess, because I know that my family's lived there and that generations before have lived there in that spot. And then when I do things like harvesting wild rice or trying to make maple syrup, I know that those are things that have been done for generations and generations and feel connected to them in that way. And then the third theme is qualities and outcomes. So when we talked to participants, they often described when you feel connected across generations. This serves a lot of purposes and it can positively influence well-being. So this is one quote from a participant about identity specifically. And the participant said, "But for me, it's just about remembering who you are, where you come from, and living it and sharing it with your family." And we're giving it to those around us and especially our youth, our kids. And likewise, because we're radiating that energy, that knowledge, and that being of who we are. So that's what it generational connectedness means to me. It's just being us and remembering who we are, not getting away from it, and keeping it close to our hearts and living it. So, one of the key takeaways that we found from all of this um work, through these interviews, through this qualitative research is that intergenerational connectedness really involves past, present, and future generations and also the interactions between them. That this is very circular. and also that intergenerational connectedness is a multi-dimensional construct and has deep deep importance across our communities. So this is our um published paper. This is also available for free. Um it's open access so anyone can read it if you want to read more about the qualitative research process to um really understanding intergenerational connectedness across many of our communities. We also have a website um on our John's Hopkins Center for Indigenous Health um website specific to this project and we have some community dissemination materials. So, we wanted to be able to share um what we're finding as well as share the measure when it's ready and finalized back with community and back with researchers. So, if you go to our website um this is a one-pager that really um breaks down what we found. We also have a two-pager um that has a little more detail. And then down here, this is um an eightpage brief report, so a little bit more detail. um for folks who want to learn more in terms of where this project is going. Um as I mentioned, this is still ongoing work. So we have an initial in indigenous intergenerational connectedness measure that we've developed. Um, we plan to share the measure through another academic manuscript and then again we'll put the measure on our web page so it's publicly available for communities and researchers to use. We also have two research studies that um are using a part of the measure with youth and adults from two different communities. So we want to look at that that data in particular and see um whether this is useful, whether um it performed well in those studies. And then in the future, we're currently looking for some funding to do a much larger validation study to um look at this measure and see really um how relevant it is both to communities here on Turtle Island, but also globally. Um so we're hoping to do a much larger study in the future with the measure. So just a few conclusions. Um, indigenous strengthbased research must be shaped by our indigenous voices and our communities. We really need strengthbased research and measures that reflect our worldviews, our values, and our cultures. And there's this ongoing and growing movement that makes me really excited that will continue um to indigenize strength-based research. And I really see that shift and that movement because we're seeing more communities and indigenous scholars working together to increase this movement. And I have some references here. I also have some acknowledgements. I want to acknowledge um the whole Johns Hopkins Center for Indigenous Health that I have the pleasure of working with um but specifically some collaborators on um the two projects I mentioned today, our amazing community advisory board and indigenous measurement development group members as well as all the community members who have really honored us with their time and knowledge to these projects. So, widow and I'm happy to answer questions and and chat with folks. Awesome. Thank you so much Dr. O'Keefe for that wonderful presentation. And I see all the applause coming through. And also just um quickly looking at the last chat, I see that somebody had um mentioned that they had cited some of your work. So they were really excited to be able to watch your presentation. Um I wasn't able to scan all the chat, but Trudy, did you see any questions? Um also opening it for anybody out there who might have some questions right now. No, I didn't see any questions, but I just had one quick question in regards to the map of the um John Hopkins sites. Um I know that Alaska didn't have a site. Is that something that is um that will possibly have a site because I know that Alaska has a huge native presence. question. So, we I believe we have some projects and programs with Alaskan Native communities and some collaborations, but we don't have an office necessarily. Um I think typically how some of our especially some of our our two newest offices are um our Great Lakes hub in Duth, Minnesota, as well as our Great Plains hub in Rapid City, South Dakota. What has happened is because some of the our research um research and community partners have been really strengthened in those areas that has led to the founding and sort of formation of place-based work. So, it's always a possibility. I think um we always talk about the center as continuing to expand our partnerships and grow more offices. I think it's a really unique way of working too because um you know it gets away from this helicopter mode of research. You know we should be in and with our communities. Um I'm doing more and more work with my nation, Cherokee Nation in Oklahoma, as well as um other tribes in Oklahoma. So we're even talking about an Oklahoma hub and what would that look like? Um, so, so it's definitely a possibility and would be amazing if if collaborations continue to strengthen in Alaska as well. >> Thank you. >> I don't see any questions. Everyone is just applauding you over for your hard work >> and appreciate and value your great presentation. >> All right, I do see um just a question about the presentation. Um will you share your presentation? >> Yeah, >> I think >> absolutely. I'm happy to share my slides. Um also encourage everyone to follow our center for indigenous health on social media. We have Facebook. We have Instagram. We may have Tik Tok. I'm not sure. Um but we have lots of social media channels. So follow our work. Uh follow along with us. And um if anyone wants to connect more, I'm happy to um chat more with folks and just really grateful for all the the positive comments and everyone who's here today. >> All right. Um I also did drop our um playlist, our YouTube playlist for all of our indigenous health topic webinars. So they are recorded. You can find all of the past and most current um webinars located there. And also I am going to include a link in the chat as well for a quick survey just to provide any feedback um on how we are doing and any um future presentations if there are recommendations. But I do see looks like we have another question. So in the Q&A uh from Pette, have you worked with private businesses to design studies involving indigenous communities and participants? >> I'm wondering um Pette, could you say more about private businesses? I can share. We um we typically partner directly with communities. Oh, biotech companies. Um I believe some of our teams have collaborated with um I don't necessarily think biotech companies but we are doing some more work on machine learning on um AI but typically that's really um in collaboration with Indian health service or tribal health systems. Um, I don't think we've specifically worked with private businesses, but I could be wrong. Thanks for your question. I do see um another question. It says, "How do you recommend approaching indigenous communities with regards to quality um improvement versus research?" How do you frame your work so the difference is understood? >> Yeah, that's a great question. I think something that's very unique in the work that we do at the Center for Indigenous Health is we um I think what we would call public health practice is probably similar to what you mean quality improvement, but we have different public health projects that are really resources for the community. um that don't include research or evaluation. Um we also have instances again we have so many teams so there's lots of examples but we also have some teams that we do have um tribes or um even healthcare facilities that may reach out to us and say we need help on evaluating a particular um program that we're trying to run. Can your center help us with that? So, I think it's just being very clear in the communication. Is the intent research? Of course, if it is research, there's lots of um both tribal approvals. Um it could be an institutional review board approval or it could be Indian Health Service approval. Sometimes it's both of those levels of approvals. So I think you have to be very clear about what is the goal of your project. Um what are the priorities of that community partner and then also what are the steps that you know in terms of things like indigenous data sovereignty and tribal sovereignty making sure that you're following protocols with that particular community or tribe. Okay. So, there was just um another question that popped up is what part of doing your studies did you find most surprising or enlightening? >> Oh, I love that question. Um let's see. I think there are these ways that um I think it's the process of the research. So for example in the um in the group concept mapping study with other indigenous researchers across the country some of whom I've met in various spaces some who I've never met but I'm a fan of and it was very cool to invite them. I remember, you know, we sent some of the first emails about the project and everyone was just so excited and said, "This is amazing. This is so cool. Yes, I want to be a part." And I think through that process all the way through the data interpretation and publishing this paper together, I just think we heard so many positive comments about we need more work like this. Thank you so much for doing this. How can we continue this work together? Um I just think there's so much collective power that came from that project and other projects that um you know sometimes in institutions we might be just a few people or very isolated and it's those projects that we all come together um and really put our heart into it that I think really shows the power of what we can do together. So I would say that's some of the the most enlightening and powerful aspects. All right. Um I do see I Okay. So I don't think this question is for you. Um sorry CEUs are not available for these presentations. All right. Thank you, Dr. O'Keefe. I think that covers all the questions we have, but that was a really amazing um presentation. We're really looking forward to having you. So happy that you were able to join us today and hopefully we'll have you again in the future. We are working on our lineup of presenters for the next year. Um, our next Indigenous Health Topics conversation will be October 31st, I believe. So, on Halloween. Um, still can't believe we're kind of we're pretty much done with the year coming into a new year already. But thank you everyone for joining us this afternoon. I hope you have a wonderful rest of your Friday and also your weekend >> window. Thanks so much everyone. Thank you.