Well, good afternoon everyone. Y hello. Good afternoon. I'm Karina SabiQu. I am located here in Rochester, Minnesota and I'm here attending um hosting Indigenous Health Topics with my colleague Trudy Jackson down in Arizona. And I'm going to go ahead and start us off today by going over a few housekeeping items. So, as always, we will have some time at the end of the presentation for Q&A. Please add any of your questions to the Zoom Q&A function. There's a little um area at the bottom of your screen where you'd be able to add the your questions. It just helps us to keep track of all the questions that are being asked and also um it's always good to know where everyone is logging in from because we know all of Indian country is spread out through out the country. So please um introduce yourself in the chat. Feel free to add your tribal affiliation, your organization, the role or where you are located. All right. And today our guest speaker is Dr. Craig How. He is the founder and director of the Center for American Indian Research and Native Studies. His topic today that he will be focusing on is advancing sovereignty through arts and education. I am going to go ahead and stop sharing my screen here and let Dr. How introduce himself. Hello. Um, I'm uh Craig How the, as you said, I'm the director and founder of the Center for American Indian Research and Native Studies. I'm here at the Center of the Universe in Pineriidge Reservation. And um uh yeah, our organization was founded in uh 2004, December 21, 2004. So, we're just coming up to our 21st anniversary uh next month. Um, and I'm a citizen of the Ogal Lassou tribe and um grew up here in the reservation. went to grade school and high school and uh in Martin, South Dakota and then went to college um at University of Nebraska for my bachelor's degree in architecture and master's degree and then to the University of Michigan for my PhD in architecture and anthropology. So yeah, happy to be here this morning or morning here in uh Pine Ridge time. I don't know about the other time zones. >> All right, you can go ahead and share your screen, Dr. How I'll let you know what I'm seeing on my end. >> Okay. >> All right. You see your PowerPoint looks good. >> Everything's good to go. Um, yes. >> Excellent. Well, I seen uh John uh say hihani wash day. So, excellent John. Uh just a shout out to John and Guthrie and Karina and also Trudy. Now, sorry I didn't have your name on here and uh for facilitating my uh presentation this morning. And uh what as I just mentioned the center for American Indian Research and Native Studies is our organization and the acronym is Karens that's KS or Karens we pronounce it Karens uh C AI NS is the acronym center for American Indian Research and Native Studies and um I just want to start off by saying the four what we call our four Rs. This is what guides what we do or is the foundation for what we do. And I know a lot of people hear about the three Rs, reading, writing, and arithmetic, but you know, spelling obviously isn't one of those. But all four of our Rs start with the letter R. Rigor, reliability, respect, and relevance. And rigor u is this setting of high I just got to get this out of the way. Rigor is the setting of high standards and then assisting people in achieving them. It is understanding that the study of American Indian uh issues is an academic undertaking and is worthy of scholarly methods and critiques. Studying American Indian histories and cultures is not simplistic nor is it childish. Such approaches are demeaning and denigrating. Rigor is the opposite of anti-intellectualism. And I think this is one thing that we have to work against a lot is this idea that and maybe not in this audience particularly but in general you know this idea that we don't have to have um high intellectual content when we're dealing with American Indians or or let's say um u activities that schools or organizations bring in. It's rare that you know someone's coming in to talk about really um important and um uh intellectual activities rather than the default usually is something with children. So there's this this inherent anti-intellectualism when it comes to American Indians. The second R is this idea of um uh reliability. And now my uh I can't get to the next slide again. >> Can you help me out, Karina? >> Um, let's see. So, I know we tested this out earlier. You want to quickly stop sharing and then reshare again? Sorry everyone, some technical difficulties. It always happens when we have these big events happening. We will get it figured out. >> I just have to stop this. Okay. And then All right. Are we back on seeing that side? >> Okay. So if I go here. All right. Okay. Cool. Thanks, Karina. The second R is reliability. And this means that something can be trusted. It's based on evidence and research and is consistently of high quality. Uh reliable work is based on strategies that can be replicated and that draw the best of educational and scholarly practices. It welcomes and encourages critical discussion. And it's the opposite of untested personal opinion. And this is one thing we try hard to do is I'll give my personal opinion this morning at times. But when it's uh information, I try to use reliable information based on evidence and facts rather than just my personal opinion or what I heard from you know relatives, grandpas or uncles or aunts and so forth. Right? So that's this idea of reliability. Um the third R is respect. And this is the approach that all initiatives dealing with American Indians should um be contemplative toward traditional tribal beliefs and and traditions and that these are based on thousands of years of experience here in what is now North America. Respectful work should do no harm to these traditions, nor should it treat them as quaint and simplistic vestigages of the past. So respect is the opposite of scorn. And then the fourth R is relevance. And this means that work and resources are useful to American Indians and Indian communities today and into the future. And I think this is one of the key things, right? Is this idea of how what's useful to these communities. Relevance means that the work and resources recognize support and promote tribal sovereignty. It means that studying American Indian histories and cultures resonates with learners and helps them develop skills and knowledge that will assist them throughout their lives. Uh relevance is the opposite of outdated or or irrelevance. So these are the four Rs that I hope will be evident in what I'm going to do uh and show and share today. And um when we have a idea like that, one way is like how do you implement that? What's evidence that you can implement that? And so in response to a 2007 law in South Dakota, and you can see we developed an assessment. And the law in 2007 uh was called the Indian Education Act. And it it it says that it was in part to quote support initiatives in order that South Dakota's students and public school instructional staff uh become aware of and gain an appreciation of South Dakota's unique American Indian culture. And it also talked about developing course content and curriculum and coursework in South Dakota American Indian history and culture. But how do we assess if that's being done? And so what we developed was what you can see here is the cover page of the Oetti Shakawin assessment. Now Oetti Shakuen is the Lacoten word for what the general population used to call Sue. S I o u sue. So the Sue people their names for the name for themselves is this Oetti Shakawin, the seven council fires. And we call that a confederacy. the Oeti Shakawing Confederacy and it has three divisions, Doten, Nakoten, and Loten. But this uh assessment then is graded out at um 8th grade knowledge and we treat it like a GRE or an MCAT or an SAT. It's one of these things that we give to people and we don't tell them ahead of time. we we give it to them and and we've uh administered this um assessment about 6,000 times now. And based on the results of that, what we know is that most of us don't know very much when it comes to American Indian history and culture or in this case, Oetti Shakawen history and culture. Uh the average score is uh 16% out of 100. Uh and we can that's consistent. We can give this assessment to middle school students in Sou Falls school districts or in uh reservation school districts. They'll score the same thing. We can give it to faculty members at universities all across the United States. They'll score the same thing. We can give it to elders. It just doesn't matter who takes this assessment. They're going to score plus or minus 3% from 16. So between 13 and 19% we'll get at least one standard deviation of all the u all these assessments. And so that lets us illustrates to us uh two things. First is that this knowledge is not genetic. And a lot of times this is what those of us who are American Indian people just assume we have all this knowledge and sometimes we uh um uh give the feeling the impression that we do but this assessment lets us know that it doesn't matter whether you're American Indian or non-Indian you're going to score the same on this assessment. So um this d allowed us or facilitated this idea that we're going to focus on this idea of education so that we can build our nations as informed citizens. This is our website and our mission is actually how the website is organized and you can see the second paragraph there is that we're committed to advancing knowledge and understanding of American Indian communities and issues important to them. And so in this case we have this the topic I was given was I mean I mean this uh forum is for indigenous health topics and I'm going to argue a little different I think or present something a little different rather than the individual the health of us as individuals I want to make an argument for the health of our nations and that this takes some really different type of thinking. So, it's just as important. Um, but it's going to be focusing on this idea of of of communities or nations, tribes rather than on individuals. Um, and we're going to do this then through uh sovereignty because this is the key and sovereignty of tribal sovereignty, American Indian sovereignty. This is going to re I think almost everyone will acknowledge that this goes back to three Supreme Court decisions. It's this called the Marshall Trilogy named after the uh chief justice of the Supreme Court back in the I think he was this chief justice from around 1800 to I don't know if it was 1835 or sometime around there. I think his name was first name was John, his last name was Marshall. The first of these uh key uh Supreme Court decisions was Johnson v. Macintosh in 1823. And this is when the Supreme Court decided that American Indians have occupancy rights. Now, this this is kind of like a a deer or a elk or a buffalo. They have occupancy rights. They can live on this land, but they don't own it. That's basically what the Supreme Court was saying about American Indians and Indian tribes is they have occupancy rights to this land, but they don't own it. And if they want to alienate that land, uh they can only do it to us, the federal government, the United States of America. In other words, they can't sell their lands to um uh Americans or to uh states, United other United States. They I mean individual states like Georgia or or South Dakota or or Arizona, they can't do that. They can only sell it to the federal government. So the market was limited to the uh federal government. The next of these Supreme Court decisions is Cherokee Nation v. Georgia. And this is in 1831. And that decision is where we get this idea that these tribes which are always called nations in treaties, these are not like foreign nations because if they were foreign nations then we the federal government would not have a jurisdictional authority over them. These tribes are domestic dependent nations. So they do fall under the uh the federal judiciary power. And then the third of these uh three um Supreme Court decisions is Worster v. Georgia. And there's a two really really important aspects to it. The first is that tribes have original natural rights. And this is just so important. U the rights of nations or tribes. The United States didn't give these nations these rights. These are inherent to the tribes. These tribes existed here before the United States was was exa established. So you hear a lot of times uh people will say well we should just not let these tribes do X Y and Z. Well it's not your no one has that authority. These tribes have the rights and they've retained all their rights unless they have explicitly alienated those. And some tribes have many tribes have uh given up some rights but don't it's not a use it or lose it. As long as you haven't you meaning a tribe as long as a tribe has not alienated their any rights they retain all those rights. The second aspect of this Supreme Court decision was that state laws have no force in Indian country. And this is just really really key and we'll come back to that in a little bit here. So uh basic thing on that last uh Worster v. Georgia these these tribes have natural rights uh inherent rights and they are they're at a status higher than states. All right. It's these tribes that differentiate um us. I don't know how to say that. How tribes are nations. They are not by the Supreme Court decision. Tribes are not cultural groups, racial groups, ethnic groups, or minority groups. Though the United States will never sign treaties with any of those four types of groups. Those type of groups don't have citizens. They have members. Those types of groups have no federal law specifically oriented towards those. And this is what's really key when we're thinking about nations being healthy is that they're healthy as nations, these political entities, not as cultural groups, racial groups, ethnic groups, or minority groups. So these sovereign nations have two aspects u to them that again if we're going to really think critically, we we need to keep these in mind. So these two aspects are a political aspect or we call these philosophies maybe. So we have a political philosophy and a spiritual philosophy. These are inherent inseparable for any tribal nation. There's another uh philosophy and um we we'll look at it here but then we're going to set it aside and this is a biological philosophy. So, so in in addition to this political and spiritual, we have this biological one. And each of these philosophies have a source of sovereignty and a land base. And I think that's um the basics of a nation is you have a source of sovereignty. How are you recognized as being independent and a land base that you can govern um over? So on the land base uh or sorry as the source of sovereignty for the political aspect or political philosophy of tribes are treaties and treaty substitutes for the spiritual um um uh source of sovereignty that's these original instructions that tribes received from the spirits long time ago. Uh and then for these u uh for this uh biological uh um philosophy the source of sovereignty is ancestry right so someone will say I'm Indian and therefore I'm sovereign or I'm American Indian and I'm sovereign. Uh so so we see these different um sources of sovereignty for these uh different uh philosophies dealing with this idea of tribal sovereignty. Now for the land bases of the political um uh philosophy we those are reservations or other uh trust lands or lands held in trust for tribes by the federal government. For the spiritual uh philosophy their land bases are the homelands and these are these might be far from contemporary uh reservations of their reservations. It might be a land base far away. And these are might be where the people emerged or or came down onto this earth. And so these are these describe the homelands. And those are often in early narratives. They'll give the the extent of this of their homelands. Almost always the homelands are far broader than these contemporary reservations. And with the um um biological philosophy, their land base that um that fits their philosophy is the western hemisphere. And this this western hemisphere is seen as a um opposite to the European uh hemisphere. So any any land in the western hemisphere is under their um their land base. Now, we don't think that that biological uh philosophy has fits and we'll get I'll make the argument here for why. So, I'm just going to set that aside and we're just going to focus on this political and spiritual uh philosophies that are tied to nations. And these nations, if they're recognized, if if they don't have recognition, they're unrecognized. That's pretty true. Uh they can be if they are recognized there's two uh levels and and there are hierarchical a state can recognize a tribe or the federal government can recognize a tribe. And a federal recognition of course is the gold standard. Um if all all tribes would uh aspire to have a federal um recognition to be a federally recognized American Indian tribe. there's 574 of those uh today. If they have this federal recognition, then most of the times there's these treaties, a treaty or multiple treaties between the federal government and each nation. Uh there will also be federal Indian laws that apply to to these tribes and to their citizens. uh there's going to be lands that the federal government holds in trust for these um governments and their citizens. And again, back to that uh Worooster case, the status of these u uh nations, these federal recognized tribes is government to government with the US government, not with their state government. So that's the same as like France or Japan or wherever there's nation to nation with the federal government not with the state uh governments. Now like with the gaming uh NAGPRA not NAGPRA sorry that the gaming act I can't think of the acronym right now but that requires that uh tribes negotiate or um negotiate compacts with state governments and that's a that's a loss of some level of of tribal sovereignty but that's what the federal law requires. So sometimes state uh tribes do have to negotiate and of course absolutely do work with uh state governments but that doesn't mean these state governments have jurisdiction in tribal lands. Uh the contrary the state governments do not. The positives of seeing these tribal nations as having this political uh and spiritual uh philosophies or dimensions is that it reinforces this connection between the old world and the new world. And by this I mean the like this map. So this is the American Indian old world. The Europeans they have an old world and a new world. And just to be fair, if the Europeans have an old world and a new world, then what would an American Indian old world look like? And this is what we think it would look like. And maybe this will help you see it. No one American Indian knew all of this land base. No one European knew all of that uh European old world. Collectively, Europeans knew the their old world. Collectively, American Indians knew their old world. And that's been for over 12,000 years. And that's based off the radiocarbon dating of a skeleton of a little boy in a cave in Montana. So for 12 and I'm sure that kid had a parents and grandparents and great-grandparents and so forth, but that kid was about 12,500 years old. So we know American Indians have been here that long. And uh so what's the American Indian new world look like? This is the the lands that are held in trust for American Indian tribes here in the United States and in Canada. Those are reservation lands in the US in in Canada. They're called reserves. And the root of that word is so important. Reserve. These lands were not given to tribes or to tribal nations. These lands were reserved by these political entities, these nations. When they gave all the rest of their lands to the United States or to Canada, they retained for themselves, reserve for themselves these smaller land bases. So again, a lot of people think that these reservation lands are gifts of the federal government to tribes. the opposite is is more close to the truth. Um when we see and think about nations as these political entities and these spiritual entities then we have these uh we can develop applications um and in specifically I'm thinking of art right now but that within tribal lands u and what we're trying to do is develop these nations into healthy nations and so what can we do that's going to be useful in these tribal lands. Uh again, this approach recognizes tribal sovereignty and um indigenous people do not have any legal rights in this country that there aren't there's no treaties with indigenous people. These treaties are with tribal nations. And so this idea of tribal sovereignty which goes back to those u uh Marshall Trilogy Supreme Court decisions that's that's what we have to work within if we want to um have a healthy nation within the healthy nations within the United States. And then the last is that this approach especially with that spiritual aspect this is what uh this respects these traditional tribal beliefs. So this is the way we think uh to uh develop these um healthy tribes is to reinforce this concept of of sovereignty and um in particular what we want to do is look at it through arts and education for a little bit here. Uh so just to get a peak behind the curtain of how we do this, we have our organization as a lot educational arts project. It's LEAP is the acronym. Um, and we've done seven exhibits uh since 2014. Uh, 2015 was our first exhibit. And these are in the sequence from the first one in 2015. At the bottom of that on the left side of your screen there of the page screenshot is lot emergence and the latest one we did was just a couple years ago called Navigating Narratives. Um these are the six uh exhibits from left to right, first to last. And uh what you can see is on the concepts based on those assessments. Remember that Oetti Shakquin assessment people don't know these traditional narratives. So the first three uh exhibits we did were about these traditional narratives and um so lot emergence about the emergence of the ancestors of lots onto this earth. The great race was this um uh narrative about all these animals in the lotin universe that had a an epic race. Uh and the result of that race was the Black Hills that we know today, the Black Hills of South Dakota. The third of these narratives is is about a lot woman named Tapun Shaw who married a star and we see then this relationship between Lotans and the stars. And then the uh fourth and fifth exhibits were about historical events. dockaway is um about wounded knee the 1890 wounded knee massacre and the articles of a treaty is about the 1868 Fort Larmy treaty and then the uh sixth exhibit was called the gift and that's about the gift of the sacred pipe and then uh seventh exhibit was navigating narratives and that was about um the uh core discovery expedition coming up the river and when it was in Teton territory for 7 days in 1804. So anyway, this is uh the exhibits that we've done and this is the core of our LEAP uh initiative this uh lot educational arts project. The way we typically do this and this was how we developed this on that very first exhibit and it's just been uh continued and and modified through these is we take this traditional narrative in this case how the Lotans came up on the world it's the only published account of this it's 1251 words and then we divide it into passages at that time we called them vignettes but u so we take that long narrative and organize it into passages. They don't have to be all equal. In this case, some of those passages were like two paragraphs and the very last passage was one sentence. So, it's just kind of conceptually how we organize that. Then, we ask a lot artist in this case. This is uh Richard Red lives over near Kyle, Ogal Sue Tribe citizen. And we he had passage 14. And uh you can see him in his house, his studio uh working on his painting there. And this is on the left here. You can see that painting. And the passage he had was in the morning the people did not know where to go. They were hungry and thirsty. Then the old man and the old woman appeared and gave them food and drink. Now you can see Richard. It's an amazing piece. Richard has done uh in the middle center towards the bottom that dark uh black almost that's the depiction of this wind cave and then you can see some silhouettes of people coming out of that cave these seven families and in the narrative it says these seven families came out of the cave and they knew it was a one-way uh journey that they would uh never be able to go back. So it took a lot of courage to do that and they came up and then even up at the in the center of it right in the center is the red sun rising and Richard said that's the birth of the red nation the lot nation is right there and it's when these uh uh actually they would be the ancestors of lots these are the pate people the pans but they're coming up in these families and the man on the left is giving them water and the woman on the right is giving them food. But anyway, that's the process here. We take a narrative, organize it into passages, invite lot a different lot artists for each of the passages and we end up with an artwork tied to that uh narrative. Then going forward from that first exhibit, then we started to also incorporate loten poets and loten musicians. And this is a case of of the third exhibit Tapun Shangi. And this is uh the the musician is Steven Yellowhawk. And he used the exhibit title also is the title of his song. And what you just get a sense here. We won't play all the way through, but you can hear [singing] >> [singing] >> What our challenge was was how do you exhibit a song? And so these are called waveforms. And in that waveform uh you can see we we standardize the length and then so you can see the length of the song and then you can see the amplitude or the loudness of the song uh vertical and you can see that first song by Steven has those four uh segments and that's if you did this with traditional songs that's what you're going to see four lifts right 1 two, three, four, and then the closing which often I'll have these four uh but you look at this next song here by um uh who is it? Oh, that Good House. So, it's a beautiful um song singing song. Uh very few instruments or none and just uniform all the way. And then you see a song like this. This is by uh I can't shoot I can't think of his first name uh Franklenny. And then the last one I want to show is this is uh these are all for that Tapun Shani exhibit and this is how some we have these panels like on music u uh stands in this case with headphones you could listen to the songs. We've experimented with these different but this song is by uncommon knowledge and um what I just love about this is that you have [music] this representation of the poems and the artworks and the music that there's no one way to be a lot open. No one way to do loan uh art or paintings or music or food. And when these guys came into the exhibit for the opening, you know, they're [music] they don't look like the typical art museum uh clientele. They come in and we had to pass out they knew there was going to be an issue with understanding their lyrics. So they passed out [music] the so that they could understand [music] this heavy >> [music] >> shall [music] this child. >> So they see themselves as outsiders as these uh metal heavy metal musicians and so those are part of our citizenry in in our tribal nation that we have this diversity. And so uh it's just so important from our philosophy that we have this diversity in the artworks and in the uh and those artworks meaning the creative works of musicians, painters, sculptors and poets. And here's a in that same exhibit um uh here's a poem by uh Patrick Labaua, citizen of the Shine River Sue tribe. relative placement placed will he create a to venerable dirt she till grown strong by her nourishing soups by hunters of animal meat and nearby givers of plant meat solicious as songs of villager groups skion of up down places sky and dirt and sky cloud nation So you can see um in this case Patrick took this idea of this um this boy, you know, the narrative says that this Tapuni married a a star and and they went to live up in the in the star world. And um one day when her husband was out traveling, you know, she and she was told not to, but she She seen a plant that looked like a timsula, reminded her of home. And so she decided to dig it up. And when she did, she could see through the sky uh all the way down to her relatives. And she wanted to go and she was pregnant with her really pregnant towards the end of her term with her baby with their baby. And so anyway, she tried to go down, she braided all things together to go down through that hole and come down to her relatives. And uh the narrative says it wasn't long enough, that rope. And so she fell and that fall killed her. But miraculously that her baby was born and these Lotan boys came and found that found them realized and confirmed she was dead but that this baby was alive and they took took him back to the village and um and the people there decided to give that baby to a older woman to raise and she named him fallen star. So um when her that her uh Tapun Shaw's husband came back and he couldn't find her, he seen that hole and he looked through and he seen that she u was dead on the earth. The narrative says he walked a little ways and sat down and he hasn't moved. And so he is the north star. And so this these how these narratives uh link these things together. And that boy, a fallen star, was like this um orphan. And that's how um uncommon knowledge, the ban made that analog. And Patrick in his poem uh looked at it through the Indian Child Welfare Indian Child Welfare Act where and he and his wife actually have done that adopted a relative, right? And so that's why he uses that some specific terms like placement. That's this term that has standing in that law. So these long ago narratives can have bearings on contemporary personal situations and uh lives of individual u uh citizens. Now you can go on our website and see um [laughter] not those first three exhibits. I don't have those up yet. from Dockaway forward. We have the artworks up on the exhibit and also for Dockway, the one about the uh the 1890 massacre. You can also see uh like the uh on the left side of this slide, you can see we have you can look at the creatives. This are where this the the stars here are where the creatives were from for that exhibit. all lots and then um and we organized them in by nation. So these are the creatives from and you can see the Rosebud Sue tribe, Standing Rock Sue Tribe, W Wood Mountain First Nation and United States of America. One of the bands is led by a tribal citizen, but there's also two non-tribal citizens. So their nationality, their nations are the is the United States of America. So we try to keep that analog that these uh tribal nations are equivalent to the United States of America. you and then on the educational aspect you can see the curriculum. If you click on curriculum you come to this page and these were the educators that then develop this curriculum linked to the exhibit and you can if you click on the any of these you can get lesson plans and these are all free and they're available for free on the u uh Karen's website. So just in closing then I guess uh I really like this uh statement by Luther Standing Bear. Becoming possessed of a fitting philosophy and art. It was by them that native man perpetuated his identity, stamped it into the history and soul of this country. Uh made land and man one. And so the way I see that is identity is philosophy and art is what he's saying. You have philosophy and you have art. That combination gives us our identity. That philosophy is what I think is sovereignty. And to have sovereignty, we have to have a source of that sovereignty and a land base. So uh this is the way we see the work we're doing is that this this idea of tribal sovereignty has a source and it has a land base and it's through the arts that we and architecture especially uh that we can um embody that that identity as the Ogalalasu tribe or as Lotans or as whatever other tribe you want to think of. The idea being how do we do an airport a lot? How do we do um Ojiu and um a hospital? You know what? And it's got to be deeper than just the surface color or shapes. But anyway, that's then uh what I wanted to share and I'm happy to answer any questions or visit about any of this now. So, thank you for the opportunity. Really appreciate it. All right, let me just Thank you, Dr. How, that was a really great um presentation. Um I think it's really awesome to be able to um tell stories. Oh, I'm still off video. Tell stories through art. like you said, there's no one way that um artists tell a story. Like you shared like the way of poetry through um paintings or drawings, music um and all of our nations, we have wonderful art, talented artists, and it's really great to be able to incorporate their work when it comes to the work that you do. So, thank you for sharing that. was really really amazing to see. I did um post the link to the project's uh website in the chat >> there for anyone who would like to see that. Um and I'm going to go ahead and just kind of skim our chat here. There just a lot of um thank yous. Mwitch. Um great talk, wonderful presentation, very informative. Um the concept of philosophy and art is new. So thanks for bringing this forward. Um very inspirational. And then it looks like we may have a question in the chat as well that I'm going to go ahead and let Trudy um bring up for us. >> Hi. Um, I think the only thing that I see on there really is just a lot of thank yous and for um the information that was shared. And I actually um put a question um in the chat um where what is um the appropriate term to reference? Is it Native American, American Indian or in the indigenous? Because oftent times it's like in the city we get um um often times um thrown off but but with the federal government they reference us as American Indians. And then um one of the things I learned from the late um Dr. James Ryan was he said was a lot of natives will say natives among each other but but but but when you're um um in a setting American Indian and on a global is in indigenous that was how I interpret it. But then also I've heard other individuals say you don't use American in Indian. We're just Indians. But then when you look at individuals that are from India that are Indians, you know, so I'm just curious what your input is on that. So we the way we do it and you can probably tell also by our uh name of our organization uh is American Indian is our preference. Uh synonymous with American Indian is Native American. Those are interchangeable and completely synonymous. And we can look at federal Indian law American Indian religious freedom freedom act or the native American graves protection and repatriation act. those are synonymous and it gives us options to use those two when we're dealing with uh tribes and but those of us we and this where we really think we have to again this isn't with health of nations but it's more about us as individuals but we need these different terms for individuals so are you an Indian or are you a a wannabi or are you a citizen We need to be able to differentiate and it's good. I have Irish ancestry. I'm not ancestry. I also have French and English, but I don't call myself any of those. I'm not a citizen of those nations. And so with with me, I'm a citizen of the Ogalalasu tribe and I'm a citizen of the United States of America. So I have dual citizenship. And this is on that personal side. On the tribal side, I just think it's critical that we get the word tribe in there. Uh whatever we're saying, indigenous peoples have no rights in this country by law. There are no rights for indigenous people. There are no rights for indigenous nations in this country. and we're in this country and I'm trying to we are trying to do things that are useful in tribal communities today, tribal lands. So that word indigenous we we really push back against um as much as we can. It's really great for academics and worldwide when it's trying to make relationships worldwide. But it's that falls into that uh uh biological uh philosophy that all of us who have some ancestor is here before the Europeans got here. we're all somehow uh together and what we want is what what's the system and the only one of and we actually have five we call them Indian individualism Indianism indigenism nationalism and tribalism but only tribalism doesn't require the presence of non-Indians and I think this is really important if we're trying to uh conceptualize things how can we think and do things that don't require the presence of non-Indians. And so I have a long way to say on the naming stick with if we have to do something broad uh native Americans or American Indians once we know tribe Navajo Nation or Da Nation depending on what uh language people want to go through but there is an official recognized tribe. I mean, I look at our police cars of our tribe and it says Oala Lakot Nation. That ON doesn't exist to the federal government. What does exist is the Ogalalasu tribe. If we want to change that, we can we the our tribe can have a referendum and we can vote and change our name. We can do that. Do it. If that's what we want, do it. We did vote about 10 years ago to if Ogal Lakakota nation versus Oalu tribe and those who voted the majority was to stick with Ogalu tribe. I think that's in my mind that was a personal that was a incorrect decision but that's the majority. >> Okay, thank you for that. I'm looking at the chat. I don't see anything else. >> We have a we have a question in the Q&A there. >> Oh, the Q&A right here. Okay. Yes. It says, "As Minnesota implements indigenous education for all in K through 12, what recommendations do you have for us educators and native community members to support and assess this work? Yeah, that's really complicated. And I was part of the um statewide uh process here in the state that we developed the Oeti Shakawin essential understandings which was based off of what they did in Montana. So uh I think these are important uh opportunities but it's going to take a lot and a lot and a lot of thinking and we often we just don't we don't do that. we collectively we just don't put in that deep deep thinking um of what's critical to teach and for instance like uh um you know I just think people should know the basics uh like what's the names of the res how many reservations and tribes are there in your state what are their names what's their official names and we've we have nine tribes in South Dakota and of that assessment we've given that oeti shakwin assessment over 6,000 times No one's ever been able to name the nine tribes and the nine reservations and the nine capitals. That's when I was in fourth grade, I had to learn 50 states and 50 capitals, 100 data points. No one has been able to do 27 data points dealing with American Indians here. So, I think don't try to worry about esoteric knowledge. Focus on the basics that are useful for people and that they can excel at. All right. Thank you, Dr. How for answering those questions. Um, I think it's really important um what you brought up. So, thank you again. just a lot of thank yous in the chat and um I did post like I said the website for native Karens for anyone who would like to check that out. I also did post um so for any of our indigenous health topics webinars we do record them and we have a YouTube playlist so I posted that link in the chat as well for any of you. So, this um this session today was recorded and will be posted hopefully in the next week. And um for all those that are still on, if you could also take our quick survey, that'd be really helpful for us to help us improve on our webinar sessions, but also um if you are interested in any future topics, please feel free to add your suggestions there as well. And um just want to really thank you again Dr. Hal for joining us today and I just want to leave you with some some last thoughts or any recommendations. Uh just big thanks to everyone that's I I think I mentioned to you Krina I can't multitask so I don't know what all is going on in the once in a while I see some things floating up on the screen but [laughter] I it's all kind of new to me but uh I really appreciate people being here and and Karina and Trudy thank you so much for your uh participation here this morning. I'm saying morning here now. It's almost noon, but uh big big thanks to to Mayo for uh sponsoring this as well. Really appreciate it. >> All right. And >> Trudy, anything you want to add? [snorts] >> No, it's just um um it's just a great um refresh your course over in um AIS. Um I was very glad that you touched on the um Marshall um trilogy because that was something that was really ingrained in us over as AIS um um students. So it it was good to have you include that. So um just um encourage the attendees to further explore the um Marshall um trilogy because um those are very important um cases. So, just wanted to add that. >> All right. Well, I'm gonna let everyone go today. Um, happy Friday and hope you all have a good rest of your day and a great weekend. Thank you again. We will see you all. >> See you.