Hi, my name is Susie Underh Hill and I would like to tell you my story of my breast cancer. I had a mamogram in December and everything was fine and then around February I was just trying on a new t-shirt like you do prancing around in the mirror and it didn't feel right and it just felt tight under one side. So, I'm wondering what's wrong with this t-shirt and maybe I just bought the wrong size, but feeling around and I found this big lump under my armpit. Then I went to my gynecologist and I'd had a hyctomy a couple of years earlier and I'd been on hormone replacements. So, she said, "Okay, fine. Never mind. We'll give you a gel. So, just rub the gel into your arm every evening and we'll take it from there. Well, within a few days, my breast had swollen up and it was quite painful. It was red and it was just uncomfortable. So, I went back to the to the gynecologist who said, "Oh, you know what? We've obviously got the dose of the hormones too high for you." So I um went half halfway with the with the gel and nothing was working. So then I had another mamogram and then I had some tests and an ultrasound. And so within 10 days of finding my lump, I discovered that I had cancer. And my girlfriend had just had the same experience, a similar experience. and she had discovered that also my husband's company covered Mayo Clinic. So she already had done the ground research, knew that I had to see Dr. Northfeld, Dr. Podgeky, and off I go. But I still haven't been given the thorough word of cancer. And at this point, we're all shaking. We're a little nervous. And then Dr. Northfelt comes in, and he is just a sweetheart. And it didn't quite seem as bad when you're talking to Dr. Northelt. and it but immediately everything's clicked into place. I'm having a million tests. I'm having PET scans, CAT scans, blood tests, heart monitor tests. Dr. Northfelt diagnosed me with inflammatory breast cancer almost at a stage three, I believe. And so he put me on the trial drug. And I have to say the dry the treatment I first of all I had straight in to get the port put in. Then within a week I'm having chemo. So I did chemo first and my trial drug and I lost 30 pounds. So yeeha. And um I just my husband said I rented my food because I couldn't keep anything in my stomach at all. And I was very weak and I had beautiful long blonde hair and I lost my hair. I lost my eyelashes. I lost my eyebrows. I lost fingernails, toenails. So after all the um diagnosis, telling the parents, getting the chemo, because I because of the inflammatory breast cancer, I had to have a full masectomy on my left hand side along with some lymph nodes to be removed. And I had Dr. Peter Kramerman do my surgery with Dr. Pochkai and they put in an expander immediately. So when I came around from the surgery, it didn't feel like I'd completely lost my breast, but I have to say that was the only time I had a tear. I um got very emotional over that. Um after the after I had the um masectomy I've carried on with the um chemo. When the chemo finished I then had radiation every day for six weeks and um my skin was raw. It was oozing and it was very painful. But I have to say that the team was just awesome. Every day I'd go in, it'd be hey Susie, how you doing? La dah and you felt like at the end of it they all your best friends. Um, so then I had that then I've had some reconstruction surgery. I had a tummy tuck and the fat from my stomach is now in my left breast. It was all done under a microscope. I was on in a um in surgery for about eight hours and um my husband went for work for the day. He felt that I was in the best hands with Dr. Kramerman and off he went. I woke up, I was in the um not ICU, it's called critical care for about two or three days and I was in the hospital for seven days. And that was on July 9th. And I've come home and I'm feeling good. I'm still having herptin, which is the treatment to prevent the cancer from reoccurring. And that should finish in December. And in the end of October, I'm having a few tweaks to just make me look beautiful. I have met the most fantastic people. It's been a rough year and a half, but the nurses, the doctors have just been awesome. I have had so many opportunities given to me. Um, I did the Phoenix fashion show last night, which I've never had hair and makeup done and walked the runway and just felt like Miss Glamorous. So, I've had to stay positive throughout this journey. And after my surgery with the tummy tuck, I have an incision from hip to hip. I couldn't enjoy the Arizona sunshine. So, I've had to uh find alternative means to entertain myself. And I decided I was going to make all my girlfriends the sparkliest, happiest little aprons that they could um imagine. And so, I've been sewing all summer. And sequins and glitter is what I'm all about. So, it's sparkly. So because I was so positive and had such a good outlook, it made everybody around me relax and not feel so tense and talk to me about breast cancer that my whole journey has been much easier because we can have a laugh, we can have a joke. I lost my hair. My girlfriends all went and got hair extensions. I lose my eyelashes. My girlfriends get fake eyelashes in permanently put on. And you just have to keep this positive outlook going. And that's my message to everybody is just look on the bright side of life all the time.