Hello and welcome. We're thrilled to have you join us for this insightful session on the Mayo Clinic Administrative Fellowship. I'm Victoria, the Los Angeles current second year admin fellow rotating in critical care. I'm Nathan Hill, second year administrative fellow currently rotating in the research shield. And we are your hosts for today's episode. This special is dedicated to giving you an inside look at the Administrative Fellowship program through the eyes of those who have completed it, and now are making waves in the field. Today, we're thrilled to introduce you to some exceptional leaders. Our site chief administrative officers. Roshy Didehban, CAO of Mayo Clinic in Arizona. Natalie Kane, CAO in Rochester. AJ Dunn, CAO in Florida. And Chris Hasse, CAO of the Health System. These accomplished professionals will share their experiences and insights, shedding light on what makes the fellowship such a transformative journey. join us as we explore their perspectives and gain a deeper understanding of the Fellowship's impact and opportunities. Without further ado, let's dive in. Roshy is the CAO of Mayo Clinic in Arizona and will be kicking us off. Roshy, welcome and thank you for joining us. Can you describe your experience during the administrative Fellowship program? I joined the administrative fellowship program, after receiving my master's degree at Johns Hopkins University. I felt really blessed. I applied to multiple fellowship programs. I interviewed at maybe 3 or 4 other systems. I definitely wanted Mayo the most. and it really was because the model was so unique at Mayo Clinic. The physician led model. the leadership opportunity. I liked it better because many other fellowships. You were part of the, exec suite for the time of your fellowship. And I thought to myself, I would be really hard to go from being at the exact level to then going into a manager position or administrator position and not having had that experience. And so the rotational model of the fellowship really excited me. So I got the call, offering me, the fellowship, which was an incredible day. and joined Mayo Clinic in Rochester as an administrative fellow. there were five of us in my cohort. two individuals actually matched to Florida, which was unusual. Two individuals to Rochester and one to Arizona. and the five of us became really close. Over time, we rotated to each other's campuses. my very first rotation was in finance. I had the opportunity to work with a truly exceptional leader within the finance space, really focused on patient finance and what our patients go through in order to get approval from insurance companies. And their process through the clinic was incredible. First experience. Interestingly, that administrative leader ultimately left the finance role and became the senior administrative leader in the hospital. So two rotations later, I got to have the same preceptor in a brand new role in Saint Mary's Hospital in Rochester, Minnesota, which was incredible. But throughout the two years, I had the opportunity to be in cardiology, to be in the Department of Lab Medicine pathology, to be with and research, to be within our quality office, which was a great experience. My last rotation was here at Mayo Clinic in Arizona. it was a five month rotation as an interim operations manager for the Department of Surgery. And in that role, I got to see both the differences and similarities between Rochester and Arizona and the culture and the approach. ultimately, Arizona became home, and I then spent the next 14 years in various, roles here in Arizona. The rest is history. Yeah. And to sort of build off of that, it sounded like you had an incredibly robust experience in the fellowship. And the second question, we were wondering if you could tell us, the most valuable skills or lessons learned during your fellowship time. all of my experience prior to joining Mayo was really on the payer side. and, joining Mayo Clinic, there were a couple of things that really stood out to me. I would say the first is how relationship driven Mayo Clinic is. as a culture, as an organization, one of our rich ties values is teamwork, and the focus on building diverse teams that come together to solve problems. And so you think about our committee structure is all about pulling broad, diverse teams together. as you think about how decisions are made in our organization, as you think about the care team model, and so spending a lot of time thinking about how do you build and support robust, highly engaged teams. And so that was one thing that I think was really critical in my fellowship, was understanding how that works in a clinical setting. the other thing I really walked away with was the diversity of opportunities at Mayo Clinic. I think oftentimes you join a healthcare organization and all you think about is health is up front, right? It's what's going on in the clinic, what's going on in the hospital, what's going on in the O.R.? But you come to Mayo Clinic and you see this robust research shield. not just clinical research, but lab research and development. And then you go to the lab and you see, wow, we're not just doing lab work for Mayo Clinic. We're supporting thousands of hospitals across the world to do esoteric testing. And so what does that mean from a commercialization opportunity and understanding how Mayo Clinic supports other organizations? And then you go into education and you see, wow, we have a medical school. We're training future healthcare leaders. so that we have PhD programs. So that creates another opportunity. And then you see what we do on that commercialization side. So what does business development do? What does corporate development do. How do we start brand new companies that bring new cures to patients more quickly. And so what I got out of the fellowship was a recognition that my career in healthcare as a health care executive didn't just have to be the traditional, hospital clinic procedures, surgery that I could have a pathway, I could have a career at Mayo Clinic that allowed me to experience lots of different things over the course of a career. and then the last thing I'll comment on, and it was honestly what attracted me to Mayo Clinic, and to be fair, I spent 22 years at Mayo Clinic. and I came right out of graduate school. I joined as a fellow. Have never left. but it was that physician led model. what does that actually mean? A lot of healthcare organizations say they're physician led, but when you come to Mayo Clinic, you see that at every level of the organization, we have physician and administrative partnerships or physician administrative and nursing partnerships that aim to bring the best of multidisciplinary capabilities and knowledge to do the best for our patients. And suddenly I was at an organization where not only were those relationships strong, but they were effective, and they were respectful and they were moving in the same direction. and that was something else that resonate with me as I thought about, where do I want to be for my career? Natalie is the CAO of Mayo Clinic in Rochester. Natalie, thank you for being here today. How did the mentorship aspect of the fellowship impact your development as a leader? Thanks for that question. I would say, it's really hard to, measure the impact that, the mentorship that I've had here at Mayo, has made for me just because I think it's been such a foundational element of, who I am today and who I really aspire to be. So, mentorship is such an important part of any career journey. And I think it's really intentional, part of the fellowship program here at Mayo. And you can really tell that it's woven into the fabric of not only mayo Clinic and what we do, but also, such a critical element of the program itself. One of the things that I, saw when I first came here was how incredible our staff and our people are. we have the opportunity to work with literally the best physicians in the world. but more importantly, it's really the teamwork that makes Mayo Clinic such a special place. And so I was fortunate that I remember, even when I first came for my interviews as part of the fellowship program, to be exposed to such exceptional leaders. at the time when I came in 2005, had the opportunity to get to know Susan Ahlquist, Tom Smith and a lot of other mentors that really took a genuine interest and, not only me in my role at Mayo, but, myself as a, as a person and kind of a young, aspiring, future health care leader. And so that, to me really was such a differentiator for Mayo Clinic overall. and a critical element to our overall success. and I think, really felt that support throughout the fellowship program, with my mentors, I felt that they really were there to support me, but also encouraged me to step out of my comfort zone. but what? Continue to, check on me and encouraged me, for some growth, and really encouraged me to make sure that we were, challenging ourselves to always put the needs of our patients first continuing to go above and beyond to make sure that we were doing that. in a way that only Mayo can. And so I just couldn't really emphasize enough, I think, how critical, those mentors have been, for me and continue to be for me throughout my journey. and I think there is a lot of both informal and formal, mentorship throughout my time. you know, the first day in my program, are a lot of great senior leaders that I had the opportunity to be exposed to. but I think that that formal mentorship happened every day for me. you see that in regular meetings that you go to with your preceptors, how they conduct themselves, how they turn to you and offer you opportunities to engage, in those meetings and different projects. I would say, early on, I had the opportunity to participate and sit in a number of, meetings as it related to, one of the projects I was working on, at the time with education. and that really gave me exposure to a broad variety of leaders and to see their different styles really helped me continue to think about, what I wanted my style to be, how I could adapt some things that I was learning. and then the ongoing dialog that you have with administrators and colleagues that are really invested with your success, I think you can continue to learn and grow, from their different styles and during the different rotations I had, I think, the great advice and seeing those leaders in action really helped create a broad network, that I continue to draw on. today. and sometimes you continue to run into those formal and informal mentors on a regular basis. Other times you don't see them as often, but can always call them for advice. even if you haven't talked to them for a while. I remember, when I was contemplating applying for the associate administrator for the Department of Medicine, I, reached back out to Marie Brown, who was one of the mentors that I worked with, even when I first came to Mayo as an administrative fellow and then had stay connected, with her, both inside and outside of work. And so I called her and I said, well, you know, I've been encouraged to apply for this opportunity. that would really value your perspective, given that you've known me, now for so long. And you know, what you think would be, areas where I would do really well on this and where would be some opportunities for me to grow and, and what do you think? And so it's great to have that ongoing, both formal and informal mentorship opportunity with people here at Mayo. because they are really invested in you and your success. and I think they can continue to challenge you in ways that really benefit you. because they built kind of that longitudinal relationship with you and are invested not only in your success as, a health care executive, but also as, as a person. and you really feel that and I think it comes through a lot. they've also challenged me to make the most of the opportunities that I've had as I've been in different rotations, come early, stay late, learn from leaders at all levels of our organization. I think, you know, there are some been some really exceptional supervisors that I've learned, so much from really how they support and, treat their staff as colleagues, really have engaged teams that, have a variety of ways to get feedback from them. and so by taking advantage of those opportunities to really immerse yourself in the different rotations, and spend a lot of time shadowing and understanding the different roles and how they fit together. I think that also enables you to be better prepared as a leader, and to make the most out of that experience. also having fellows have the opportunity to do a rotation at other side is really an invaluable opportunity to continue to grow your network, and continue to work on projects that are across the different sites. I think it's a little bit of an opportunity, that's unique to our administrative fellowship program. it was for me, helpful to see mayo at a larger scale and a part of a broader matrix organization, how the different elements of the teams come together and where we can learn, different best practices from each other. What each side may be doing is, similar but not exactly the same. And so how can we continue to, talk about what we're doing, what's working well, where we have an opportunity to learn from others? I think was really kind of an invaluable opportunity. That's, in some ways pretty unique. Tomatoes administrative fellowship program. So I think that, ongoing mentorship is really important and something that doesn't just stop as as you complete the fellowship program. And, for me, certainly, that's been critical, as I've gone throughout my journey thus far at Mayo Clinic, I had the opportunity to have a variety of different assignments, but, spent a fair amount of time, in the hospital practice, and was based out at Saint Mary's as part of my journey. And so I was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to see and work with Sister Generous, who was one of the administrators at Saint Mary's. and I really learned a tremendous amount from her. my favorite quotes of hers is, we must not be content to only see things as they are. We must have the vision, the faith, and the hope to see what things can and must become. And so when I think about, my role as a leader and where I can make an impact and support our teams, I think back to, her vision and her thought around that quote. and, you know, health care is at such an exciting time. But I think part of our role as leaders is to really help our teams see what things can and must become, and then help pave the journey for our teams to get there. and I think in order for us to do that, we have to not be content about the, solutions that we're offering our patients today. the experience that our staff or our patients are receiving. but how we really are kind of answering that call to, continue to drive to excellence and make that, a better experience, both for our patients and our staff. And so for me, kind of her words are really kind of a call to action on how we can support our teams. and that's something that I've tried to impart on both the people that serve as a mentor for. but also as I'm kind of doing some reflection around what progress we've made and where we have opportunities, to continue to grow. and I think for those considering the fellowship program, I would encourage you to apply for this opportunity because as a fellow at Mayo, you're surrounded by people who generally want you to succeed. and are literally, I think, the best at the world. And what they do, and are truly invested, to share their expertise, with you and are there to help you not only, in your careers, but also for individuals personally, and I think it just creates a great environment to do things in healthcare that have never been possible before. And it's such a great opportunity to have an opportunity to be a part of that. what opportunities did the fellowship open up for you that you might not have had otherwise? The fellowship created opportunities in ways that I really probably couldn't have even imagined. So I came to Mayo right out of grad school, did my internship on the East Coast, and really learned a lot from that. And one of the reasons I wanted to do a fellowship was I wasn't quite sure where I wanted to land post fellowship, but I knew I wanted to work at Mayo, and I was really excited about that and the opportunity to work at such a large, amazing healthcare organization. I think one of the best things about Mayo is that it's such a big, diverse organization that you can have a variety of careers here, all within one organization. And my fellowship rotations really helped me consider the range of possibilities of where I can best serve the organization and continue to grow as a leader. For me, I think those opportunities as a fellow that opened up were really getting broad exposure through a variety of leaders across education, research, the practice across many of our shared service teams, including finance. What we typically think about in terms of some of our infrastructure and systems and procedures, that aligns with the strategy of what we're developing. And so with really a very short amount of time, had the opportunity to get broad exposure to the organization, start to see the magic of how all that framework fits together so nicely, and understanding that helps you get a good line of sight in terms of what drives the magic that happens here each and every day, and how you can be an integral part of that. And also, as fellows, we tend to get tapped on the shoulder when there are some extraordinary things that are happening to be able to help the organization be a part of that. And so I came to Mayo in July of 2005 and right around Labor Day weekend that year was when Hurricane Katrina happened. And so I, was tapped on the shoulder by the chief administrative officer at the time, Jeff Corso. And we activated our hospital incident command structure and then ultimately ended up deploying for pretty large teams down to provide coordinated relief and patient care for the residents down in Louisiana that were impacted and displaced by those hurricanes. And so for me, that was why it was a very busy, intense time. It was really a magical time, I think, to see the Mayo Clinic at its best, seeing teamwork on a level and a scale across all the sites in that response that I had never had the opportunity to see before, but really to see a lot of individuals stepping up and raising their hand to volunteer their personal time to go out and help people in a place, and often that they had never met or experienced before, and in conditions that were pretty uncertain at the time. We also had to think about how to support our teams that were down there as Hurricane Rita quickly followed Hurricane Katrina and make sure we could support our teams. And to me, that was like a big taste of some of the magic that happens here each and every time there's a call to action. How Mayo Clinic puts such a team of dedicated, talented individuals together to really row together for that common cause and purpose. So whether that's responding to Covid 19 or a variety of other opportunities that we've had throughout my almost 20 years here, those same experiences that I had as a fellow, being a part of that team, I would say are still true today. And it's just a really awesome opportunity to have the opportunity to work with such dedicated colleagues that really all share that same purpose. And for me, that's really been such a differentiator of being on the Mayo Clinic team as we think about that teamwork and excellence and the impact that it can have on our patients. So that would just be one of the examples of the pretty cool experiences I had to have as a fellow. But I know every fellows every year have kind of their own experience to lean in to such cool opportunities and help be a part of driving meaningful change for the organization and our patients. AJ is the CAO of Mayo Clinic in Florida. Thank you for joining us today. what personal qualities do you think were most important for your success in the fellowship and in your subsequent career? Thanks for the question. I would say the qualities that were most important were curiosity, and passion. First, curiosity. The fellowship gives you, really an opening to explore the entire health care system through the lens of Mayo Clinic. with exposure to our medical practice, surgical practice hospital, our outpatient clinics, peer relations, the whole gamut. And so, having a sense of curiosity, being interested in learning as much as possible gave me, I think, the opportunity to feel like I gained probably 3 to 4 years worth of work experience in a two year fellowship because I was able to squeeze into that time lots of different and really unique experiences. Chris is the CAO of Mayo Clinic Health System. Thank you for your time. Looking back, is there anything you wish you had done differently during your fellowship? That's a great question. will say I was very fortunate to have just phenomenal mentors who guided me through the different rotations and assignments and opportunities that I had. it did come out of the fellowship a little bit early for an opportunity as an Om. so I do feel like there were some months that, I maybe left on the table there, because when you're in the program, you get to see as much as you really want to. And then when you get into that post fellowship role, not that you don't have access to all those things, it's just the scope is different. if I look back, there's some exciting things that would have been need to do with contract and peer relations that I maybe didn't get a chance to dive into. there are a couple other projects, that were out there, but again, don't have too many regrets looking back on it because again, I think I was very fortunate to have just phenomenal mentors out of the gate. AJ Dowling was our fellowship program director, and he steered me in great directions throughout the whole way. And so really enjoyed the program from that standpoint. If I give one other piece of advice that I've maybe seen kind of an evolving trend in our fellowship. So taking your question a little differently. Have noticed that some of our admin fellows, short change is maybe the wrong way to say it, but take the time to understand the mechanics and some of the blocking and tackling, if you will, of the practice shield, the education shield and the research field. So some examples of that. I had an opportunity to listen in in our contact center in Florida at the sandcastle facility was off campus. But to listen in on appointment calls, the insurance verification process, the scheduling, really understanding our template and access design or our block schedules, the bed capacity management, working with the, nursing house supervisor. Not everything's going to be a high level strategy document. Not everything is going to be an integrated oncology, heavy particle proton beam project. But you need to understand the mechanics and some of those really core processes of operations. So don't shortchange that. It might not seem as attractive or luxurious as some of the other big ticket projects, but they are just as important, if not more important, when you start to look at post fellowship opportunities and really knowing how the practice works and functions. What do you believe is the most significant benefit of completing an administrative fellowship program? I think an administrative fellowship is really a fast track to executive leadership. It gives you all of the ingredients one needs to go from the classroom into a more senior boardroom level position in a healthcare organization, so it gets you lots of access to learn. It gives you a baked in number of mentors to guide and support you. And I think, really importantly, it gives you a sense of credibility walking into the workplace. I know that as a first year fellow, walking in, didn't have a ton of personal credibility, but because I was a mayo clinic administrative fellow and the fellows who have gone before me had been so exceptional, I immediately inherited the credibility and therefore the confidence that the program instilled in me. And so, at times, I think I was able to tackle and challenging initiatives that probably were beyond my knowledge, skills and capabilities. But I jumped right into those, efforts, largely because of the confidence that the fellowship program instilled in me. What advice would you give current grad students who are in the midst of the fellowship application process? So as I reflect back on my experience, and even what I would say for today's grads, it's very easy, I think, to look at all of the fellowships available and apply to a large amount of programs. I would recommend that grad students really take the time to do the due diligence on a select few programs that align with their personal values, align with their career as well as personal, long term goals. And again, just really emphasize take the time to, research those groups. so for me, again, I had the fortune of, of having an internship within the health system. And so I knew males culture males, values physician led the dyad triad partnership, opportunities. And to me, that was really important. I felt like an environment like that is where I could be the best version of myself. And also that it would be an environment that would allow me to grow to my max potential. And so, that would definitely be one piece of advice I'd give. I think the other one I would say is, and I'm biased here. I intentionally looked at fellowship programs that were a two year program and I think at Mayo, we do a fantastic job of this. But in a two year program, an organization is putting a lot of time, energy, resources, mentors into you. And more often than not, if you're performing, there's alignment there. That organization wants to retain you there. So I would also say be intentional about that and then thinking about the retention piece. Can you see yourself with that company, that organization for five, ten, 15 years post fellowship? If the answer is no, I would maybe do a little bit of soul searching and say, is this a program I really want to submit an application to? So don't shortchange the application process. again, my advice would be to take the time and really hone in on a couple of programs that you're really passionate about that align with where you want to go. Personal preference does play into it. you know, someone wants to be in a certain geography, a certain part of the country, you know, look at that. But take the time to look at the makeup of the organization, what they offer, what they stand for, their mission, their values, opportunities, and then really be calculated in your application process. thank you for tuning in to the Administrative Fellowship Special. We hope today's conversation has offered you a clearer picture of the fellowship program. Through the experiences of those who've walked this path before. A big thank you to our guests, Roshi, Natalie, AJ, and Chris for sharing their valuable insights and stories. If you enjoyed this episode and want to hear more. Don't forget to follow our LinkedIn and stay connected with us. Before we let you go, we wanted to remind you of the applications with the AFP are due September 4th. We will include a link to our website in our LinkedIn post. We look forward to bringing you more inspiring stories and expert perspectives in the future. Until then. Keep striving for excellence in healthcare administration, and continue to explore the exciting possibilities that lie ahead.