Perfume maker Kim Spadero creates fragrances that tell a story of the exotic faraway places she visits. I can tell you how something smells in a story. It's the environment. You're looking at the color, the spices, the the culture, and the old stones. And so, how do I my experience there is really what turns it into a fragrance. The perfect blend of fragrance requires a keen sense of smell. And Kim was concerned about her career, her passion when doctors at Mayo Clinic told her a brain tumor was pressing on and damaging her olfactory nerve. The nerve that controls one's sense of smell. The symptoms were strange. Started having a bit of heart racy heart and not a headache but a sensation like some it was almost the only way I could describe it was like a mushroom cloud explosion in the head but it wasn't painful. There was just a sensation and I also felt like I needed to hang on. Well, the tumor was a benign tumor, one that grows in the lining of the brain that we call him anioma. Mayo Clinic, Florida neurosurgeon Dr. Robert Wearren told Kim it was not cancer, but it was most definitely a threat to her career. Well, at one point I'm like, well, at least I'm going to live. But at some point I'm like, this is my passion. This is what I've done my entire life. The challenge for her was for us to be able to remove the tumor and not damage her olfactory nerve. A multid-disciplinary team of experts prepared Kim for surgery during which Dr. Wearin used microsurgical tools to remove the tumor when he came in the morning after surgery and he says we did we did it and so immediately people have do you smell this do you smell that? Fortunately, we were able to uh save her olfactory nerves. And in fact, it turns out that she actually is reporting to us that she can smell better than she could before surgery. You know, it's stronger. It's refined now. It's stronger now than ever. Through this experience, Kim's passion has grown stronger. It made me appreciate life and want say, you know, let's just go all out and keep producing fragrances. Now I've got this super sense of smell. Let's go for it. Kim continues to travel and bring her experiences back to the US. And as she practices the meditation that grounds her, Kim is grateful to have become an inspiration to others and to have received exactly the care she needed. It puts things in perspective.