Hello, I am Peggy Morland. I am a diabetes educator at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. And today I want to talk to you about downloading your insulin pump at home. insulin pumps have many benefits, including no more insulin injections, better blood glucose control, but another important piece is uploading your insulin pump at home to look at the data. You have two alternatives. You can write out your your blood sugar and insulin and the carb intake or you can download your insulin pump every one to two weeks at home just to take a look. It helps you to identify blood glucose patterns. Um it helps you to spot problems and prior prior prioritize problems. Let's say you have low blood sugar every time you exercise. then you it helps you to evaluate um what you can do to prevent that low in the future. Another advantage to downloading your insulin pump at home, maybe your clinic doesn't download insulin pumps and you can print it off at home and take it into your provider. I will show you an example of what a insulin pump download report looks like. You have a pattern management with a mean that tells you where at your overall blood glucose control. Here it gives your blood sugars in relationship to your meal insulin doses and the amount of carbs that you have with your meal. If you take a quick glance here, you want to look for low blood sugars or whether you're in your target range. And then you also can look at it like a log book report of your blood sugars. You can identify areas where you might be high blood sugar in this case. And if you see a little heart, you can input some insulin pumps will you can input how healthy you are, whether you're sick or you've exercised after in relationship to your blood sugars and that will show up in your report as well. The benefits to having an insulin pump are many, but today we want to encourage you to download your insulin pump at home. It will not only help you, but it will help your healthcare team as well. Um, if you have any questions about downloading your pump at home, please talk to your healthcare team.