♪ Upbeat music fades in ♪ What I tell  our residents as you want to go to a place where you're exposed to the largest number and widest breadth of types of patients that you can see. And really Mayo is  unparalleled for that. The problems that you'll see, the medical histories you'll take, the clinical intervention that you'll be a part of, its, its unparalleled. Mayo Clinic is really pushing the boundaries of innovation and a lot of different spaces including drug development, biologics, device development, and Theranostics. And I think to be exposed to those types of technology really helps the medical growth of our residents. I would say all of my expectations have been wildly exceeded. Having an expert command of the diagnostic imaging using the latest techniques and technologies, you can have an immense impact on patient care. I think some of the procedures that we're doing here at Mayo are really advancing complex treatment of patients. So the best part of the IR training program is the one-on-one interaction with the staff. There was about 13 consultants in the PIR division. And what I tell our residents is by the time you're done, you're going to have a little piece of each one of those 13 people. The one thing that surprised me about Mayo, the way in which you can be working next to the staff you're assigned to you for the day. That's the person on the schedule. And they happened to be a leading expert in their field. They have seen classes of residents come through when they first start and interventional radiology, knowing just the basics and now they're very capable qualified physicians, there is a mentor program here. And obviously that's one-on-one and it's completely focused on me. Near-term, long-term goals. The single biggest factor in my decision to come here was the residents basically made me feel right at home. The Camaraderie I have with my co-residents and the way in which we all help lift each other up. You also are exposed to very high volumes, critically ill patients overnight. And basically autonomous setting, which really helps kind of push you to the next level. And I think being in that environment has been critical to facilitating my academic and professional development. Have seen classes of residents come through when they first started interventional radiology. Knowing just the basics and now they're very capable qualified physicians and they keep me on my toes as well. When I told friends, family, coworkers that I had matched to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester. The first thing everybody told me was, you know, it's cold up there. I have a four wheel drive car. I have an apartment with an undergrad heated garage, but that was kinda more out of paranoia. The value of the Mayo Clinic definitely may not outweigh concerns about the winter weather. In general, Rochester is a great place to raise a family. It's safe, it's easy to get around. There were a lot of different activities. If you'd like being outdoors, you can take your kiddos to the park or on the numerous walking trails. The only limitations you have here, our yourself. I would say Mayo is unique in that that patient-centric model, that multi-disciplinary approach where everybody weighs in with their own area of expertise to do the best for that patient. And that's the only interests that's considered at that given time as the patient that's sitting in front of you and your office or on your procedure table or in your scanner. I'm really trying to make sure that I become the best diagnostic and interventional radiologists I can be. And it's a great place to train. It doesn't matter where you start or what institution you come from or how much experience you have when you come here. We're going to teach, you know, Mayo way of taking care of patients and that patient-centric model of care. So that when you finish on your last day of training, we can all have a big smile on her face and push you out the door because you are ready to be that independent interventional radiologists. ♪ Upbeat music continues and fades out ♪