My name is Carlos Vargas. I'm a radiologist working at the Mayo Clinic in Arizona, and I'm the research fellow for the radiation therapy department. Treatment at the Mayo Clinic is a little different. We try to focus on the patient and what the patient needs. Each patient is unique, and the treatment given is tailored specifically to that patient. Above all, it's the way we evaluate patients that matters. If there's one thing the Mayo Clinic has done from the beginning, and that many other organizations have copied, it's a multidisciplinary approach. So we meet all the time with medical oncologists, radiologists, and surgeons. We're in constant contact, so every treatment we give patients is something that has been discussed among all of us, that we all know, and that we all agree on. This integration of all the components is key. Another advantage of the Mayo Clinic is that it has been ranked the best hospital in the US many times in the last 10 years. No other hospital in the US can compare in the number of times it has been number one, but only for breast cancer.  In our clinic, we do many unique things in the way we review our pathology, the way we do imaging, our imaging control with magnetic resonance imaging, contrast mammography, and molecular studies. For example, we have a study where we treated part of the breast in three treatments, which was done primarily at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester. We also have another very large study, a randomized phase 3 trial, for treating the entire breast in only five treatments. This study is similar to what was done in the Juke trial, and these are the only two studies of their kind done in the world. These are hypofractionated treatments of the entire breast. The advantage of this treatment, which treats the patient in five days, is that the patient has much greater access to treatment. They can go home for five days; the treatment is completed in one week. This means the patient can spend more time with their family, be at home more often, and have more time to recover. And when we looked at the information that came out of the UK, there is a slight advantage in terms of cancer control. This is a treatment that is...  It's more effective when we look at side effects. The side effects were the same as when they were treated for five weeks in studies or for four weeks in the Jockey study. When we completed our phase 3 study here, we completed it a year ago, and since then we've been offering patients five-day treatments. We're treating the whole breast, and the patients have been very satisfied. We've had an excellent experience, and this has really been a winning treatment. The patients have been very happy; they really like the results. They've been excellent when we compare this to other treatments that are also shortened, treating not just part of the breast. The advantage of treating two breasts is that we have more flexibility. We can treat patients who have larger tumors, who have higher risk factors, who have higher grades, who have cancers that can't really be treated satisfactorily with treatments that only partially affect the breast. And when we compare our results overall, the results have been better. They've had less toxicity and better cancer control when the whole breast is treated than when only part of the breast is treated. As I was saying before, we 're moving a lot towards fractionated treatments because it has  There are many advantages for the patient. We've seen that, in terms of control, at least in the studies presented so far, it's better. The side effects are the same. We've tried to expand the treatment options, so we do it as standard for patients we 're treating only the breast, and that covers a large number of patients with early-stage cancer. We have a new study that we opened a few months ago. Half of the patients receive five treatments, and half receive 25 treatments. This is for more advanced cancer. So, today we can offer treatment in five fractions, either in a study or by sharing our standard treatment with any patient with localized cancer. In addition to all these individualized treatments, our multidisciplinary clinic already has the possibility of offering treatments in five fractions. Something else we do is that we also have the opportunity for some selected patients to offer proton therapy. It's not better than conventional X-ray treatment for all patients, but there are patients with very advanced cases, with rib cage invasion, cancer near the heart, or cancer that ca n't be treated with X-rays. We can offer them very advanced treatments.  Advanced particle testing is something that is also very unique to the Mayo Clinic, and very few centers in the US and the world can offer what the Mayo Clinic was doing during the pandemic with Kobe 19. We are offering virtual consultations, so no matter where you are in the world, you have access to a consultation with us virtually through your computer. In this consultation, we can evaluate your medical reports and your condition. We can even ask you to send us part of your medical reports or condition to be evaluated directly here at the Mayo Clinic and give you precise information about what you need regarding treatment. We have a great many things we are doing for Kobe 19. We are testing all our patients for Kobe 19 before starting treatment. We maintain very safe treatments and keep all our areas free of Kobe 19.