- Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Welcome back to Mayo Clinic's cardiovascular podcast series, interview with the experts. I'm your host, Sharonne Hayes. I'm a non-invasive cardiologist and vice chair of faculty development in academic advancement for the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine here in Rochester, Minnesota. Today I'm joined by Dr. Claire Raphael, who's an assistant professor of medicine and an interventional cardiologist here in Minnesota. Her areas of expertise include ischemic heart disease. Welcome Claire. - Dr. Claire Raphael: Thank you. Thank you for the invitation. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: So our topic today is ischemia with no obstructive coronary arteries, or INOCA. So Dr. Raphael will share with us contemporary approaches to diagnosing and treating INOCA or ischemia with non-obstructive coronary arteries. INOCA is more common than previously believed, more prevalent in women than men, and there are now more accurate ways to make the diagnosis. And today we'll discuss when to consider a diagnosis of INOCA how to confirm that diagnosis and how to go about or at least start to treat it. So Claire, let's start with you explaining what INOCA is and what it isn't. And maybe also I'll add in there's INOCA and ANOCA and just help our audience know, because sometimes I think there's some confusion, you know, which is it? Is it both? - Dr. Claire Raphael: So thank you. So these are relatively new terms. I think they've only really come up in the last five, 10 years and always a bit of a mouthful. So INOCA is ischemia without obstructive coronary artery disease. ANOCA is angina without obstructive And they're pretty similar. I mean if you haven't done a stress test, then your ANOCA if you've done a stress test and the stress test is positive, then your INOCA. But both of them are people that have got symptoms that sound like angina or possible angina, but they haven't got obstructive disease in the large arteries of the heart, which we might have seen on a CT or a previous angiogram. And this is pretty common. So about half of patients that come to the cath lab with a positive stress test actually don't have obstructive And that's much more of a challenge. I mean, if we see obstructive disease, you know, I'm an interventional cardiologist, we put in stents and we treat with a stent, most people get better. Or if it's very advanced disease, we'll think about bypass. But those patients with that ongoing pain when there isn't disease in the large arteries, produce a lot more of a challenge. And when I started my training back in the early two thousands, we didn't really do much. We said, okay, your big arteries look fine, you must be fine. And they went home and continued to have horrible symptoms. Whereas more recently we've realized actually if there's disease in the big arteries, there can also be disease in the small arteries. So if we've ruled out big artery disease, then we start looking at the small arteries of disease, the coronary microcirculation, see if there's a problem there. And we look for other rare things like coronary artery spasm and bridging that can also cause chest pain. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: When we say non-obstructive disease, it doesn't mean no coronary disease. Right? So So what is the, the, the angiogram that you're doing that you will call it INOCA versus obstruction? - Dr. Claire Raphael: So that's a really important point. So I mean, some people with no obstructive disease have completely normal arteries, but the majority of people, they have what we call non-obstructive disease. And when we tend to consider obstruction is around 50%. So A-50% lesion can be important. And then we would do more tests like a pressure wire to see if this is functionally significant. If you've got 20%, 30% narrow in it means that you've got a bit of plaques or cholesterol build up in your arteries. But we know that the flow in those arteries, even when you're really pushing themselves, is gonna be enough to give blood supply to the heart. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: So when should we say in the outpatient setting? 'cause you're talking about what you see, what, when in the outpatient setting, who's the patient we should be thinking about? Give this just a demographic who's most at risk And and, and when should we think about doing more testing and that person with chest pain? - Dr. Claire Raphael: So I mean, the short answer is everyone's at risk for INOCA but the people that are most common to get it, and actually this is the opposite to almost everything else in in coronary artery disease, is women. So most heart disease is much more prevalent in men. But interestingly, the small vessel disease is much more prevalent in women. So around two thirds of the patients we see with microvascular disease are women. And then other risk factors, both for epicardial disease and small vessel disease are things like diabetes, hypertension, or hyperlipidemia, especially if they're not well controlled. Other things that will put you at risk is things like a previous heart attack and then there's some odd things. So if you've had migraines or you've got Raynoud's then we think they probably are associated with microvascular disease. There's less evidence on it. But it's one of the things that makes you think maybe this is something unusual and we need to look a bit further, - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: As you said, maybe when you started being a cardiologist. But certainly when I did we, we talked about the false positive stress test. The, the individual reproduced their pain, had an abnormal ECG, but then we did angiogram and they didn't have obstruction. And that paradigm has completely shifted, right? So if we're thinking about we think chest pain, we're gonna do a stress test perhaps, and I'd love for you to talk about any other tests or types of stress tests where we should be thinking about. But I think one important takeaway is us more senior cardiologists who were taught all those women had false positive stress tests, we know that's not true anymore. Right? - Dr. Claire Raphael: Yeah. And I think that's probably the most important takeaway from this podcast is if you thought it was angina and you've done the angiogram, you haven't finished your job, you need to investigate a bit more, look at the small arteries. 'cause there probably is something going on there. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: So say we've got a patient, probably a woman, she had a positive stress test echo or perfusion, and you've done the angiogram and she's got some twenties across there, across what is then the next step that you are going to do or you're gonna tell me to do as an outpatient? - Dr. Claire Raphael: So we've got a few different options. One would be to treat empirically, so assume this is microvascular disease and start some therapies for that and we'll talk about those. And the next is to do investigations to confirm or refute if this is microvascular disease. And two ways to do that. So you can do an invasive test. So it's another angiogram, which sometimes people aren't so keen on. And then we do provocation testing. So we give extra medications to look at the small arteries and also see if there's any coronary artery spasm. The other way you can go is noninvasive. So you can do a PET or a CMR with adenosine and that looks at your myocardial perfusion reserve. And if that is abnormal, then that will be diagnostic of microvascular disease. The negative of the stress testing is that we can't test for spasm and there is around 20% of people with microvascular disease who we only see if we give acetylcholine. So if you want the most comprehensive test, then we go invasive. If people are a bit reluctant to have another angiogram, especially if it hasn't been a straightforward procedure for them, then we'll usually start with something non-invasive. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Yeah, I think often, particularly here, we we, we at Mayo and many other large centers, they've already had their angiogram elsewhere, right. And to subject somebody to something that when we strongly suspect the diagnosis, so when you're talking about empiric therapy, which is often the way I at least start, what do you start with? - Dr. Claire Raphael: So I think that's probably, it's a, it's an odd one and you think we would have a clear answer for it, but you poll different people in the area and they'll all start with different things. So a, a lot of the time the medications that have been tried already are things like beta blocker, statin, aspirin, and we'll generally continue those ACE inhibitors. There's really good data from the WISE trial. The ACE inhibitors are a good antianginal, especially in small vessel disease. And if I'm suspecting coronary artery spasm, then I'll often change them to a calcium channel blocker and usually stop their beta blocker. So they're usually one of my first twos in terms of management. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Start with some vasodilator because you said maybe a certain proportion also will have some spasm or small vessel spasm. So that's a good empiric choice. You know, I think the, the rationale for the beta blocker is it decreases rate pressure product and if you've got some kind of fixed obstruction. But what if these don't work though? I mean, often I feel like I can't just keep upping the meds when potentially causing side effects when I don't know what I'm treating. So that's what I'm gonna send to you, Claire, to do the definitive treatment. Aside from making the diagnosis, does that help with guided therapy or is it mainly just for, okay, yes, they have microvascular dysfunction. Are there any additional things that come out of your functional angiography that would help us from the, I guess the therapeutic standpoint? - Dr. Claire Raphael: So the other massive benefit is that we'll be able to look at subtypes of coronary microvascular disease. So two main subtypes. You've got endothelium independent and endothelium dependent. And we do treat the two in different ways. So the endothelium independent, that's an abnormal reaction to adenosine and that will also see on a PET or a CMR endothelium dependent. So that's the endothelial cells that aligning the vessel cell themselves are a problem. And those we've found greater benefit from calcium channel blockers and also a medication called All Arginine, which is actually a herbal supplement. It's a lot of people take it pre-workout and it's a natural nitrate donor, just helps keep the arteries vasodilated. And there's some randomized control data from Mayo from Dr. Lermann to show that this works really well in endothelium dependent microvascular disease. So especially when you've tried first line, second line, things aren't looking quite right. Then the angiogram with the provocation testing is hugely useful in guiding third line and fourth line treatments. It also allows us sometimes to look at eligibility for trials. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: We still are learning a lot about this condition and there are a number of trials. What do you see as sort of next steps either in diagnostic testing on or in therapeutics? What, what are some of the drugs and devices that people are looking at right now? What's your hope for the future in this space? - Dr. Claire Raphael: So one really large trial that's recently been presented was the warrior trial. And that compared patients on usual medical therapy. So you're suspecting microvascular disease and you treat them with your best empiric therapy versus a stratified therapy, which was, they were given aspirin, a statin and an ACE inhibitor and uprated as far as possible. And they called it a negative trial in that the two groups both had similar outcomes of five years. But actually really what the trial showed was this is a challenging area, we don't have great treatment. So in both groups, 16% of people met the endpoint at five years, which was death, myocardial infarction or hospitalization with angina. And that didn't specify whether it was troponin positive or not. So we know these are very symptomatic people. They're coming in a lot. So although we have got many medications that we try empirically or guided by therapy, we don't have fantastic results in the same way that we do with many of our other cardiovascular conditions. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: You know, I think if we think about some of the rationale, I mean statins make sense, right? A lot of them have the little 20 subclinical coronary disease. It's that's, are there any devices or other things that, that we should be looking for or that Mayo's doing research on right now? - So a really exciting device and everyone that works in the microvascular space is hugely excited by this is the coronary sinus reducer. So this really is a very different approach to looking at heart disease. And the idea is instead of tackling the arterial side, we actually look at the venous side. So we increase pressure within the veins in the heart, which improves the blood flow across the myocardium. And there's been really encouraging work both in epicardial disease, so the large artery disease, but also a trial in patients with microvascular disease, which we performed here, which showed that this not only improved symptoms, but significantly improved our coronary flow reserve, which is our measure of microvascular disease. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: I'm excited. I mean, this is a patient population that I've cared for before we had a name for it, right? I'm just reflecting on this being one of the two heart failure with preserved ejection fraction and microvascular dysfunction, which when I started practice, we just as cardiologists often felt like we'd done our job because hey, great, you don't have heart disease and we now know so much more, but not enough in this patient population. So it's exciting to get this update. Thank you so much Dr. Raphael. - Dr. Claire Raphael: It's pleasure. And thank you so much for having me on the podcast. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Such an important topic. And this wraps up this week's episode of Interviews with the Expert. I really wanna thank Dr. Raphael for joining me today and discussing this important topic. We look forward to you joining us next week for another interview with the expert. In the meantime, be well.