first game of spring training 200 2005. I was hit by a pitch. Um originally was diagnosed as um like a just a small like I had a little chip bone chip that kind of came off an avulsion fracture is what it was called. Um originally you know two weeks I was out two weeks and two weeks turned into two months and my pain really wasn't where the avulsion fracture was. And um you know to my understanding there just wasn't a whole lot of information out at the time about you know that area and uh really the injury that I had. Um played um twothirds of the season I'd say. Uh didn't play very well. U had played with pain and um you know I was I was I was injured. It was just it was it was rough. At the end of the year uh the hand specialists for the Dodgers um did a surgery that was that uh didn't didn't help. I was actually worse after the surgery because just all the all the trauma from the surgery and everything. So, um going to 06 spring training, still in bad shape, um you know, the doctors couldn't really find anything wrong with me. I was was kind of like, you know, whenever I was could feel like I could play, they were going to, you know, let me play. But, um I really I mean, I was injured and really didn't have any answers. uh spent better half of the season getting second opinion and third opinions places and um I was finally at home one day. It was the first time I'd actually been at home during the middle of the season cuz you know I just we play every day so why would you go home? And um I went to get the mail and uh I was met at the mailbox by kind of a family friend um who's an orthopedic surgeon who had spent time up at the mail clinic um Joe Whan. Dr. Joe Whan was his name and um he asked me about you know how my hand was doing and and we kind of talked and he he said that I need to go to the mail clinic and to the hand department up there cuz they're the best and those guys will take care of you. So I don't know within I don't know a couple days I made contact and and got an appointment and um I think it was like August uh when I went up to Rochester and um saw Dr. burger and um did an MRI and uh the next day I had surgery and u you know he was he was very confident about what I had and um really the first time I had any answers in in in almost two years that uh you know about my injury and you know what really was causing my pain and it was just it was remarkable just to go through as much time as I went through and like all the hardships I'd say and uh you know there was a time probably the six weeks before I was going up to the Mayo Clinic, I was like, "Well, if you know, if this doesn't work, I don't I don't know what I'm going to do. You know, this is this will probably, you know, baseball's baseball's over and, you know, I'll be looking for looking for a job." And I, you know, I've done nothing but play baseball my whole life. So, it was uh it was a trying period for sure. And uh going up to Mayo Clinic there and meeting Dr. Burgerer and uh going through the whole whole thing was uh you know, it's a blessing really. It was uh it was it was remarkable.