Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host Dr. Andrea Tulie and I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. >> Today we are joined by Dr. Ray Aayzi a vitro retinal surgeon here at Mayo Clinic for a journal club. We have two fun articles today. The first is a prospective observational non-interventional clinical study of the participants with coridormia, the night study. And the second is the pros and cons of internal limiting membrane peeling during epiinal membrane surgery, a randomized clinical trial with micropatry or the peeling trial. So we'll talk about the night study and the peeling trial here today. >> Let's kick off the first one. And first of all, thank you for being with us, Dr. Rezi. You're one of our retinal colleagues here at Mayo. It helps to not only help to dig through um these papers as for audiences that don't have them in front of them, but also just to understand how they apply or don't apply to our clinical practices. >> And you're a regular here at the podcast, your third episode. >> My pleasure. And these are both um very interesting topics for sure. >> Yeah. >> Well, let's talk about the first one. So, as Dr. Tuli framed well it's the first one is a prospective observational non-interventional clinical study of participants with koidaria the night study and this was written by a large group of investigators led Dr. Robert McLaren um at all. It's this night study group um and representative from in institutions all over the globe really and was published fairly recently in the American Journal of Opthalmology here in July of 24. So we're looking into um coronaria and what they did in the study they randomized males obviously this disease is typically in its fullest manifestation seen in males um and they had adults a greater than age 18 um we can talk about some of the clinical characteristics but they had to have vi my understanding is vision impacting visible act visibly active disease and then they looked at a number of different metrics to assess their current standing both best corrected visual acuity. Um they looked at retinal sensitivity, the size of the ellipsoid zone, um um they did angography, reading speed. So they looked at other metrics of quantifying vision followed over a 20month period. And we're going to get to outcomes here, but just share with us just where what's the background for this study as you see it, Rey, in terms of how this is helpful or how this frames this disease more than what we already know. >> Well, thank you for bringing this paper up. Um, you know, coridormia is one of those forms of retinitis pigmentotosa that affects males. It's an excellent disease. Women are affected but to a lesser extent. And um it's also one of for which there was a phase three clinical trial of an AAV2 uh associated um gene therapy which was uh ineffective in meeting its clinical endpoint as defined by the FDA. So that clinical endpoint was um number of of letters read. uh basically the treatment had to reach 15 letters of improvement relative to the control group and visual acuity didn't didn't work and that was the primary outcome measure of that large phase three clinical trial. But it's not surprising that it didn't work because retinitis pigmentotosa is primarily a disease of the retinal periphery first where patients lose rods and then once all of the rods are lost then patients start to lose cones. So something about retinitis pigmentotosa is um is is clear that rods keep cones alive and we only see patients with cone loss after all their rods are gone. So for example, if a patient presents with an impairment of visual acuity just on the eye chart, let's say they're 2040 and their lens is clear and they don't have any other reason to be 2040. Then before I even look at the visual field or look at the electroretinogram, I know that that patient probably has less than 10 degrees of visual field on the visual field test and that their ERG shows no rod function and that their cone function is starting to become impaired. Okay. So unless you're enrolling patients who uh already have a central visual acuity deficit, visual acuity outcomes are not the best outcome measure. And this study aims to figure out what are the best outcome measures. If we're going to offer these novel and innovative treatments to patients with retinitis pigmentotosa and other retinal degenerations which are exceedingly rare, we certainly don't want to waste anyone's time. We want to know what are the clinical measures that are most relevant. And that's why that's why these natural history studies are so important in these retinal degeneration um uh diseases. um because you don't want to apply an improper clinical outcome measure because ultimately you're not going to fix something that's not fixable or that's not broken. Right? In the case of of retinitis pigmentotosa, we have plenty of patients who are legally blind due to lack of visual field that see 2020 on the eye chart and they're going to enjoy 2020 vision for decades perhaps. >> So you don't want to use visual acuity as an outcome measure in those patients because you can't run a clinical trial for decades. So that's why this study was done. >> It's really helpful to understand that background. And I want to delve into the background just a tiny bit more and back up a little because inherited retinal disease IRD is a passion of yours. You're an expert at and you have specific IRD clinics. I remember as a resident being in your clinic and seeing this really special subset of populations with inherited retinal disease. Can you talk us through what your practice what your IRD practice is like? You're seeing RP how you treat these patients. What makes this patient population different than the kind of traditional retina patient population? >> Great question. So, when I got here 15 years ago, we set up a dedicated uh inherited retinal degeneration clinic. And the reason for that was that um first off, there are not many things that we could do at the time. And uh having a very specialized clinic allowed us to clearly address the patients visual function, help them help educate them and inform them on their very rare condition and un help them understand what that condition was and how it affects their vision. also understanding, you know, how they were functioning at home and at work if they were working or at school and getting them the appropriate services such as ambulation services or low vision services so they can function better. And so that's a population of patient that have rare diseases that often are difficult to understand. they can't talk to their friends about it because no one has it because it's one in maybe hundred thousand or one in four thousand depending on how you want to look at it. And so we really needed a clinic where we could spend time with the patient, engage with them, understand how they were doing and give them the time that they needed. And in in putting a patient like that into a high volume, you know, vascular olusive disease or retinal vascular disease clinic like age- related macular degeneration or diabetic retinopathy clinic that didn't work. And so dedicating time to those patients was critical. >> And then of course we had to get a lot more testing because we measure how their rods and cones function, how their visual field is working, their acuity and other things. And many times we even get genetic testing and we have incorporated our genetics uh counselors and our medical geneticist Dr. Lisa Scmenti into our into our IRD practice. We've added Dr. Britney Scrugs who has a passion for inherited retinal degenerations and she and I share all of the uh IRD patients and and the practice and the practice has expanded. Um but this this is really something that requires dedicated care and attention and a customized treatment plan. um with specialized testing. So we we see a vast array of of IRDs and now that there are several gene therapies being developed for this, we now have interventions and of course before there were gene therapies, we are putting in retinal prosttheesis to restore vision to patients who've already lost their sight. Uh so this has been an exciting area for many decades to me because of the idea that we might be able to to salvage and and re regenerate vision. I think that, you know, speaks to, as you mentioned, the unique nature of these centers that are are able to best care for these patients in a very unique way with instrumentation and expertise, genetics included, to provide it. And obviously, that's one of the backgrounds for this paper, needing to enlist so many different sites for a very for, you know, a rare condition to gather 220 patients. Um in that and from your frame of reference how you track patients in this particular study they you know they echoed what you shared which is that best corrected visual acuity was not um changed much over a 20month period and certainly if we're designing clinical studies to care for patients that as you articulated that isn't the best target to or outcome to look for. Um, in the results section of this paper, you know, you comment on all the imaging that you do, and I just like to just reflect on what that might be for a typical patient in your practice. They looked at retinal sensitivity measures, the ellipsoid zone, um, fundus autofllororesence, um, also even reading speed here. And across the board, I think that it showed these metrics over a 21-month period. And there was quite some asymmetry between eyes even in this group. That was a even though the overall vision didn't change, it was noticeable how one eye tended to be worse than the other but many of these metrics did decline. >> Right. >> So curious over what are the common metrics you'd you recommend in caring for a patient like this and is that a pretty typical clinically understandable way that in a 20-month period there are changes happening even though vision's not >> absolutely thank you for asking that question. You know, the FDA in the past decade has opened its mind up to metrics of what we call seeing retina. Uh with the advent of OCT, we could now image the photo receptors. And clearly there's a a very clear correlation between the presence of photo receptors and our performance of visual fields. And we know that reditis pigmentotosa affects the peripheral visual field, but it often doesn't affect visual acuity. And so the classical, you know, 15letter gain um requirement for clinical trials from the FDA had very little relevance. And I think the FDA has has woke up to uh to addressing, you know, these other outcome measures. Um at Mayo, we have a very advanced retinal imaging group. Um, if you're going to look at things in OCTs, like how many photo receptors does the patient have, you really need computer methods to do a good job of it because sitting there with calipers on an OCT image and trying to measure the distance of the ellipsoid zone is really not effective. You're in clinic, you're not able as a human to do these measurements in any effective way. Okay. And so we're developing machine learning and artificial intelligence programs that can do this for us so that we can get, you know, accurate measurements of how how how large of a photo receptor area is still functioning in this patient, how large of a retina pigment epithelial area is still present in this patient and track those metrics over time. So it's not just a matter of eyeballing the image and saying, "Yeah, it looks a little bit worse." You know, the fact of the matter is when you see a patient, uh, and we see our retinitis pigmentotosa patients once every two years, um, they're going to have worsening of their disease process every time you see them. >> Unless you're doing some intervention, and we have had improvements. Um, so I don't tend to emphasize to patients, well, your visual field does look worse. I tend to emphasize to patients, how are you doing in your life? and I use their progression as a context, as a backdrop to the kinds of recommendations that I'm going to give those patients. So, if they tell me I'm doing great, my job as an accountant is going very well and I work with spreadsheets all day, I may think back to myself and say, okay, this patient is working with a 10 degree of visual field and they clearly need their vision for their job. We're going to need to position them so that they're, you know, getting the appropriate visual aids that they need. Is their screen, do they have the appropriate IT support? Are they adjusting the size of the monitor, the size of the fonts? Are they magnific magnifying adequately? Are there are they is this patient leveraging some of the low vision aids like Orcam which can read to them or uh provide other you know interpretations of of small print. Um so we we try to focus on you know leveraging technology to help patients like that. Um so OC is very helpful and we are now using computers to analyze those images. Um visual field is also extremely helpful but many times clinical trialists particularly from companies don't want to use psychophysical tests because there's a lot of variance in in a visual field let's say >> and when you have an increase in variance it requires an increase in the enrollment and a lot more costly and a lot more uh duration of a trial to use something like a psychophysical test that has a high degree of variation. So we um we use visual fields with the largest size five target which has been shown to have the lowest amount of variance from visit to visit. So those low variances really give us true idea of a true idea of what the patient's visual field is doing over time. So um yeah I think I think increasingly we're going to see clinical trials that use quantitative outcome measures and less of the of the psychophysical testing. That's certainly palpable that um our advancements in inherited retinal disease and the hope for treatments becoming more and more um available understanding the disease progressions like this paper will you know sets the the backdrop for that and for studying and finding success. So it's a it is an exciting time in retinal diseases. >> It really is. I was so uh happy to see that such a large number ended up leaving the study early to enroll in some of the genetic therapy trials which were ongoing and it sounds like that was their hope that they could get some patients together and say you know you're eligible for these other trials which is super exciting. So that's great. >> Sure is. >> Yep. Well, we'll uh move along to our second paper. This is uh the pros and cons of ILM peeling during erm surgery. This is the peeling trial uh using microp perimery. This came out of a large group in um mostly France. Jean Baptiste deployer I think is the primary author with my French accent and um so you are an erm peeling expert Dr. Azi. So um talk us through erm surgery the concept of ILM peeling versus not and and what this paper was ultimately trying to show. >> So it's uh it's a great paper. uh it it it addresses uh a question that many retinal surgeons have had. It's a little bit of an esoteric paper. Um however, epireinal membrane surgery is one of the breadandbut procedures that we do all the time. Every time I go to the operating room, I'm dealing with an epinal membrane of one form or another. And um and the management of these patients is a lot more complicated than many folks would admit to. Um, at Mayo Clinic, we've adopted a team-based approach to treating ERM patients. A patient comes in and upon referral from a primary opthalmologist uh or optometrist with um some sort of visual problem. A small subset of patients say, you know, um I doctor, I don't know why I'm here. I see perfectly fine. And those are the patients that um that do may that may have a problem with one eye, but their other eye is working very well and their brain is doing a fine job of fusing the two images together. They don't have any issues. They're not closing an eye because it's interfering with their ability to see. >> And those are patients that in all likelihood don't need any surgery. Okay? Um, and so we'll give them an AMS or grid and have them monitor periodically their vision and tell them to come back if they notice any problems reading or seeing or whatnot and and have regular follow-up visits with their referring doc doctor. Uh, another subset of patients um comes in and they they'll tell you, you know, when I cover up my right eye, I see distortion and blur, but I see fine with the two eyes open. and we'll we'll take a look at the images and determine if we feel that the that the vision is going to be progressively declining. Um, and we'll recommend surgery based on, you know, either a a concern for the long-term health of the retina or, you know, trying to parse out or are there circumstances where the patient is experiencing problems. um are they experiencing for example double vision and a subset of patients with epiretal membrane will have double vision and this is in often it's often the case that it's a specialized form of double vision um called CPR double vision or central peripheral rivalry where the peripheries line up and of course Eric is an expert at this the peripheries line up but the centers don't uh and epureal membrane surgery we we we discovered here at Mayo that epinal membrane surgery was a surgical option for the treatment of CPR dipopia. And so a subset of patients in our practice are being operated on to relieve this double vision that they have which can't be relieved in any other way other than blurring the vision in that eye. Um and and so our approach to surgery there isn't going to be based on a visual acuity outcome. We may be offering they may be seeing 2020 um but we're offering that surgery to alleviate a double vision problem. And and in order to have this double vision, you actually have to be able to see well out of both eyes. And so it's caused us to have to operate on eyes that are progressively better in their vision. And um I've modified my surgical technique as a result because um when we peel epirenyl membranes, we can go right for the membrane alone or we can go for the the basement lamina of the mueller ga which is the internal limiting membrane upon which these epiretal membranes grow. >> Okay, this is my question. How easy is it to tell an erm from an IL? Like is it very obvious in certain? No, of course not. I mean there like microns thick membranes. >> Yeah. So, great question. Great question. So, we can't even resolve the internal main lamina on OCT, >> right? >> So, it's like the the thickness of the diameter membrane. >> That's awesome. Um it's the thickness of a red blood cell, right? Um except we have a a a tool that we can pull out of our pocket called chromobitrectomy where we can put ICG down or um brilliant blue G. and stain it >> and stain it because the ILM as a basement membrane takes the stain up >> and the ERM doesn't. >> That's right. >> I see. >> And so we could see this baseline staining of the internal liming lamina and a negative stain where the epi membrane's living >> or once you peel the epinal membrane, do you reapply the stain to see if the ILM came up or not? >> So yes, because the essence of this paper was that in some patients it comes up spontaneously. >> That's true. And then in others it doesn't and then you have to decide to peel or not to peel. >> That's exactly right. Sometimes it's really hard to resist the urge to take the ILM because you see it, it's there. Sometimes there's an edge and it's just sitting there waiting to be peel. It is so tempting. And there are reasons that we peel it and reasons that we don't peel it. There are those retina specialists that think, well, this is part of the retina. Why would we take this? Because when we peel it, we're actually pulling the end feet off of the Mueller ga. And over time, over a relatively short time, those Mueller ga die. And Mueller ga actually have a role in our vision. They pump out the glutamate. Um they they do a variety of fagocitic functions. Um they're important in our vision. They are they're important in our vision, >> but we decide to take them when we're trying to peel an epiretile membrane that we don't want to grow back. Because if we peel the internal living lamina, the chances of the epi retinal membrane growing back is very very low. So we get a very low recurrence rate on on erms if we take the ILM. >> Um and also a lot of folks were never trained to peel the erm alone. So just the other day I was teaching my fellow how to peel an epireyl membrane without ICG in the eye or even an ILM peel. Mhm. >> Sometimes as we peel the epiinal membrane because it's fused to the ILM, a portion of the ILM does come up. But but I think this paper is addressing, you know, what happens to the vision when we peel the ILM versus when we don't, right? >> And in our patients with CPR dipopia, they often see really well. And I explain to them that our surgery isn't going to make them see better on the eye chart. It's going to prevent them from having to close one eye to see well from the interference that the fellow eye is giving and it may correct that double vision. Of course, we work with the orthoptics team and sometimes the shbismus surgeons to to deal with any other reasons why a patient might have dipopia after surgery or even before. Um, >> and certainly there are plenty that will have an erm that don't have dipopia too. Just they're there because their vision they're disrupted by their vision, >> right? And the decision- making is different for a patient that's got visual blur >> and we have to decide well how much is this bothering you? Do you want me to fix that for you or not? Yeah. >> And many of times we can watch it >> versus the patients that have double vision. But if a patient's 2020 and I do an erm peel, I'm generally not going to peel the internal and enlamina because their visual acuity will recover much more quickly if I don't peel the ILM. >> Well, let's talk about that because that's what this picture >> Yeah. The the outcomes are really interesting. Yeah, I mean >> let's just share what this paper um addressed then. So in trying to study that population um they were able to recruit 213 patients and at the time of peeling the epretinal membrane 101 essentially 50% of them the ILM came with it which you know maybe that's the technique they were using to peel the epireyl membrane or maybe they you know it just naturally had pulled off um a hundred of them then they were able to peel the epiinal membrane but the ILM stayed behind with staining now that we know And so they made a decision and they randomized those patients erm gone ILM there whether they should peel the ILM. So 51 got peeled and 50 or 49 did not. And they look back and in the end their results um you know would show that what you're saying is true that of the ones that they peeled none of them had recurrence of epirinal membrane. That's right. And of the ones that they didn't peel, essentially, I think it was about 20% um had a recurred epinal membrane when they didn't peel the ILM. Um the long-term visual acuity was the same. But interestingly going along with what you're just saying in your clinical observation when you peel the ILM there's this must be some photo receptor some retinal ir damage because they talk about two things that I you know it's not in my normal day to talk about microsctoomas and retinal sensitivity microsctoomas went up retinal sensitivity went down when they peeled the ILM and yet it looked like over time those things healed or much of them did between the you know one week then one month the six week as they followed these patients. So um in the end the conclusion was spontaneous spontaneous peeling is common active peeling prevents anatomical erm recurrence but may induce retinal impairments and delayed visual recovery. So that was commenting. You're feeding right into what their results were. And so talk to us about then I mean it seems obvious peel it because you don't get an epi retinal memory back but talk to us about these microsctoma. What is a microsctoma? You know how are you picking it up and how is it relevant for a patient after you peel the ILM? >> Great questions. Great questions. So a microscoma is a very very small area where the patient doesn't see so well. And do they do they walk in saying I have microscoma? >> Absolutely not. The patients don't know that this is going on unless they cover one eye and it's a really bad skoma. Um but most microsctoomas are not symptomatic to the patient. Okay. And then the question of course is why are they there? I do micropimemetry on all my pre and posttop patients. So I modify my surgical technique to minimize any of these changes on the visual field. Okay. The fundamental fact is that these epiretal membranes and ILM don't just peel themselves. It's a surgeon that goes down onto the neurosensory retina and does things that in some cases could be considered egregious acts >> because, you know, we're taking a a forcep, a micro tweezer that's steel and we're grasping a membrane that's >> 10 microns thick and and you could potentially grab a facasacle of the nerve fiber layer and crush it. And nerve crush injury is a common model in laboratories to look at cell death. So if you're good, you may not cause as much trauma as if you're maybe a learner or you know you're or you're having trouble, you know, and so the fact is is that there's a heterogeneity of peeling. Okay? Because this is delicate stuff and we're dealing with seeing retina in the center. So it's not a surprise that we're going to see micro sktoma develop. >> But even in the most talented hands out there, most experienced as vitual retinal surgeon, when you peel the eye, even in that setting, it disrupts the retina in some way. >> It certainly does. >> Okay. And what I've noticed, and I get a lot of referrals for membrane peeling in patients with glaucoma. What I've noticed is that epiretal membranes are pretty adherent in glaucoma patients and it's not uncommon to see progression of their glaucoma after the vitrectomy with membrane peel. So I become very conservative and cautious about offering epiretyl membrane surgery in patients that have glaucoma >> because what I've noticed is that as we're peeling that ILM, let's say, it either comes up like nothing or we find ourselves with a knife edge fold of the retina because it's super adherent to the retina surface. Okay? And there actually has to be a difference, right? In one case, it's like removing a sticker. It's like removing a band-aid. you know, if you got the band-aid wet, it can come right off and not pull too much. >> But if it's, you know, it's a really stuck band-aid, then you're going to pull that thing off and it's going to take off a little stratum corneium there, right? And so we don't want when we're peeling to pull off that superficial layer of retina because that's the nerve fiber layer. Those are the ganglen cell layers that let us see. And if it's really adherent, then we might cause a splitting of the retinais. um we could potentially cause some photo receptor disruption uh and in super rare cases you could unroof uh the center of the phobia and create a macular hole and that's not uncommon you know I have a saying to the to my students the best way to create to turn a lameler pseudo hole and a lot of folks come in with this idea of a lamelar hole and that's confusing because it's not really a macular hole it's a pseudo hole the best way to turn a lamelar pseudo hole into a full thickness hole is to operate on it. Okay. So, we don't operate on lamelar pseudo holes and that's because of the epiretal membranes are a different consistency and they're very adherent to the retina and it's very easy to open up the phobia. Um, I happen to have the benefit of a microscope integrated OCT. So, in my operations, I use the OCT to verify my anatomical endpoints uh during surgery. So if for example we're concerned that I haven't gotten the epiretyl membrane fully then I'll restain with ICG let's say and we'll go back and determine if there's any negative staining. Um sometimes we see a splitting of the vitrius hyoidal skis which can leave remnants back on the retina and we have to go back and get more membrane. But using the microscope integrated OCT is a big help and also using that as a quality assurance measure to make sure I haven't opened up the phobia. I haven't created a macular hole during my surgery. Um so there are there are risk factors associated with this and we want to minimize those and we use pre and post-operative mic OCT and um micropimemetry to modify our surgical techniques so that we don't we don't cause too much trauma but this study showed that over the course of time things normalized which is encouraging >> right so just like you said at this the six-month mark there were significant at the one-mon mark um There were significant differences between the peeled and not peeled group where the not- peeled group was doing a little bit better, but then everybody reached the same end point by 6 and 12 months um with no significant differences between the two groups, but again no recurrence, >> right? >> And so does this is this enough to change clinical practice? Is it still a patient by patient decision or is this enough data to say, "Okay, I'm going to peel everybody." >> Uh that's a great question. I think it's really surgeon dependent. There are plenty of surgeons that can't peel the ILM because they don't feel comfortable with it. Um, it has a role for sure, especially if you're trying to to peel and make sure that you get everything and and and remove that scaffold for re regrowth. Many of these recurrent epureal membranes were not clinically relevant. >> So, they were using the OCT and they said, "Oh, there's an epal membrane." But the patients were fine. >> Fine then does. >> And so, does the recurrence of an epinal membrane really matter only in a small subset of patients? Okay. Um and you know what we may be observing with these peroperative microsctoma is just a you know a dysfunction of the cells and not a death of them whereby you know they recover to normal function. So maybe it just creates a more prolonged healing. you know, if I take a band-aid off that was particularly stuck, I might be razed for a day or two, right? And and so peeling on an epial membrane that was particularly adherent could could result in some swelling or dysfunction of the cells that then ultimately recover. >> Um, but I would say that the caveat is that in patients with glaucoma, we have to be very concerned. U many of those patients have adherent membranes that can that when peeled can lead to progression of their visual field loss. So you have to be very careful. I and so when you say that is it simply a diagnosis of glaucoma or are you saying a more advanced glaucoma where we already know their ganglen cell layers impaired they're have dysfunction of visual field already and and and peeling you just don't want to add any any added level of micro trauma >> so one one fact is that because I do these visual field tests before surgery a subset of those patients already have split fixation and even though they're complaining of phobial vision loss It's not due to the ERM, it's due to their glaucoma affecting the center of their phobia. And so those patients don't get operated on. Right? So we're avoiding a negative outcome by explaining that their vision loss can't be corrected with surgery and that it's related to the glaucoma in the first place. The second is for those patients that don't have severe glaucoma. Well, I certainly don't want to be the one to accelerate their glaucoma even if they don't have advanced glaucoma. So I will be much more cautious about operating on a patient with glaucoma and certainly the advanced glaucoma patients uh and I of course I along with the micropimetry I do an NFL and GCL analysis on OCT to assess their nerve fiber layer integrity because I'm going to be pulling on >> in indirectly pulling on their nerve fiber layer and I need to know that there's enough cells there that you know they're going to be remaining cells when I'm done. So I think that it's an individualized thing. Um, many times you really have to know that the ERM is in fact causing their symptoms and and it's not a minor thing. It's a major thing and you have to have anatomical reasons to to think that the that the surgery itself will be safe um in those cases. >> Well, thank you for coming and explaining not only seeing things that we can't see in terms of the ILM but also just the complexity behind making decisions of to peel or not to peel. That is the question. >> Thank you. >> My pleasure. >> You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Opthalmology podcast on our website. >> Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.