Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host Dr. Andrea Tulie and I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology, medicine, and more. >> In today's episode, Dr. Eric Bothan and I are sitting down to chat about the value of academic research and some exciting projects that we've been working on, as well as two articles that we've both published this year. Stay tuned. We're excited today to have a few minutes to talk to each other as our two co-hosts um about research, our papers that we've recently been involved with just about being in academic medicine. So, Andrea, just share with me, I know both of us have a spark coming to work every day at the male clinic. >> Talk to me about the research part because you wear different hats. You are a superstar in academia. You carry the residency education piece like nobody else. But today we're talking about research. So, what drives you and why is it fun to be in an academic practice? Because there's a research piece for you. >> Yeah, I love this. Well, so we were going to do a journal club today and this is such a good suggestion for me. You said, why don't we both just pull a paper that we've published recently and talk about some of our work. And I think that's great. And it's great because we both have papers that we've published recently that we're excited to talk about. And it really is a fun aspect of being in academics is asking questions, finding answers, working with a team, working with students, mentoring students in terms of doing research projects. And I've learned a lot. And I I have to admit I don't have a strong strong research background, but I've always enjoyed asking questions and um write kind of going through the process of the scientific method and then writing up what you found and hoping that it contributes to the general population. So most of my work is is clinical studies, um chart reviews, surgical techniques, dabbled a little bit in some education type studies which are very challenging but have been rewarding. And this year I've worked with a lot of really great teams. We've published some great oculoplastic stuff, some cool tech stuff. We just put out a paper on using AI to generate podcasts, which would be really cool. And some other chat GPT AI stuff that's not my area of expertise, but I've been able to work with cool teams. And then now I've forayed into a new basic science venture and I'm studying molecular markers in meningoma which is a huge challenge and exciting to me but I I think it enriches my clinical practice and I love getting to tell my patients you know we're looking into this when when your patients ask you why isn't there treatment for this or why didn't this surgery work and you get to say you know we actually just published our outcomes and we found that this is why I think that's really satisfying too. So I enjoy research even though it can be daunting at time or challenging at times but I really like it and I have goals to publish a certain amount each year and work with different teams each year and that's kind of what I've incorporated into my practice. What about you? >> Yeah, I similarly I've been my research um enjoyment has been clinically based for the most part. I have had a number of opportunities over time to do basic science um dives whether in mucopy sacraidosis and in a lab here and there but for the most part I've um very much enjoyed you use the word teams >> and for me I think the part that I love about academia the most is the teamwork regarding difficult cases clinically the teamwork around teaching residents academically but then in in the research arm I fully recognize and have been and and am fueled by um the importance of working together to solve problems >> and I early in my career I had multi-enter efforts the infinite fake treatment study was probably the biggest thing that launched my teambased research into pediatric cataract um pig we've talked about that here with Dr. Barkmeer in the past, the importance of multic-center studies and collaborative efforts that way. But even in your clinic as you speak to, there are so many things that come up in questions. >> Yep. >> That we want to we want to know the answer to or we wish we could do it better. And even though I'd love to have the bandwidth or the time to do far more research than I do, I think my biggest weight is I love being with patients, too. Um but in those arena it's to me it's compelling that each question you dive into you come away learning not just the answer maybe to that question but you appreciate more about what it takes to answer questions or frame the questions more about the statistical process or the structure and design that you really wouldn't have thought of and how you >> um can make the research study this as good as it can or could have made it better after the fact. >> Um, and it makes me when I stand in front of a poster at Academy >> or read a paper, >> I so much am floated by an appreciation of all those efforts in the past that say, I'm equipped to look at this and I wish they would have done it this way or wouldn't it be nice if we could >> do that in a further way? And I just I love that churning knowing that in and of myself I I I love being in that team environment to continue to challenge me um and push care forward as you're as you're saying for patients and each other. So it's it's a blast. >> It's super fun. I've learned that just like you said, the methods are everything. Yep. >> They make or break a paper. I think Andy Burkmire was probably the one to tell me that, but really it's all about the methods. And so having that thought really ahead of time and really planning out what's the best way to answer this question. Do we need to do a casematched study? Is it a retrospective just review? Do we need to do case control? How how are we going to collect the variables in the best way possible? What's the question? What am I looking for? You know, all of that in the methods, it can make or break the paper. And the worst is when you get to the end and you say, "Oh, I wish we would have done it a little differently." And so I'm now I try to be kind of a stickler on, okay, how do we actually want to do this? And it probably drives people crazy when I'm working with residents or medical students, like why is it taking so long to just get it started? But that's the hardest part is like, let's do it right the first time. And then once you have the data, then then the the rest is easy. But the methods can make or break. And sometimes you're held back. You can only, you know, you you don't you can't do a prospective study for this even though that would be the best or you can't do a randomized clinical trial. So sometimes you're a little bit limited in the methods and you do the best you can. But really having that deep thought, how are we going to structure this is what I've learned is the most important. >> Yeah, great point. >> Yeah. Well, I today we had this opportunity then and we were going to do a journal club and we thought, well, let's bring, you know, a topic a a research publication that we've recently been involved with that we could just learn about, talk through. Um, I want let's talk about yours first. >> Okay. >> So, recently Dr. Andrea Tulie and others here at the Mayo Clinic published an article called obstructive sleep apnea associated with increased failure rate of totosis repair. Um, it was published just recently in the uh family plastic reconstructive surgery journal. And I would like you instead of me going through it sounding like the expert as I've reviewed some of this um share with us just start out by saying um just the background what was the the background to this topic >> and how did it lead into as you're saying the methods to find an answer. So just frame with us why this is how this article came about and what fueled you that way and then how did you start by figuring out how you'd answer that question? >> Yeah, thanks. This is a fun article that we did because it's really patient. It's one of those nice kind of not bench to bedside but a patient driven question and a patient driven answer and I now have changed my practice and can counsel my patients in clinic based on the findings of this paper. So it was really helpful for me and kind of a full circle moment. And then I'll quickly give a shout out. We had really amazing students who helped with this project. So Arvin Nurmalan was um one my research fellow for a year and he worked on this so much as well as Megan Tran and one of our residents Pashant Taylor. So shout out to you three who did a ton of work and then we also involved our whole oculoplastic service here. But what I was noticing in clinic, you know, I'm still a junior ocular plastic surgeon. I'm new to practice and you really look at your outcomes when you're new. And so I'd only been operating two or three years after fellowship when I started to notice that all of my levator revisions, mitosis patients who needed a revision had a similar phenotype. They were more likely to be men. They were more likely to have uh kind of a big neck heavy big heavy facial tissue. pretty significanttosis with severe MRD1s pretty low like a one or below with kind of an overall phenotype of either a floppy lid syndrome or a sleep apnea phenotype and I could almost pinpoint these patients in clinic and say do you have sleep apnea you know you start to become be able to recognize this and you could see the these characteristic eyelids in patients and I'd say do you wear a CPAP they say oh yeah I do And I started to recognize that I could almost predict who was going to have a tossis repair failure or need a revision. And I started telling my patients, you know, usually we revise about 1 in 10. It's about a 10% revision rate. Sometimes a little higher, sometimes a little lower. And there's other things associated with that, but I think you're going to be that one in 10. And I could almost predict. And I really realized that a lot of it was the patients with either floppy lids or or just sleep apnea in general. And so I looked in the literature to see if if anything had been studied on the association of floppy lids and tossis. And there is a little bit of an association. We know that floppy eyelid syndrome makes the lid unstable. But no one had looked at overall just having sleep apnea and what that does to the rate of revision or how successful tois repair is. So I said let's look at that and see if that's something that is real. And that's how it all got started. >> So I have in my adult stis patients I certainly appreciate um how there's phenotypes that you can recognize. Um I help me in one part because I imagine that certain aspects of the medical record are easier to mind than others whether they're on a CPAP might be in their clinical record better than their floppy lidness. So >> correct >> share with me number one how consistent you know how when you go back and look for these features >> why did you pick these metrics and in particular help me know how do I evaluate for floppy lids like if I should I how do I document for sure I know when I pull a lid down if it just wants to go down halfway down their cheek I know it's probably floppy or I let it back and it doesn't bounce back fast enough but for those of us that aren't ocoplastic surgeons are there criteria for diagnosing floppy lids that I should It's a great question. So, we were kind of chatting about this clinically. How do you diagnose floppy lid? I think the easiest way and the most textbook way to diagnose floppy eyelid syndrome is if you have the patient look down and you pull up on the upper lid, pull up to the brow on the upper lid. And if that lid spontaneously evers and you can see the tarsus without having to try tovert the lid with a Q-tip or anything, if you can just the lid, that is floppy lid syndrome. that I is right there is floppy eyelid syndrome. Otherwise, you can distract the lower lid and if you have a significant amount of distraction, more than five or 6 millm, I'd say uh or reduced snapback, reduced tone, all of that kind of fits into floppy lid syndrome. You can see if you can pinch the upper lid and if you can pinch that upper lid together and it comes off the globe. Even if you can pull the lid off the globe. I can't really pull my lid off the globe or pinch it. All of that would indicate some increased horizontal laxity and probably floppy eyelid syndrome. And what we think the association between sleep apnea and floppy eyelid syndrome has been established. It's fascinating and it always perplexes my patients. They're like, "How can you tell I have sleep apnea by just looking at my eyelids?" It's so interesting. And we don't know exactly if it's the hypoxia or what it is, but there's an upregulation of the matrix metalloproteines that kind of break down the collaginous structure of the tarsus and the tarsus starts to lose its rigidity. And for whatever reason, those kind of inflammatory markers are are upregulated in in our OSA floppy lid patients. And I try to explain to my patients, you know, if you think of your lid like a tight rope or like a laundry line, if it's nice and taut, you could elevate it and the whole laundry line would come up. But if it's really lax and loose and you try to pull up on one, it's not going to all come up together in one nice piece. So, it makes the lid and the tarsus unstable and harder to lift. And that was my hypothesis going into this. Um but the question you mentioned about looking in the electronic health record that was our first kind of snag when we started looking in the EHR and doing the data collection. So we had almost 600 patients um 577 patients 924 eyelids that we included in the study and we found that sleep apnea was present in almost 30%. Really high patient population having sleep apnnea but that kind of fits and is within what the literature would say and within our patient population for age other coorbidities things like that. But we only found floppy eyelid syndrome documented in eight of those patients. Only 1%. >> Sure. >> And so that was the first issue. Uh-oh. People aren't documenting floppy eyelid syndrome, which makes sense. You know, you see a floppy lid. Do you really write it as a problem? And and do you do the diagnostic code? Probably not. And so we decided to not look at floppy eyelid syndrome as the diagnosis, but just focus on sleep apnea. And in our patient population, that was sleep apnea that was confirmed by sleep study. And then we we stratified the patients based on if they were on CPAP, BiPAP, you know, what kind of treatment they were having. And that was easier to find in the EHR. But it was surprising to me how few p few patients actually had floppy eyelid syndrome properly diagnosed. So then you look back at this large group then and compared the ones you know surgical results but you know in terms of recurrence rate and reoperation rate. >> Um my takeaway and this is your paper you can tell this even better but the failure rate as I read it to be if you had a if you did not have sleep apnnea >> and you had your lid repaired with the standard resection they fairly for the most part they all got levator resections. >> Correct. No we had some have levators and some have muerectomies. >> Okay. So surgery fortosis your your failure rate was 13%ish 13.1 if you did not have sleep apnnea but if you had sleep apnea it was 20%. >> Yeah. >> So your intuition that you can tell which one who was at higher risk was proving true. >> That's right. Yep. So exactly what you said. So we found that um looking kind of at preop risk factors. So the initial MRD1 the amount oftosis was lower in our OSA patients. So they were mortic coming in which also having mortosis is a risk factor for having a not satisfactory uh surgical result. They've done a ton of great studies looking at tois um success rates and found that the better your MRD1 is to start the better you'd end up doing and the worse your MRD is. So these patients are already starting a little bit from behind but even when we controlled for that it's still uh having OSA was still significant. That was really the only other the only difference between the two cohorts um in terms of their exam. We did have more men who had sleep apnnea that was u statistically significant. More likely to have diabetes, more likely to have an elevated BMI. So all these things that kind of fit with the OSA phenotype like we're talking about we saw in our patients. We also looked at um anti-coagulation because I thought, well, maybe our OSA patients are are higher risk of being on anti-coagulation, maybe they bled a little bit more and maybe that was part of the revision, but we actually didn't find a difference there at all. So, that was kind of our preop. And then we did uh regression analysis and kind of separated all of this to make sure that there weren't any confounding variables. And still having OSA, like you said, having sleep apnea almost doubled your risk of needing a revision >> revision, >> which uh was was what I was expecting to find, which you love it when he was like, "Yes, I knew it." Uh so that was really helpful. We had four surgeons involved in this study, so our revision rate was kind of a collection of all four of us, which was nice. And a lot of different surgeries. And the nice thing that we found, I think the silver lining in all of this is that the vast majority of patients did great with one revision. And so this is not a you're never going to be able to fix your totosis situation. It's just that your lids might need a little extra oomph. It's just going to be a little harder to repair. So do you think it's led to in terms of your practice number one itident identification and helps with pre-operative counseling for patients that could be at higher risk um for reoperation but do you think it's led to more aggressive resections surgical approaches like would you be more aggressive now for those patients because they are at higher risk if there is an OSA association >> it's a really fair question so two there's two parts of that I do counsel my patients differently. I really do. I say, you know, usually it's about a 1 in 10 or or slightly higher need for revision, but in patients like you, we found that it's it's almost double. And so, the likelihood that you need a little tweaking postoperatively is higher just so that they know. And I say, you still have a really great success rate, but you might need a little tweaking. And usually they're fine with that and they understand that. I, to be honest, have not too much changed my technique. I don't want to overcorrect patients on the table. And so it's hard to know if they look great on the table, but then they come in and they're low again. I found that patients who and and this is true, I think, for alltosis. And tois surgery is really hard. It just I ask any oculoplastic surgeon, it's just not an easy surgery. It's unpredictable and you think you nailed it on the table and then they come in and they look terrible or it was really tough on the table and they come in and look great. So, but I found that if I I'm struggling on the table to get the contour right or to get the lid elevated, that's a bad prognosticator. And so then I know they might need a little tweaking. One thing I've started, well, one thing I do um which is slightly unique to my practice is that for all of my revisions, I don't do a levator revision. I do a facella, which takes a little bit of tarsus and is a posterior approach. And we're about to write this up, but we found that it's a great technique for levator failures. And I think it's a little stronger taking Tarsus and a little more durable, especially in these patients who have an unstable tarsus. So that's my technique is if they fail a levator, I do a Fascinella and it pretty much always works. But these patients are tricky and I think knowing this ahead of time, you can really counsel them so that their expectations are set off the bat. Well, and as I asked the question, I realized myself you still, even though your failure rate was higher, >> still 80% >> of your OSA patients were happy and 90% of the non OOSA. So, you're still doing well overall. >> We're doing okay. >> Um, you you brought up the joy of working with residents and you listed these three. Um, just comment on in, you know, in terms of thoughts for residents being involved with projects like this. Um, how you encourage them on a project? Any thoughts of because working with in academia working with residents has its own dynamic to bring this to fruition but tips thoughts either for the students doing research or as for physicians mentoring students doing research thoughts of how do you work what are the groundwork or thoughts that you talk about with residents as projects like this move forward. I've learned a lot about working with medical students and residents and how to best mentor them. And I'm still really new and learning a lot and it's hard and I'm always thinking, man, I wish I was a better mentor. I wish I could advise them better because sometimes I don't even know the answer. And we're kind of doing it together like we'll figure methods out together because I don't really know yet either. And which is great because I learn more from these medical students than they learn from me half the time I think. But the way that I structure my research mentorship and I've actually learned a ton from Lauren Dalvin who's one of our ocular encologists who is an incredible an analytic paper writer unbelievable and an amazing mentor if you ask any of the medical students. So I usually ask Dr. Dvin what how do I advise this student? But I think the first step is to have them do a literature review. So I give them the topic and the idea. I'd say, I think that my patients with sleep apnea are having a higher rate oftosis revision. Why don't you look into that? And then I have them send me a word document that has the um paper that they've reviewed with just a little brief write up, a few little sentences about the main finding of the paper. And I tell them, this is going to help you build your citation, your reference list anyway. So, this is helpful. So, I have them do the literature review first and figure out what it's going to be. Then we usually do an outline of what's the question? What are our methods? How are we going to figure it out? Then I think the next step we're talking about methods are so important is designing your data collection Excel and making sure that it's well organized and welldesigned and you haven't left out any data points because if these students are going to review 500 or 600 charts, which they did, bless them, they then you want to make sure that you get every data point in it. So you have to really think how are we collecting the data? Are we collecting it well? And you want to format your Excel in a nice way so that the analysis is easy on the back end. Everything should be numerical zeros or ones. You should have legends for everything. I I've learned all of this. It's not easy. And then once you get your data collection, then it's more plugandchug. So then they can go and then the last tip I'll give you that I've learned again from Dr. Dvin is that when I have students writing a paper, you it's really helpful to do one section at a time. So we'll just write the abstract first. Honestly, we just format the tables and we go back and forth forever formatting the tables because once the tables are done, the results have written themselves almost. So you got to work on all the tables and get them beautiful. Then we write the abstract and get the abstract really nice. Then it's like, okay, just send me the intro and maybe methods. Don't even worry about writing up the results or discussion yet. And you kind of take it one piece at a time because as a mentor, you get this six-page paper and it's daunting. I can't like I can't even look at the discussion right now. We got to we got to just edit the intro. >> So I just doing it one section at a time is really helpful. And it's >> it helps them get through it piece by piece. It also helps you review it piece by piece. >> Yep. Yep. So that's everything I know. And but I think this paper was kind of a nice um highlight of how all the pieces fit together and hopefully it helps. And so if anybody's listening, hopefully it helps you counsel your patients. If you have a OSA patient and you're going to do a levator, you might have more trouble >> and wonderful. Yep. We're all in it together. >> That's wonderful. >> Well, let's move on to your paper now. Here, this is a surgical technique that is so exciting. So this is novel superior oblique anterior fiber plecation with or without adjustable sliding knot for extorrsion. This was published in the journal of apost just this year and is a really slick surgical technique that going to change the world. Make sure you heard that because for anyone just hearing the words superior oblique adjustable extortion, they're probably wanting to turn off the podcast right now. Yes, we need either good acronym or to just call it the bothin technique. I love it. So, tell us about the inception of this paper. Well, and even maybe back up a little bit because you're talking about extorrsion. >> What is torsion and how do we treat it? Like what are you even talking about here in strabismas stbismas land? >> I'm going to take people way back to their their strabismas residencies um or experiences. All I remember is torsion is a barrier to fusion. >> There you go. Or it can be. >> That's all I know. >> So again, our eyes move in all different directions and we think of, you know, abduction and and aduction, elevation, depression. Um, but there are these torsional movements and they happen in in in a micro environment for how we lock and fuse and move in all directions. Our we most of us remember there could be primary, secondary and tertiary devi or um actions of our muscles. And so the recti and the superior o the oblique um and the rectus muscles vertically not only affect vertical movements but also torsion. >> Yes. >> Um for people that kind of goof all of up and wonder what does what. Everything that sits on the top of the eye in towards the eye. The superior rectus and the superior oblique in toward the eye and everything on the bottom of the eye extorts the eye. >> I love it. So diseases that affect either restriction or weakness of any of these rectus muscles can affect torsion. >> And we see patients come in um with all sorts of stismous problems. Often times there will be a vertical deviation and there will be a an associated torsional problem. Um you talk about things that aren't documented enough. Um, when you have patients in your practice with horizontal deviations, we all are used to putting a prism up and measuring it. And sometimes people get comfortable vertically. But what's often missing is how often people pick up a doublematics rod or some other metric to measure. Is this vertical deviation associated with some torsion? Or is a patient that can't fuse for whatever reason, even though they look pretty straight, are we missing some part of torsion? Um but typically torsion is associated with a vertical problem. And most torsion that we see that's surgically manageable or caused by say a fourth nerve pulsey or thyroid is extorrion. So the top of the eyes rotated out in each eye in relationship to the other side and the bottom's rotated in. So you get an extorted picture. >> Um that's that background of that. And over time it's interesting I mentioned that these muscles have different functions. And leading up to this paper, it was kind of fun that I I had met when I was a resident I helped out in a practice in Adina called Southdale Eye Clinic. And I have great memories um of the physicians there. One of which was a Dr. Frink. >> Okay. >> And Dr. Frink um was quite senior. He retired I think when I was in residency. But when I was a medical student, I used to got to work in this practice and help out in with medical charting. Well, anyway, Dr. Fin's father was also an opthalmologist. But what most people that are in stbismas need to be in stbismas and maybe a little more senior to know that Dr. Frinkin senior was into muscles and he dissected the anatomy of the obliques >> and back in the 50s and 60s started to describe the anatomy and the function of the oblique muscles right here in Minnesota. And um his paper was sort of landmark in 1962 that he realized that the superior oblique tendon that comes from the troleia up by the nose across the top of the eye and some fibers head towards the lateral and some fibers head towards the macula. >> Those fibers fed out spread out in a fan and they work on the eye differently. So the posterior fibers sort of pull on the macula upward bringing the eye down >> and the temporal fibers toward the lateral pull on the on the lateral aspect of the eye and torque it in. So we have both um it the the oblique also abducts the eye a little bit but that's a tertiary anyway. The point is it's a it elevates and torqus the eye >> based on where the fibers are. >> Where the fibers are. >> Yeah. And so in a right eye, if you're looking at this podcast, and my fist is the right eye and my left hand with my elbow is the troleia, the anterior fiber is my pinky pulls the eye in a torsional direction. He was the one that described that and said, "I think the anterior fibers must do torsion." >> Mhm. >> Two years later, this is the importance of reading articles and advanced disease. Um, Dr. Haratito in Japan decided to operate on those anterior fibers and put stitches on them and pulled them in a stronger direction to affect extortion. So you're enhancing the intorting effect of the super oblique extortion and for many many many years people would do a Herata Edo technique. Then there was a Dr. Fels that came along and said wait a minute I think I can do this a little differently. And Dr. the Fel's variant. He they took the fibers off, just the anterior fibers, usually onethird of the super oblique. >> They take it off and they brought it way over by the lateral and reattached essentially advancing those fibers to make them stronger. Um over time, um Dr. Gayton and then when my colleague here that I learned much from Dr. Jonathan Holmes was really into adjusting for torsion and a lot of practices if you either fix torsion or you don't and you do a herata with the fellows variant if you want it. Um if you want some torsional help that gets you five six degrees of intor torsion improvement okay >> and you just try to get it close >> but I became all the more appreciative of with through Dr. Holmes's mentoring and working with him as a colleague for many years about how to adjust it a little better. But there are things about techniques you learn that you think I don't know that I like it quite this way. Um, part of it was I don't like to adjust. You talk about floppy lids, lifting the lid and everything's all floppy and it's exposed up there. Well, a lot of patients are not floppy and they don't their upper lid doesn't want to lift up. They don't want to look down. They're bellsing up. And if your torsion's off, adjusting them postoperatively is hard. Number two is it always bothered me that one dose for everybody is what you do for torsion >> where in most of stbismas that's not the case. If you drift a little bit you do a little bit of surgery. If you drift a lot you do a lot. >> Um and I got fascinated by work including Jonathan Holmes that found around a millimeter of advancement resection advancement corrects about a degree of torsion. >> That's great. And then I took another piece of information saying, "Oh, if you tack tendons in different places or muscles, you can sew them in one place but do the adjustable in a different place for easier access for these people that don't want to want to blink." So, I came up with these. I shouldn't say came up with I stole techniques from all of these um plecations that we do on rectus muscles. >> Um the adjustable stitch that Dr. Holmes had taught me and um Hemi hangback where you take little attachments and sew them somewhere else and I came up with this sort of novel as in the title way to pleate for the spear blank >> as a way of saying how much do we get and I found I probably don't even need to title it with adjustment because most patients if you do it once you gain a certain number of experience in this it's rare to need to adjust it >> because of that one to one to one ratio >> and and maybe being a little conservative in some patients but with that um I found this worked and so I my this particular paper summarized 14. Now I at the time I did this paper and shout out to my fellow mode Anderson um up in in Montreal um mode was a stellar fellow and helped write this up. We went through and we thought well sometimes you do a torsion surgery at the same time you're doing other surgery >> and so how do you know that because the superior oblique or the rectus muscle what works? So we we eliminated all about 50 patients that had this procedure done with some of their concurrent surgery. Got it. >> And so this was a summary of 14 patients that had >> um either one or both of these >> um plecations of the superior oblique >> and um we maybe put it up in the chat. There's a figure that was published in the journal of apost this year. >> That figure is beautiful. >> Um an A and a B. Essentially, you you get a little suture attached on just the anterior fibers. How much? I just probably do 15 or 20% of the tendon. >> Mhm. >> I measure so many millimeters up. And so, if I want to fix six degrees of extortion or 10°, I will im imate the tendon close to that. And then I sew just in front of the tendon. Usually, it's about a millimeter in front. So, if I'm trying to fix seven degrees of extortion, >> I'll probably imbate six degrees or six millimeters of the tendon. And then I sew it down that extra little in front and then I bring it forward with a noose. And it's been a neat procedure. I realize again um I also have in the paper that you can maybe put up second a picture right now a figure two and you can see an actual eye with the diagram. >> Um and it's been fun. So we we had patients everywhere from just a tiny bit of torsion two three degrees to up to 30 >> and they did beautifully. >> Yeah, that's wild. Just looking at this initial figure or the chart you have, you had the plecation amount ranged from 2 to 12. That's a lot. And it sounds like you did even more on some of these that you didn't include in this paper. >> Well, I will say this. I think once you get above 10, 11, 12, I've appreciated the benefits of just going bilaterally. More often than not, those are bilateral fourth neuropies. It's just like if you have a big esotropia, we oftentimes do a little bit of esotropia correction on both eyes. Both eyes. So similarly, you can correct torsion in either eye and what the patient experiences >> is the correction. You even if you'd ex or intort their nonpsied eye, >> they their head stays straight. They don't experience torsion and their alignment is improved between the two. Got it. Um so through this journey I I don't usually chase after more than say 10 um degrees of torsion before I usually make it a bilateral procedure maybe with five or six on each. >> Sure. >> And it ended up being positive. It doesn't affect horizontal deviation. It doesn't typically affect um vertical deviation. You always got to be aware of brown syndrome which was that thing we all learn about that with a tight superior oblique. Um but you can check that on the table when you're done. So, for those of you doing stbismas out there, it's a fun tool to try. Um, there's a video online and for me, it's been a a neat step this year of sharing a technique I've learned from over many years and have shared now um to our community. Uh, and it's gained some traction. It's been fun to have people reach out to say, "Hey, I tried that. It's easier than I thought." Um, certainly the care would be don't go digging after superior oblique unless you're comfortable doing so. It's you can you can have some challenges, but for in the hands of people that are used to striisma surgery, >> um it's I think a a safe approach to do it. And if you did it and tightened it and it was >> um you didn't like it and for you caused a browns, you could just cut the stitch and it goes back to a normal where it was before. But again, I a fun technique and for me um we talk about what we learn and I think as you talked about the collaborative effort and answering a question for me it's fun when you take surgical pieces that you through your life have mastered and tailor it to a patient >> and then through that realize how um collectively you gather this information and share it and it changes what other people do and that's a a really um neat way a beautiful way that which our individual care um through research >> um helps others in care. >> I love that. And I love that we're still developing new surgical techniques. There's so often that I want to try somebody's technique. It's like, oh, let me let me look at that paper and see how they did that. And it's amazing that we're still advancing techniques and like you said, I love how you said putting little pieces together. It's like you know how to do a hangback and you know how to do an adjustable suit, you know how to do a plecation, but how do you still pull the trigger, let's say, on really trying something new? Because that's always my biggest concern, I think. Oh, I really want to try this, but who's going to be my first patient that I try it on? And how do I decide, you know, how do you know when to try new things as a surgeon? >> That's a great question. I I think that just like in our training, there was a certain point where you just you can do a case but you don't want to rock the boat. Don't change anything just and I can get this done. And then over time you get comfortable with that approach and you're able to do it maybe more in an ambidextrous way or a little bit more creative and it's just part of learning your surgical expertise the craft >> and with the appreciation as you can recognize with it doesn't stop with our trainees. it affects our whole careers as we learn to be, you know, more careful, um, better outcomes, um, better healing, whatever it might be. But going back to your question, when as you're wanting to consider something new, I first and foremost, it falls back to the, you know, the ethical quality approach that you know about care within the realm of our surgical practice >> and medical practice. Number two, as I think videos online. I mean, this thing's online now. There's so much material online to go watch videos on to say, I wonder if I could see that. Number three, mentors. >> I even to this day will rarely text, but I really appreciate them. Um, Steve Archer and Monte Gamonte, my mentors from decades ago, and and they're still father figures to me. You know, they they're my oaks of education that taught me to muscle. And every so often, I'll send them a text. You ever have a case like that? um colleagues um across the country and then literature and and I actually there was someone I when I wrote this up I realized there was a person it's in the it's in the references that did two cases of plecated superior oblique in uh Iran and published it and I was unaware now they didn't have the adjustable nudes and these things but >> the wealth of literature and I think collectively um through our practice we grow to appreciate when it's appropriate to expand and when it's right to stay in the lane of what we're doing. >> Yeah. >> All right. This has been so much fun. >> It's been great. >> We've had a blast. And I I know we've been we've we've taken some time, but hopefully when whatever you're doing, >> you can appreciate a um the ongoing art of of academic advancement. >> Um the appreciation for those of us that um are part of that um but also for those that aren't that are heading to academy and reading posters, go learn something new, pay attention to the methods, and appreciate the the teamwork behind each of those pieces. Love it. Thanks so much. Congrats. >> You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast on our website. Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.