People living with cancer and their families often worry about paying for treatment, even if they have insurance. Keeping track of tests, treatments, bills, and paperwork can feel overwhelming. But you can ease some of the stress with financial health planning. This means staying organized to help lessen the financial stress that comes with a cancer diagnosis. This stress is often called financial toxicity. Financial toxicity describes how costs of cancer care can cause financial concerns for patients. It is common during cancer care. It may cause people to skip tests and appointments, skip medicines or split doses of medicine, or refuse recommended treatment. This can lower your chances of getting the best treatment results. This video will explain four ways to manage the cost of cancer care and minimize financial toxicity. First, how to be organized. Second, know who your Mayo Clinic care team is. Third, the importance of planning ahead. And fourth, how to manage your debt. Staying organized can help you better manage the financial aspects of your care. One way to do this is to find a method that works best for you to keep track of insurance paperwork, appointments, and other medical documents. It's important to stay on top of your medical bills and not ignore them. Here are some ways to keep track of medical bills. Create a budget or system to stay organized. Keep all medical paperwork like bills and claims in one place. Use a box or a folder to store copies of all related paperwork. Look into anything that seems odd or incorrect. And the other thing I would say is you can't just depend on your doctor or your specialist or your health care provider to fight to get you what you deserve, okay? You have to be an active party and stay involved in, you know, maybe it's calling every day. Maybe it's calling every other day, following up, getting names. Getting organized really involves setting up a Microsoft Word document, Google Doc, whatever you use. You could use a notebook. I like to be able to search and find things. But just recording, and I do it in a chronological order, like every appointment. These strategies can help you submit claims on time and match bills with your insurance explanation of benefits. You might also want to request a case manager from your medical insurance company. This person can be your point of contact and help with any insurance concerns that come up. You can also ask a family member or caregiver to take on this task for you. Remember, it's okay to ask for help. I think what I learned about being an advocate in this situation is just being very frank about what's happening so for example if I would call the short -term facility office for instance and they sounded like it wasn't a priority for them and it was going to take them a little bit longer I would I think that would be a moment where I would like step in and be and just be very um direct and say this is something that we need as soon as possible because my dad is undergoing severe treatment um or very invasive treatment and we really need to make sure that he's doing okay and that this isn't something that we have to worry about so i think in a way it was a lesson for me uh on how to be more direct open and transparent about our needs um and sort of explain why that was something that we needed to get done. Your Mayo Clinic care team, led by your doctor, can include nurse practitioners, physician assistants, nurses, clinical social workers, patient navigators, and financial navigators. Words of encouragement would be that, you know, if you're getting your cancer care at the Mayo Clinic, I want to say there's a huge amount of support within just within the medical team and it really makes it easier to I think it just makes it easier in general to have that support to know that there's always going to be someone that you can contact anything related to to the cancer care treatment we could really feel like there was this human connection and that they truly cared how we were doing not only for my dad physically, but also for the entire family emotionally and whether we were getting the resources that we needed. So I'd say for us, that was huge. So I'd say you're in great hands and you're going to be getting a lot of support and they're there. Your Mayo Clinic care team is ready to listen, answer your questions, and provide support and resources during your treatment. If you have any concerns about paying bills, medication costs, or other related concerns. There are resources and programs available to help you. Reach out to your cancer care team, financial navigator, social worker, or patient navigator to discuss your concerns and find the resources that might be right for you. I think though that it's really helpful to ask somebody else for help because I was thinking I could go out and find all these different resources and like ways to get different funding or different insurance coverage and things and it was just too overwhelming I think like going through treatment and then especially with the chemo your brain is just it's too foggy to really like think about things clearly and then you also don't want to put everything on your caregiver too so I think asking someone some other resource like maybe a social worker or someone else at Mayo to just help you with like finding some resources to get different funding or I guess some sort of like scholarships or other coverage that can help you with things too. I think that's always a good choice and that was something I was reluctant to do at first too because I'm always used to doing everything myself. Beyond your care team the cancer education blog on Mayo Clinic Connect is an online resource providing free education and support to cancer patients and their support network at all male clinic sites. It is also an online community connecting you with people facing similar health challenges. Your care team may suggest other ways to improve your financial health, such as planning ahead and managing debt. You can plan ahead by using financial and other resources to help lower the cost of medicine, treatment, lodging, and parking. Some examples include non-profit organizations and community resources, fundraising opportunities, and assistance programs for medicine, debt counseling, and payment plans. Some ways to help manage debt include knowing your out -of-pocket maximum. You can find out what this is by speaking with your insurance provider. Another way to manage debt is to talk to a Mayo Clinic Financial Navigation team member. A third way to manage debt is to understand your current budget and where you have unpaid bills. And finally, connect with a Mayo Clinic social worker to assess your needs and review possible options to help you reduce your debt. Managing the cost of cancer care can be stressful, but you don't have to handle it alone. By staying organized and keeping track of bills, paperwork, and appointments, you and your family can take small steps to ease the financial toxicity of cancer care. Your Mayo Clinic care team is here to support you offering resources and guidance. Whether you talk with your care team, lean on caregivers, or join the Mayo Clinic Connect online community. There are people ready to help. This ensures you and your family can focus on what matters most, healing. Thank you for trusting Mayo Clinic with your care.