Welcome to Mayo Clinic Sleep Medicine Podcasts, a series for physicians, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other health practitioners treating sleep disorders or interested in learning about state-of-the-art advances in sleep medicine and sleep health. I'm your host, Dr. Michael Silver >> and I am your co-host Dr. Mai Rejuna. We are both consultants at the Center for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. >> Our podcast topic today is late to bed and late to rise. Everyone who works in adolescent and adult sleep medicine has at times to consider the diagnosis of the commonest intrinsic circadian rhythm disorder, delayed sleepwake phase disorder. To discuss this perplexing condition, my guests today are Dr. Robert Oja, associate professor of psychiatry and Dr. Robin Lloyd, associate professor of pediatrics. Both are board certified sleep specialists at Mayo Clinic in Rob, let's start with the chronobiology. We teach that normal adolescents go through a transient physiologic phase of evening preference and a delay in sleep onset and waking. This just seems so strange. What are the possible eeologies or mechanisms that could explain this phenomenon? Yeah, I think there are a few. Um, the first thing I would say is that it it it has been definitively demonstrated that there is a physiological a physiologic delay, excuse me, in association with pubertal development. There's a study that shows a direct correlation between the delay in melatonin secretion and Tanner stage pubertal development. So, it's it's definitely well established. As far as the ideologies, I think the there's a variety of proposed ideologies. Um I think um probably the best evidence supports a transient increase in the period length and the circadian period length or tow. There was a study by Cara Carcaden and colleagues that showed um increased circadian period length among her adolescent population in comparison to a separate adult population. And there are actually a couple of animal studies, rodent studies that show um increased circadian period length or increased tow in the pubertal uh rodents in comparison to their adult and prepubescent counterparts. So I think that's probably one um potential ideology, probably the best data supports that ideology. Um the other is um there's pretty good evidence that there's um kind of a dampened homeostatic um sleep response in response to sleep restriction. So that um uh even in the setting of chronic sleep restrictions such as what occurs with adolescents that attend um schools with early start times that there's um a um a dampened homeostatic sleep drive. So they still um that might also influence their the fact that they fall asleep later at night. That's there's also good evidence supporting that um theory. And then there's some isolated evidence I would say conflicting um some studies that show the enhanced effects of light um as far as uh exerting delaying effects during evening hours. Then also some select studies that show dampening of the phase advance response to morning light. So um I would say you know and and it could be some combination of all of the above. There could be that some cases are representative of different ideologies but I think the most evidence supports the the transient increase in um circadian period length. So, you know, all of this may just, I suppose, be an epiphenomenon of hormonal changes or neural changes during adolescence. Um, I I'm not aware that there's any positive um benefit for adolescents to have this pattern. I mean, obviously, I'm thinking teologically now and as I say, it may not be teological at all. Are we has anybody ever suggested that there's some good reason why sleep has evolved or circadian rhythms has evolved to give this transient phase delay period in adolescence. The only theory that I've heard is that, you know, back when we were, you know, cavemen that perhaps it would be to our advantage as we were getting older and and and stronger and maybe um um we were the more protective members of the family that there'd be some advantage to the to stay up late and and and to have an ability to stay up later and protect the the the household or the or the the cave or whatever it may be. from from sort of predators in the dark and I suppose we have to remember that primitive man had a very short life expectancy and adolescence was really our middle age today. Sure. >> So yeah that's that's interesting. So Robin is delayed sleepphase disorder as opposed to just the physiologic changes that most adolescents go through is delayed sleep phase dis adolescence predominantly due to an organic brain disorder or to be behavioral psychosocial factors. Is this important? Is it a useful paradigm to try distinguish this or not? And if so, should we be doing tests such as measuring dim light melatonin onset to perhaps identify different phenotypes? Is this at all helpful? >> These are great questions, Mike. And we know that delayed sleep phase disorder in adolescence is indeed a complex condition with likely an interplay of both organic and behavioral, psychological, and social factors. As Rob touched on, when we're thinking about the biologic issues, the longer circadian rhythm, the later melatonin secretion, the slower sleep homesis uh buildup, the altered light sensitivity, the genetic predisposition. These are all biological factors, but clearly there are significant behavioral factors um that interplay and exacerbate the underlying biological predisposition. So, when we're thinking about behavioral factors, of course, the thing that jumps first to mind would be the excessive screen exposure and blue light exposure that our teens tend to have, especially in the evening hours. Um, whether it's TV, computer, you know, phones, video games, etc. Um, we know they tend to have more irregular sleep schedules, poor sleep hygiene, um, substances, whether they're caffeine, uh, tobacco, THC that can interfere with sleep, social, academic demands, and of course, um, early school start times. In addition to these factors, we know there are significant psychological factors. So individuals with this disorder may indeed have increased rates of mood disorders, ADHD, anxiety, depression. And so I think the take-h home message is that there are indeed both biological and um behavior psychosocial kind of impacts that are negatively impacting our sleep and teens and ultimately resulting in sleep deprivation. So in answer to your question about should we be doing more investigations to sort out how much is behavioral, how much is biological, my my uh personal belief is that I don't believe so since more than 40% of individuals who meet the DSM3 TR criterion for having delayed sleep wake phase disorder do not have a delay in the dim light melatonin secretion. So I think this demonstrates the interplay of the biologic and the behavioral factors and that we really don't know the significance of delineating how much is biological, how much is behavioral because there is such an interplay. >> So Robin, let's then typical history of let's say a junior in high school who cannot or says he they cannot initiate sleep earlier than 2 am. and wakes with difficulty to catch the school bus in the morning. They have a record of poor school attendance, academic decline. So can you make the diagnosis of delayed sleep phase um or sleepwake phase disorder entirely on such a history or is a sleep log or actctigraphy necessary before you make that definitive diagnosis? Well, according to the ICSD3TR, the diagnostic criterion for um delayed sleepwake phase disorder does require sleep logs. Um ideally accompanied by ectigraphy for seven and ideally 14 days. What I found about sleep logs is that they are essentially useless in this population. So often what I see is that our kids are out there filling them out for the preceding two weeks five minutes before our appointment. So meaningless. Even worse yet is oftenimes the parent is filling them out for the child for the preceding two weeks while the child's asleep in their lap. So or in the chair next to them. So I personally really find actigraphy most useful. >> Good. That's helpful. Now, won't you please share with our listeners, Robin, how you would approach the management of this child? Let's say you've done the actigraphy, demonstrated that the history was accurate, that's exactly what's happening. Um, adequate sleep as long as the child is able to sleep in in the morning. Well, first of all, I tell my patient and their family that this is one of the most difficult problems that I treat because it requires discipline, consistency, and a desire to change. And unless everyone in the room can commit to this, it's not going to change. So, so often it's a parent saying, "Oh, yes, we need to change, but the child is not willing to change." Unless there's that discipline, consistency and desire to change, it will not change. So I start there. Then I focus on sleep hygiene, avoidance of um caffeine and other substances and then sleep environment, removing the technologies, having technology free time before bed. Um big focus as a starting point. Next thing I work on advancing the sleep schedule. So, I favor the phase advancement approach rather than the delaying approach. And it's a little more labor intensive, but it it tends to to to stick in that I have the patient start with their habitual sleep time. So, say he's falling asleep at 2:00 a.m. in this situation. Then I start at that point backing it up every 15 minutes, every 3 to 4 days, and then having him get out of bed 9 hours later, every 3 to 4 days, backing both the bedtime and the rise time by 15 minutes. I recommend first of the morning light exposure. And I review how important this is with the timing because the parent is oftentimes anxious to get the child out of bed and they may give light exposure too early before the core body temperature need which only further exacerbates the delay in the sleep phase. So we talk about how important the timing of the the light exposure is. Ideally it's natural outdoor sunlight. Um, there are alternatives in terms of light boxes, but those can be a little bit more challenging in the teenage population. I also recommend melatonin, a.5 milligram dose, 4 to 6 hours before their desired bedtime. So, if we're aiming for a bedtime of say 10:30 ultimately to around 7 to allow for that sufficient sleep opportunity of around 9 hours, 8 and 1 half, 9 hours. Then I have them do the melatonin at supper time, so around 5 to 6:00 p.m. As one might imagine, this can be challenging and we have to work with the schools, but so often these kids are truent missing significant school, especially in the mornings. And so oftentimes the schools are willing to provide some accommodations as long as the child is working on on modifying this problem. sometimes providing a letter for um first hour study hall versus um an independent study class where it allows for some flexibility in the morning. That can be very very helpful. And then lastly, being a junior in high school, he's most likely driving. And so we talk about the importance of driver safety. And really I discourage the parents from allowing the child to drive until we really have focused on them having sufficient sleep opportunity and working out this problem. >> Well, that is that is such a helpful synopsis. I guess also an assessment for depression and whether that needs to be independently treated. >> Yes, I am glad you mentioned that. Absolutely. So addressing any kind of underlying uh mood disorders and treating those appropriately as well as any other primary sleep disorders. And so you know if the patient is having snoring and disrupted sleep uh in addition to having a delay in their sleep phase then it's important to address other comorbid conditions. Great Rob given that this increased eveningness circadian preference is basically associated with adolescence. What happens after adolescence? You're an predominantly an adult psychiatrist. Does it usually revert to a more morningess preference um or does it persist? So, um I think it normally reverts more to a morningness preference. I can tell you there's a there's a huge study 20 20,000 plus individuals. I think it's a Scandinavian study and they looked at um circadian preference serially and showed that a crescendo pattern that um um with that uh circadian evening of circadian preference peaking at about 20 years old and then a gradual decline towards morningness. So in so far as DSWPD represents an extreme phenotype of that evenous preference, I think that um I think the answer is yes. I think it does dissipate during the later years and honestly that's just what I see clinically as well. Now the one factor that might be confounding that a little bit is that once the individuals reach their 20s they're can they have more flexibility in their schedules. they might seek employment that conforms with their circadian preference etc. But to answer your question generally I do think that um that it does um decrease in frequency with um after after the 20s. So we can be hopeful that perhaps most of Robin's patients with the passage of time will revert to a more traditional adult pattern. But some we know do persist. And by the time we see these patients in adulthood, the ones that I've seen, often experience severe psychosocial problems, failure at college, inability to hold daytime traditional jobs. Um Rob, can you outline your management strategies for adults with delayed sleepw sleepwake phase disorder? Uh do they differ from Robins or um that she uses for adolescence or is it much the same? In particular, I I noted with interest that the most recent ASM guidelines on the treatment of this disorder, which dates back to 2015, um was neutral on light therapy for adults, not because they didn't think that it helped, but because there just was no adequate data. Has this changed since then? >> So, that has not changed. Those guidelines need to be updated pro. Um that that's that's coming soon. Although I I'm not aware of any data that um any um emerging um data that um is going to enhance that grade recommendation. The grade being the method of assessment that the ASM uses for um um their uh practice guidelines. Um, I think my recommendations are pretty similar to Robins as far as um melatonin um instructions um advancing the sleep schedule. Um I do recommend light therapy because I think it's very practical the in the adult population. You can get these small medical grade light boxes. I have one in my office right here. Um um they're very compact. they can uh most of us spend a lot of our time in front of the computer. They can use that during uh morning hours. So I do incorporate that despite what the um what the guidelines have said. The only other thing I would add that that um in addition to what Robin said is that I I actually since I do start viewing it as more of a fixed trait um when it persists into adulthood, I do often request accommodations and assist the patients with accommodations with their job, later start times, um remote work, um flexible scheduling, etc. >> Right. Um, let's just talk a little bit about light therapy a moment. Um, do you have the box there? Can you Is it [snorts] portable? Can you show our listeners who watching this on YouTube rather than just listening to it what it looks like? The one you've got there. Oh. Um, just bring it a little in front of your chest. >> How's that, >> Rob? That we can see it a little more clearly. Can you bring it in front of your chest? There it is. Okay. Thank you very much. Now is that a all color white light or is it blue light and what do you think of the difference? More and more blue light is being recommended. Is that valid? So the um the blue light um with the discovery of the uh uh the retino ganglen cells and the and their sensitivity to um melanopsin which is or the the melanopsin which is um um sensitive particularly sensitive to blue light. There was a huge push commercially for blue light boxes, but the studies that have been done have shown that there's no superiority, no inferiority either with the blue light boxes. With respect to the bright light boxes, I personally recommend the bright light boxes partly because they're also effective for seasonal affective disorder. Um, which and I think there's a little bit of an overlap there particularly if you're living in Minnesota. I think it's a very common to have at least subclinical um seasonal effective disorder. So I this the box that I just showed you is a bright light box 10,000 lux um full spectrum not full spectrum but um not not exclusively um blue light. >> Right. >> And Robin does you feel the same? >> Yes, I do. And of course, natural light is is the best, but again, being in the upper Midwest in the winter, that can pose its own challenges. But yes, when we're looking at u the light supply, I like the 10,000 lux um if we can't have the outdoor um light exposure. >> Now, I'm going to throw a curveball at both of you. Um this is sort of almost our last question. How successful is all this? Both of you are highly experienced. Most sleep specialists see an occasional patient with this. Um they have learned theoretically what to do, but they don't often have a lot of experience following these patients. Robin, first, how actually successful are you um in getting your your adolescent patients to actually get back to a reasonable schedule and improve the quality of their academic and personal life? As I mentioned, this is one of the toughest things that I do. And I I just have to tell the family right up front that, you know, unless they're consistent, disciplined, and really want to change, it isn't going to change. Now, that being said, I received a letter that just, you know, made my day uh last May, a young man who we limped through high school, and they were so proud. They were so thankful for the help that we were able to get him through high school and now he's going on to college. And you know, I wrote letters for accommodations where he wouldn't have um 8:00 classes in in in college. And um those letters are few and far between, though, >> right? And Rob, I imagine it's even harder when it's ingrained in an adult. Yeah, >> I I I think the benefits are really modest and I tell patients that, you know, um you know, you're talking about maybe um being able to fall asleep an hour earlier and and wake up an hour earlier. That's why I push more for um accommodations and um seeking schedules that um um approximate their circadian preference. I think the benefits are pretty modest with adults, >> right? Well, maybe we'll have better management and better treatment sometime in the future, though clearly both of you give incredible amounts of time and effort to try and improve your patients quality of lives. So, thank you for sharing your expertise. I'm going to ask each of you, are there any final messages you'd like to leave with our listeners? Rob, perhaps we'll start with you. Um really the only one is that I think this is very it's it's um it doesn't present clinically often as you think it does. Um they don't come in saying that they have circadian rhythm sleep disorder. They'll often say that they have trouble waking up in the morning or they have trouble falling asleep at night. So um just to to keep it in the differential for anyone who describes difficulties initiating or maintaining sleep or difficulties getting up in the morning and making sure that you take a careful um um sleep history and maybe even supplementing it with a uh morning and this evening questionnaire um if there's a any question of circadian rhythm sleep disorder. >> Thank you. And Robin >> I agree with what Rob was saying. Additionally, I see a number of patients presenting for hyperomnia evaluations. Um, and when we see the acttograph, they're actually sleeping great. It's just during the day and the parents only see them sleeping during the day. So, I think that's another important way that that people will present. Um, second thing I wanted to say is that there are um some newer studies suggesting that CBTI can be helpful as well as an adjunct to the therapies that we outlined. And so I think that's important to keep in mind. Lastly, I'd just like to thank you, Mike, for inviting us to be here today. And um I know Rob had previously done a podcast on advocating for later school start times. Um I think that any talk about sleep and adolescence would be incomplete without mentioning that. And I I just really stress that uh people should continue advocating for later school start times in order to uh try and help our teens be set up for success. So please keep advocating. Thank you. >> Thank you both of you. Thanks Mike. >> Thanks. >> We hope you enjoyed this podcast. If so, please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in sleep medicine and sleep health. Thank you. >> [music]