 Bruce Bruce Bruce Bruce Bruce At Mayo Clinic, I think there's a very deep culture of innovation and doing things better and for more people. And the Mayo Clinic Florida campus has really blossomed into the center of excellence in cancer care. I think that over the last few years, we have had significant advantage in the diagnosis of patients with lung cancer, meaning we are able to diagnose them earlier when it's a smaller lesion, smaller nodule. And the earlier we are able to make a diagnosis, the better outcome they will have. The diagnosis in treatment of lung cancer, the timing is critical. There have been many clinical studies that have said that earlier treatment is associated with better outcomes. And this is where Mayo excels so much in that we're able to work together as a team to bring the patient in, get the appropriate scans done, get the procedures done, get the biopsy done, and start treatment very quickly. Having a multidisciplinary team supporting the patient and overseeing the patient treatment on this journey is very, very important. I may be the doctor who's sitting in front of the patient, who's making the treatment plan and advising and supporting, but there is, you know, an army of people who help me help the patients and try to support them on this journey. Altogether, we will decide, okay, what's the best treatment for this patient? Is the best treatment a surgery or chemotherapy? Is it external radiation? Is it endobronchial ablation? Or is it a combination of treatment? This concept of multimodal approach, I think, that offers the patient the best chances for cure. Cancer care has undergone a lot of evolution, and we have seen a lot of advances in treatment for cancer over the last several years. Clinical trials are the best possible way for patients to get access to cutting-edge treatments. In other words, we can have patients get tomorrow's treatments today. Of course, our goal with every patient is to either cure or have them live longer, and the major difference that these newer therapies have made is helping a lot of patients, having a higher response, and helping them live longer and, again, live better. We are thinking about the whole patient. I mean, we're not just trying to get the best cure rates. We really want the patient to have the best experience possible. I truly believe it is an era of hope for patients with lung cancer. We have gone a long way in the progress against lung cancer. The future for patients with lung cancer is even better and better if we keep those great efforts going, and we're proud here at Mayo Clinic to be leading some of these efforts.