 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected our cardiac device implantation and extraction. Dr. Segroux will share with us how leadless pacemakers and extravascular ICDs are redefining device therapy by minimizing lead and pocket-related complications while expanding our options for patients with complex anatomy or infection risk. So we'll explore how these systems differ from traditional transvenous technologies. So, Alan, tell us a little bit about these devices. And how do these leadless pacemakers differ from traditional transvenous systems in terms of technology, the complication profile and clinical outcomes? And why should I, sort of a general cardiologist, be more knowledgeable about this or perhaps excited? Great. Well, thank you for the opportunity to be here today. And this is a really evolving field. There's a lot of new technology coming out in this. And I think it has a real chance to improve outcomes for patients. So when we think about the traditional transvenous pacemaker, you created a subcutaneous pocket, and then you had one or two, maybe three leads that transverse the veins that went into the heart. Leadless pacemakers, on the other hand, are completely self-contained. Everything from the battery to electronics are integrated into a small capsule that sits entirely in the ribentrical. The big advantage is that with traditional transvenous pacemakers, pocket and lead-related complications are the biggest issue. So we can have issues such as lead fracture, lead infection, pocket hematoma, pocket pain and pocket discomfort. We can also get complications from implanting the leads, such as pneumothorax or even lead dislodgement. So therefore, if you can remove those lead and pocket-related complications, the leadless devices provide that, and they are really valuable in terms of minimizing those complications. One of the things that's been fascinating to me is the evolution and seeing how often you all are recommending these leads. And I'd like you to hear from which patient populations. But also, it's stuck in their heart. Are there concerns about dislodgement and other things and embolus, which you don't think of if it's a lead. So first, patient population, and then what should we be thinking about? From I who don't necessarily understand all the ins and outs. Yeah, so patient population is definitely expanding. But the most classic indication for implanting a leadless device is probably someone with atrial fibrillation who has complete heart block who requires ventricular pacing only. So single chamber ventricular pacing is probably the biggest population that we do. But we now have expansion with systems. We have a dual chamber leadless system, which provides us with both atrial and ventricular pacing. And so this is gonna see a growing indication in that area. There are also the other classic indications. So high risk of infection or prior device infection, and particularly in people who are immunosuppressed, who are on immune modulated therapies, these are populations that we consider. The other key thing is that when you put a transvenous device in, you have to have access to the heart. So if you have someone with difficult access, such as dialysis patients with fistulas, people that have had central venous occlusions, people with prior lead extractions have damaged the vein, or where we're unable to implant leads, then leadless options provide a really good option. We're also probably gonna see, as we see more and more tricuspid valves being done, either percutaneously or surgically, then these leads may provide an option for pacing in those scenarios. There's a little bit of nuances about how far you implant away from the valve, but overall these represent pretty good options to preserve valve function after these surgeries. Yeah, I think the impact, when I, 20 years ago, you electrophysiologist pacemakers pretty much said, it's not because of my lead that caused this TR, right? I mean, that was sort of the comment, it's like, that was just gonna happen anyway. And I think we've really evolved from that, that even though there is some intrinsic valvular or right-sided heart, that it clearly, at least in some patients, has more of an impact on the tricuspid regurgitation development than we previously acknowledged. Yeah, no, I think that's definitely true. But the key question is when we intervene, a lot of the time we've done extractions for people with severe TR, but they've had the severe TR for months or years. And so there may be a point where the valve cannot remodel, but by far and away there is. You see leads go across the valve, it's impinging. I describe to patients, imagine if I put an electrical cable through the door, and the door is your valve, you're not gonna be able to shut the door completely. And so there has to be some role with the lead in terms of that. But I think we still don't know exactly who we should be trying to fix these leads in, but I think the data is definitely there. So I feel much better about my understanding about leadless pacemakers. So let's shift gears a little bit. What are some of the key design and functional differences between extravascular and subcutaneous ICDs? When we switch a little bit towards defibrillation therapy, again, similar to leadless, we wanna minimize hardware inside the heart. If we can make things smaller or make things extravascular, then we are at an advantage in terms of limiting complications or serious complications and hospitalizations. Both systems, the subcutaneous and the extravascular, are really on the same design philosophy. They basically say, we're gonna be on the outside of your heart and our goal is to defibrillate you, okay? The subcutaneous system has been around for the longest and it is a lead that's placed, subcutaneously underneath your skin here and the can sits in your axilla area. It's a very good device with lots of clinical data supporting it. The one downside to this device is, it doesn't provide any anti-tachycardial pacing. And so if a patient goes into a lethal rhythm such as ventricular tachycardia and you wanna try to pace them out of it, instead of shocking them, this device does not have that function. All transvenous devices have the ability to do anti-tachycardial pacing. And the advantage with that is you minimize your risk of shocks and minimize complications associated with that. The extravascular ICD is the next generation system where the lead is placed under the sternum and so it's almost like we're doing a mini surgery and we basically tunnel the lead underneath the sternal bone and then again, the can goes out to the side. The advantage with that is because you're closer to the heart, you're able to provide anti-tachycardial pacing and you can also provide some backup bradycardial pacing which the subcutaneous ICD can't. And so because the lead is closer to the chest, the battery or the energy required to defibrillate is lower. So what's great is the extravascular ICD is a similar size to the transvenous. So from a cosmetic and patient comfort point of view, this has been a real improvement in that area. That's great. And so when we're thinking about it, and obviously you're going to be directly talking to the patient, but what are the advantages and limitations that we should understand, somebody like me, but also how you talk through with the patients in terms of, I'm thinking about battery life and none of these devices last forever. Most people, particularly if they're younger, are looking at some kind of replacement in the future. What else should we be thinking about? Yeah, great. So we'll tackle that from the leadless pacemaker point of view because that's really an important point. So the leadless pacemaker, the issue is probably the biggest issue they have is battery longevity. And particularly we're getting about 10 or 12 years out of the single chamber ventricular devices, which is good, but we don't really know, well, what happens in 10 or 12 years? Should we extract it? Should we put another one next to it? Do we put a transvenous system? So a lot of that's still a little bit unclear. If you implant a dual chamber leadless system, and so we've done this for people that have had venous occlusions, have an SVC syndrome or had infections, I'm always really causing them to discuss with them that the battery longevity for a dual chamber leadless system, the atrium only lasts about five years on average and the ventricular only lasts about eight. And I tell them that's not a reason not to get the device because they often clearly need it, but it's just something to bear in mind that, when you come back in four or five years, we need to start thinking about what we're doing. And as we get more experience extracting those systems, I imagine it's gonna be a simple extract and then re-implant. In terms of the ICDs, the battery longevity is pretty good with the extravascular you're looking at about 12 years, which is really good for an ICD. For the subcutaneous, you're still around eight to 10 years. The key thing that I tell patients is, there's nothing perfect with any of these systems. And so, although you're trading the ability to not have stuff inside your heart, you're getting the added risk of inappropriate shocks. And that is by far the most Achilles heel issue with the subcutaneous systems. And part of that is because you're like having a far-field collection, right? And so you can pick up noise, you can pick up muscle movement, and the device can be fooled into thinking, you're gonna leave the rhythm and shock you. The subcutaneous ICD, probably most issue is senses, most of the issue is T-wave oversensing with the subcutaneous ICD. And the inappropriate shock rate from that group is probably in the realm of 4% for a subcutaneous ICD. When the extravascular ICD came out, it was very interesting. So they ran into like a completely opposite issue and the issue was they were tunneled under the chest and they were very close to the achalopendage. And so being close to the achalopendage, they started picking up P-waves. And it was P-wave oversensing, which was the problem with the extravascular ICD. And actually in the original trial, the inappropriate shock rate was close to 8% for patients with extravascular ICD. So pretty high, they subsequently have brought out newer algorithms, a P-wave algorithm to exclude P-waves from the signal analysis to determine if they're in VT. And that, I think we're gonna see the shock rate probably come down to around 5%. I think eventually we'll probably get it down a little bit lower as we start getting AI and all this kind of stuff into there. But it's still a bit of a killy's heel in terms of the limitations of subcutaneous ICDs. And I think those of us who have cared for patients with either appropriate or inappropriate shocks, it's, it may not be physically a complication, but from a mental health standpoint, anxiety, and all of that, it's really big. I mean, it's something you guys have to deal with all the time. Yeah, and it's like, and I'm very upfront with patients, but I think it's really important. And they say, well, what's the bad thing about getting shocked? I said, your heart will probably be fine, but we see a lot of anxiety and people are always worried, well, when am I gonna get my next shock? I can get a shock at any time, you know? And so there is a lot of anxiety around that, especially inappropriate shock. So what we can do to minimize inappropriate shocks is really important, you know? Yeah, so you've talked about some of the things that we still need to learn about these relatively new devices, you know, battery life, next steps when we need to, the inappropriate shock. What are you excited about? What's around the corner? If we were to say, what should we, meaning somebody like me be listening for in terms of whether clinical trial results or just new devices that might be around the corner? Yeah, so we, I mean, this is an ever-evolving field and there is gonna be probably two main interesting things coming out. The subcutaneous ICD is gonna be paired with a leadless pacemaker. So the subcutaneous ICD will be able to provide ATP and pacing support. They recently finished their clinical trial and they're waiting FDA approval. So that's gonna be coming around the corner, which will give us another advantage for patients. But I think the key thing that's probably gonna come, we know leads are bad. And sometimes we can't get around without putting leads in. But we also know that when we pace people in the right ventricle, a lot of them get pacing-induced cardiomyopathy. And so we do not have a system that's currently available, which amalgamates the ability to provide leadless and the ability to provide cardiac resynchronization therapy or conduction system pacing. So in the future, there's gonna be a lot of growth in this area. Can we do conduction system pacing with a leadless device? And there is some preliminary work that's gonna be done, but as of now, we do not have a current device that's available for that. So if somebody really needs that, they're pretty much need three leads to get to that. Correct. So yeah, so if someone needs CRT or a cardiac resynchronization therapy, a leadless device is not a good option for them. Well, thank you. I honored a lot today, as I'm sure those of us, those who are listening to us. So thank you so much, Alan. Okay, appreciate you. Thanks for having me, Alan. So this wraps up this week's episode of interviews with the experts. I'd like to thank Dr. Suguru for joining me today and discussing this really important and novel topic. We look forward to you joining us again next week for another interview with the expert. Be well. ["Mario's World Class Care"] At Mayo Clinic, relentless learning fuels world class care. I'm Dr. Benjamin Hibbert, Chair of the Division of Critical Care Cardiology. If today's episode gave you a fresh insight, imagine what a full course can do for you and your patients. Head to cveducation.mayo.edu and explore our live and online programs, quick on-demand modules, and CME accredited masterclasses, created and taught by the very voices you trust here. Join thousands of clinicians who've already turned curiosity into expertise. Level up your practice now at cveducation.mayo.edu.