Good afternoon everybody. My name is Soshenda Stevens. I am the program manager for the Alzheimer's Research Center. Uh and on behalf of our center, I'd like to welcome you to our second annual Louisbody Dementia Community Conference. Whether you're joining us here in the Kenny Auditorium or tuning in virtually from home, we're so glad you're here with us today. Louisibody dementia is one of the most complex and misunderstood forms of dementia. It can be incredibly challenging not only for those living with it, but also for families, caregivers, and clinicians. That's why today is so important. This conference is designed to inform, support, and empower you. Over the next hour, you'll hear from leading experts in the field, Dr. Neil Graphford, Dr. Dr. Dennis Dixon and Dr. Tannis Ferman who will share the latest insights on treatments, pathology, neurosychology, and the current research that is happening now. For persons living with Louie and their caregivers who are joining us in person, you will have the opportunity to attend the fellowship and support session which will be led by our certified support group facilitators Christine Trent and Candace Cresensen. We hope that by the end of today, you'll walk away not only with new knowledge, but also with a greater sense of connection and hope. Whether you are here to better understand the disease, stay updated on new research, or find support from others who share your experience, you're in the right place. Thank you for being a part of our community. Today, you will hear from each of our presenters followed by a question and an answer panel. And on your table, you will see some index cards. So, should you have any questions throughout the presentations, please write them down and then hold up your cards and a member of our team wearing blue will stop by and grab the cards. And then at at the end of all of the presentations, we will answer your questions. For those of you joining us on Zoom, please send your questions through the chat or ask a question feature. And when you checked in today, you were also given a raffle ticket. So after the panel discussion, we will be raffling off some gift baskets and other fun prizes. So please keep your tickets handy. And lastly, please help yourselves to some coffee, tea, and snacks located to the side of the room. Okay, so now let's get started. I'd like to introduce our first presenter of the day, Dr. Neil Graph Radford. So, Dr. Graph Radford is a boardcertified behavioral neurologist with over 40 years of experience in the field. He is the medical director of the memory disorder clinic, co-director of the Alzheimer's disease research center, and the principal investigator of the Louisbody dementia association research center of excellence at Mayo Clinic in Florida. Dr. Graph Radford is also a member of the state of Florida advisory board on Alzheimer's disease. Dr. Graph Radford's research focuses on the genetics of degenerative brain disease, biomarkers in dementia, Louisibody dementia, frontal temporal dementia, and normal pressure hydrophilis. He has published over 775 peer-reviewed papers and is the David Eisenberg Professor at Mayo Clinic. He is also the 2023 Mayo distinguished investigator. So please welcome Dr. Graph Ratford button. >> Yeah. Thanks. Well, welcome everybody. Thank you so much for agree uh for joining us and spending some time with us. We've got quite an interesting program. I'm looking forward to it myself. My two incredible colleagues Dr. Dennis Dixon and Tannis Ferman. You may not know this but very famous in the field of Louisbody disease amongst other things. Um Dr. Dixon um is the 23rd or about 26th I think um most published scientist in America. He didn't know that but he is. And Dr. Tannis Ferman and I have worked on Louisibody disease um for more years than we'd like to tell you. Anyhow, um, Louisibody disease has evolved over the time that I've been working. In fact, we didn't even recognize it as a disease for a long time. We missed it all. uh we thought people who uh had what's called capgrass syndrome were may have some psychiatric problems where they recognized misrecognized their own family members like their spouse as somebody else that's caprass syndrome that's part of louisibody disease and we didn't even realize that in the beginning also visual hallucinations we thought were part of Alzheimer's but it weren't they weren't um in the beginning. Anyhow, so we've learned a lot and as as time has gone by and we now have a lot more good information and uh we're going to share some of the latest of that uh today. So let's see how this works. So I'm going to discuss the key features of Louisbody and then the new biomarkers um and then I'm going to discuss uh some potential treatments uh for it. the standard treatment, but there now three clinical studies that um has have finished phase two and we have some good results on some of them. So I'm sure you'll be interested in uh hearing all about that. Um so I don't have any to declare. >> How long has this problem gone on now? The best I can recollect last November, a year ago, he was very well. He could take care of himself and everything. And then in December, he just everything uh flew out of his head. He couldn't remember anything. And um he was having starting to have bad hallucinations. He would see people out in the backyard all dressed up in military outfits. He he would see somebody hanging on the fan in the bedroom and the fan was going. He was going around with a flashlight looking under tables and chairs and the closets. He was sure that there were people all over the house. And um then did you want to know about the um episode with the police? >> He uh it was one evening about 1:00 in the morning. I heard somebody calling to me and when I went out into the den, there were two policemen there. He had dialed 911. He had said that there was somebody trying to kill us and he went out the front door and while he was doing it, he stopped in the kitchen and grabbed a knife and then he hid out in the bushes in the backyard and that's when the police found him. So really since um starting January, he has been worse than ever. >> But like I say, he doesn't know me a lot of the times. He doesn't >> tell us about that. >> He calls me um my maiden name was Finn. He'll say to me, "You're Virginia and Finn, but uh where is my wife Jenny?" And he can't he can't get it together that I'm one of the same person. And then he asked me how I'm related because he's not sure what I'm doing there. >> How long are you guys married now? >> 49 years. October this month. >> Congratulations. Um, may I ask then also um about sleeping? Tell me about his sleeping. >> He sleeps constantly other than when he's eating. He doesn't watch television or anything. So he just goes to sleep and he says, "I'm very tired." But he talks and carries on all night long in his sleep. >> Does he move as well when he sleep? >> He moves. He moves his legs, but mainly he's talking or screaming out or something like that. >> Does he seem to act out his dreams? >> Yes. because when he wakes up, he'll tell me about the people that were all in the house and he'll close the bedroom door, don't let them in, and things like that. >> Now, is he bad all the time, or does sometimes he get better or worse? >> Well, that's that's the thing that's kind of hard. He gets one day he'll seem absolutely fine and I'll get my hopes up and say, "Oh, maybe this is reversing itself or something." And then the next day he's back where he started from. >> What about his handwriting? Has that >> that has deteriorated? >> Is his handwriting bigger, smaller, same size? >> I would say smaller. >> Smaller. >> I don't know if that makes any sense. >> What about doing things like buttons and laces? >> No. No. But then he has arthritis. But I have to >> Definitely not. He has to sit and think after I say anything to him. He'll just sit and think >> and then he might come out with the most outlandish comment that had nothing to do with it. >> Quite an amazing story, isn't it? I think you if you think of this case, you actually understand all the symptoms of Louis body disease. Did you recognize visual hallucinations that he sees things that aren't there? Did you recognize Capgrass syndrome? Didn't recognize his wife? Did you recognize acting out his dreams or REM behavior disorder? Did you recognize what's called fluctuations? Some days I get my hopes up and then he crashes again. Did you recognize um that he has Parkinsonism? That he handwriting smaller um and that he's not moving as well. You got it. Now you that's the tutorial case conference over. It's this this u his wife was an extraordinary good history historian and we didn't know a lot about Louis body. This was about 2001 sort of almost 25 years ago and we didn't know about some of the treatments and I'm going to show you some of that in a little while. Anyhow, so I'm going to start with what's called the consensus criteria. Ian McKith is a very famous psychiatrist from Newcastle and he he is the leading person I guess on Louisibody disease clinically. He's the one who recognized it and brought it to our attention so that we now also see. We used to look but not see but now we actually see because of him. Um, and then we're going to talk about clinical features and the biomark and the treatment. So, let's start with consensus criteria. This is Ian's uh the most recent of the papers. You can see Ian's um the the lead author on this uh paper and I'm you don't have to worry about this. I'm going to break this out a little bit, but this is the table that's in that paper and I'm going to show you that. So the clinical core features here they are fluctuating cognition with pronounced variations in attention and alertness. Sometimes he gets my hopes up that he's going to improve. Recurrent visual hallucinations. He's these things hanging on, you know, those are the same things. REM behavior disorder. He acts out his dreams. He was also sleepy during the day. That's another big feature that's also part of the sleeping problem. And Parkinsonism, small movements and so on. So you guys knew this already, right? And then fluctuations. These are episodic confusional states resembling delirium, transient periods of reduced loss of consciousness. People are admitted like this and and they're thought to have a stroke. or they have what's they think is sundowning or they call it confusional state or they think it's toxic metabolic that they've got diabetic coma or renal impairment or heart failure, respiratory problems. That's what it looks like. It's hard. And then hallucinations, they're often wellformed. um they occur in 32 to 85% of autopsy confirmed cases and um uh if they have Alzheimer's with concommentant um Louis body it occurs in that number you can see and when visual hallucination developed within within the first five years of dementia the odds are four to five times later that they're going to have louisibody disease what I mean is if louisi body if hallucinations occur in the first few years of dementia that's Louisibody if they occur five years into the disease that could be Alzheimer's and Tannis and one of my fellows and I published that a few years ago so rapid eye movement so when you are sleeping and dreaming and your eyes are moving around. Fortunately, you're paralyzed. You can't move. It saves you from beating up your partner. But in Louisbody, because of the pathology, that paralysis goes away. So you move, you act out your dreams. That's what rapid eye movement behavior disorder or REM behavior disorder is. Okay? So that's what it is. And so we had 72 people who had documented sleep studies showing they had REM behavior disorder and they died and Dr. Dixon did an autopsy on every one of them and we found 92 97 of those had Louisibody, 32 had Parkinson's, 19 had called multiple system atrophy. All of those have suclean protein deposited in the brain. So suclean has a predelction to be deposited in a specific place that causes this problem. So if you have rim behavior disorder very likely it's aromasin nucleonopathy. It's one of these three. Occasionally it can be a mistake can be Alzheimer's disease. But look at it nine out of 172 that's not many. So when we see REM behavior disorder we're very much alerted that this is a senucleonopathy. and the pathological diagnosis. Um there all sorts of things that can be combined. So what's the question? You the core question is um do they act out their dreams? And the sensitivity if they say yes, it'll catch 98% of Louisibody cases. If they say but it isn't specific. Some people say that they do it but it's due to something else and the commonest cause that looks like Louisbody is taking anti-depressants. It looks like Louis it looks like acting out the dreams but some of the anti-depressants the SSRI inhibitors cause REM behavior disorder. So we have to be cautious of that. And also patients aren't always 100% accurate in history. You're not surprised to find that. And then another core feature is Parkinsonism, bradicynesia, rest tremen, and rigidity. And is it's common in the community. 15% of people 65 to 74 have a little bit of parkinsonism. You probably know that when you look around, people walking around. And at 75 to 84, 52% have some Parkinsonism. Fewer than half of DLB cases have Parkinsonism at the presentation. So very often clinicians say this patient doesn't have Parkinsonism can't be louisibody but 50% at the beginning don't have it. They eventually develop it mo mostly but you don't have to have Parkinson's at the beginning. So that's important to understand. How are supportive clinical features from that table that I showed you? S severe sensitivity to anti-csychotic agents. This is really important. So when people have delusions and hallucinations, they are psychotic and they are taken to the ER with that and they take out the big syringe with vitamin H called haleridol and they inject them because that's the standard treatment for schizophrenia and you paralyze the people for a month. They are so sensitive to this. So Louisibody patients need to we have cards we give them to say tell your doctor not to give you these medicines and hald and some of those other antiscychotic medicines can cause Parkinsonism which is which lasts a long time and really is disabling can even be life-threatening and then they often have repeated falls and they have syncopy because they have dropping blood pressures autonomic dysfunction. Um so orthostatic hypertension that means when you lie down you take your blood pressure you stand up and your blood pressure drops more than 20 points that's orthostatic hypertension and it's due to the suclean being in the peripheral nerves in the sympathetic nerves that they don't work so well. So you you faint or pass out. And they also may have hyposmia. They may lose sense of smell. That's very common. And they also may have uh anxiety and depression. I I think anxiety more than depression actually is what worries me in what I see more in Louisbody. I don't know Tannis may have her her own opinion on that. All right. Neurolleptic sensitivity. I told you about the Hald story. And then repeated falls. We've talked about that in the autonomic dysfunction. Very much what I've just told you. And then indicative biomarkers. What biomarkers can you use to support the diagnosis strongly? So there's reduced dopamine transporter uptake in basil ganglia and we do a a spec scan or a DAT scan and we see that there's hypo metabolism in the basil ganglia. I'll show you a picture of that what that means. Or another one is you may look at the heart and look at the dopamine um uh markers in the heart or you may do a sleep study and see that they prove that they have rim behavior disorder. And so let me show you what that looks like. Okay. So you can see on the left is the Alzheimer's on the right is normal and it's like a comma in the basil ganglia but the DLB have a like a period in the middle right so they've lost the dopamine transporter in in and you can see that on what's called a DAT scan or as PET scan. So that's what that looks like. Here is the heart one. On the left is Alzheimer's. On the right is normal control. But in the middle, no dopamine in the heart. And they beginning to do this more commonly now. So that's uh important. And here is the REM behavior disorder. Look at the green arrows. The person has REM. Look at their EOG. That's their eye movements. You see how their eyes are going wild but their muscles in their arms and legs are completely silent. They don't move because they're paralyzed. Right now look at their eyes movement moving and be and what's happening is their muscles are moving and so they have in acting they have the ability to act out their dreams. They're not paralyzed when they're dreaming. So, rim behavior disorder. All right. And um sometimes EEGs may be abnormal. And we're going to show you what we see on the CT scan and the PET scan. The PET scan. This is deoxy glucose PET scan. And it shows metabolism of glucose in an anatomical distribution. And characteristically you have decreased. You see where the blue arrows in the middle are? Decreased red or metabolism of glucose in the occipital lobe. That's what Louisi body has. And then they in the middle one where the yellow arrow is that's called the island sign because there is metabolism in that area because in Alzheimer's disease that area has pathology or tower pathology and you don't have that island there. So that's those are the two characteristics of a PET scan that is charact that is of Louisibody disease. And now we're going to look at the hippocampus. These are coronal sections of the brain slicing the face moving backwards. The red boxes are looking at the hippocampus. And the hippocampus is the part of the brain that makes memory. On your right side, the NC one, that's a normal hippocampus. That one is normal size. Probably makes good memories. On the left hand side, the AD or Alzheimer's one. Can you see the hippocampus has shrunk and they like holes in the brain and that's why they Alzheimer patients have memory problems. Look at the middle one. The Louis body is a little bit in between, but it doesn't isn't as bad as the Alzheimer's and not as good as the normal control. Since we last saw Mr. Battal, sorry, I'm going to go back. So, 6 months, several months later, we're going to see Mr. Battalia how he's doing. He has to he gets admitted to the hospital. And I want you to raise your hands and say he's much much better if you believe that. No, nobody says that you guys. No faith. He's worse. He's worse. So many people think there's a few nods. He's the same. All right, let's see what we find. Since we last saw Mr. battalia. There have been some um new developments. He was admitted to hospital. Can you tell us about the hospital? When he was admitted, what happened and when discharged? >> He was admitted December the 13th, 98 with pneumonia, congestive heart failure, a problem with his diabetes, and an infection in the blood. Prior to that, he was in the same state as he was when we were last here. He I didn't notice any changes in the hospital, but then he was sleeping a lot with all the medicines. But when he came home about the first week, I noticed he was completely different. He was alert. First week is when January 15th, he came home. Uh he was alert. He talked. We could carry on a conversation, which we haven't done in about a year. And uh he would get up and walk around. He slept well. And uh he was just a completely different person. Even the uh nurses from Baptist uh came over every week. They came twice a week. >> And how many nurses come? >> I have four. I have four different nurses. >> And there was a few observations >> because one of them told me the other day she spoke to another nurse and she said, "You didn't tell me that Mr. Battalia was so well." She says, "I've been down a year there and u this is the first time I've been able to have a conversation with them just hanging and not say anything to me." >> All right, Mr. Mat, from your perspective, um, have you noticed a change as well? I noticed my my head's a little clear conversation with other people. Before I was always uh fearful that I say the wrong thing or uh have you found that your memories any better somewhat. Now tell me about your hallucinations um in the past compared to now. I think I drove on my memories these uh clownish ghouish figures that you see all around town. Mhm. Uh the witches. Are you seeing them now or is that gone away? That that that's gone. Okay. said I I had the pictures of them looking down from my ears or from your from your room. Mhm. And you agree, Mrs. Battalia, that the the hallucinations are better. >> Yes. Yes. If there is one a day, that's about it. And maybe a Monday. >> So, a miracle, right? It was a miracle for me cuz I didn't know that you could get better. But we gave him denpasil or aroscept. That's what did it. And now we know that it happens quite often. We're very lucky that we have something that is helpful. Dr. Dixon will show you that the basil ganglia not the basil the basil forbrain where the nerves that give off the acetile choline which is a neurotransmitter. The neurotransmitter is a chemical that helps nerves talk to each other and the basil former. All the cells that make acetylcholine are over there and they go to the hippocampus and they juice up the hippocampus to help us remember things. And in this disease they this disease wipes out early wipes out the basil forbrain. So you don't have acetylcholine. And what does deneazil do? It increases acetylcholine. So it's really quite remarkable that uh this actually works. All right, we're going to have a brief discussion on biomarkers. This is one of the latest and greatest um of biomarkers. They are two really quite interesting biomarkers that are have come about and they do biopsies of the skin uh at the back of the neck on the arm and in the leg and then we send it to a central place and they're publishing but we don't really believe this yet that for sucleanopathies those are those three diseases Parkinson's multiple systematropy and dementia with Louisibody disease that 213 were positive and 10% were negative. 95% um accuracy or a positive predictive value. So that you can see when you do those biopsy, you can see the suclean in the pathology. So far we've had a few quite a few cases where we've done a biopsy and it's been positive and the patient doesn't have louisibody to our mind. Maybe they'll develop it one day, but um so we're not sure about this. This is this is in a study, so it doesn't really prove anything uh from a a clinical point of view, but it is interesting that it's becoming um uh of note. And here's another one, the invivo diagnosis of senucleonopathy. Um and uh again showing that it's uh actually very accurate skin biopsy um sensitivity 90%. Um and then in this in the spinal fluid at the same time it's 78% sensitivity. You can see the specificity. So they're saying the skin biosopsy is really outstanding. However, this is recently just a few months ago, Doug Glasco, who at UC San Diego published the uh clinical experience and 72% of participants with clinically diagnosed with Louisibody had um 137 out of 13 191 had a positive um skin alphasuclean um in the spinal fluid. So, um we I we still have to work out exactly the sensitivity and specificity, but you can see it really is interesting that maybe we're going to have a good diagnostic test. What we'll do is uh if we're not sure, we'll do a skin biopsy and send it off uh to Dr. Dixon to look at it carefully for us or send it to the lab and they'll give us this also this uh alphasuclean in the spinal fluid seems very promising as well all right one or two words on treatment I want you guys who are interested in louisi body to write down diamond lou this is I think one of the best sources of information uh and it's from Newcastle and it's free and it's excellent. This is looking at each of the areas cognitive non-farmacological approaches and pharmacological use colonistra inhibitor second line meantine that's how you treat it psychiatric again colonistray inhibitors did you see the hallucinations improve with our patient uh excellent and be cautious on antiscychotics remember I told you about that even the newer ones and they don't find any evidence that anti-depressants are useful, which is interesting. For insomnia, they recommend melatonin. They don't like the Z drugs very much. Zelipid may have a role, but you have to be very cautious with them. The REM behavior disorder, again, you should try melatonin, but clonazipam you can use, but it has side effects and people fall down on clonazipam. And then we treat the problems with Parkinson's with leodopa and orthostatic hypertension. There we use all sorts of things but including fluid record and midrine and you can see some of the other things like saliva drooling you can use Botox. Um so here are some of the important um things in a nutshell which you can um download from Diamond Louie. Very good information. Here are the three phase 2 clinical trials that um these are actually unpublished. Um but um G Dr. Galvin has provided this for us. He said he'd give us uh uh what's going on. this drug called CT1812 which has also been tried out for Alzheimer's disease. Um uh we we're using that and it showed a positive signal in the few people that would the 130 patients. Can you see the um I don't know if you can see the positive um positive signal that u they found the second one they it was a negative study it failed to demonstrate benefit but what they did demonstrate is the drug they were giving wasn't being absorbed. They then got a new formulation in the open label and they gave the new formulation in the open label and people improved. So they're going to do it again but it's might turn out to be good. And then the third drug also had a positive signal but notice they're just 43 patients um in that particular one. So there's something in in in in the wings that might turn out to be useful for us um in addition to colonestase inhibitors um the uh denpasil. though just to to tell you. So I'm going to stop there um and uh pass it to my uh colleague who's next. You can do this for Thank you very much. Thank you. And as a reminder, if you have any questions uh during Dr. Graph Radford's presentations, please uh put it on the note card and a member of our team will be stopping by to pick it up later for the question and answer panel. All righty. So, our next presenter is Dr. Dennis Dixon. Dr. Dixon is the director of the brain bank for neurodeenerative disorders at Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville. The brain bank houses over 10,000 specimens, including more than 2,200 cases of Alzheimer's disease, more than 1,000 cases with Louie related pathology, and more than 1,000 cases of foropathy, mostly PSP. Dr. Dr. Dixon and his collaborators have been at the forefront of research on neurology and neuropathology as well as the genetics, biochemistry, and modeling of dementia disorders with a major focus on Alzheimer's disease and Louisbody dementia. Welcome Dr. Dixon. Thank you. >> Okay. Yes, sir. >> Thank you. >> Well, thank you for the introduction and um I'd like to tell you a little bit about the the brain pathology that we would that we have in Louisbody disease. So just I think this has been mentioned by Dr. Graph Radford that there are different ways of referring to the disease process. Parkinson's disease is a disorder associated with slowing of movement, stiffness or rigidity and tremor. Um but and Louisbody dementia is also uh called dementia with Louis bodies. It has a very different presentation uh dementia hallucinations, rigidity and slowing of movements and also fluctuations. So those are the clinical terms. Those are the clinical um presentations that we're trying to describe describe. When we do the pathology of individuals that pass away, donate their brain for research and diagnosis, we use the terms Louisibody disease, Louisbody pathology or sucleanopathy because we we can only speculate about what from what we find the relevance um to what the patient was like. So the the there's been a explosion of research on Louisbody dementia. So it was first described in the mid or early 1980s by a um very talented and uh gifted uh neurologist in Japan, Kenji Kosaka. And in fact um years since he's recently passed away people have actually suggested calling the disease Kosaka's disease but it hasn't caught on but and then and other major advances were the discovery that you could use uh markers for protein degradation which we refer to as ubiquitin and ubiquitination and this is a quite useful marker for detecting louisibody disease in um the late or 1990s um people with using genetic approaches actually discovered that there were mutations in a gene that causes Louisibody disorders and that mut mutation was in the gene called suclean or SNC is uh SNCA is a term that's used u for that that's a genetic term and uh just you know, 10 years ago, 20 years ago, we started to get di diagnostic criteria that were reliable and um we got very um advanced types of studies looking at the genetics of the disorder. So, this is just a summary of the changes. This goes this isn't probably isn't isn't up to date, but you can see that there's a great deal of progress made on Louisbody dementia. uh using v various different types of techniques such as biochemistry, electron microscopy or iminohistochemistry and in um we reported in 2002 that that in terms of our brain bank after Alzheimer's disease Louisbody was the most common cause of dementia. Um and then these are the criteria that were developed um uh for Louisbody disease. uh and they pretty much are haven't changed the in terms of other studies that were done here at Mayo Clinic. I think Dr. Graph Bradford and Dr. Furman were leaders in this field with Brad Boove in Rochester recognizing that dream enactment behavior or sleep behavior disorder RBD is one of the early signs of Louisbody disorders and in fact it can occur decades before the patients develop the Parkinsonism and the and the psychotic uh features of the disease with the we've made major advances in the genetics of Louisbody disease the major risk factor for Louisibody disease is a protein called apol lipoprotein E. This is a cholesterol binding protein that's in your blood. We don't know the link between the cholesterol and AD but they go together. People with high eye high cholesterol are at risk for AD and they're also at risk for Louisibody disease and APOE4 is a is probably the factor that contributes to both of those things. I mentioned that there were discoveries of mutations uh in this this nuclean gene the SNCA gene. Um and this actually was a discovery made by Mayo Clinic investigators of of families with Parkinsonism um that went that was diagnosed but there was no understanding of what was the cause of the familial parkinsonism. And so we now know that you can have uh um mutations in the sinuclean gene to cause that cause that familial um Louisibody dementia. Um and then there's several other major genetic discoveries. Uh the lurk 2 is lucine repeat kynise. This is the most common genetic cause of all forms of Parkinson's disease and a subset of patients with Louisbody dementia have mutations in this lucine rich repeat and then a few other more recent genes these haven't really stood the test of time but um nevertheless the work on the genetics of Louisbody dementia continue so I want to tell you a little bit about our brain about our brain banking um and I don't know where this figure came from but the the value of this sample is a lot more than 25 cents. So it be in part the value of the brain that we obtain at autopsy is greatly enhanced if that individual had good characterization during life by neurologists such as Dr. Graph or neurosychologists such as Tannis Tannis vermin. So with that wealth of clinical information, we do the pathology, do dissection, sampling, look at it under the microscope and we try to correlate the findings for what was the problem in the brain that associated with for example REM behavior disorder. So and Louisbody uh dementia is actually common. Um this shows a ven diagram looking at various types of dementia such as vascular dementia, VAD, Alzheimer's. Alzheimer's is the big um uh elephant in the room. It basically 42% of all dementia in our brain bank is related to Alzheimer's disease. But a subset of those actually have mixed pathology. So you see 14% have both Louisbody and Alzheimer's. 11% have both vascular problems, strokes or many strokes and uh Louisbody disease. So Levi disease by itself can cause the disease but very often it's associated with other comorbid pathologies. I think I basically said this we uh the numbers are are not up to date. Um we have many more cases but let's just say we have the largest brain bank in the world when it comes to Louisbody disease and they come from all over the United States. um they tend to be mostly from Florida and Minnesota because those are the places where the Mayo Clinic has its base but in fact we get uh them from all over the United States. There's an organization or a non nonprofit organization called the brain support network. It was um developed by um Robin Riddle, a a a caregiver of a patient who died of Parkinson uh Louisbody dementia and she has taken upon herself as a mission to actually help other families get pathologic confirmation. And so very large proportion of the brains in our brain bank with loud body disease maybe as much as 30 40% have come through that effort of that one individual. Um you can see some that these uh have contributed to a number of uh studies such as our uh Alzheimer disease initiative study and the the thing I want to emphasize again is the often Louis by disease is mixed. So in this um cohort 44% almost half of the Louisbody patients have Alzheimer pathology. So we if we could find and and the part of the reason for that is they have the same genetic risk factors. Apol lipoprotein E is a risk factor for Alzheimer's and for Louisibody disease and they both have amalloid deposits and neuronal inclusions. The neuronal inclusions differ between the two but there's a lot of overlap. So I think Dr. Graph's talked about this already. The characteristic features being dementia, Parkinsonism, uh visual hallucinations, delusions and where the pathology is is in the part of the brain that's important for control of movement and sleep. Uh so dopamine is decreased in uh Louisbody dementia and in Parkinson's. And so in fact the major treatment for these disorders is cinemat a a form of uh a drug that replaces the dopamine deficiency. Um just a bit about dementia. So some degree of cognitive impairment seems to be almost inevitable with age. There's there's certain people that age with super aers or exceptional individuals that don't have any decline with with age. that the majority of people have some degree of cognitive decline with age. And so that's not dementia though. To have some forgetfulness uh is not dementia. Dementia is defined when it when that impairment interferes with your daily life. And so it's very important that we we make a distinction. we and we don't call somebody that has um cognitive slowing or uh cognitive weakness um dementia. So terms that have been developed for that are such as mild cognitive impairment or MCI uh and that is a broad umbrella that encompasses even the even the Louisbody dementia patients in the early stages. So I think Dr. Graphford's gone through these just point out that Lou dementia is a is a a very heterogeneous disorder. It affects multiple parts of the nervous system. So that the patients end up with uh cognitive or thinking problems, motor problems, psychiatric problems and sleep and autonomic dysfunction. Some of these have already been touched upon. um just point out that the um the autonomic and sleep are probably due in part to overlapping of the neuronormal populations that that are involved in both those uh um normal activities. The Lou body is a inclusion body that occurs within the cell within the neurons and the they it actually in studies by Haiko Brock and and Eva Brock in Germany, they looked at a large number of patients with a whole range of Louisibody pathology and they were able to actually based on piecing all those p putting all those pieces of of data together to uh show or to hypothesize ize that the Louisbody pathology seems to spread. It may not actually physically spread, although there's some evidence that it may actually go from one cell to another, but at least the the pathology propagates in a very predictable fashion where it starts at the lowest parts of the brain in the medela and progresses through the brain stem and eventually to the cortex. So depending upon where the person is on that pathway, they may present with pure autonomic failure, with Parkinson's disease or Louis body dementia. So that it fits with the discretion through the uh nervous system. These are the pictures of Louis bodies. Louis bodies with the our routine hisystologic methods are bright pink round inclusions in neurons. If you'll notice that there's some brown pigment there. This is a characteristic uh side product of dopamine metabolism. After years and years of producing dopamine, the neurons accumulate this this black pigment. If you look at a a child's brain, you will not see any of that pigment. So that tells me that those neurons were from an elderly or an older individual. Now the libid itself may actually be a protective uh uh response of the cell to to various factors that are contributing to the disease most or many of which we do not really understand. But in fact the the the attempt to uh react to those uh forces eventually leads the neurons to die. So in panel B actually you see Louis bodies with their arrow those are Louis bodies that have been left after the neuron has died. So the the what we call scavenger cells have the brown pigment is now in the scavenger cells and the louisi body resides in the extracellular space. So they're they're this is a challenge for treatment because if they're so insoluble that they exist even when the cell dies, how can you expect to get a drug in there to to to modify that process? And this is a similar um uh image as the previous slide except now we're using an uh a special staining method that allows us to see alphasuclean. And you see clearly that the Louisbody is intensely positive with sinuclean. But what this has actually uh shown us is that um it's there's far more pathology than just the Louisbody. If you see in panels blast and cruise all the brown that represents the nuclean that's being accumulated throughout the brain in in various uh processes of neurons. So it's not just the Louisbody but at the it's the much more uh extensive uh uh nuritic pathology. So this is that staging scheme I mentioned that Brock developed and the it it still is widely used but the staging then can be broken down into very uh simple categories either brain stem predominant or diffuse and then an intermediate that's between brain stem and diffuse and the significance of this is that patients with the brain stem type of disease mostly have Parkinson's. They don't have they may have sleep disorder and Parkinson's but they don't have cognitive problems. they don't have the visual hallucinations. In contrast, patients in stages five and six are diffused through their body where the suclean pathology has propagated to other parts of the the cerebral cortex, the the patients have cognitive problems and um uh and hallucinations and the the full clinical spectrum. So this really suggests although it hasn't been proven that the suclean pathology propagates from cell to cell in the brain. The the other thing about Louisbody dementia um and I think Dr. graph mentioned this is they of it often occurs with some degree of Alzheimer pathology and in fact if you look at the the patients um uh if you look at the Alzheimer pathology in these cases uh if you have minimal um if you have just brain stem Louis bodies stages one and two then you'll have much less Alzheimer pathology as opposed to stage five and six where uh there's much more Alzheimer pathology. So we have to think of Louisbody dementia as actually a mixed dementia. U Alzheimer's is a mixed dementia. The two major proteins are amaloid and towel. The Louisbody disease adds another protein abnormality and that's the suclean abnormality. And we actually can uh it's it's a difficult task when you look at pathology blinded to clinical history to predict whether or not the person had a given clinical syndrome. And what we've learned over the years is that the more severe the Louisbody pathology, the more likely they had the Louisbody dementia. And the less co- com co com co com co com co com co com co com co com co com co com coorbid Alzheimer bidology the more likely they have u the clinical syndrome of louisibody dementia so you see in the bright pink areas where they have high uh likelihood of being uh having the louisibody dementia syndrome they have minimal Alzheimer pathology stage 02 or mild u Alzheimer pathology three and four but they have diffused or transitional or limbic type louisibody disease And um the Mayo has has had a prospective study of Louis by dementia and some of those individuals that were involved in Tannis Burman's study have come to autopsy and of the 46 cases that were diagnosed using the state-of-the-art clinical criteria 44 of them actually had uh Louisbody dementia very high accuracy. There were a few that didn't fit. So we had one patient that was thought to have Louisbody dementia at during life that actually turned out to have Alzheimer's with multiple small strokes, many strokes. And we had another patient that had progressive super nuclear palsy. Um this this is where they fall. You can see the majority of the patients fall into the bright red uh uh and they're virtually none of them with in the uh brain stem type. Um so Louisbody disease there are various uh in uh proteins that are involved in this disorder. Uh there's a lot of interest in the role of mitochondria. These are the the powerhouses of the cell that generate the energy that keeps the cell alive. And so sporadic PD may be associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. The mitochondrial dysfunction then can trigger other types of brain pathology through oxidative stress. So mitochondria are the um energy factories in the in the cell and they can as a side product produce toxic oxygen species um that in especially in a diseased state can be amplified and eventually lead to cell death. And what this diagram shows is that a number of the genes for Parkinson's disease or Louisbody dementia the ones that are in the the circles like uh lurk 2 uh park and pink DJ1 these are all genes that are involved in causing Parkinson's disease and they seem to be many of them linked to this uh similar pathway. Um these are I think I may skip this slide. Um genetics that so I want to just tell you about some of the discoveries that were were made about u the mutations that cause familial Parkinson's disease. This is a very large kindred that was developed by Dr. Larry Goldby and Robert Wood Johnson Medical School in New Jersey. And it is includes a co cohorts from Italy uh and the United States. It's a family tree and it's actually bigger now. This is in 1996. Um, these are the having this rich genetic information allowed geneticists to actually identify the mutation that was causing the Parkinson's in this family and it was a a a mutation in the gene for sinucleid. The gene is uh for sucid. And um so this provided really conclusive evidence that there were really strong genetic drivers for for uh Parkinsonian disorders and Louisbody dementia. And then this is the the kindred that was just uh studied for years in um at Mayo Clinic in Rochester. uh the family was from the Midwest and you can see the number of uh individuals number of generations of people with Parkinson's disease in this family and using uh sophisticated genetic methods this was discovered to be a mutation in which normally you have a a sucin from your mother a snuclin from your father the on the genes what happened here is you got a duplication so that you had three copies of the sinuclean gene So no no no other abnormality in the pro in the protein but just too much suclean leads to the disease and it was this was discovered I think uh serendipitously but uh glucos ser cereos is a gene for co goer's disease. This is a loal storage disease that affects um young individuals. But it was discovered that a number of these individuals actually had Louisbody disease and the gene for uh gochair's disease is G uh glycoserecidase. Interestingly enough, if the the individuals with rebi disease were had an increased uh frequency of variance in the gluccocidase uh glucositis gene. The the disorder that they had was looked like typical uh louisibody dementia. And then this other gene this uh is a gene that is called losing reap repeat kynise. This gene was actually discovered here at Mayo Clinic in Florida as a cause for um Parkinson's disease. Interestingly enough, individuals that had this this mutation had various types of pathology in the in their substantionigra. Some of them had sinucle like typical leather disease. Some had other types of inclusions like that were positive with ubiquitin with proteins that are undetermined and some of them had tow protein. This suggested that perhaps if we learn more about Lurk 2, we could learn more about the whole universe of Parkin. And this was actually published in a neuron a journal high-profile journal. And in fact, the image that you see there was actually going to be on the cover of the journal, which was a a we were really excited about that. But in fact the editor passed away and they the the cover was simply a white cover with no just the title neuron nothing else. So it we lost to a good uh lost to a good cause I think to acknowledge the contribution of that individual. The paper was was published and it represented the first report of a gene that can cause different types of parkinsonian disorders. This is from our autopsy series and some of them have non-specific pathology, some of them have louisi bodies, some of them have towithology and we've actually looked at uh over almost 2,000 brain samples for the frequency of this mutation. We found 12 cases and the most common mutation is G209S. The interesting thing about this mutation is it's enriched in Jews and in Arabs. So even though they're fighting them between themselves, they're actually relatives. Um so that is this is uh the most important gene for uh Parkinsonian disorders. The majority I mentioned have Louis disease but some have towithology. So this is the the the most recent gene I think uh it will eventually stand up. There's a gene for uh that is involved in protein synthesis. U it's called EIF 4G1. This is also a gene that's associated Parkinson's. And you can see it affects uh several generations. Not like the big contic kindred with I don't know 10 15 generations. This is maybe three generations, four generations. Nevertheless, it's enough that with linkage studies and modern genetic methods, you could actually identify what that gene was. And that was the EIF4 gene one. So just to summarize the lumi dementia is the the second most common cause of dementia in elderly after Alzheimer's disease and pathologically it's not simple. It you most patients have both louisibody pathologies Louis body pathology but also some degree of Alzheimer type pathology. Clinically there are a number of very characteristic features of Louisbody dementia such as dream enactment behavior um which is associated with REM uh RBD and uh in fact some of these uh features can be uh uh prods of the disease. People can have sleep disorder for decades before they actually start to develop the Parkinsonism or the cognitive impairment. The other important thing to know is that Louisbody dementia is represents kind of an overlap between Parkinson's on one hand and Alzheimer's on the other both in terms of the the pathology the clinical presentations and the underlying genetics and we just want to emphasize again that apol lioprotein E this is the most common gene for both Alzheimer's and for Louisbody disease so I'll close there. >> Thank you, Dr. Dixon. Um, again, if you have any questions for Dr. Dixon, please um write them on your note cards and those of you joining via Zoom, please send them through the chat. Um, our next presenter is Dr. Tannis Ferman. Dr. Furman is a boardcertified clinical neurossychologist and professor in the department of psychiatry and psychology at Mayo Clinic in Florida. She earned her doctorate from Rosland Franklin University Chicago Medical School, completed her internship at the University of Chicago followed by a fellowship at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester. Dr. Ferman has been on staff at the Mayo Clinic in Florida for over 25 years. She is a co-investigator for the Mayo Clinic ADRC with an emphasis on Louisibody disease. In 20 2004, Dr. Ferman has served since 2004, Dr. Ferman has served on the scientific advisory board for the Louisbody dementia association. Welcome, Dr. FERMAN. Can I press this one? >> Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Sashenda. I wanted to thank Susenda for organizing this and all the ADRC staff who really make everything happen behind the scenes and are so great about it. I'd like to also thank um Dr. Graph Radford who I've worked with for now 27 yearsish and uh he's just a wonderful advocate for his patients and uh wonderful to work with. And Dr. Dixon, who uh is very modest, is really the one of the very first um discoverers, if you will, of uh Louisie pathology, Louis related pathology and um really a tremendous uh colleague and uh um friend. So I would also like to thank our patients and loved ones of the patient your pat our patients your loved ones and caregivers who uh are here today and online as well. Um we want to provide uh information for you and support and also provide a a community to share and uh help you through this I will call it a journey but you know this process of this disease called Louisbody dementia. So what I'm going to do is talk a little bit about what this disease is. I'm Dr. Dixon and Dr. Graphford already did that so I'm not going to belabor it. My main focus is really uh to kind of today talk about so now what now what do you do? So we have this we're dealing with this dayto-day and how are you supposed to respond? What are you supposed to say? How are you supposed to manage this on a day-to-day basis? So this is just a a summary of the criteria. All patients with DLB with Louisbody dementia have cognitive difficulties. that is a requirement. Um the core features are listed below as have already been described and you can have one, you can have two, you can have three, you can have all of them and you know as as uh both my colleagues mentioned it's pretty heterogeneous. Some people have one or two, some people have all of them. So it can present in a in a variety of different ways. But uh the stages or the process in which this occurs um does occur in a certain kind of pattern. We don't just wake up one day and all of the sudden have dementia or all of a sudden you know wake up and now I have all of my symptoms. This is something that occurs over the course of many years. This is uh the brain changes don't occur overnight. They actually occur uh as my colleagues mentioned as as Dennis and and Neil mentioned 20 30 40 years before the first clinical core symptoms of even the cognitive changes start. I have patients who will tell me well on our honeymoon um I wondered what I got myself into because he was kicking and shoving and screaming and I you know had to run out of the room. So RBD REM sleep behavior disorder can occur decades before the initial cognitive changes. Uh another thing that can happen is loss of sense of smell can occur also many many years before the very first changes the first cognitive changes can occur. So the the very first changes can be what we call preclinical. In other words there's normal aging and yes there are normal changes that occur with age. I'm a neurosychologist. I assess people's cognitive function and I and we use norms because that tells us okay compared to other people your age where you at is this normal forgetfulness or is this a little more than we would expect for someone your age and so you can see there is normal aging changes in cognitive function. People who have REM sleep behavior disorder can be perfectly cognitively intact for many many many years. And in fact we have some patients who've come to autopsy who never developed cognitive symptoms never developed parkinsonism but in the brain stem had suclean or louisibody disease. In other words the sinuclean developed inside the neuron or inside the processes that connect between the neurons. That's called suclean and that showed up in the brain even though they didn't really have any of the other symptoms. Okay. So that can happen as the disease as the sinuclean builds up and I have this little kind of picture here. I'm not sure you can see. No, it's not going to. So I wanted to show well in the top. Can't really see it for some reason. See if I can work. No. Okay. Well, in the you see the blue and the and the red in the top that so the red is what's called misfolded sinuclean. The blue is you know regular normal suclean. We all have suclean. Everybody has sinuclean. It has a job. It's a protein. Our proteins do stuff in our brains. But what can happen is when a suclean or when the protein misfolds it's kind of a bad influence on the other suclean and it can transfer. It can actually misfold. It sort of uh brings them over to the wild side. And what happens is now we have instead of one misfolded suclean and one regular normal sinuclean, we now have two misfolded sucans and then they go off and they tell two friends and so on and so on and so that's one of the theories one of the ideas of how it spreads as Dr. Dixon mentioned we think it can actually spread uh in in from neuron to neuron to neuron. So anyways, when that happens um then you we have uh can have a buildup of other um brain areas that are involved and then we get into what we call the MCI stage. That stands for mild cognitive impairment. Mild cognitive impairment means there are cognitive changes but you're getting around it. You're doing okay. You're you're managing. You're getting what you need to get done. You're doing okay. But there's clearly when we do our tests a change in your cognitive function. That's what we call mild cognitive impairment. When your cognitive skills get to a point where it's just too hard to keep it up and it starts to interfere with uh day-to-day your independence, your ability to manage activities of daily living on your own, the ones that you normally would would manage on your own, that's called dementia. Okay. So you can see that the this is a the pattern that we we uh we we can follow in understanding we have the dementia stage but we also have what we call the prodal stage or the MCI stage and even the preclinical stage and as Dr. graph rafford mentioned we're now we now have these biomarkers we have a skin punch we have this spinal tab that we can do we're actually starting to identify people more and more and more in the preclinical and in the MCI stage with the idea that when we have something that can stop this progression we can stop it earlier we can stop it before the dementia stage and that's what we're endeavoring to do and that's what our basic scientists are doing and that's what the uh clinicians are are working with our basic scientists. That's our goal. So what are the cognitive issues? So Alzheimer's disease is predominantly a memory issue in the MCI stage. It's a memory problem. Trouble recalling what was said, trouble recalling what some what what we did recently. It's um did that conversation take place? Like I don't remember having that conversation. And it's the whole well I told you that already kind of experience that we can have sometimes with our loved ones who have Alzheimer's disease. When people have louisibody disease they may have a little bit of that especially if they have Alzheimer's mixed in but by and large what it is is attention and visual difficulties. So processing speed is slower attention is a problem. And so when people have louisibody disease, now we all do this. You're all going to think, wait a minute, we all walk into a room. Oh wait, what did I come in here for? Or we'll get an idea and oh, what was I going to say? We all do that. Okay, we all do it. We all do it. People with Louis body disease do it a lot. Okay. They do it a lot to the point that it's almost like I yeah some people will even tell me I don't even bother because I can't even get you know once I get to start to do something or say something I just it's there's no point. It's just frustrating. Okay. So losing train of thought super easily that's a feature of Louisbody disease. The other uh feature is visual problems. And a lot of my patients will say, "Well, I can't see properly, but my eye doctor says my eyes are fine." Well, that's good. Please go to your eye doctor and check it out because we want to make sure that your eyes are fine because that gives us information that maybe it's a brain issue and how the information is processed and not necessarily an eye issue like cataracts or macular degeneration or something like degeneration or something like that. Now attention and visual problems occur in dementia with Louis bodies or I call it Louisibody disease because that kind of combines the Parkinson's disease with dementia as well as the dementia with Louis bodies. Can you get memory problems? Absolutely. Because sometimes people with Louisibody dementia also have Alzheimer's mixed in. So you have both. Okay. How do we tell someone apart? How do we know if someone only has Alzheimer's disease versus maybe Louisibody dementia with Alzheimer's disease? And in fairness, the answer is early on the processing speed, attention, and visual problems are much more significantly affected in in Louisbody than they are in Alzheimer's. And this is a a graph to show that. So the red uh line is Alzheimer's disease. The blue line is dementia with Louis bodies. And these are just some tests that we give. And just to show you that worse functioning for uh attention and visual for the Louisbody patients whereas the Alzheimer patients do a lot better and then it's flipped patients with Alzheimer's disease do really not so great really this is early disease you know mild poor poor memory and also what we call poor object naming and that's sort of a pulling up from memory the names of things what's that name that thing you're right with you know that pulling up the memory of that name and then for Louisibody dementia those skills memory and naming tend to be much better. Not necessarily perfect, but better. So, um Dr. Dixon um talked about this a little bit and I just want to uh just uh mention it. There is sort of a seems to be a progression of this suclean and it deposits and I uh I want to make it you know the first brain here is sort of that brock bottomup progression that Dr. Dixon mentioned when somebody has REM sleep behavior disorder I sorry I can't get my um I wanted to ah no okay it's not going to work I wanted to point out but the uh the lower part where the arrows are the very bottom that's a area that's affected first and that's where the uh when the the Louisbody pathology builds up there that's where it disrupts the uh brain regions important for acting out dreams. It's important for keeping your um muscles paralyzed during dream sleep. And when you don't have that paralysis, you'll act out your dreams. Okay. Also, the autonomic areas in that brain stem part. So, maybe someone who has a lot of trouble uh regulating blood pressure and they might lose, you know, get drops in their blood pressure and get real woozy. That can happen with brain stem involvement. And then the parkinsonism is also in the top part uh of the brain stem. Th that area is important. Those brain regions are important for uh Parkinsonism. And then in the middle part of the brain in the middle area that's where the um uh where it's important for attention and hallucinations and fluctuations um in that middle area. Okay. People who have the bottom up progression, they often will meet criteria for Louisibody disease earlier. They'll get diagnosed earlier because they often have RBD and Parkinsonism. But there's another type of progression. We call it the limbic centric progression. And these folks might have more of the middle part of the brain affected first and then the brain stem sort of affected later. And so what happens is there'll be attention problems and vision problems and maybe even hallucinations and the person may or may not have Parkinsonism. So you can imagine if you have don't have two of the symptoms that are the features you might not get diagnosed as readily or as quickly and so that can happen. Okay. Oops. Sorry. Sorry about that. Okay. So summary this is these are the core features includes cognitive and those four clinical. So now what? So now I want to shift focus and talk a little bit about what do you do? What do you do now? So one approach that I like to um make sure that everybody is aware of is just focus on the emotions. Focus on your own feelings when something is happening and focus on you know put yourself in their shoes on your loved ones feelings. Now this is probably true for life and for any type of relationship doesn't have to be caregiving or dealing with you know dementia or cognitive uh problem. But if you identify how you're feeling, what are your feelings, and you label it, that will help you to know what do I what's bothering me? You know, if your loved one um thinks that there's um somebody living in the ceiling and you find it humorous, great. If you find that just absolutely so annoying and frustrating, know that because that tells you, okay, that's how I'm feeling about it. And then look at your loved one. Is it bothering them? Did they find it entertaining? I had one patient who used to see dancing girls ac uh uh you know hallucinations of dancing girls. Didn't bother him. He found it quite entertaining. Another patient used to look across the outside and would seem like circus tents were going up and his wife was just like so upset by it, but he found it fascinating. Look at those circuit. I wonder what they're going to do. She was frustrated. She was annoyed. he was kind of curious and interested. So look at the emotions and where where do we need to address it and and often I'll talk with families and you know the question is how upsetting is it to the person who's experiencing the hallucination for example. If they're not bothered you don't need to worry about it. It doesn't need to be treated. the the only time we really need to treat something a symptom is if the person is upset really that's true in life. You know, we just go along and things happen to us, but we only really need to address the things we're upset about. So, if you're the one that's upset about it, then that tells us, well, maybe we need to give you an anti-depressant because he's not bothered, but maybe it's bothering you. That tells us, you know, or maybe it's time to get someone else in. You're overwhelmed. It's too much time to bring someone else in. That gives us a direction based on the emotion. Okay. Also, validate the feelings. If someone is upset, instead of trying to talk them out of it, just rephrase what they said or identify you. That's really frustrating. My dad's 93 years old and I was talking to him on the phone the other day and he has his own kind of style of doing things and I find myself doing this with him all the time. Wow, that sounds really frustrating. that sounds really hard and and you know he feels heard and you know it's I just I call it the smile and nod approach like just agree and you know validate and he feels heard and okay the second step is solution focused and this is sort of the more looking for the patterns looking for the triggers when does this happen who's around when it happens who's around when it doesn't happen you know I often will have people tell me well my sister. He only does it around her. He never does it around me. What are you guys doing differently? You know, does that give you a clue? You know, is she rushing him? Are you more patient? You know, what's the difference? Uh where does it happen? It only happens in the living room. It does only happens, you know. So, just sort of look at the the kind of the patterns and the triggers. And then these are just a list of the solution options to consider that I'm going to go over in a minute. Okay. So, I'm just going to go step by step with each uh um clinical feature. Remly behavior disorder just very quickly. It's not psychiatric. In other words, even though someone might be dreaming of fighting or might be dreaming of the war, it doesn't necessarily mean that they're, you know, have some un unresolved psychiatric issues. It's a neurologic condition. What we're dreaming is what our what our emotions are at the time. It's not seizures. It's not sleepwalking, it's not sleep apnea, and it's not restless sex. But all of these conditions can make it worse or can mimic it. So, it really is helpful to go and you know if someone might be having nighttime seizures and sometimes it is a good idea to get an overnight sleep study just to rule that out or sleep apnnea can sometimes look like uh fighting during sleep and treating the sleep apnea can just solve that problem. Dr. Graphafford mentioned anti-depressants. Some anti-depressants can trigger it and make it worse. So, just knowing that, what do we do with RBD? Move things that are sharp out of the way. Some people will lower the bed. Sometimes people find a body pillow helpful. And to be honest with you, sleeping in separate rooms is often the best solution from an, you know, solution focus here. Physical, in other words, what are the some physical or physiologic things we can do? Melatonin's useful. Clonazipam uh for reasons we don't understand can seem can can mute some of the movements and uh can can help a lot and frankly treating the sleep apnnea can also make a big big difference communication so what I mean here is in this context is you know what can make it better what are you saying now you're not going to talk to your loved one who's sleeping but I have many many many wives to be honest with you Women when they act out their dreams are knitting and doing nice quiet things like kneading bread and men are fighting and throwing themselves around and you know punching and that their dreams are a little more vigorous. Unless safety is a concern, try not to wake your loved one. And here's why. If you repeatedly wake your loved one, it's disrupting their sleep, but it also is disrupting getting into REM sleep. And what can happen is our bodies want REM sleep. And so what'll happen is there'll be REM rebound. And so when they go back to sleep, they'll go right back into REM. And it's like this, you know, constant perpetual cycle. So it can it can really disrupt your sleep even more. Um, and this is why going to another room is a good idea. Um, also, um, if you don't get enough REM sleep, not only will it worsen RBD, can of course disrupt nighttime sleep continuity, cause sleepiness, but can cause an intrusion of dream sleep into wakefulness, and can be one of the reasons why visual hallucinations can occur. So, if it's safety is not an issue, go to another room. Just try not to wake up your loved one. Parkinsonism. These are all pretty standard. I'm just going to zip through the Parkinson stuff reasonably quickly. Sort of obvious stuff, right? Remove throw rugs, grab bars. Uh there's a very uh extensive amount of of literature research. Dr. Graph Rafford's done some of this looking at exercise on um uh improvement of uh function. And you know, exercise means any kind of activity. It's not like you have to go run a marathon. Any kind of activity. And then um medication uh is levodopa carbodopa appropriate are there some medications that the person is taking maybe some anti-nausea medicines that could be making it worse by lowering dopamine so u those are would be the physiologic reasons uh to address uh in Parkinsonism one of the things that we know is that people are slower the attention problems certainly co-occur in Parkinson's and uh with the Louis body and just you know break it down. The task demands can be broken down. Focus on what the person can do and it may just be there's too many steps to a task and you have to just provide instructions one at a time. Set aside more time have a plan. Have a daily routine if you can. And one of the things that I I will often notice is, and this is true for uh not just people with who have Parkinsonism, but in Louisbody in general, is that you'll notice your loved one might be a little bit more of an observer than a participant. That's okay. Uh especially in group settings, there just might be too much to keep track of. Communication. Um I don't know if you can see this Parkinson pocket guide to decoding a Parkinson face, but all the uh expressions are the same. Um, if you are wondering if your loved one is upset or depressed, you have to ask somebody with Parkinsonism because you're probably not going to be able to read their facial cues super super easily. Uh, and those of uh, our patients who have this, you know, let us know if you're not feeling, you know, well or if you're down. Um, slow down one request at a time. Write things down. Um and um those are the um suggestions for Parkinsonism. Okay. Well, now I want to talk about fluctuations and visual hallucinations. What are fluctuations? I think that the the the patient's wife that that uh Dr. Graph Bradford uh showed us the video of really described it beautifully. I'm just going to, you know, explain how I view it. Um this is um a variability in attention and alertness. So everybody has their normal ups and downs and we all have our good times of the day and our bad times of the day. I used to have a professor who would only schedule certain things on his good times of the day which for him was in the morning. We all have our times when we're a little better, a little worse. People who have Louis body disease it can dip and so they can still have their fluctuations but what will happen now is it can affect alertness. Patients will feel sleepy. Our loved our caregivers will say well he's zoned out. He's not with us. He's somewhere else. Um drowsy. Uh we did a study a while ago that showed patients with Louisbody were sleepier. They just slept more. Um, speech can be less coherent. Sometimes what'll happen is a person will talk uh start telling you something, but you're not sure what what's the context and they're maybe starting midthought or starting to tell you something in a way that just doesn't really make sense. Not a fasia, but it doesn't really make sense. And they may just be two conversations behind. and then losing the train of thought, which we already talked about, but that can be important in multi-step tasks or knowing what to do first, what to do next. And so what'll happen is patients will maybe have trouble doing something that they could do a few moments ago. And I have caregivers who tell me this is the are you kidding me symptom because you could just do that and now you can't and then you can again. And there's this I don't know how to plan anything because sometimes he can do it and sometimes he can't. So, how are you coping with that? It's really frustrating. So, take out your, you know, emotion thermometer and ask yourself, how am I doing here? What causes it? Well, there's an area in the brain called the nucleospacealism mayor that produces this brain chemical called acetylcholine. And acetylcholine is really, really important for attention and wakefulness. and it projects throughout the entire brain and the cell loss when you we lose that acetylcholine we also kind of disconnect or lose our um ability to modulate the other parts of the brain and people who have Alzheimer's disease also have damage to this area but people with Louisibody disease have it more severe and much earlier okay and so that's why that donpazil which boosts the acetylcholine helps so much because the area of the brain that's affected is the area that produces that brain chemical. So fluctuations, how do what do we do? Um well firstly anything that's physiologic is going to make it worse. So if there's pain, if there's a bladder infection, there's constipation that's really not well controlled, dehydration, alcohol use, cannabis use, which is becoming more more common. All right. Should I have to put it on the slides now? At sleep apnnea. Those are all things that can make it worse. Someone gets pneumonia. I guarantee you they're going to their fluctuations are going to be a lot worse. Once you treat the pneumonia, you know, it'll be better. Um, antiolinerics are really, really important. And I'm just going to say, please don't ever take dyen hydramine. It's over the counter. It's the benadryil um uh sleep aids, you know, those medications that that you know are just really good at being uh anti-histamines but and and can cause drowsiness but for someone with Louisbody can really lower the uh chonergic or the acetylcholine and can cause confusion and hallucinations and can make it all worse. Okay. And there's lots of other prescription me there prescription medicines that can be antiolineric as well. So ask your doctor are any of these medicines antiolinergic because that I know can worsen Louisibody. Okay. And then sometimes consider stimulant if if it's appropriate or even an anti-depressant that's activating and including activity or exercise in the daily routine. Exposure to sunlight can actually make a huge difference. And I know that seems so ridiculous, but it actually can reset the circadian rhythm and can make a big difference in fluctuations. Also, having a routine, a lot of my patients, caregivers will say, well, you know, it's just here or there. I can never predict. And that may be very well the case. But if you always try to have the same routine and kind of look to see when is, you know, if you mornings are better, so mornings would be the time to do things and then schedule downtime in the afternoon or vice versa. But it can almost train the brain a little bit like this is we have scheduled downtimes, scheduled outings. And the other thing, and I included this in the environment because I wasn't really sure where to put it, is just widen your team. So you don't have to do this alone. You shouldn't do this alone. It's not really feasible to do it alone. So is there a day program? Is there a family member or family members or even volunteers that can sign up to to come in and help out? Do can you hire inh home help? Is there exercise trainer? Just physical therapist inhome, you know, rehab, any kind of time where you have other people that can come in and kind of uh engage with your loved one will can make a difference. And one reason is that one of the things that patients, family members will always tell me is, "Oh yeah, we're at home. He's staring off into space, can't function, but we go to see Dr. Graph Radford and he's walking and he's talking and he's lucid and I and the wife is like, "Oh my gosh, this is not what he's like all the time." And this we know this happens and it's sort of a rise to the occasion. I had one caregiver tell me it's showtime, whatever you want to call it. It's just a boost of adren adrenaline, a boost of that energy. It's like a stimulant, kind of like a good latte or something like that, espresso shot. And you know, so capitalize on that. If you know your loved one does perks up around others, then have others help. Even if they're like, "Oh, I don't want other people." You once you get into the routine, it will just be part of the routine. Attention and alertness can, as I said, affect all other functions, all other abilities. And so when we have certain task demands, if we're te, you know, not stimulated enough, if something's too easy, we don't do so great. We're we're we're sort of like, uh, I don't feel like, you know, we don't do well. But if we're also asked to do something that's too hard, we also can't do it. So that's where, you know, looking to see what can the person do, break down the task, and if you can't avoid too many details at once, because remember, it's keeping track of details. That's part of attention is really hard. So if you're you're you know frustrated because you asked your loved one to do five things and they didn't do any of them or they only did one, okay, maybe just one at a time or write down two things or you know keep kind of break it down. And here's I think the best advice. Do the dance. There are going to be times when you're going to have to step in and help. And there going to be times when you have just back off and you're gonna have to step in and help and you're going to back off. And that is the nature of fluctuations. And there will be other times where you just got to just go to the other room and just let it go. Okay, getting there. Visual phenomena. I grouped all these together because there's so many and they all kind of address the same issue. Um uh the visual difficulties are caused by changes in the brain that affect visual processing. Daytoday it can be you know you can see it where someone maybe is looking for something and can't find it. It's right in front of them or certain hobbies that are visual or your loved one used to do all the repairs and now they just you know it's really hard. uh figuring out the remote control or the smartphone all the icons that can be you know how visual problems um contribute to difficulties in Louisbody visual misperceptions are super common they occur in about 75% of patients with DLB we all can see these you know oh that looks like a face and the angry backpack and that shadow is a face that looks rather sinister and there that um towel looks like maybe it's a a person or maybe even an animal. So that happens. We can all see it. This is the visual perceptual problem that people with Louibody can have and that can sometimes be mistaken as visual hallucinations, but they're not. They're misperceptions. And so asking questions about what is it that you're seeing? Show me. You might be able to say, "Oh yeah, I can kind of see that does look like a a person." Hallucinations are fully formed images that are not actually there. They occur in about uh 75% of patients with Louisibody. More frequent in women than men, but they do definitely definitely definitely happen in men. And people with visual hallucinations also have visual misperceptions. So, uh you can have misperceptions and never develop visual hallucinations or you can have visual hallucinations and visual misperceptions. And keptgrass as Dr. Graph Rafford mentioned is a belief that a loved one is replaced by an exact duplicate. And I have um many many examples of u patients telling me, "Well, there's three versions of my wife. There's the nice one uh the annoyed one, and the one that sits at the computer." Or there's a nice one, the mean one, and the one that fluts around like a bumblebee. So, I mean, it it's intermittent. So, sometimes they are aware that I don't always recognize who she is. It it can depend on um um generally people who have this are more further along in the dementia and it is a little more common in people who also have Alzheimer's uh mixed in. People who have caprass almost always also have visual hallucinations. So they'll have the misperceptions then a subset of those people will develop visual hallucinations a subset of those people will develop cap grass. Doesn't mean that everybody's going to develop it, but that's how generally what we're seeing. Okay. What do you do? Well, remember the emotion. Listen. Acknowledge feelings. Ask them. Ask them questions. What are you seeing? Show me. Where is it? Because it may be a misperception and not a visual hallucination. It may actually be kind of cool or humorous or interesting. And ask yourself, who's whose problem is this? who's really upset by this. If I'm the one that's more upset than he is, okay, then maybe I need to just, you know, come to terms with this or, you know, manage it. If he's more upset, then I need to address the emotions. What do I need to reassure? Not so much what he's saying, like, no, there's nothing there. Don't feel like you have to address what they're saying, but it's the underlying emotion that you need to address. Wow, that sounds scary. Well, okay. There's a thing called adaptive paranoia where if somebody feels that they are um experiencing something that, you know, is upsetting to them, they might do things like, "Oh, someone's someone's looking in my window. I'm going to go lock all the doors. I'm going to go sit and make sure that, you know, with my baseball bat." You know, that's adaptive. You know, if we if you thought somebody was looking in your windows, you might try to, okay, what do I need to do to protect myself? So it's addressing the emotion. Well, I checked all the windows. I'm reassure them based on the feelings, not necessarily based on what they're actually, you know, telling you they're experiencing. And then again, the solution focused approach. When does it happen? Who's around? Uh if you have somebody who is seeing uh something through the window, uh take a look. Oh, I had one patient who saw someone looking through the window, but it was just a tree. And so we moved the chair so that they didn't look at it right on and then that problem went away. So you know um that's a solution. We already talked about the physiologic same same thing. This is all the same things for visual difficulties uh that I mentioned with the fluctuations task demands. Um same you know you'll see the list here. It's pretty much what I was describing with the fluctuations very similar. Um, schedule and routine, very important. Um, move the item, move the chair, reduce clutter, turn a light on, sunlight exposure, and honestly, if it happens, it it's just great to just say, "Hey, can I get your help with something?" and just leave the room with them. Let's go do this together. Oh, we need to go on an outing, or we need to I you know, I want you to take a look at this over here. And you know sometimes just you know if it's especially if it's happening in one room that will help if it's if it's sort of time of day um that might be a good time to you know go on an outing on that time of day. Uh here are some dos. Uh if you are have a loved one who's got visual hallucinations or catg grass appreciate their reality. It may be different from yours. uh be aware of your own non-verbals. And what I mean by that is when we get angry, we may not realize that our loved one may mirror that. And so we may be annoyed and then annoyed because they're annoyed. But we need to realize that our face may be conveying information. Um listen actively, ask questions. Is it bothering you that you respond to feelings? And frankly, just join in and offer to help. Well, I'm going to go check the doors. I'm going to make sure everything's okay. Yep. I I called and uh there's our neighbors uh are are not um patrolling with uh you know, guns or whatever it is that they're seeing. Go along to get along is probably the best advice I can give you. I had a patient once who used to sit in his kitchen with his wife and would turn to his wife and say, "The service in this restaurant is terrible." And and his wife was wonderful. She was like, "I know. Well, we'll just I I we good thing we have a tab. Uh we can just, you know, we've already paid." So, she didn't correct him. She just sort of went along with it. And um you know a lot of times people worry like oh are the children in the corner are they going to get picked up? Oh yeah they're they're going to leave soon. No worries. It again focusing on what's real to your loved one is more and reassuring what what say what they would need to hear to feel reassured. don't feel a need necessarily to correct or quiz or um um uh you know do that and redirecting to old memories is a really good strategy as well. um you know other topics asking for help uh hey did I ever tell you that you know do you remember da da da da da and then you know you moved on same with cap grass um very unique specific situation uh here's just some specific techniques or strategies to that can be helpful refer to yourself in the third person oh are you looking for your wife oh she'll be back soon were you looking for me your amazing husband here I am sometimes Sometimes just announcing yourself can help. Um, ask about yourself, but be careful about if you don't like what you hear. Um, but you know, you can that's okay. And apologize. A lot of times just apologizing. And that's true in any interaction when someone has a dementia or the reality is different and they're frustrated. You know, I'm really sorry you're going I'm sorry. Or, you know, even taking responsibility. I I I think I might have forgot, you know. Let me check. I'm going to look for you. Um, okay. So, those are some um suggestions. And this is my summary slide. Um, just focus on the emotion in terms of your own feelings and your loved ones feelings and consider these solutions. Thank you. All righty. Well, thank you to all of our presenters. I wanted to take a few minutes for the presenters to come up on stage. We do have several questions um from our audience as well as those on Zoom. And we have some chairs here that Anton will help Listen to me. >> Oh, thank you. >> We've got three chairs. Thank you. >> Thank you. All righty. What about applause for all my staff? You put this on. >> All righty. So, our first question, the clinical trials that you mentioned, this is for Dr. Graph Radford. Do those studies require imaging tolerance by the participants? So in other words, are those with claustrophobia tolerance um ruled out? >> You have to look at each one. Um I I don't we aren't taking part in those three studies. Rochester took part in two of them. They're not entering. Those are they're going to be a phase three study now. So if you go on clinicaltrials.gov, gov. You can write this down clinicaltrials.gov and put in Louisbody disease and put phase 2 or phase three. You'll have all the details you want or need. So clinicaltrials.gov. >> Okay. Next question. for definitive diagnosis of Louisibody dementia and or Alzheimer's disease. What are the best practices if patients are intolerant to imaging due to claustrophobia and adverse reaction to anesthesia? >> So I'll take this one too clinical one. Um so the the diagnosis really largely rests upon the clinical evaluation. we don't really need uh imaging as much in um Louisibody disease also um we can um you saw that Dr. Ferman and myself together are pretty good when Dr. Dixon reports out the what did we miss two out of 44 uh which was pretty good clinically. Um so if um if you have people who are knowledgeable about Louisibody uh disease we can make the diagnosis fairly well clinically. Um, we can now do skin biopsies and spinal tap tests looking for confirmatory biomarkers and that's optional when we're uncertain. We don't need that most of the time. Uh, we don't do that invariably. We we will need that perhaps when we get treatments and you have to have a specific diagnosis like in Alzheimer's. Now we have to know that it is Alzheimer's with biomarkers before we'll start a dangerous drug the monoconal antibodies. So we have to know the diagnosis. Um and so in in Louisbody I think it's uh we can be pretty accurate clinically but there are going to be uh requirements to have biomarker confirmation. >> Thank you. And this question is for Dr. Ferman, what is your advice for encouraging someone who is reluctant and overly self-conscious um to keep their neurosych testing appointment to help establish the baseline um and identify strengths and areas that we can help? >> Um well, I usually that's a great question. Um, getting your loved one to the appointment is probably the hardest part. Once they're there, usually we'll meet with them and you and almost always my patients will say that was nowhere near as bad as I thought it was going to be. So, honestly, I think just, you know, u reassuring uh it's not we we do say 4hour slot. We never trust you for 4 hours. So, we have the time allocated into our schedule, but it's usually a lot shorter than that. And uh look, usually I encourage people to try the foot in the door. Well, let's just go check it out and if we don't like it, we'll leave, you know. So, you kind of, you know, just foot in the door and see if that helps. >> Okay. This question is loss of hearing. Does this play a role in dementia? >> So, I can answer that one. um it's becoming increasingly more important um this uh hearing and uh its association with dementia. So in the Lancet report they report that 44% of dementia can be prevented and one of the items they put in is treatment of hearing and they cite a lot of observation studies and now there is are some randomized prospective studies where they've treated hearing versus not treated hearing. Um and uh the uh the primary outcome was negative actually but the uh subanalysis seem to support that it actually is helpful. You can understand that people who have poor hearing isolate themselves. They don't want to mix and that is one thing but also um they are deprived of a lot of stimulation and stimulation like keeping your mind busy is actually very important in um in your brain in keeping your brain healthy. So it applies not just for hearing but for vision. Now they added this year in the Lancet report that vision is also an important factor. Um so I think that's certainly one of the crucial things and I'm in favor of early intervention not waiting till the person is deaf as a door knob and you know just won't understand anything and refuses to do anything. start early and you know people wear glasses without any trouble but there seems to be this terrible feeling you know you you something's wrong with you if you have hearing aid can you see my hearing aids there you go I'm wearing them and you can't see them um so this this day and age they really are pretty good and I strongly encourage people to do that Okay, >> you outed me. >> Our next question is on dinepazil. So, denazil slows down the disease, but what is the efficacy over time? Do you know the percentage of efficacy? >> Yeah. So, it doesn't slow down the disease. That's a misconception. But it treats symptomatically the disease. The disease continues. it doesn't affect the progression of the pathology but it is dramatic when it works. Um I'm going to tell you what I think and then I'm very interested what Tannis Tannis also sees all our patients. So we have a sort of a bird's eyee view of the patients. I think that when we make an accurate diagnosis of Louisbody maybe 40 50% respond very nicely for a while to dinepazil but not forever. We are always a little disappointed when a few years later we see and our phrase is the person seems to fall off the cliff because there is a sudden deterioration of people that have been hovering very nicely for a while. We often up the dose for a while which is may rescue them for a while but um it it doesn't last for a long time. I think the longest we've had is several years. I'm going to say three or four years of stabilization, but that is a long time. I think it's more likely a few years. I'm not going to say each person's different, but it's a few years. >> Um, well, as Dr. Dixon can attest the progression of the disease is of course neurodeenerative and as we said it affects the neurons that produce the acetylcholine which is what the medication denpasil addresses. So you know if there are no more neurons producing the acetylcholine then it's going to be a lot harder to you know the way that donazil works is it doesn't just replace acetylcholine it increases the availability of the acetylcholine that's left okay and so I I agree it it can be incredibly useful I will say though that for some patients the in the later stages they're told ah you know don't worry about being on this medicine anymore and so they'll go off it and and there will be still it was doing more than they thought. It just wasn't to the degree that they would have liked but it did seem to be helping. So we do generally recommend I know Dr. Grafford generally recommends that you just stay stay on that medicine as long as possible for that reason because it it may not be helping to the you know might not be fixing things to the degree that we'd like but it does seem to be doing something. Agreed. Could I just comment that the there's a nucleus in the brain that produces the ailon called the basal nucleus of minor and in fact that is one of the most vulnerable areas of the brain for louisi body pathology. So the reason that the anticoliner or the colonurgics might work is because there's loss of those neurons and it's well the degeneration first the louisi body and then death of the neuron that had the louisi body. So you as the disease progresses it's going to be more difficult to replenish the the the deficient esttooline because the disease progresses it gets worse and worse in terms of the neuronal population and in just a little aside the the nucleus basalis is actually where Louis first described Louis bodies it wasn't the dopamineergic neurons in the brain stem so this is a very important nucleus of in the brain that for active uh thought processes. >> Any other questions? >> Um just a few more. So this one is my loved one was first diagnosed with FTD for about 6 years. They are now diagnosed as Louis bodies with Parkinson's. How close are these two diagnosis? So um the clinical symptoms um are sometimes difficult for clinicians to interpret um and you can make uh the diagnosis um incorrectly and eventually as time goes by u you um make the correction. You saw that Dr. Furman and myself called a patient um uh Louisibody and the patient had progressive superanuclear paly later on. So um we actually recognized that clinically that the person had changed but we our first diagnosis was Louisbody which is what is fair for Dr. Dixon to count. What's your first diagnosis? Um anyhow um the typical symptoms of FTD and Louisibody don't often overlap if you pay attention to you know for example hallucinations is not a feature of FTD and REM behavior disorder is not a feature Parkinson's can be. So you can have Parkinson's in both uh cortic there's a type of front temporal dementia called PSP or progressive super nucleopuly and cortico basil and louisibody and those can have parkinsonism. So also the biomarkers and PET scans and clinic and neurosych profiles are quite different. So I think if you pay attention to the imaging uh the clinical picture and the neurosych profile and sometimes even biomarkers um we should be able to distinguish between those things but I don't blame any clinician in the early stages it's difficult and it it does evolve and you have to be able to be flexible and change your mind when the diagnosis changes. Okay, for the interest of time, we'll do one more question. Since anesthesia can be a problem for Louisbody dementia patients, how do you treat when needed to be prescribed for a procedure? So um there is this um interesting observation that people who have general anesthesia are very sensitive um dementia patients are very sensitive to general anesthesia and so they have a dramatic effect on the picture the immediate picture. The the anesthesia works because it dissolves in fat and goes into the brain. And when it does like the barbiterates and when they go into the brain and are dissolved in fat, it takes a long time to get out because it's dissolved there. And so people on the knife edge when you tip just a small tip is a massive tip for them. And so you see a dramatic change. Say they wake up from the anesthetic when they don't recognize the family and they're wild and they need to be and on top of that they then get sedated for being wild. And so it's sort of a self-perpetuating thing. So anesthesia is riskier in people with dementia. That I could say. often or most often they actually do recover if given enough time. So anesthesiologists who are excellent they modify what they use. They use diff maybe a little bit less or they um you know different ones that don't dissolve or live as long in the brain. Um and so they as long as you your anesthesia person is aware and we we still can go ahead and and do we can do a lot under local anesthetic. Now you can do hip replacement if you feel like it under uh spinal anesthesia. So there are lots of other alternatives. Um and but if the operation is necessary then there are you know good strategies in good with good anesthesiologists to mitigate the worry. The big thing that other thing that we always advise is that the spouse or care partner needs to stay with the person in the hospital if they can because if they if they orient them they feel safer otherwise they're in a strange place don't know how they got here and are confused and then they just fight. So, you know, tell this the the loved one that if they they must send, you know, get several of their loved ones to um you know, have a list of and and schedule to stay with the loved one in the hospital. That's often very helpful. >> Thank you. And thank you so much to our presenters today as well. Um for the questions that we were not able to address, we will um have them answered by our panelists and then uh we will contact you with those answers. Um right now we will take a moment to just raffle off our baskets for those of you in the audience today as a token of our appreciation for attending uh with us in person. And to those of you on Zoom, thank you so much for joining us today for our event. and we hope to see um familiar faces for next year's event as well. Um I'll go ahead and raffle it off. We have two gift baskets in addition to some free tickets to the Jacksonville Sharks game if you are a Sharks fan. Um it will be for our June 21st home game. Um and also a pro uh a certain amount of the the proceeds for the tickets actually go towards our um research center. Um just so you're aware. So, the first winner we have 9620002. There you go. And Anton's coming with your basket um behind there. All righty. And then we've got the next ticket. This is for those two free tickets to the Sharks game. 962 026. No, they must have left early. Snooze, you lose. Next one. 9620003 for those tickets. Yes. >> And now we have one more basket. It would be 962010. We've got one over here. And then the last raffle for the remaining two free tickets 962015. Oh, THANK thank you. And now we do have our um fellowship and connection uh session which is something we are hosting kind of like a support group for our caregivers to one side and then those living with Louis to one side. If you are interested in participating, we have our certified caregiver support group facilitators, Christine and Candace, who will um be hosting organic conversations and perhaps answer any questions you may have uh in regards to whether you're a caregiver or someone living with Louie. So, if you are interested, please stick around and then we will distri uh disperse into two sides. But thank you so much for um joining us today and we hope to see you next time. Thank you.