My wife diagnosed with breast cancer in December of 2011, and I went to the institution, not Mayo Clinic, and said, do you have a protocol for 50-year-old Korean women who are artists and care about their hands function? We have a protocol for women. Or my father-in -law, who died of stage 4 pancreatic cancer, do you have a way of diagnosing stage 4 pancreatic cancer before it's stage 4, when it's actually treatable and survival is a possibility? Not yet. Unfortunately, these stories reflect the current state of our healthcare system. The information doctors need sometimes just isn't there, or sometimes discoveries and treatments contained in medical records aren't broadly shared. But what if we could shatter these healthcare silos and allow medical breakthroughs and cures to become worldwide faster than before? Hi, I'm Cathy Wurzer, and this is Tomorrow's Cure, a podcast from Mayo Clinic that brings the future of medicine to the present. Today's episode is a special one. It comes to you from the PlatformMed Conference that was held in June of 2025. More than 250 leaders from healthcare, government, academia, and business talked about shaping the next chapter of healthcare. Hosted by Mayo Clinic, this global event explored how platform thinking is transforming medical care. Platform thinking is a fresh concept where multiple organizations collaborate to co-create greater value for consumers. When it comes to healthcare, that means accelerating innovation, empowering clinicians, and expanding access to high-quality care. Before we talk about what's changing, I think we need to look at where we've been. Today's breakthroughs were obviously not born in a vacuum. They emerged from a health care system built on buildings, physical infrastructure. There are fixed costs and a fragmented delivery model. It's been a system where hospitals could be overcrowded in one region and underutilized in another, and where innovation often struggled. To help us understand this landscape, let's turn to Maneesh Goyal, Chief Operating Officer of Mayo Clinic Platform. So an example of this is if you think about what a hospital is, it's a physical building that is specially designed for one thing, delivering care. It has specific people, nurses, physicians, administrators, technicians, et cetera, that are employed and are waiting for patient one. It has specialty equipment. So there's a lot of fixed costs to operate a hospital and to maintain it at a certain level of utilization for it to be cost effective. So what's happening across the world is there are pockets of geographies that have too much demand so the hospitals are full capacity. And there are parts of the world that hospitals are barely able to stay alive because they're not being utilized. That's part of the big picture, the imbalance in hospital utilization across geographies. But the reality on the ground? It's even more urgent when there's no backup option. Dr. Patrick Woodard, Chief Information Officer for Monument Health based in Rapid City, South Dakota, explains. I practiced medicine for many years before moving into the tech side of administration. And everywhere I'd ever been before, whether it was in D.C., in Reno, Nevada, Memphis, Tennessee, all had competition across the street, which helps you be better in some ways. But also, if you fail, there's somewhere else for your patients to go. If we fail, there's nowhere for people to go. We're the only folks in town, which means that we have to be able to deliver high -quality care every single time for every patient who comes in the door. So what does it look like when that urgency goes global? Let's go from South Dakota to Sao Paulo, Brazil, where Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein has joined a data-sharing alliance with Mayo Clinic Platform. Chief Innovation Officer Dr. Rodrigo DeMarch lays out why inclusive research will not only give scientists a wealth of information, but also help create more tailored medicine, healthcare products and services, and solutions. We understand that being part of this network will allow not only our population to be better represented, but algorithms and new technologies that will be developed running over this data will be more precise and better serve our own. We understand there's a great opportunity there for people in other places that want to create solutions that can be deployed globally, not only locally or to certain specific populations. Collaboration like this requires thinking differently about health care and the populations it serves. To understand the origin of Mayo Clinic Platform, we turned to Dr. Clark Otley, the Chief Medical Officer of Mayo Clinic Platform, who was there from day one. His story begins with a challenge from Mayo Clinic's CEO. 2019, our visionary CEO, Dr. Gianrico Farrugia, came in and said, we are number one, that's not enough. And we all said, we work so hard to do this, it's amazing. But he wanted us to do something much, much more impactful, actually. He said it's a responsibility to be number one, and we can't just incrementally get a little bit better each year. We need to do something really transformative and help healthcare in a way that has never been done before. And to do that, I think we need to do healthcare differently. We need to think about this as us, as the big us, rather than just Mayo Clinic. We need to create a platform where we can create the ethics and the values and the mission of Mayo Clinic, which is trusted and respected all across the world, and use that to bring together partners and collaborators and innovators to transform health care. Together, these voices paint a picture of a traditional health care system that couldn't scale, couldn't personalize, and too often couldn't reach those who needed it the most. Before we take a closer look at how Mayo Clinic Platform is transforming care today, Let's hear what Mayo Clinic Platform is. So platforms are where you have shared resources. So the example I use to make it first and foremost personal and real is taxi cabs to Uber and Lyft. That is a relatable platform business. Up until 20 years ago, you basically needed to either have a friend, your car, or you rent a car or you take a taxi if you wanted to go somewhere. That was not public transportation. Taxis were wholly owned, employed colleagues. So if I'm a yellow checkered cab service, I would employ these taxis. I would have my own fleet of cars. I would have a 1 -800 number. And that's how you interact with them. So it's a very proprietary thing. Very expensive because buying cars, employing people takes a lot of money to build up. Now, along comes Uber and Lyft. They don't own or operate any of these fleets. They don't employ anyone. They basically put a platform out there. It happens to be technology, but platform does not mean technology. And this particular platform connects drivers and riders together. Uber and Lyft, what they do is basically maintain an ecosystem where everybody behaves. And that when you get to your destination, it's cost-effective and it's convenient. That's a platform model. So now what we're trying to do with health care is how can we do that? And how can we do that at large scale? Earlier, we heard about the personal stakes from Dr. Halamka. Now we'll hear from him again, this time about the current realities that health care must confront. Well, I think each of you recognizes that in 2025, there are challenges. Challenges of reimbursement, challenges of staffing, challenges of trainees. I think it was best said at the World Economic Forum in January of this year, if we look at the birth rates across most of our industrialized countries, they are less than replacement. And yet, we have aging societies living into the 80s, but healthy years stop generally in the 60s. So that means we have 20 years of less than perfect life and perfect health. And someone is going to need to fill that gap with care. And if the birth rates are low, it isn't going to be those folks that we are training today that are going to serve the underserved and those who need the care. It's got to be platform automation, AI innovation, new care models that help us match that supply and demand. I think each of us has family members, and you've probably experienced the challenge yourself. My mom passed away on March 1st of frontotemporal dementia and complications. Now, again, looking at the room with those who are in the sandwich generation like me, chances are you've had to serve those above you and those below you while serving your peers. And is the journey easy? Do you know how other patients and families are experiencing end-of-life care? Is it clear who you talk to, where you go, or what treatments you try? Not at all. And this is why platform thinking, which brings together the data of the world, the innovators of the world, and providers, pharma and biopharma professionals, and patients, is really the only way we're going to get that health care future we all want. Now, how are we going to do it? It's clear that closing these gaps requires systemic change in many areas. As Dr. Halamka said, it requires platform automation, AI innovation, and new care models. And no one understands the scale and potential of platform thinking better than Maneesh Goyal. That is the purpose of Mayo Clinic Platform is to enable others to deliver high quality care based on what we know and have learned across 160 years. So it's about scalability. Our primary call to action is how do we enable 50% of the healthcare providers globally to benefit from Mayo Clinic so that we can impact billions of lives. That's a platform model. So now what we're trying to do with healthcare is how can we do that? And how can we do that at large scale? And data certainly plays a role, but there are a lot of different things that we've thought about when it comes to platform model. We explored how Mayo Clinic Platform is enabling health care providers around the world to scale high -quality care. But scalability also depends on data, how it's collected, protected, and put to work. Here's Dr. Sonia Makhni, the Medical Director of Applied Informatics at Mayo Clinic Platform, on what that looks like in practice. You free up the space for the clinician to do what the human does best, which is empathetic care or listening or, you know, kind of investigating further into a problem. And that's really what I'm looking forward to a lot of these tools doing. It's really not just a tool is going to solve a problem. It's the clinician, the care team, and the tool will solve, hopefully, the problem in conjunction with a patient. It's not about replacing the human. It's about how can we arm the human with the tools so they can keep performing at the top of their license. And that's the power of alignment when human insight meets smart tools. Dr. Deepak Abraham, the Chief of Medical Staff at King Hamad American Mission Hospital, traveled from Bahrain for the conference. He echoes that idea and reminds us why protecting time for patient interaction is so important. I want to allow my physicians to work at the top of their license rather than get bogged down with EHR and entry of data and you lose time, whereas this can help physicians release themselves to patient interaction. that doctor-patient relationship is sacrosanct. The platform enhances that relationship and helps physicians spend more quality time with the patient, giving them quality information through the platform, and that can help build relationships better. Behind every breakthrough, there is a question of trust. Let's shift now to the role of intelligent tools and the technological standards required to earn clinical confidence. Ashima Gupta, the Global Director of Healthcare Strategy and Solutions from Google, shares how she sees trust driving the future of AI in healthcare. At Google, we believe healthcare breakthroughs change the world and bring hope to humanity. And we believe AI to be one of those breakthroughs in healthcare. And for AI to be that breakthrough in healthcare, trust is paramount. We always say healthcare moves at the speed of trust. AI will move also at the speed of trust. And we have techniques from Google perspective. We'd all talk about large models. Then there are ways in which we ground the models to your enterprise data. It's permission aware. It knows who's calling it. And then trustworthy also means transparency. Like how is the model used? And we have citation, referenceability. if model is giving an answer, what is it basing it on? We hear that from clinicians, from oncologists, that it's not enough just to give an answer. We want to make sure that answer is pointing back to the gold set of rules. So that's where trust for the AI is important. Healthcare will not move if that trust is not established. But trust just isn't theoretical. It is vital. Dr. Clark Otley explains how Mayo Clinic developed world-class de-identification technology to protect privacy while unlocking the full power of clinical data. So first thing, privacy first. So we wanted to assure that we did not breach anybody's privacy. So we went through and developed the world's best de-identification technology. So previously, if you took a health care record and you tried to wipe out any of the identifiers, if you were 80-90%, that was pretty good. We said, no, that's not good enough for us. And so we worked with one of our partners to develop technology that de -identified to 99.9% accurate, so extremely high-fidelity de -identification. And then we developed multiple layers of privacy protection beyond the de -identification. So my medical record's in there. They don't know my name. They don't know who I'm married to. They don't know my address. They know I'm a man and that I've had these X, Y, and Z conditions. They know what medications I'm on, but nothing that they could say, oh, that's probably Clark. But all the really good stuff that's in there, which is how have I responded to my medications? How did I do after my surgery? How have I recovered from my illness? That's all in there. And that's when you multiply that by lots of people, that's the essence of what we need for advanced AI -powered analytics. That data protection fuels the Connect program within Mayo Clinic Platform. Connect links Mayo Clinic's 10 million patients to data from more than 50 million other patients through hospitals worldwide. And that's the impetus behind Mayo Collaboration is the future. Here's Dr. Halamka. If we have millions and millions of patients' experience in the past, should not that guide the care of patients in the future? And so this data of the past has now been aggregated at Mayo Clinic for the benefit of the world to use experiences of 10 million patients just at Mayo, 15 million at Mercy, and eight different international locations. suddenly you get to a platform that helps us with early discoveries and with much more reasonable treatments that cause benefit with less risk and harm. Here's Dr. Patrick Woodard on why no one institution can go it alone and why a platform founded in equity must guide innovation. I think it's in the name. I mean, it's PlatformMed, right? Right. We very much believe that the future of medicine can't be done alone. Although I mentioned that we're the sole provider in the community, and we very much want to be there for a long time, we also recognize that not every single innovation is going to be being done in our backyard. Recognizing that just because you live in Western South Dakota doesn't mean that you need to have less equity and less access to care than if you were to live in San Francisco or New York City. We want to make sure that we're able to take advantage of everything that's new, that provides high-quality care at the same time, or at least closely behind those in major hubs. That's the promise of platform thinking, combining scale with purpose, innovation with humanity. Dr. Halamka returns now to close the loop, showing how data from across institutions is unlocking earlier discovery, smarter treatment, and care with less risk and more precision. Well, I think we've all recognized that healthcare is a global and not local endeavor. And that is the only way we can learn is by each of us sharing openly our successes and our failures. So when we put platform together, it was based on the idea of what we call bidirectional reciprocity, which means every organization that's part of it can interact with every other organization without barriers. So where does healthcare go from here? Imagine hospital-grade care delivered in your home. AI that personalizes your treatment. An environment where competitors become collaborators. And patients everywhere, regardless of location, get world-class care. It's the future under the platform model, and it's already becoming a reality. Here's Maneesh Goyal. So under a platform model, you would shift it to make it much more on demand. An example of this is about 30% of the reasons why you're in a hospital, you can actually deliver that care in the home. And so we're starting to do that at Mayo Clinic is, could we actually deliver the services that you would get in a hospital, but deliver it in the home? That's a platform model. And today, we average about 60 patients a day who are getting cared for in their home, but as if they're connected to the hospital. So imagine a hospital having a virtual floor that's on top of the current building, and you're transferred from the ED or surgery into this virtual floor. That virtual floor happens to be in your bedroom. You're connected to the hospital, so you pick up the phone, and there's a physician or a nurse on the other line. You can communicate with them. You can get all the services in your home, like nutrition services, PT, OT, diagnostics, and they're delivered to you on demand. That's the future of health care under a platform model, as one example. At its core, platform thinking isn't just about technology. It's about trust, transparency, and working across boundaries. Goyal continues with why collaboration, not competition, is the real key to scale. Under a platform model, you have to be willing to share. So your commitment to engaging in the platform is that you're joining an ecosystem. As part of an ecosystem, you collaborate and you compete. But you agree that by joining it, there are a set of rules that you play with. So it requires a great degree of trust that the organization operating the platform, in this case us, is doing it for the right reasons. And so I do count it, to your point, to be very fortunate. And it says a lot about Mayo Clinic when we have partners who would seemingly compete with us join because they see a greater good. And that spirit of openness has international reach. Dr. DeMarch shares why entering the platform ecosystem matters. not just for institutional innovation, but for connecting local and global networks, accelerating research, and expanding access to technology across borders. It is important for many reasons. The first one, because it allows us to get connected with leading healthcare organizations around the world, exchange knowledge between us. Also, because it allows us to learn what these other organizations are doing in terms of adopting new technologies around building a platform-wide perspective on how to work between each other, but also how to connect locally with our own network. So, it is important in many ways. Important also because it fosters research, it fosters innovation, how to bring innovation developed in other places to our home, and the other way around. How can we bring our technology, the technology that we have been developing in-house or within our startup ecosystem to other countries? So, there are many ways to measure why it is important for ourselves. Let's take it one step further. As we said at the beginning of this episode, healthcare operated in a pipeline model, closed off, siloed, cautious. But as Dr. Otley explains, the platform model invites openness, guided by values and scientific integrity. It's about a shared ecosystem where every contributor plays a role. And use that to bring together partners and collaborators and innovators to transform healthcare. And we're going to do that in a platform model. And a platform model is different than what we'd ever done before previously. It's called a pipeline model. We do everything ourselves. We control everything ourselves. And we collaborate, but we collaborate cautiously. And the platform model is let's open things up. And yes, let's set some rules so that things happen with high degrees of accuracy, scientifically based, and make sure our values are embedded in the processes. But let's open it up to the world. Everybody is just doing their part to contribute in wonderful ways. That's getting back to the essence of it. It really is about the platform. It's about the ecosystem of people and innovators and technologies that will bring this all together. To bring this episode full circle, here's Dr. Halamka with a powerful reflection on why this moment in health care isn't just a turning point, it's a chance to lead a global transformation of health care. I would tell you that in my almost 50 years of working at the intersection of technology and health care, I have never seen evolution of technology and ideas and businesses happen as quickly as it is now. so you're here to make a difference you're here to make an impact you're here to be part of global transformation of health care and you're here at a time where the only way to do it is partnership and collaboration around platform thinking thank you so much for joining us for just a glimpse into some of the discussions at the 2025 PlatforMed conference in minneapolis And that is a wrap of Season 3 of Tomorrow's Cure. My gosh, we did a lot this season. We heard a lot about the latest advances in detecting Alzheimer's and Lyme disease, efforts to better predict the chances of developing cancer and also getting cancer care at home. We explored how technology can work with the human body through wearable devices and brain-computer interfaces. It was fascinating. Join us next season for more episodes about what's happening at the forefront of medical innovation. Thank you so much for joining us. I'm Cathy Wurzer. Tomorrow's Cure is a co-production of Mayo Clinic and PRX. Our producers are Deborah Balthazar and David Newtown. The show is edited by Genevieve Sponsler. Our sound engineer is Tommy Bazarian. Our theme was composed and produced by Terrence Bernardo. Toni Carlson is our production manager and our executive producer is Jocelyn Gonzalez. The Mayo Clinic production team includes Pui Hong Ang, Margaret Shepard, Samantha Clarkson, Kara Mangold, Felipe Sosa, Kym Ohna, and Brynn Sankey. Special thanks to Preston Spire for audiovisual production support. Be sure to follow Tomorrow's Cure wherever you get your podcasts. I'm your host, Cathy Wurzer. Thank you so much for listening.