Hello, I'm Victor Bernet, endocrinologist at Mayo Clinic in Florida, and I specialize in thyroid disorders. And here today with me is Dr. Jeff Janus Hey, everyone. My name is Dr. Jeff Janus. I'm a head and neck cancer surgeon. I specialize in thyroid and parathyroid surgery, and we do a high-volume of surgery here at Mayo Clinic. And I'm delighted to talk to you today about thyroid surgery and some of the nuances of post-operative care with my colleague, Dr. Bernet. I would tell the majority of patients with thyroid cancer that, yes, they can live a normal life. And for the vast majority, their life is not going to be shortened because of a thyroid cancer. Now, there are exceptions. And again, we have to admit that. And sometimes we have that idea of when the initial diagnosis occurs and it's a higher stage or appears to be more aggressive cancer. And we can talk to the patients about that. Again, realizing that many of those patients can live years and decades with their thyroid cancer. But the average patient should be able to continue to work, do their vacations and play with their children and things like that. You know, occasionally they have like some numbness in their neck around the surgical thing or, you know, we work on making sure we have optimized thyroid hormone levels and things like that. And if they have some calcium issues chronically, we have to work with that. But still, patients should be able to live a normal life. Jeff? Yeah, I mean, same thing, really, Vic. You know, for patients with papillary disease, your disease-specific survival of five years is greater than 99%. Follicular is nearly as high. You know, honestly, with well-differentiated thyroid cancer, at least, our focus here at Mayo Clinic in Florida, is stratifying you out so you're not over-treated and over-inconvenienced by your follow-up and things like that to make sure that your life is as normal as possible. And notwithstanding any kind of, you know, overly aggressive thyroid cancers, even patients that have really aggressive thyroid cancers, we are able to figure out a way to treat them in a way that is using cutting-edge therapy and the best resources to make sure that they can get as close to a normal life as possible. And many times you're able to achieve that. So I tell patients, you know, for the average thyroid cancer patient who has a well -differentiated cancer, yeah, we just need to get past this one part, which I understand is scary, but once we get past the one part of doing a good surgery and getting on the other side of that, most people live a normal, happy, healthy life. We just have to do things like titrate thyroid hormone medication and surveil you in a way that's optimized. That's all. I would say the most life-altering thing that I've seen happen, and this is, again, less likely to happen if you come to a cancer center where whether it's high -volume surgical staff, is damage to the recurrent laryngeal nerve that results in hoarseness. Now, some patients, even if everything's done correctly, can have a little bit of hoarseness or weakness of their voice for a month or two after surgery. But permanent hoarseness can really be life-altering for patients. All of us use our voice, even if we're not an opera singer or a sports announcer or, you know, newscaster, we all need our voice. And so if the voice is damaged because the recurrent laryngeal is damaged during surgery, that can be problematic. And again, and you can comment about the data, but I think having a high-volume thyroid surgeon makes a big difference on avoiding that happen. Yeah. Recurrent laryngeal laryngeal can be devastating. I didn't think to mention it. You know, just from the standpoint of it's something that, you know, it's an almost-never event, provided that the nerve is not involved with the cancer. Here at Mayo Clinic in Florida, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, rates of recurrent laryngeal nerve injury are less than 1 % on a permanent basis, and they're around a 2%, maybe 2% to 3% temporary basis, you know, you kind of have a weird voice after surgery. But within a few weeks, it's back to normal. That's typically what we see. You know, there are instances where the thyroid cancer can come outside of the shell of the thyroid gland called extrathyroidal extension and can involve the nerve, or lymph nodes that are nearby can involve the nerve because of extranodal extension, and that's a different circumstance, and we actually have a host of different ways that we can repair the nerve when that happens, including antiservicalis to recurrent laryngeal nerve anastomosis and things like that that are almost unique to academic thyroid centers like ours. But, you know, voice injury is a very rare event in experienced hands. And so, you know, we do everything that we can to identify and preserve that nerve during the case. And it being permanently injured is indeed very, very, very infrequent. We don't see it happen a lot. I want to also mention we do have staff within your group that are voice specialists, that when that has happened, whether it be at an outside facility or in a few cases it happens internally, to work with these patients and help them optimize their voice after surgery. But again, it being frequent in our system. Yes, it can. Lymph nodes in the central compartment or in the neck immediately around where the thyroid is located. Disease spreading to those lymph nodes is far more common than distant metastasis for well-differentiated thyroid cancer, but it is something that if we see it preoperatively on ultrasound or by way of palpation when we feel the neck or on another form of imaging, we try to handle the local regional disease at the time of surgery, meaning that we not only remove the thyroid gland, but also remove many, if not all, of the lymph nodes that are involved. We try to remove all the lymph nodes that are involved at the time of initial surgery. Beyond that, you know, can definitely occur. And I'll let Vic kind of talk a little bit about, you know, the frequency and management of distant metastasis if they should turn up either during the initial portion, or presentation, or further down the road for these patients. So, again, papillary thyroid cancer, which is the most common thyroid cancer, spreads primarily lymphatically. So, we see lymph nodes in the neck. That's why it's so important before you even have your initial thyroid surgery. If you have a nodule that's been biopsied, we want a lymph node mapping to have been done pre-surgically. So Dr. Janus or whichever surgeon is doing the surgery knows what's going on. And I would say, so that becomes a very important thing is the neck ultrasound. For the distant metastases, yes, we can sometimes see papillary thyroid cancer to the lungs. And sometimes we've seen it in other various parts of the bodies. And so we can pick that up sometimes with the radioactive iodine imaging. Sometimes we need to do the PET CT that I mentioned earlier. When this is usually comes up in the thyroglobulin that's rising and we're not finding anything within the neck area for recurrence. So we need to expand the search and look for other areas. Many times we'll go ahead and even do a brain MRI to look at the skull and brain to make sure there's no involvement there and when we find it then we do our best to treat it and if it's something that we can do with localized therapy we'll do localized therapy with something that's appropriate for radioactive iodine we'll do that and then in the few patients where it's more advanced and it's distant metastasis, there are now medications that are available through our team. And we have a dedicated medical oncologist and one of the endocrinologists who did special oncology training as well. And there are systemic medications that can be used to treat if there is widespread thyroid cancer and to potentially treat these tumors. And it's gotten pretty advanced nowadays because we look at the tumor tissue, we figure out what mutations in the tumor are present and that can help guide options. The other thing that we have is when there's recurrences in the neck and maybe we have the idea that you've had a couple surgeries, maybe we'd like to not do another surgery, we have the ability to do ethanol ablation where we basically can inject the lymph node that's in the neck that seems to be involved with our cancer with some alcohol, and it can basically scar down that lymph node, make it shrink down, sometimes disappear. Sometimes the thyroblagolin will become undetectable or at least come down. And so we can have local control without doing a surgery. So that's not appropriate for everybody. We usually guide patients when we think they would be a candidate for that, or if they have a choice between surgery and another potential procedure. So it kind of divides, can we do things locally, or do we need to do some type of systemic therapy when there are distant metastasis. But lots of options. I'll make one more comment. So in 2010, there were no systemic therapies approved for thyroid cancer. Now, sitting here in 2025, I'm starting to lose count. It's over a dozen. I think it's 14. There's some that are off-label. So not all of them are appropriate. Some are for differentiated thyroid cancer. Some are for anaplastic, which is a much more rare, but aggressive thyroid cancer that only impacts a half to 1% of all thyroid cancer patients. There's medullary thyroid cancer, which is another type of cancer, which is maybe 2% to 5% of most of all thyroid cancers. And so we have a lot of options for all these different cancers now that we didn't have before, which gives us hope for our patients for the subset that do have more aggressive disease and need more than just standard surgery and/or radioactive iodine. There's no reason that it has to. And I would say a lot of our patients with thyroid cancer on thyroid hormone feel fine. And then there is a subset where they don't feel their energy is the same. They're struggling a little bit with their weight or can have mood issues. Now, it gets complicated if you have a cancer diagnosis, patients with other cancers that don't impact our function also can have some of these symptoms. So this could be related to the impact on patients from having that diagnosis and the worry and anxiety that that can create, which can impact some of these issues. The other thing is I like to look for other causes. I have found patients where their energy is not good and they're having weight gain and they're more emotional. And then I found out when I asked them some questions they have non -restorative sleep pattern they wake up they feel tired even though they slept eight hours and then we realize they might have some type of sleep disorder and pause like obstructive sleep apnea so they're not getting rested and we can give them more and more thyroid hormone and not going to make them feel better. Then there's a subset where they don't feel great we've not identified any general medical issues that might explain why they don't feel good. They seem to be coping with their thyroid cancer okay, but they say they just don't feel the same. And then we will work with the patients on sometimes giving more than just T4 -based therapy and get combination T4, T3. So most patients do fine just on straight T4 therapy, but there is the ability to add this more active T3. And we think some patients maybe don't convert their T4 to T3 as well. We think this is a small percentage of the population, and it's not that they can't convert it at all, but maybe they convert it 10% less, and they might benefit from low-dose T3 added to their T4. We have to be careful, like when women were interested in fertility, because we don't necessarily want them on this combination therapy for safety for the fetus and stuff, and if you have arrhythmias, afib, something like that, the T3 could worsen that. And so we have to individualize, and it's important to listen to patients. We continue to work with your primary care doctor because, again, these are not uncommon complaints. And I tease, I'm getting into my early 60s, and people talk about energy. Well, I know my energy isn't like I was when I was a 26 -year-old anymore, maybe not even when I was a 46-year-old. So those things have to be thought about, too. And as you get older, you know, your weight is not necessarily as easy to control and stuff like that. So I think we try to take a really holistic view. Some of the patients with weight we send to our weight loss experts and talk to patients about what options and stuff there might be. But most thyroid cancer patients can feel pretty good. There is a subset. They don't feel quite right. We try to figure out, is it really from their thyroid cancer and their hypothyroidism, or is there something else that's going on? Again, usually in partnership with their primary care docs. Yeah, so I'll talk about thyroid cancer first, and then I'll let Vic talk about surveillance and thyroid hormone management during pregnancy or considerations for fertility. And so oftentimes we'll actually see women who are expecting that, you know, thyroid cancer has either surfaced during their workup or they got an ultrasound or they got a little bump in their neck or something because they're going into the doctor that gets picked up and it winds up being a thyroid cancer. Now, typically speaking, because most of these thyroid cancers are well differentiated, we can actually put off surgery until after they've delivered the baby, which I think is probably the management strategy that we deploy most often in these patients. Although certainly assuming it's behaving aggressively and seems like it's rapidly growing or rapidly progressive, we would probably target the second trimester of pregnancy if possible when things have sort of stabilized for the fetus and for mom to do the surgery. And we would do it in a way that would be safe but expeditious to minimize exposure to anesthesia and all of those things. The other situation that you're probably alluding to is, you know, if somebody has had thyroid cancer, is on thyroid hormone supplementation, or maybe is he getting radioactive iodine or might be a candidate for radioactive iodine, how do we manage that in the context of pregnancy or pending or wanting to get pregnant? And I'll let Vic kind of elaborate on those a little bit. Sure. And just to mention also, if somebody has thyroid nodule and they're pregnant and we suspect they have a papillary thyroid cancer but it seems limited to the thyroid many times we can wait till they deliver to address that and, while you can do surgery in a second trimester and it can be done safely, potentially sometimes the risk benefit is there's so little risk with having that small papillary thyroid cancer that in unlikelihood of it spreading or causing any problems that we can hold off so that's something we talk to the patients about. We definitely want to wait. Now, having hypothyroidism or thyroid cancer of pregnancy well just in general when you're dependent on thyroid hormone from an exogenous source or you're taking a pill you don't have a thyroid to make it anymore, during pregnancy you normally need a little bit more thyroid hormone it could be anywhere from 25-35%, up to A-50% increase in dose, and it's most important in the first trimester so I always tell my ladies I say, "You know if you think you're pregnant, you need to let us know immediately so we can go ahead and get some lab tests done." If there's going to be a delay, sometimes we'll tell them to go ahead and just bump up their dose by a couple of tablets per week so that we can just get that moving. Because again, the fetus can't make its own thyroid hormone in the first trimester. And it's really dependent on the little bit that crosses from mom through the placenta. And so we want that to be optimized. Again, we don't like to use a combination T4, T3, or the animal desiccated thyroid hormone, because T3 doesn't cross the placenta well. And with those preparations or regimens, you're going to have less T4 and less T4 getting across. We really like women who are attempting to get pregnant or hypothyroid just on T4 -based therapy, because that seems to be the best for their fetus and such. And so we monitor very aggressively during the first trimester typically second and third trimester things settle down and we don't have to adjust the dosing as much and we spread out instead of maybe checking in every three to four weeks we'd go back to checking in every six to eight weeks or so and then usually post-delivery their dose goes back down to their pre-delivery dosing and so we have to do a lot of blood tests and a lot of portal messages or call back and forth with the patient as we monitor during that standpoint with fertility. Oh, there's something we do. Somebody said radioiodine treatment. We typically recommend to wait one year after radioiodine before trying to have any kids. And that's just because that radioiodine comes out of the urine and the stool. And we don't want any of the ovum that we're developing in the ovaries to get fertilized. And then, you know, there could be the theoretical concern of some type of genetic mutation occurring because of that. It may be a very low risk, but no one wants to take that risk. And so, of course, we are careful with that. And then with fertility, in general, if you're getting fertility treatments, that can be kind of a challenge because they're giving you some of those very high hormone levels, which you need back to your thyroid hormone dosing. And so we just work closely with the patients. There are no absolute black and white ways to handle this. I think it's working closely with the fertility endocrinologist that they're working with and Ob/Gyn. And we try to have a close management relationship with anybody, the perinatologist, again, reproductive endocrinologist and Ob/Gyn when women are pregnant or interested in fertility and try to use a team approach.