So we are here for this Month's Social Work Education Support Group, and we are lucky enough to have Jennifer Whittemore. She is our living donor social worker here at Mayo Clinic, she's going to share some information on living donation with you. Before we get started, I'm going to go over our rules for support and education groups. Let me share my screen. All right. Can you see that? All right. Perfect. All right. Please remember that we strongly recommend that you do not use your full name on the online group. If you use your full last name when registering, please replace it with just your first initial of your last name. You can click the three dots at the top of the picture, select re name, and just leave your first name and the first initial of your last name, okay? All right. Please understand that you are attending an online group, and other participants will be able to see whatever is visible on your camera. You face, your body, your location in the background. We will be able to hear any sound or conversation in your area if you are not muted. see whatever name you have entered when joining the group. All right. Here's a little Zoom cheat sheet. You can raise your hand if you need to speak. The three dots show you where you change your name. You can type messages in the chat box. You can personalize those where only I will see those or the group can see those. You must register to attend each group. Confidentiality is very important. The only exception is the need to protect the safety of a participant. What happens in this group stays in this group, please. Please share information related to only your story and experience with the group. Okay. All right. Respect. Everyone's need to be heard and understood. I request that only one person speaks at a time. Please mute yourself when you are not speaking and that will reduce background noise. Recording by participants is strictly prohibited. Please do not record the group. All right. We do record these sections for training and educational purposes, and we do make them available at a later time online. We reserve the right to remove anyone from the group who is being disruptive. Right. I'm going to stop my screen share, and I am going to turn it over to Jennifer. Hey, guys. I'm Jennifer and the living donor social worker here at Mayo, and I'm going to share my screen and go over a PowerPoint with you guys. Okay This is just some introductions. This is the living donor team from Mayo. We have two we have three nurse coordinators. I haven't had a chance to update it and add Turin, but we have Christine, Jacqueline and Turin and then I'm the social worker for all living donor patients. We have a separate team than you guys do just so that their best interest is protected and your best interest is protected. Today, you guys are going to learn about living donation, how to find a living donor and potential solutions to common problems. Why should you consider living donor kidney? Kidney donation is really safe and the waiting time for a kidney transplant is shorter. And the wait time for a deceased donor kidney transplant is longer. Only one out of five newly weight listed adult patients will receive a donor kidney from a deceased donor within three years. Limiting time on dialysis has a lot of health benefits. This is just some percentages. Then again, kidney donation is safe, the waiting time is shorter, and living donor kidneys last longer compared to deceased donor kidneys. This is just like a graph about how long they last compared to deceased donor kidneys. You can see a lot longer. Then this is a five year and ten year patient survival with living donor transplants, deceased donor transplant dialysis, just being on dialysis, and then the ten year of living donors, deceased donors, and then patients who are just on dialysis. Then again, kidney donation is safe. The waiting time is shorter. They last longer. Living donor kidneys almost always have immediate function. The surgery is scheduled ahead of time, which allows for you to plan and for the living donor to plan. What can you expect during a donation surgery? Most donors will spend one night overnight in the hospital. The surgery is invasive, it's laparoscopic. Generally, donors can return to all regular activity within six to eight weeks of surgery. Who can be a living donor. Anyone who is healthy. We have no age requirements at Mayo Clinic on how old or how you have to be at least 18, but we have no age limits. You could be 75 and still getting evaluated. We have an approval rate at Mayo Clinic, Florida, about 40 to 50% of all donors who come through get approved. That's just because this will be the best physical you'll ever have in your life. We're screening for every disease that you could have that could limit your kidney function going forward because we want to make sure that living donors can have a healthy life for the rest of their life as well. What does a donor need to do to be able to donate their kidney. They'll go through a similar evaluation to you guys. They'll have a general medical evaluation. They'll have blood and urine testing. They also have a CT image to assess kidney anatomy. The evaluation usually takes about two to three days on site and then another day of virtual appointments. What if a potential donor decides that kidney donation is not right for them? A donor may stop the donation process at any time. All discussions the decisions made by the donor are kept confidential. Does the donor need to pay for living donation. The cost of the evaluation and surgery will be covered by the recipients insurance. There are options available to help donors with lost wages, travel, and housing expenses through the National Living Donor Assistance Center. I call them NLDAC and then the National Kidney Registry - NKR. The meet with me during their evaluation and I go over those programs thoroughly with them. Then they can always apply even before coming forward just to see if those costs will be helpful so that they don't have to pay anything out of pocket. So that all sounds great, how do you find a living donor. I always encourage people to start by writing a personal story. This is just some circles of influence because you have your friends, close family, and then they have their own as well. Sorry. Then common concerns about kidney donation. A lot of people don't like asking others to donate their kidney. But you're not asking? You're just simply telling them, Hey, I have kidney disease, my kidney is failing, I'm going to need a kidney transplant. It's not asking for a kidney, it's just telling people what's happening to you and the treatment options that are available to you. And then if you don't know what to say, keep it simple, tell them that you have kidney disease, or kidneys failing, and you're going to need a transplant at some point. If someone expresses interest in donating their kidney, you can have them contact the living donor team at MayoClinic.org/livingdonor or they can just Google living donation at Mayo Clinic and it will bring them to that website. Then you want to have a living donor champion. People undergoing kidney transplant may be hesitant to talk about their kidney disease, but your family members might not feel that way. They might want to talk about you and find you help because they want you to live and they want you to get a transplant. Sometimes it's easier for friends and family to be the ones talking about it and spreading the word about living donation, and they can help tell your story. Then they can spread the word about transplant and living donation. Then this is just a story, but we had a sister donate a kidney to her brother. They were identical matches because their siblings, they had a lot of the same genes. So after a couple of years, he doesn't have to take any immunosuppression medicine because they were so compatible. So that's just one of the benefits of living donation. Again, share your story and message. And now it's talking. Sorry. And it won't let me pause it. Okay. Are you guys able to hear that sound when it's on? No, not able to hear it. It'll just annoy me that's much better. Share your story with family, friends, neighbors, co workers, church members. Go on Facebook, Twitter, I know it's called X Instagram. Have community flyers, e mail, church bulletins, bumper stickers. And be creative I've had a couple of donors come through this just by seeing a bumper sticker. They've never talked to the recipient before. They just felt really called to do it by seeing that bumper sticker. I had a patient who worked at Disney World who saw someone wearing a shirt about needing a kidney transplant and they donated to someone whose shirt they saw. You just really never know what will speak to someone. Then again, where should possible donors go to MayoClinic.org/living donation. You can always Google it and search living donation at Mayo Clinic and it will bring you to the same website. Then you don't have to find a donor with your same blood type. This is just an example of how blood types go. Then we also have the paired exchange program. If they're not same blood type as you, they can donate to a stranger and that stranger can have someone who donates to you. It's not a requirement to have the same blood type. Many donor recipient pairs are not well matched for a lot of different reasons, blood type, tissue matching, antibodies, the kidney anatomy or size. I'm really short, so I could not donate my kidney to a six foot male. It just would be too tiny to work in his body and vice versa. Then more than 40% of living donor transplants happen through the process of a paired kidney exchange. There's a lot of options for living donors. There's direct donation where someone donates directly to their intended recipient or the paired exchange where they donate to a stranger and that stranger has someone who wants to donate to them who will donate to your recipient or advanced donation, where you donate ahead of time to a stranger and your loved one gets a voucher for a living donor transplant. Then after you donate your kidney, they get activated and eventually a match will be found for them through that system as well. What is paired kidney exchanges? It's a process used for donor recipient pairs who are not a match to one another. A approved donor is able to donate to someone that they match with and their intended recipient receives a living kidney from a compatible donor. Then the voucher program that is also the same as advanced donation, where the donor recipient pairs are incompatible, you donate ahead of time and then your loved one gets a voucher to get a living donor and they get activated on that living donor list that they wouldn't have been on before. Then this is the same thing about advanced donation. You can do the standard voucher where it goes to someone who's actively on the waiting list, or you can do a family voucher where you can name up to five family members, none of who are expected to need a kidney transplant within that year. The family voucher is first come first serve. If someone on that voucher uses it, that voucher is gone. Advantages to The donor doesn't need to wait for the recipient to be ready for transplant. The donor can time their donation surgery for when is best for them. It can be a good option for people with caregiver limitations. I have a lot of spouses who do advanced donation because they are the only people each other has and they need to be each other's caregivers. Then remote donation. Remote kidney donation allows someone to donate a kidney to a friend or family member who doesn't live near them without requiring the donor to travel to the recipients transplant center. Then Kidney for Life Initiative the National Kidney Registry. We use NKR to help us find the best kidney transplant for you. They will look for kidneys that will reduce the risk of antibodies, lower the possibility of rejection, lower the probability of graph failure, and hopefully lower the immunosuppression dosage if able to. In summary, we hope that you can take away the following information that living kidney donation is a safe option. It can reduce your wait time on the list, and it lasts longer than a deceased donor kidney. You donor doesn't have to be a relative or a family member or a friend, I could just be anyone who wants to donate a kidney to you. I'm going to stop sharing my screen and then I'll be available for questions. Does anyone have any questions? Yes. This is Aldero. My question is compared to the deceased donor, what is the life expectancy from deceased donor compared to the living donor. Most living donor kidneys last about ten years and these kidneys last about three to five years. It could be longer, it really just depends on the recipient. The age the age of the recipient as well or the age and then your health issues as well. I have had living donors who've had a living kidney for 30 years. It really just depends on the kidney that they got and how they take care of themselves afterwards. Yeah. Because I'm on for the kidney and pancreas. Okay. Well, you know, with the deceased donor. So that's, you know, I'll just curious to see what, you know, is the life expectancy compared to dealing with a living door. But with the pancreas, it has to be a deceased donor. Yeah. And they've had living donors who've gotten a living kidney donor and then they're still on the waitlist for a pancreas afterwards. Thank you. Yes. I've been signing up for this link where you signed up for the living Donor thing, but they keep sending me the same link back. I keep signing up for the same link. I don't know what's going on with that though. That's the one with NKR. Yeah. I don't know why they keep sending me back the same link. Okay. Yeah. So that is confused. Again. I'm not as familiar with that program. Lakaya are you familiar with the NKR website? I am not familiar with that one. So I'm not registration. It's like the microsite. Yeah. That's for microsite. You know, you might want to reach out to your nurse coordinator regarding the microsite. Because they have more information, more details on microsite listing because I'm not sure why you are getting the link right back instead of being able to move forward. I'm not familiar with that. How that works. I'll have to do some research for you or your nurse coordinator is you're going to be your best person to reach out. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Anyone else with any questions? I think Emmanuel has his hand raised, but you're muted. Let me going to ask you to unmute. This is Doug. I have a microsite and a microsite coach. So I'm wondering if this gentleman knows who his coach is if he has a recipient in mind that recipient must have the microsite and the microsite coach. That can be called. Know nothing about No Coach. So I haven't even talked to no Coach. Do you have someone who a living donor already, Gerald? I have some people who offer me some. Did they do you know if they moved forward with the living donor application or no. You're not sure I got I got to check back in with them. I haven't checked in with them yet. Okay. All right. Thank you. You're welcome. Yeah. Yes. My grandson I'm want to donate a kidney, but he's like 28 now, but when he was like 14 to 15, he had cancer. Can he still donate a kidney? He can. So our rule is that they have to be five years out from that remission date, and then they have to have a letter of clearance from the oncology team. Okay. Thank you. Jennifer, this is Doug again? Yes. How does your donor application interface with NKR? Because the NK DO recommends with our microsite that potential donors apply to NKR. NKR orders the original blood test. Uh huh. Okay. Then but I I don't know how I've had one donor use my microsite and apply through NKR. And then I've had another donor that is applied directly with Mayo. But I don't know how NKR is new. So I don't know how you interface with them. So they coordinate with us directly. So once someone uses your microsite, they'll forward all that information to us and then our nurse coordinators reach out. Okay. Thank you. Uh huh. Anyone else? No. Okay. Anyone else? Debra, did you have a question? I see you're unmuted no? All right. Did anyone have any questions or any concerns that the social work team can assist with at this time. If not, we will let you all go and see you next month. All right. I'm sorry. I had maybe a slightly different question. Yeah. Go ahead. I've been out I've been out there twice in Jacksonville for yearly evaluations. The team told me that it can be 18 months? I'm going into my second year. Did the timing for transplants change? But, you know, they said I can get a call within 18 months at the time that I, you know, was put on the donor list. And now the last meeting that I would say can be 2-3 years something changed, Nothing changed. When they tell you, it's as soon as 18 months or two years, that means it could happen. But they also give you a window, meaning it could happen as soon as two years, but it can take up to five to six years as well for a deceased stone or kidney. They give you a window, not a guarantee of when you will be called in for transplant. Please remember there are multiple factors. Okay. They go into matching a donor, just like Jen just went over. It's a thorough testing once they have a deceased donor kidney or kidney pancreas, if that's what you're listed for. But they give you the window, not a guarantee. If they told you as soon as 18 months and that time has passed, then that means you might be closer to the other end of the window. So, we don't we never give a direct time unless, again, that is a living donor surgery. That's what Jen went over today. If you have a living donor and they are a match, then you are able to schedule those surgeries in those dates. But when you're waiting on the deceased donor, it's always a window that we give patients. I know from social work, we discussed it with you. I'm sure your nurse coordinator discussed it with you and the doctors. We always like to give that window. Okay. I have some questions in the chat box it looks like. I think I answered them. You answered Beatrice. Okay. Yeah. All right. Was there anything else? No. All right. Perfect. Any other questions, concerns, anything else I can address. If you don't quite feel comfortable, please don't hesitate to type in the chat box or you can always send the kidney team a portal message. No. Okay. Well, we want to thank Jen for joining us today. Thank you. And we will see everyone again next month. Remember, we send the invites out the week before. We try to. And then we hold these the fourth Wednesday of each month from 2:00 to 3:00 P.M. Each month, we will have a different educational topic that we will review with patients. So we will see you all in May. Thank you. Enjoy the rest of your day. Thank you. All right. Bye bye. Thank you.