This is Aging [music] Forward, a podcast from Mayo Clinic about the science behind healthy aging and longevity. Each episode, [music] we explore new ways to take care of our long-term health, the health of our loved ones, and our [music] community so we can all live longer and better. I'm Dr. Christina Chen, a geriatrician and internist at Mayo Clinic in [music] Rochester, Minnesota. In this episode, we are talking about diabetes, a condition that [music] affects millions of people. About 38.4 million Americans or roughly 1 in 10 people have diabetes. And up to 95% of those cases are type 2, which [music] is also deeply manageable and in many cases preventable. Diabetes isn't just about blood sugar. It's about how our bodies [music] process energy, how lifestyle habits accumulate over the years, and how nutrition plays such a central [music] role in maintaining health and independence. And while the risk of diabetes increases with age, the story [music] does not have to end there. Today we are joined by Laura Kudson, a registered dietitian and nutrition expert at Mayo Clinic in Oaklair and Monomony, [music] Wisconsin. She has dedicated her career to helping people optimize wellness through food science and [music] lifestyle. So welcome Laura. Happy to have you on the podcast today. Thank you. We would love to get to know you a little bit. And can you share some background about how did you pursue a career in this in this space of nutrition and dietetics? >> When I was in high school, we had to take these little questionnaers to figure out what we might want to do when we grow up. >> Okay. >> And this is how I even learned that there was a career in the dietetics field to begin with. So I went to EW Stout for college and studied dietetics. I initially thought I would do sports nutrition and then I met my husband who has type 1 diabetes and it changed my path forward and I've been a a certified diabetes educator since 2018 I believe. >> I love hearing your background, what sparked your interest and what drove your interest because it sounds like it's a very personal thing for you as well to help your husband through it. I'd love to have our audience kind of understand the basics, the details behind diabetes and the link to aging. So maybe we can start with that background. Can you explain what exactly is diabetes? And there's the different types, right? Type one and type two. What's the difference between those types? Diabetes affects the way our body uses blood sugar or the medical term for sugar is glucose. And so with type 1 diabetes, it's an autoimmune disease and the body kind of attacks the beta cells in that pancreas and we don't make any more insulin. So with type 1 diabetes, the only treatment we have right now is insulin. >> All right. Meaning the insulin that people use to inject themselves. >> Yes. And then with type two diabetes, we have probably two problems going on. One, we don't make enough insulin and we don't use it well. We have more than 10 different medication classes that we can pull from. I think that both types of diabetes, our lifestyle plays a role in how we manage the condition. Both types don't make enough insulin, but type two, the insulin resistance is maybe even like an underlying issue or the contributor of it. >> Thank you for simplifying that for us. And I know type one typically is a younger onset and as people age over the years, type two then becomes more common. Can you describe some of the changes in the body that can contribute to the insulin resistance you're talking about in type two diabetes? Definitely. I even heard in your introduction you were saying one in 10 people have diabetes. When we get older that statistic is much tighter. It's approximately one in three people 65 and older have diabetes with type two being the most common. So definitely something is changing in our body to increase that risk as we get older. Number one, our lean muscle mass tends to go down. I think we lose maybe 3 to 8% of our muscle probably a decade after the age of 30. So that is one of the areas that we are trying to maintain our lean muscle mass to reduce our risk of developing type 2 diabetes. We maybe sometimes gradually see a weight increase over the years. So maybe sometimes it's common for me to see somebody in a clinic and I see a fair number of people for weight management as well and they will tell me their usual adult body weight and maybe by the time I see them it's like man I've gradually have put on a little bit of weight over the years. So that weight increase also contributes to insulin resistance which increases that risk of diabetes. And then I think our pancreas also doesn't make as much insulin as we get older. So somebody's body just truly might not make quite as much insulin as it used to do 5, 10, 15, 20 years ago. >> Mhm. >> You mentioned the weight changes and the loss of muscle mass, but are there other warning signs that someone may be at risk of insulin resistance or pre-diabetes? I would say that there are things that people potentially overlook because when I see people in the clinic, the most common thing people would say is even if they've developed diabetes, they didn't know until they had blood work done and show their numbers were higher than usual. >> So I would say a lot of the times people don't notice any symptoms. So whether they come on so gradual, we just don't pay attention enough to notice. But sometimes if I ask more in-depth questions like, "Have you noticed any of these things?" Those might have been signs that we overlook. So probably the top two that I'll ask about sometimes is like if someone just generally is starting to feel more fatigued and tired out than usual. I sometimes wonder is that insulin resistance or is the way our body uses our blood sugar not as efficient as it used to be? And another question I will often ask is if they've had any increased cravings for sugar or increased cravings for carbohydrates. I think that that can be a sign of insulin resistance. Because what can happen is as our blood sugar goes up, our insulin levels also go up to compensate for those higher blood sugar levels. And when we have high insulin levels, we tend to feel more hungry. Mhm. >> So if somebody tells me they eat a bowl of cereal for breakfast and they are hungry an hour or two later, sometimes I wonder if that insulin resistance is a part of that driving of that appetite, especially after meals that are maybe higher in carbohydrate or higher in refined carbohydrates. I think especially can start the cycle of feeling munchy and snacky all day long. >> Right. I'm glad you mentioned that. I often see those early symptoms as well and it's something they often overlook because it's like well I've been tired for a while now or you know my appetite changes here and there but I have been eating more it seems like and the cravings are more prevalent or they're more thirsty too. They tend to drink more and urinate more and they don't come in until it's time for surveillance blood work and all of a sudden their A1c is 11. It's like oh my gosh how long has this been going on you know? So, let's talk a little bit about how uncontrolled diabetes impacts overall health, especially for older adults. Sometimes we just don't know they're diabetic until it's noticed on blood work. And by then, they could have had the condition for years. So, how does that impact overall health, especially if it's untreated? High blood sugar levels can take a toll on a microvascular level and a macrovascular level. >> Yeah. So the organ systems that I am very sensitive to when I'm seeing somebody that has diabetes is the heart. When somebody has diabetes, they are twice as likely to have a major cardiovascular event than someone without diabetes. So from a nutrition standpoint, I am automatically thinking I'm also going to make sure that we eat well from a heart-healthy standpoint to reduce that risk heartwise as well. neuropathy. Often people have so much pain with damage to our nerves and it is so uncomfortable and maybe some of our medicines don't manage as well as we we wish they would to take away pain or discomfort. Peripheral neuropathy often will develop first. I will see people that come in they have maybe a walker or a cane and they say that their feet feels like pins or feels like they're falling asleep or they're just numb in general and they have spots on their feet they don't feel anything. Many people have said that they have a family member or friend that lost their foot or their leg to neuropathy or from a hand standpoint. I have to have people check their blood glucose often and they will say it just hurts really bad because of that neuropathy pain and just being so sensitive. I will also see people that have autonomic neuropathy where they have gastropreces in their stomach. So even tolerating food is hard. So they also have to change the texture of their foods to be able to eat well. And then the kidneys also can be impacted as one of those bigger organ systems that we maybe worry the most about that high blood sugars and also high blood pressure. >> Yeah. >> Can increase that risk of damaging those kidneys. >> Right. It's really the downstream effect that occurs years later where then it affects the symptoms and the burden and the quality of life where neuropathy living with pain every day is not fun. Living with heart failure symptoms every day because you've had a heart attack at age 40 is not a good thing. And so these are all things that we don't realize how much impacts our function and quality of life until it actually happens and then it's irreversible, right? Or [music] harder to reverse at least. >> [music] >> So, I love talk about nutrition and prevention because there's so much that's still within our control and that can prevent disease onset and bad outcomes. As a nutritionist and a dietician, what do you feel like are the most effective nutrition strategies to reduce the risk of developing diabetes in the first place? An emphasis on vegetables, particularly the non-starchy vegetables, is a big piece of things. And this is a challenge for many of us because 90% of Americans don't get enough vegetables in our eating pattern. So, I always say that we're not alone. All of us could work on this. This is something many of us can work to improve on. I think as we get older, including enough lean protein sources in our eating pattern is important because if we're trying to maintain that lean muscle mass to maintain what we have or to build from where we're at, we need sufficient lean protein in our eating pattern. And as we get older, we don't use protein as efficiently as we did when we were younger. So, not that we need to be on an extra high protein eating pattern, but it's a nutrient to be thoughtful around to get enough of. Uh-huh. >> If somebody comes in and they tell me that their eating pattern is garbage and they just don't know where to start, often I like to start even with the beverages and just see if we can clean up the beverage piece of things because it can give a lot of results for one change that can be quite significant. So, not overdoing it on sweetened drinks. I'm always like, can we make water our primary drink? Occasionally I run into somebody that just does not drink any water for whatever reason. So then I'm like, well maybe our second best choice I start to go through like can we drink unsweetened tea or black coffee or can we put lemon in our water or lime in our water to give it a little bit of flavor, >> but I don't want somebody to drink all of their carbohydrates because in beverages they're always simple carbohydrates. So they >> seem to make that blood sugar go up very quickly because there is no fiber. So we slow down as we get older. We need fiber to slow our digestion down a little bit so our blood sugar does not go up before our pancreas can respond to give us that insulin. Right. So I have one comment and one question. My comment is I've had a lot of success actually with the carbonated flavored sodas and I think people just like sweetened drinks because of the carbonation. And there's something about that that they really like the fizz, you know, so replacing it with bubbly drinks. And I've actually had a lot of people successfully switch their habits to that. And my question is, what's the verdict on the diet sodas with aspartame and the zero calories, zero sugar? Is that >> safe to still drink and access? >> I always kind of rank them in order when I'm seeing somebody. So, I drink water, then the unsweetened tea and the coffee, and then the bubbly and lacroy waters that are carbonated but have no non-nutritive sweeteners in them as potentially higher ranking. I think if someone is going to choose between the sweetened drink or the diet soda when we're at risk for diabetes, I would prefer the diet version of things. Whether it's diet soda or if it's going to be >> in like Crystal Light or some of our flavored water enhancers like Neo, >> I think that they are not going to impact glucose. If they did, it's very small. So, if it's the difference between staying hydrated or not hydrated, I would rather see somebody drink those non-nutritive sweeteners. I certainly think better than sweetened drinks because we do know that regular soda or sweetened drinks do increase risk of heart attack or a stroke. But sometimes I might challenge someone to see, can it be a stepping stone or can we incorporate it in as a treat and not drink six cans of diet soda a day but save it more for when I >> go out once a month and it's kind of my treat when I go out. >> Yeah. >> Just keep it in moderation is probably a good rule of thumb. >> Yeah. No, thank you for that. I imagine these recommendations, these strategies of prevention applies to the person who was also diagnosed with diabetes too as these first nutritional changes that you would recommend just cut out the sweetened drinks, things in moderation. Try to amplify the vegetables in your diet. Are there any other first kind of nutritional changes you would recommend in that population? Someone who's first diagnosed with diabetes. I sometimes worry as somebody is getting older >> and maybe they live by themselves or even if they're just them and their spouse, but they used to have a whole family that they took care for for meals. >> Sometimes I worry that somebody as they've retired are not going to eat nice balanced meals >> and instead what they start to do is to snack instead of eat meals. And then when that snacking occurs, they tend to be more carbohydrate-based snacks. They seem to lack produce and protein. >> So something to think about is, do I still eat three balanced meals? They can be small. They don't have to be big meals, but people that eat meals tend to eat more fruits and vegetables than people that don't eat meals. So, if I'm not going to eat meals, it just requires extra thoughtfulness to include the produce and maybe extra thoughtfulness to make sure I have a protein source to go with my snacks so that hopefully my glucose levels can stay stable throughout the day rather than not eating very much stuff and then eating one really big meal. So, if I gave any other kind of tips, I'd be like, eat at regular intervals throughout the day to stabilize my glucose levels, manage my appetite throughout the day, and give me the best opportunity to eat meals. Cuz many people are so wonderful at planning balanced meals. It just takes more effort if we're cooking for one or if I used to cook for >> five or six or seven people. Sometimes we don't love ourselves enough to prepare those meals. So we and to snack instead of eat balanced meals. >> I love that you mentioned that, Laura, because that that social aspect is so important. And also if older adults, they just can't get to the grocery store and it's easier for them just to buy in bulk, you know, snacks. And also to understand the educational aspect, they don't know that this is a bad eating habit, you know, and if you get into the fine details, they'll say, "Oh, I don't eat much to begin with." It's because they're just snacking all day. they're not eating full meals, but that's not healthy either. So, I'm I'm really glad you mentioned that aspect. Are there misconceptions about diabetic diets? And I I mentioned this because I work in nursing homes and you know I I see patients when they're out in the dining room eating and they're on this diabetic diet so to speak and I look at their plate and it's French toast with syrup and it's this you know sugar-free syrup and and it's just like that doesn't look like a diabetic diet to me and then we ask people to curb the carbohydrates and I don't think there's a clear description of what a diabetic diet is. So, can you clarify that? Can you describe what a healthy diabetic diet truly looks like? >> Yeah. So, one, I do not like when people feel like they have to follow a specific diabetic diet. There is no diabetic diet in my eyes whatsoever. >> But it's definitely a common question that I get all the time. I was diagnosed with diabetes. I need the meal plan to follow the special >> diet. So, no. To me, there is no special diabetes diet. To me, it can be individualized, but like you said, you work sometimes in a nursing home, it is provided to them. It cannot be tailored individually quite as as well. But the big keys to me are it has enough non-starchy vegetables, lean protein, and quality carbohydrates. The plate method um is a common concept that I use in the clinic. It can be practical as far as like seeing what that looks like. As you're talking about the plate method, I can't help but think about, you know, those plates that we give our toddlers. It's got the dividers in the middle. I was like, how cool would it be to have an adult version of that? And it's got dividers that say, you know, here's the protein portion. These are some ideas you can choose from. Here's your your vegetables and your plant proteins. and just give ideas for people so that they can just look at the plate and be like, "Oh, we'll do fish and beans plus a small sliver of mashed potatoes today." I was just to give them something to know how to portion plan, I suppose. >> Yeah, I actually do sell these kind of plates. >> Oh, they do. And even if somebody does not want to spend a lot to buy a very fancy one that has colorcoded little corners, even the three container divider plates that they sell in the disposable section where they have maybe paper plates or styrofoam will have like three little pieces as a guide. So those are the plates you're using so you don't have to do all your dishes. It helps us to maybe balance our macronutrients out for good quality in our eating patterns. So let's say we have a portioned plate where one portion is half the plate and the other two are quarter of a plate. How would you usually divide that up into the recommended food choices? So I'm like, can we include half of the plate non starchy vegetables and can a fourth of it be lean protein sources? And even a bonus if they can have some plant protein sources in there to help with that insulin resistance piece of things. And then a fourth of it quality carbohydrates that have fiber or complex carbohydrates would be another term that maybe people have heard or maybe lower glycemic index type carbohydrates like beans or lentils. So an emphasis on non-starchy vegetables limit added sugars and refined grains. So I think of the sweetened drinks and not too much sweets and desserts for assisted living or nursing home. I'd be like, man, I don't want to offer dessert at every meal for a population that maybe can't be as active as they once were and thinking of it more as a a treat because even if somebody does not have diabetes, this is not how any of us should be eating on a regular basis and then less processed food to the extent possible. We can call it whatever eating pattern we want. Whether we say it's low carb or if we consider it more vegetarian or more of this Mediterranean, which is a high ranking diabetes eating pattern as well as a heart-healthy eating pattern. As you're going through these food choices, talking about quality carbohydrates and plant proteins, I'm I'm just thinking like, how much of these foods do I know about? can I'm sort of scratching my head trying to think of the variety of foods and there's only so much I can think of, not to mention cooking them well and tasting good. Do you have any resources or like handouts that you give to patients about what are quality carbohydrates aside from beans? What are other plant proteins, non-starchy, vegetables? Like >> how do you guide people through that? >> Right? How do I find these things on my own? Mhm. >> So there's only a handful of vegetables that are starchy, but things like corn or peas or potatoes are considered starchy vegetables. It is not that it's not healthy. So >> most of my favorite, >> they are healthy and they have fiber. Um, but I think of that plate method, I would just tell somebody this is when I would put it under the fourth of the plate. >> So I might say, I don't want you to have >> both potatoes and peas at the same meal or potatoes and corn at the same meal. I might say, "This is why they invented peas and carrots. I can have peas for the starchy food and I could have carrots for the non-starchy one." Or if I had corn on the cob, maybe I could have a lettuce salad to go with it. But most vegetables are non-starchy. Some specific examples would be green beans or asparagus, Brussels sprouts, leafy greens like lettuce and spinach, even like sugar snap peas, grape tomatoes. cuz I was thinking of some I can eat maybe cooked versus raw because how it's prepared doesn't matter or if I need to do it seasonal. Maybe with winter coming I would like to eat more cooked vegetables where maybe in the summer months I just prefer them to be more raw. And what might that Mediterranean style portion plate look like? >> I still picture this emphasis on vegetables. I still picture a fourth of the plate foods with fiber like whether it's brown rice or whole grain pasta or beans or lentils, sweet potatoes, regular potatoes. The part that changes the most to me is that protein section. So what is unique with the Mediterranean eating pattern compared to many other high ranking eating patterns is they seem to be a little bit more specific on where the protein comes from. M. So they kind of will say we want an emphasis on plant proteins. So I think of our plant proteins as the soy group. So I think tofu or tempeh. I think of our beans and lentils. So black bean beans or kidney beans, brown lentils or red lentils. We can get a little bit of protein from the nuts and seeds, but I would primarily classify those as healthy fats or we were going to run oursel up in calories before we can get enough protein. but they are great to include in a healthy eating pattern. Um, but when it gets to the animal proteins with the Mediterranean eating pattern, they seem to have an emphasis on fish. So, sometimes I'll be like, could we incorporate fish maybe a couple times per week? Then I tell people the two-legged animals are above the fish with no legs. And then above the poultry or chicken and turkey are the beef and pork are four-legged animals. And do you have an eating strategy for how you space things out during the week? >> So maybe one concept if someone is still like at home and meal planning for themselves. This is a strategy I personally use for myself. Um but I'll do meatless Monday and I try to do fish on Tuesdays and Fridays. I do red meat on Wednesday and I do poultry on Thursday. And it's my strategy to try to align better with that Mediterranean eating pattern with attention to the protein source, the protein type. And then I still try to think what vegetable is going to go with this item or what starch food is going to go good with this protein source. But >> you're planning ahead. I like that you're sort of already knowing like what's going to happen on Monday through Friday. So >> yeah, I think to be successful at managing anything in life, we want to be a planner. So for nutrition, if we want to be successful, you know, we probably want to have a plan. For me personally, it has worked well to do once a week and then I try to go grocery shopping once a week. I know you mentioned sometimes the people you see, they can't always get to the grocery store each week. Maybe they can only get to the grocery store every other week. I love it when somebody can go at least every other week. it becomes really challenging to get enough quality produce in when somebody can only go grocery shopping once a month, >> right? >> I mean, we can certainly use freezers and use our frozen vegetables and frozen foods and canned things as well. But ideal if someone could go grocery shopping once a week or ideally no more than going two weeks without getting to the store. >> Yeah, thank you for all these ideas. I really love hearing about it. It's, you know, it's one thing to talk about diets and and buying healthy things, but really helpful to give our listeners practical tips on how to actually apply them to our lives and how to plan how to portion and how to shop. So, thank you so much for that insight, Laura. >> Thank you. >> So, that is all [music] for this episode. Hopefully, you're feeling a little bit more informed, inspired, and empowered. [music] Our guest today, Laura Kinson, had so much to say that we are actually going to be back with a second episode on diabetes where we'll talk about dieting for weight loss, [music] GLP1s, and much more. And just so you know, we'll be taking a break for the Christmas holiday, and we'll see you [music] back after the new year for diabetes part two. If you have a topic suggestion for a future episode, you can leave us a [music] voicemail at 507-538-6272 and we might even feature your voice on the show. [music] For more aging for episodes and resources, head to mayoc clinic.org/agingforward. And if you found [music] this show to be helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us on your podcast app. It really helps [music] others find our show and it helps us make the show better. Thank you so much for listening.