And where do you go? So he said, "We'd be happy to see you and if you could arrange to come out here. What I'm envisioning is that we could bring Trevor here and admit him into the hospital, withdraw the medication that he is taking and turn off his device, his pacemaker device in a controlled environment and just see what we see Trevor wanting to be kind of in a natural state. And when Dr. Acriman did that. He looked at the um the electroc cardiogram tracings and said, "I don't think that your son really has any cardiac problem at all really." He said, "I wouldn't put it in a textbook of the most normal echo, but it's not a conversation we would be having about getting a defibrillator. It's not um life-threatening." and he showed it to other colleagues here and um it's his opinion at this point that um Trevor would not be dependent on the device for the rest of his life. So that was fantastic news for us. Um and and just consequently Trevor has kind of a lot of of issues. He has um he he was born with 11 fingers which is what kind of triggered the discussion about the Timothy syndrome in the first place and he has a cleft pallet a sub mucosal cleft pallet so it's not a really severe um and Dr. Jackman came in on the Sunday afternoon. We arrived on a Saturday, kind of got settled. He came in on Sunday and we said, "We'd love to see a hand doctor and a pallet doctor while we're here." And I promise you before noon on Monday, we had seen a pallet doctor, a hand surgeon, two geneticists, Dr. Acriman. It was like total, it was a whirlwind. It was a little overwhelming, but at least they got the ball rolling early enough in the week that they could get all of the tests that they wanted and kind of make some recommendations before we left. That is one of the things that Penn sets Mayo apart is the ability to pull the people together that the patient needs. It was incredible. So, um we met a hand surgeon that is really hopeful for um doing some repair work on Trevor's hands and um it's Dr. Moran. Okay. And um we're really excited about that. And Dr. Draman left us with a really difficult decision of of whether or not we want to um have it removed have the device removed. And um and he acknowledges that there is a doctor in California that at one point based on the information that she had said, you know, your son will die if he doesn't have this device. And now Dr. Acriman is saying, I I don't think that to be the case, and I think your son could have a more normal life if he didn't have the device, and that's a really difficult decision to make. And I think he's given us as many data points as he can to help us make that decision. And he's actually encouraged us to go find a third opinion in California. So, we will do that when we get home. But right now, um, my husband and I are leaning towards having the device removed. And we talked to surgeon this morning here and we're at this point planning to come back and have the device removed here and have the hand surgery done here.