This is Aging Forward, a podcast from Mayo Clinic about the science behind healthy aging and longevity. Each episode, we explore new ways to take care of our long -term health, the health of our loved ones, and our community, so we can all live longer and better. I'm Dr. Christina Chen, a geriatrician and internist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. In this episode, we are talking all about joints, which are so much more than just bones meeting bones. It also encompasses the support structures like the cartilage, tendons, ligaments and muscles, and even the fluid in between, which allows us to move freely and independently. But as we age, our joints accrue more and more wear and tear, stiffness and pain that may prevent us from living the life that we want. So is there any way we can prevent this? And what can we do to maintain healthy joints and ensure their longevity? So our guest today is Dr. Pamela Mehta. She is a board -certified orthopedic surgeon with her own private practice in California called Resilience Orthopedics. She focuses on surgery for shoulders, knees, hips, and hands. She's also the chief medical officer of the Good Feet Store, and we both work together in that space to help many people live with healthy feet. And Dr. Mehta also has her own podcast called The Resilience Factor, which is just one of many things that's offered from Pinnacle, an organization that is dedicated to educating women in medicine, where Dr. Mehta is co-founder and COO. So wowes, Dr. Mehta, you've done a lot so far in life, and we're so grateful for you being here today. Welcome. Thank you so much for having me. I've been wanting to do this for a long time with you. So let's start by just getting to know you a little bit and your background. What inspired you to become an orthopedic surgeon, and what do you do day to day? That's a great question. I actually went to medical school at University of Southern California, Keck School of Medicine. And as I went through my rotations, I was really attracted to orthopedics because those patients, whether you are an athlete or someone who's middle -aged that is trying to play weekend warrior basketball games, or if you are older and want to walk 20,000 steps at Disneyland with your grandkids or do some gardening or some weekend hikes, the same thing that resonates with all of these patient populations is they really want to get back to their active lifestyle. They want to get better. And I thought that was really exciting because how awesome is it to play a role in someone's life where they want to get back to their passion and activity? What would you say is the largest group of population that you work with. Is it older adults? And what's the main problem or concerns that you see in these older adults? I think it is older adults. And what I mean by older, I mean even 50s and 60s. And now people are even remaining more active into their 70s and 80s. And so the way that we practice orthopedics, I think, is so different now than we probably did even 20 years ago, where 70 was considered old and now it is not considered old. So I will routinely have patients that have a meniscus tear on their knee or a rotator cuff tear in their shoulder that are between the ages of 55 and 75. And we used to treat those sometimes non-operatively or we would say, oh, there's not a lot we can do. And that's just not the case anymore because people are living longer, they're remaining healthier, they're more active. And there is a lot we can do for you, which is really exciting. I've mentioned my grandmother on a couple of these podcast episodes, but she lived to 99 years old. She was still outside raking leaves and shoveling snow at 99 years old. And I think, wow, how did you not have pain? She never complained of any joint pains in her life. And so I think about the risk factors when you mention shoulder injuries and sports medicine, you think about injuries, right? But there's other risks for joint and musculoskeletal issues in later life. How is someone like my grandmother, how was she able to reduce those risks? And would you mind talking about some of the risk factors for people who develop joint and musculoskeletal issues later in life? Absolutely. So I'm willing to bet your grandmother was at a healthy weight because that's number one. Obesity is probably the number one determining factor of whether you're going to have joint pain. It can be really frustrating because I know a lot of patients feel like, well, I can't move because I have pain in my joints and because I can't move, I start to gain weight. But really that's when nutrition plays a huge role in all of this. For every pound of body weight, there's approximately four pounds of pressure on your knees. So somebody who weighs 150 pounds, their knees are experiencing 600 pounds of pressure. And that pressure is what causes wear and tear in your cartilage. And that's what leads to arthritis, and that's what leads to pain and inflammation. So it's very, very important, not just for cardiovascular health, to keep your weight at a good, healthy weight. It's important for all of your lower extremity joints, your back, your hips, your knees, your ankles. And we know in all of our fields of medicine that when we have extra weight on us, other things start to go south as well. So we start to have more cardiovascular difficulties. We're not processing sugar as well in the body. So sometimes we're at increased risk for diabetes. Our cholesterol is high as well. With all of those things, you become more inflamed. The joints become more inflamed. So oftentimes when I have a patient come to my office, one of the first conversations we're having actually is what is their nutrition like? What are they eating? Because if they have inflamed joints, a lot of times it's not what I'm seeing on the x -ray. It's what they're ingesting in their body. So I would say obesity or heavy weight is probably number one. And then the other ones that also play a big role are smoking. Smoking does terrible things to the cartilage in your joints. It can also, if you do need a surgery, can increase your infection risk. There is slower wound healing. And so smoking is really terrible for your joints as well. Something else that I often talk to patients about in mid to later life is not just doing cardiovascular activity, but also lifting weights. Lifting weights is incredibly important for keeping your muscle mass, which actually lifts the muscles a little bit off of your joints so that the joints aren't taking all of that pressure. So that's a really important one, too. And then, interestingly, I had read a report about how women tend to have more musculoskeletal problems when they're kind of around the perimenopause era. What's happening there with estrogen changes and perhaps that has some impact on the muscles? Oh, it's unfortunately not great. So as we lose estrogen in our body, which is what happens in our perimenopausal years, we're losing muscle mass as well. The estrogen is also playing a role in our cartilage and also decreasing some cartilage as well. So it's multifactorial. We tend to get more inflamed. We gain more weight. Our bones get a little bit more brittle. We've heard of the word osteoporosis, which is when the bones become weak and brittle due to low bone density, which can increase your risk of fracture. Hormones play a huge role in all of this. The other thing that we can get in those perimenopausal years are frozen joints, probably most commonly known as the frozen shoulder, where you have a capsule around your shoulder and it becomes adhesed or scarred down. And oftentimes women in that area of their life, they just wake up and all of a sudden they can't move their shoulder very well anymore. And they don't really understand why. It wasn't due to any sort of injury. It's not due to diabetes, it's literally due to those hormonal fluctuations that are happening during perimenopausal and menopausal years. Other joints can get stiff. The hip has a capsule around it too. People can get some tight hips and low back pain from having tight hips. Everything is connected. And so that's another problem that we see in perimenopause and menopause and why it's incredibly important for women younger than when they get to that perimenopause, which can often happen even starting around your late thirties is to start building that muscle. And I think for years and years, we've been told as women to just be thin, make ourselves smaller. And what I really love now is there's more of an emphasis on being strong and powerful. And I think that's not just great for our confidence and our mindset, but it's actually great for our bones and our muscles as we go through that stage of our life. That's a really great reminder. And I think, you know, for someone like myself with South Asian descent, it wasn't really emphasized to lift weights or even really to work out, to be honest. And so I lost a lot of years of lifting weights. And now that I'm in my 40s, I'm really trying to focus more on weights. And it's harder to build muscle once you're in your 40s as a woman than when you're in your 20s and 30s. And so I think there needs to be more of a focus of starting that weightlifting earlier rather than later. Right. What are some signs that someone's joints may be starting to wear down? What are the earliest signs there? Sometimes patients will complain of they've been sitting for a while at their desk job and they get up and their knee just kind of feels stiff. It takes a minute to get it going. So stiffness, a little bit reduced range of motion. Sometimes you'll get some like crackling in your joint that's also kind of giving you that sign as well. And sometimes you'll even get a little bit of swelling and inflammation around the joint as well. So those are probably the earliest signs of some sort of degenerative process happening in that joint. So is it usually the loss of cartilage that's the first indicator of this degenerative process happening in the joint? And is there anything we can do to preserve that cartilage and protect against wear and tear? So those symptoms that you're feeling are early signs of arthritis or chondromalacia, as we call it, which is a roughening up of the cartilage, which can lead to mild to moderate to severe osteoarthritis, which literally is the degeneration of cartilage that covers the bones. So I explain it to my patients as when the treads of your tires start to wear down, that friction between the tires that no longer have those treads on the road, just like the bones against each other, start to cause inflammation and pain in the joints. Right. But then there's other types of arthritis. And I think this is a point of confusion for a lot of people is osteoarthritis, but then there's inflammatory arthritis, which is not as much of the degenerative component, but it creates the chronic inflammation that's just always there. Can you talk about the different types and what's more destructive, I suppose? So actually, rheumatoid arthritis or one of those inflammatory arthritis that you were referring to is much more destructive. Your body has this autoimmune disease where the body's immune system is attacking the cartilage cells in your joints. So this can also cause joint pain, stiffness, reduced range of motion. But rheumatoid arthritis tends to affect multiple joints and oftentimes symmetrically. And you sometimes will have some systemic symptoms also like fatigue, whereas osteoarthritis is more localized to a specific joint. So oftentimes patients will come in and they'll tell you, oh, it runs in my family. And usually when they say that, I'm like, well, what runs in your family? Let's talk about that. Because having osteoarthritis in one knee joint usually does not run in the family as much as rheumatoid or those autoimmune diseases. So you'll often hear patients say, oh, when I wake up in the morning, a lot of my joints are stiff, my hands, my feet, my knees, my hips, and it's all often bilateral. So it is a much more progressive disease than osteoarthritis. And, you know, that's a very important distinction to make because the treatments are different. So osteoarthritis, you can probably get away with some anti -inflammatory, maybe some Tylenol and topical stuff. But for inflammatory arthritis, that is not sufficient. I mean, it would need to be treated in a different direction in order to prevent the joint from being destructive long-term. Correct. So oftentimes I can be the first provider physician seeing a patient with rheumatoid arthritis and I don't prescribe those drugs. I leave that to the rheumatologist. And so they're often prescribing them a systemic medicine to help with some of those symptoms and to help target the sole issue that's going on. Whereas for osteoarthritis, we can usually treat that one joint either with physical therapy and SEDS, sometimes an injection. And you can inject rheumatoid arthritic patients as well, but you usually want to make sure that you're co-managing them with a good rheumatologist as well. What do you say are small daily changes we can be doing to relieve us of not just existing arthritis, but joint pains in general, whether it's frozen shoulder or hip and lower back pain, what would you say are the most meaningful we can be doing? So I have two things. Number one is nutrition. It really does affect like 80% of what's going on with your body weight and the way that you feel inside as well. So there's been a lot of emphasis on being plant-based or trying this diet or that diet. And I think you have to pick what's going to work for your lifestyle. So obviously not a huge fan of processed food and a lot of meat because meat can be very inflammatory as well as dairy in the joints. But if you're not someone who's going to stick to a plant-based diet, then that's not going to be the diet for you. Now you could lean more plant-based. So I always talk to my patients about what do you think is going to work for you here? And for me, it's a little less about calories in, calories out versus the way we change our eating. And naturally when you start to eat healthier, you do reduce your calories, which does drop some weight. And so I think trying to manage or keep a good weight is going to be number one, and that's mostly through nutrition. And I know it's hard for people to hear that because they think it's movement, but it really is nutrition. Now, the second part is movement and movement for a different reason than you would think, not necessarily for those cardiovascular benefits or keeping your weight down, but joints that have arthritis in them, do better with motion than being sedentary. Motion is lotion. So we want to move our joints when we have arthritis. That's another common question people ask in my exam room is, well, I have this really arthritic knee. Should I baby it and not do anything with it? Now, I don't want you doing a crazy CrossFit jumping class or something, you know, doing all this heavy activity on it, but I do want you to move it. So elliptical, swimming, walking, those are great exercise cycling. I know there was a huge Peloton craze during COVID, but what was really nice about it is that was low impact exercise for people. And so all of those are great exercises to do when you have lower extremity arthritis, because it's not putting a lot of impact and it keeps that joint moving. Oftentimes you'll hear patients say, I actually feel really great after a 30-minute spin class. And it's not just because of those endorphins, it's because you've been moving that knee. That's really helpful. Those just two simple things to remember every day. And is there any value in early supplementation, say with glucosamine, chondroitin? I know there's a lot of collagen peptides now that are being sold. What's the value in these supplements? So to my knowledge, and I try to keep up with the data, There is no long-term data to suggest that glucosamine and chondroitin have an effect, but that doesn't mean that anecdotally when I talk to patients, they don't feel better. Now, being out in my own practice for the last 15 years, I have been blown away at people's stories and what does work for them. So I always like to keep an open mind. I think acupuncture is great. Huge fan of physical therapy. I don't think an orthopedist can do any kind of work surgically without a great physical therapist. and I really do think sometimes those supplements can help, especially if they're anti -inflammatory in nature. So I am open to those treatments and I think there probably will be some more data coming out in the future to suggest that those things do help. Right now, it's just not strong enough. Thank you for putting the emphasis on physical therapy because I've gone to physical therapy myself three times now for various joint problems and in the beginning I was like, nope, I'm not doing it. I can heal on my own. But I didn't get better until I learned more about my joint and exactly what's causing the problems. And it's not always what I thought a certain exercise could do to make it better. It's actually the support structures around it and actually the back is supporting the shoulder, you know. So just putting a plug in for all of our listeners, focused physical therapy, it's never too early to do that if something's not feeling right or hurting. 100%. Physical therapy and mobility is so, so important, especially as we age. And I would even venture to say a good personal trainer. And the reason behind that is a lot of people can go and weightlift at the gym and even learn about the correct form. But what we don't do a lot of is work on our core and our mobility. And having a personal trainer or going to a physical therapist and really just carving that time out for yourself can go a long way to sort of make you do those things because it does make a big difference. Again, especially as we age, that core, which is not just your abs, as some people think, it's actually your entire back musculature, all your paraspinal muscles, your hip flexors, your abductors, your adductors, basically from kind of mid-thigh to mid-back are your core muscles. And so making those strong and having that good core is going to really help with a lot of those aches and pains that we get as we get older. Absolutely. And just a quick note on gait aids. I know that not everyone with joint problems need gait aids. And actually, a lot of my patients refuse to use them because they feel like it's going to be this crutch that's going to limit their mobility forever. But there are roles for gait aids too. There's crutches for obviously acute injuries, but also canes for one-sided dysfunction. And then there's walkers, but people often don't want to use it because going to make them worse in some ways. You know, I just went through this with my own parents because I think they felt the cane made them look older or feel older. And so they didn't want to use it. What I would say about a cane is a cane is a great aid to have because it can really take pressure off the ipsilateral or contralateral joint, whichever one we're trying to relieve of the pain. And it can be a really good aid for when you are getting a little bit stronger or you're waiting for maybe your injection or your NSAIDs to sort of make their effect. And so I am a fan. I don't think once you get a cane, that means you're using the cane forever. And if you have to, maybe that's the situation. But I think it can also play a temporary role as you're getting stronger in that body part. Thank you for that. So as we're moving down the body, let's talk about our feet and foot care. We often forget to take care of our feet. And as you're looking at all the joints, including the ankle and the toes, what issues do you find most often in the feet for older patients? the feet and the ankles they're the pillar to your whole body it's the foundation to your body and i find it sort of peculiar that we pay the least amount of attention to them we don't honestly care up until we find a problem with our foot what kind of shoe wear we're wearing or what socks we're wearing we just buy the cutest trendiest shoe or something that was marketed to you somehow and we really don't care about what's going on on the inside of the shoe which is the most important part. And so as we get older and this degeneration just naturally is occurring in our body, those bones, ligaments, and tendons in our feet are also degenerating. And so sometimes the arch is falling a bit and we do need a little bit more support in our feet. I think what's really important is to find supportive shoes. And if you can't find supportive shoes or you want to give your supportive shoes a little extra support, which I think we can all use. There are studies to prove that a little bit of arch support for everybody is helpful, then I would recommend a good arch support for the foot as well. I think it is very important to pay attention to our feet, to look at the weather on our shoes. If you look at the back of your shoes, you can see like, are they're getting worn out in one area more than the other? And really just try to figure out, huh, every time I buy a pair of shoes, this is what happens. And as it's getting worn out, I'm having more pain maybe on the inside of my ankle or the inside of my knee. Oftentimes, patients will come in my office and they'll tell me about their hip or knee pain. And the first thing I do is say, okay, let's take off your shoes and socks. Let me see you walk down the hall because I want to see what's going on down there. Maybe that's causing some problems up the kinetic chain. And there's so many other things that happen with the feet too in terms of loss of sensation and calluses. and we lose parts of the support structures like the fat pads, atrophy, and there's bone spurs that happen. Our feet, I feel like, are changed the most with time. We are not born with the same feet. They take a beating is basically what's happening. They really do. Oftentimes people will come in and say, you know, I can't really feel the bottom of my feet that well, or I have like a little bit of numbness and tingling in both my feet. And after I've checked out their back and made sure it's not some sort of ridiculous pain, I'm like, I think you might have diabetes or some neuropathy. So the feet can actually show you a lot of what's going on with your body. A lot of what's going on with your vessels can show up in your feet first. Some heart issues like congestive heart failure. If both of your feet are swollen and you've got pitting edema, that can show up in your feet. So I think it's really important to just take note of your feet as you're aging and see what's going on and if there's any skin changes or pressure changes or your arch feels like it's falling and the fat pad is decreasing a little and really get that checked out either by a physician or getting yourself some really good arch supports as well. What else would you say is the most important thing about footwear in general? Obviously supporting the arches and then for people with diabetes, making sure that the footwear is not rubbing against certain bony prominences, but is there anything else we should be prioritizing in footwear? I like a wide toe box. I think that's important. So the toes shouldn't be all crunching on each other. Obviously, when you think of a wide toe box, you're not thinking of high heels or those kinds of shoes. Not to say that I'm completely against them, but I think that if you can try to find something like a wedge or a platform shoe or something open-toed, if you're trying to go dressier, that might be a good idea. Also, good heel support is really good as well. Flat shoes, those, I hate to name any brands, but flip -flops or ballet type of shoes, those are not going to give you a lot of heel support or arch support. Something I also tell my patients as they're getting a little bit older is all these homes now are really built with concrete or wood floors. And so that's a lot for the foot and your body. Modern floors, they just weren't made for us to be standing on them for so many hours. And so I tell people to prevent plantar fasciitis and to give yourself some good arch support. You really should be wearing like a comfort slip-on or a house shoe with some light arch support as well. That leads me to my next question is there's a lot of these shoes that are marketed as barefoot shoes, because I think the philosophy there is that our feet have become weak over time from, I guess, back in the day when people just ran around in bare feet. And that's when our feet were the strongest. So I'm not sure what the evidence is there is. Are there any benefit to these barefoot shoes? So I think the barefoot phenomenon is great if you're living out in the woods somewhere. You are out there hunting and gathering for your food. Yes, you should strengthen your feet on those surfaces and barefoot be the way to go. Unfortunately, that's not how we're all living our life. I think that would be actually quite fun to do if your life didn't depend on it. But we are living in spaces where we're either sedentary, working in a desk job, or there are a lot of people who are standing, teachers, grocery store workers, construction workers, nurses. So we're standing on these hard surfaces all day long, and we really do need support for that. The training of the barefoot is not going to help with those concrete surfaces. So in this modern world, a good arch support and good shoe wear is going to be important. And I think that's the best thing you can do to take care of your feet. Also, not just the wear and tear of the bones and the joints, but also all the soft tissues. I mean, plantar fasciitis is kind of a buzzword people know about, that pain in the heel of your foot right when you get up in the morning or you've been sitting for a while. And that can be relieved a lot by a good art supporter. I've been asked about barefoot shoes all the time, and your response is perfect. Thank you for that. So let's talk a little bit more about the treatments here. And you've mentioned that even if someone has just awful looking joints on their x-rays, it doesn't necessarily mean that they need a joint replacement. So one thing that I think is a little bit different about me from maybe my ortho colleagues is I do not treat x-rays. I treat the patient. So I can have patients come in with the worst looking x -rays, just the worst. And in talking to the patient, they're actually kind of okay. And I think partly they're okay because they've kept a healthy weight. they have healthy nutrition and they're moving and so they don't have tons and tons of pain where we need to go in and do a joint replacement now had you not talked to that patient and just looked at those x-rays which unfortunately sometimes seems to be the way medicine is moving with these short short appointments then you wouldn't know that the patient is actually doing fairly well and doesn't need a joint replacement because joint replacements although they're great for the right patient, they are not your native joint. So just because you have a bad x-ray does not mean you need a joint replacement. And it blows me away that some thinking out there or I guess misinformation or what people are reading on the internet is they think, oh, I've got bone on bone. I have to go get that knee replacement. No, you don't have to get that knee replacement, which is wonderful. And then I've seen the opposite. I've seen patients that their x-rays look okay like they're not terrible yet they have so much pain and i believe that they have real pain and there's something about that inflammatory cycle that's going on in their knee or hip that's just not able to be resolved or relieved so in that situation what do you recommend to help someone preserve their native joints i think we have to start with a really methodical approach of okay what are the issues here that are making your joints hurt more than what I'm seeing on an x-ray. And oftentimes it's that nutrition and that movement. But sometimes it's just that they are really inflamed and may need an injection or some oral medicine or to go to PT. And as a surgeon, I imagine you've placed a lot of joints, both acute and elective. And like you mentioned earlier, it's not your native joint that you're putting in there. Do people ever regain their function 100% afterwards? Do you see 100% good outcomes? So it's all relative. So if you're someone who's in 8, 9, 10 out of 10 pain, that person can be really happy with a joint replacement. And so if they have, like we talked about, they're walking with a cane or a walker, they're on NSAIDs around the clock, they're still barely able to move, their life is really affected, joint replacements can be life-changing. And for those patients, they probably would say to you, I am at 90 to 100% back. Now, if you are a patient that even though your x -rays look terrible and you do have some pain, but you're in 3, 4, 5 out of 10 pain and you're getting by without any assisted aids and any medication or anything, those patients tend to be less happy because again, that joint is not your native joint. It is still metal and plastic and it does not always feel the same. The other thing I'll say is the older you are, the more likely you'll do better as well because you're less active. And to be honest, the nerve endings in your lower extremity, you're not experiencing pain as an 80-year -old the same way you are as a 45-year-old. And so those patients also seem to do well. And how about calcium and vitamin D? It's widely recommended for maintaining bone integrity, but is there any role in that for preventing degeneration or osteoarthritis? I think it's more for that bone health rather than the cartilage loss. And so I think it's a really good supplement to have, especially as women, for good bone health. And that should start early. You can't just start taking that when you're 60, 65, 70, which is why there's a big emphasis on dairy-rich food when you're younger. And I know sometimes dairy gets a bad rap, but there are a lot of positives. And that's some of those nutrients that you're getting in there for that bone health. You also did a great podcast recently on PRP for age -related bone and joint issues. Would you mind just explaining what that does? And have you seen a lot of success from that? PRP is nature's anti -inflammatory. It's excellent. I love to use PRP. And the great thing about PRP is we're harnessing your own healing potential. We're taking what you already have in your body. We're not putting anything in there. So PRP is where we draw your blood and we centrifuge it and get the platelets growth factors and cytokines all the things in your body responsible for healing and we concentrate that eight to ten times the amount that's running around in your body and we inject it into you know an arthritic knee it really works very well for tendonitis rotator cuff tendonitis the ones in the elbow patella tendonitis achilles tendonitis and we inject that in there and we let nature kind of do its thing meaning we're boosting that healing potential that your body already has, but maybe it got stalled somewhere. And so it's excellent. It does take time. So I often tell my patients, if you're in acute, acute pain and you really want something to work right away, maybe let's try to touch a cortisone right now. And then in three, four months when you don't feel like you're about to jump out of your seat because you're so painful, then we can try some of these regenerative strategies. But they take a little bit longer. They take two to three weeks just to start working and they work over six months, but I have seen patients get 85 to 95% better just from one injection. That's really incredible to see just how much the field of regenerative medicine has advanced and ways that we can maintain our native joints and that there's definitely lots of treatment options we can choose from, but the best thing is, again, preserve our native joints, stay active, focus on the nutrition, and if things do progress, there's options to choose from. You mentioned a little bit earlier on your support for integrative medicine and acupuncture as someone who's trained in acupuncture and who's treated people for back pain and joint issues. I can vouch that this is a fantastic adjunctive treatment for pain relief because it helps with that local pain relief so that people can get back on their feet and start becoming more active and just get their joints moving again. Absolutely. I think as we age too as physicians. We see a lot of things that work that we kind of are thankful for because we have more options to give our patients. Absolutely. Just a few closing questions here. We just would love to get to know you a little bit more today. I know you had an emergent surgery just like hours beforehand. And I imagine you made a big difference in that person's life, just putting that extra effort. Can you think of some other examples of people that you've worked with who you were able to change their health outcomes? And would you mind sharing just some success stories from your end? Yeah. I love seeing patients that are motivated because when you're motivated, you can go such a long way. You really just need an expert to guide you with the right things. And so I have worked with numerous patients that have lost weight through nutrition and some movement and actually avoided knee replacement. I actually make a lot of deals with my patients. I will schedule this knee replacement in six to nine months. We'll put it on the schedule. I'll block out no R for you. But your promise to me is that for the next four to six months, I want you to do these things for your nutrition and your movement. And I've had patients come in and they just give me a huge hug like, I feel great. I don't need that big surgery anymore. So those are my favorite stories that we're able to avoid such a massive surgery or put it off even for 5, 10, 20 years, or maybe not at all. I think that's so great that we're able to do that. So I've been grateful and blessed to have that. What does aging forward mean to you? And how do you personally age well? I want to get emotional now. Never, never stop setting goals for yourself. It doesn't matter how old you are. It could be a small goal or it could be a big goal, but never stop setting goals for yourself because I think that's how we age healthy and forward and we keep our brain active and we keep ourselves motivated. I love that. And that's why you've done so much. You've climbed so many mountains and when you've achieved something great, you do something even greater. And the amazing thing is you've influenced so many people that way. And I know there's a lot in our audience and people who follow you on social media who just see you as that model. So keep doing what you're doing. I think you're influencing a lot of not just younger folks, but older people who are trying to find purpose in their days. That leads me to my last question. What's something you would like to ask our audience, perhaps just a thought you'd like to leave with them to consider how they can approach healthy aging and maintaining their joint health? I think especially when it comes to musculoskeletal health, it can be really disheartening to feel like your body is failing you like your mind is sharp or you want to do things, but your body is not allowing you to. And what I would say to the people listening to this is every day is a new day. So what may have not worked yesterday may work today, or today is a new day to try something different, maybe a different form of movement than you tried the day before. Maybe it is as simple as making that appointment to the Good Feet store and trying out those arch supports, or maybe it's trying something different in your diet that you haven't tried. I am not about extreme diet nutrition at all. So maybe, you know, dairy is inflaming your joints, but you really enjoy dairy a lot. You enjoy cheese. Well, maybe you get rid of some dairy, but not all of it and try to do that throughout the week. So I think every day is a new opportunity to try something new that's proven that's going to help your joints and to just not get discouraged, you know. And that kind of goes back to your own goals, right? And how you personally age well. Absolutely. Well, Dr. Mehta, thank you so much for this conversation. So much great information and encouraging to know that there's a lot we can proactively do to keep our joints healthy. Because at the end of the day, the most important thing is that we just need to keep moving, like you said, and staying active is how we stay independent. And staying independent is how we maintain freedom. So thank you for giving us the tools to do that today thank you for having me so that's all for this episode hopefully you're feeling a little bit more informed inspired and empowered on the next episode of aging forward why do we live longer as women we've won the longevity lottery we live an average of five to six years longer than men but when it comes to our health spans and our brain spans, we're not doing as well as men. If you have a topic suggestion for a future episode, you can leave us a voicemail at 507-538-6272. And we might even feature your voice on the show. For more Aging Ford episodes and resources, head to mayoclinic .org slash agingford. And if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us on your podcast app. It really helps others find our show. Thanks for listening, and until next time, stay curious and stay active.