Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today we are joined by Dr. Greg Gripentrog. He's an oculoplastic surgeon here at the Mayo Clinic with us. He recently joined, and we're going to talk about change, both changing your practice mid-career and changing medicine around us, whether in private practice or in academics, and the lessons he might share with us on his journey. Dr. Greg Gripentrog is a board-certified ophthalmologist and senior associate consultant in the Department of Ophthalmology at Mayo Clinic here in Rochester, Minnesota. Following completion of an ASOPRs accredited fellowship, he joined the Orbital Inoculoplastic Surgery at the Medical College of Wisconsin in Milwaukee in 2011 and was an associate professor as well as the senior medical director of the ambulatory practice at the Froedt and Medical College of Wisconsin. Dr. Gripentrag joined Mayo Clinic in 2024, and we are thrilled to have him. Welcome, Dr. Gripentrag. Thank you. It's wonderful to be here. We're so happy to have you. Yeah. After a time in my life where I changed careers sort of mid-journey, it's enjoyable to talk about change with you, because you just did a similar step mid -career in coming from Medical College of Wisconsin to Mayo. So we thought, despite you having great wealth of things regarding healthcare administration, management, and change, let's just start out in your own life of how was it making a big leap from an institution that you were respected, valued, and loved to another one, and why Mayo? To give us a little bit of that journey for you. Sure. Happy to discuss that. It has been a journey, and it is a big deal. It's a big deal for family. It's not just me. So there's other people in my life that I have to think about with this type of this move. But, you know, Mayo is a place that I knew. It's the place where I trained as an ophthalmology resident and was briefly on staff for a year after that. So I knew it was a great place to join. And the other thing I knew is that I was leaving a great place at the Medical College of Wisconsin. and wonderful colleagues, and a wonderful journey both in medicine and learning about some other things that we'll touch upon in healthcare administration. And so there wasn't one thing that drew me back to Mayo, but from a personal standpoint and from a professional standpoint, the stars all aligned at once. And I'm pleased that at Mayo there's really healthy soil to continue to grow in my own career and also with wonderful colleagues such as Dr. Thule here to my right. Well, we're so happy to have you. I think it's interesting that you went from an academic institution to another academic institution because I do a lot of things with our young ophthalmologists and we talk about finding jobs and job fit and changing jobs, which is so common. And a lot of people, I think, leave academics and go into private or switch from private to private or PE to private or solo practice, and I hear less about people staying in academics. What was your choice to stay at an academic institution instead of, say, going into private or doing your own thing? I think one of the things I was quite lucky for during my fellowship was I had exposure to academic practice, a large multidisciplinary ophthalmology practice, as well as a solo private practice. That initial exposure taught me a few things. I think the most important thing is that it taught me there's no perfect place, at least for someone like me. I probably could have been happy in a number of these different realms, but I really enjoy the challenges of academic practice regarding the shuffling of various missions. So for my brain, having a little bit of this and a little bit of that is quite useful and rewarding and really re-nourishing. Yep, that resonates with me so much because I feel the same way in academics. And then the other thing I wanted to ask you is that during your time at MCW, you held this position, the Senior Medical Director of the Ambulatory Practice. Now, what does that mean, Greg? Sure. So this was at the enterprise level of the organization. So it's a big deal. This is a big role. Well, the role, I mean, essentially involves helping to allow a large medical system to manage its resources effectively. Most of us are familiar with an academic medical center. There are different departments. but there's and you can think of them almost like organs in a in a system but it's really important more and more with how health care is changing to have vasculature between those particular organs that connect it in ways that helps the organization learn from itself but also learns how the organization or teaches the organization how to share and how to manage co-resources and those resources moving forward are becoming more difficult. So one example would be staffing. This is going to be a tremendous challenge for health care in the next 20, 30 years or so. Another is space. So one of my roles was to help manage a series of clinics within southeastern Wisconsin. And how do we manage as a multidisciplinary team of different departments, How do we manage those particular resources effectively? And just like individual physicians rarely ever say no to resources that are offered to them, well, departments are similar. But we are getting to an inflection point, I would say, in health care as a whole where all of us are going to have to think about, you know, how do we provide that excellent care with, you know, an understanding of the overall economics of what we're dealing with. And if you just take a step back, United States health care, we spend approximately anywhere between 15% to 20% of our gross domestic product, or GDP, per year on health care. And for about the last 25 years or so, the U.S. GDP accounts for somewhere around 15% to 25% of the world's GDP. So that means on average per year, approximately 4% of the world's GDP, gross domestic product, is spent on United States health care. And the underlying question is for that money that is being spent, are we achieving the value that we want? Well, exactly. And that's my question, too. when you think about all of the management that goes into this. Are we too big for our britches, or why do we need to change? Why are we at this inflection point? What has happened? Is it because of technology? Are we better? Are we doing better than we used to, say, 30 years ago? What's bringing us to this point? Well, that's a really complex question, and there's not very easy answers i would say that the united states is changing the amount of money that we spend on one thing is now taking away from something else and as a society there's going to have to be choices that are made but if we think about this as an maybe at the level of an individual physician what are the things that we can do in our own practices that can maintain this higher quality of care but at the same time reduce the operational burden on the system as a whole or perhaps reduce our overall expenses. So this could be looking at anything from how we manage our space, how we use our personnel, how we think about our equipment, what we use in the operating room. Everything we do in health care has a built-in cost to it and really at the end of the day, it's not sustainable. This amount of money that's being spent for healthcare in the United States is really something that we can't fix as individuals, but we can work on it in our own little part. So some people listening to this are probably active in administration across their organization. Other people are maybe just in a four -person physician group managing their staff, asking people to work together to manage OR utilization or resources for whatever aspect of their practice they're dealing with or how an outpatient practice is staffed or supplied. People like, they don't like change. I mean, that's, and they think they're doing well in their own goggles. So given your role, I mean, you were higher up in the organization They're managing change across multiple platforms of health care delivery. But within an ophthalmology practice, what has it taught you to help your colleagues deal with change? Yeah. And I would say most people will tell you they want to change, but very few deep down want to change. That sounds like me. I think at the end of the day, physicians listen to other physicians. We generally don't take well to others outside of the medical field coming in and expressing things that might be clear, hard truths, but that's hard to hear. So it is important for individual physicians to take a leadership role in making these types of changes. But the way I might think about it is, so for example, I'm coming in as an oculoplastic surgeon. I'm one of four surgeons in a group, and each of us have individual ways to take care of patients. Each of us have particular talents or interests within medicine. But the question is, how do we manage some of our common resources? So one example might be, how do we schedule a surgery? As of maybe six months ago, there might have been a few different ways to schedule a surgery, But how can we come into one kind of common way to do that? Across an institution as large as Mayo, there might be 150 different ways to schedule surgery. And it doesn't mean that there needs to be one way to do everything, but perhaps there's a choice of three or four. And you can look at this in all multiple types of directions. So helping departments really clump themselves into larger groups to solve problems, operational problems, was really the role that I was tasked at the senior medical level. And I think ophthalmology, and in particular oculoplastics, is in a nice little sweet spot of understanding from some different directions. So what I mean by that is we have surgical and procedural expertise. So surgical expertise and inoculoplastics, we work with, you know, colleagues from plastic surgery, neurosurgery, otolaryngology. We know a little bit about their field. Procedurally, we're quite familiar with how dermatologists might handle a practice. But ophthalmology also spans not just specialty care. It also spans really primary care in a way that many other specialties don't. If you have eyes, sooner or later, you're likely to see an eye doctor. So I think that starting point for me was helpful because I'm able to relate, or I was able to relate more easily with a lot of different departments and their particular challenges. I'm curious, too, with the changing landscape of reimbursements and administrative burden and staffing and all the things you said, How are academic institutions, big institutions, going to keep up and compete with maybe smaller, easier to run multi-specialty private practices or PE groups or other things that are competing with us? What's the future like for academics? Because it is changing. Yeah, and perhaps what I would say is how do larger practices such as Mayo or an academic practice, how do they maintain their expertise but also be financially viable? I think one of the things Mayo's perhaps quite privileged compared to many other health systems is a very desirable mix of patients and a mix of insurance versus Medicare versus other forms of reimbursement. That helps to create a fairly wide and deep moat around the institution. But, you know, some of our colleagues or other institutions around the country have been forced in many ways, evolutionarily speaking, to become more operationally nimble. And so the question is how in, let's say, a somewhat privileged position that Mayo is in, make these changes when financial headwinds perhaps are not directly blowing on us. And that can be a tough sell. And again, the cell has to come from, I think, physicians, helping other physicians understand that A, we can change, B, we can continue to take wonderful care of the patients. And how do we train people in the future to realize that this is going to be an ongoing challenge, but we're up to the task? Is the bottom line that we just need to be more lean? because everything I hear it's talking about is just decreasing reimbursements from insurance from CMS if you look at physician reimbursements over time they don't even keep up with inflation versus all the administrative staff we hire if you look at those graphs we should probably link one of those graphs but if you look over the past 50 years that administrative you know amount that we spend has just skyrocketed in the physician reimbursement estate about the same since like the 80s so when we're changing do we just have to tighten our belts or or what what can we do to succeed yeah i think it has to do to be honest with individual trust that's the kernel so in from a physician perspective a lot of times as physicians we have some inherent biases and even more so perhaps if we're surgeons but just because we're good at x doesn't mean we're necessarily good at y and one of the things that was so powerful to my experience in this role as a senior medical director is that I was not alone I had what was known as a dyad partner essentially an administrative partner who helped me to check my own biases and also we learned from one another her name was Krista Nielsen fantastic human being taught me a lot about leadership, about change, about patience. And I'm not talking about patience that we see. I'm talking you need to have with this type of work. It's not always easy. And we worked directly with many chairs from different departments. so helping them understand that as physicians we can't just burrow away alone and and be concerned that there's forces outside of our control but there are things we can control there's ways that we can help reduce administrative burden that's not only good for the physician but it's good for the system as a whole it's good for our employees and there's going to be as time goes on fortunately new technologies that we can help to leverage I think one of the things that's very exciting at Mayo is the possibility of using AI in new exciting ways to not only help reduce some of the burden at the clinical level, but there's a lot of background work that has to be done that's really opaque to the average physician in these large systems. And it doesn't mean that they're not just as important to the team, but sometimes they don't necessarily feel as individuals valued in a way that I think is good for the system as a whole so you know as an individual physician I think just looking at our own practice learning about the people that we work with developing trust with those individuals what can I learn from them what can I teach them about my practice in a non-adversarial way is going to be the key. I think, you know, your commentary on just your reflection over the importance of dyad leadership. Mayo, I think we're quite unique in terms of the physician engagement at all levels, at all levels of leadership, all the way up to the top, and the close relationship in teamwork that I think makes Mayo so unique in having administrative partners and engagement and teams regarding the leadership. I think the challenge in many institutions is, or at least as I've heard it to be, is oftentimes in many healthcare administration leadership structures, the physician voice isn't there, whether it's because it's not respected in the same way, or the physicians just don't feel they have the bandwidth to provide that. So I mean, but the importance of it is when it's together, when you have people have really an administrative perspective and the voice of the patient physician perspective comes together, I think, you know, healthcare leadership is stronger. So, you know, I guess my encouragement just hearing your story is the appreciation you've had of learning through the role, but also being there, which in many institutions, atrophies if physicians aren't involved. Absolutely. Everything you mentioned is true. There needs to be credibility. The physicians who take on some of these roles can't fall away into administration and lose their touch to their patient care because their colleagues need to trust that, look, they're taking ownership to some of these decisions and they're not always things that are in our favor at all times. You have to own those particular changes, and the only way to do that is to keep and continue an active practice. But it gives us, in some ways, in healthcare leadership, a perspective that others within administration don't necessarily have. And it's not that that's necessarily better, but it is an important perspective. when you're trying to lead a group into change that some not me but some might be reticent to change i love change but when you're trying to engage physicians who have done it one way for a long time and you're saying no let's try something different that's better for the practice better for patients how what have you learned about leadership and motivating teams of people and how do you engage your team? I'm sure you've learned a lot about leadership through this role. Yeah, I think, you know, there's probably ways to go about this. I think training is important. We train to become physicians over many years. Well, administrative leadership, you need training. You need to learn. And then you have to develop trust first. if you come into a situation and say we have to change everything all at once that's going to immediately fall flat on its face I've tried many times with Andrew it doesn't work on the podcast who, me? exactly I think we're both, from both directions bi-directional change is trying to come in what are you guys talking about? no, but so continue, I just, it was just I couldn't help myself I'm the worst, I'm the first to admit it No, no, no, no. But building trust. Yeah. And that can only be established through time and through individual relationships. And then choosing projects or tasks that are achievable, that we can measure success in, that we set timelines for, and that we celebrate our success when we get there. If you take such a large bite initially, you're really going to burn yourself out. You're going to burn out your teams that you're, you know, tasking with some of these change. And really at the end of the day, you're not going to achieve what you're looking for. So you have to spend a little bit of time understanding, I suppose, the lay of the land and then what things are possible and what things maybe are not possible at this time. And that changes. That's a moving target. So in all these things, let's say how we schedule a surgery, how we manage some of our common resources in staffing, how we do something as simple as managing visual fields for a patient, or photography, not so simple. These are challenges. and it's going to take time to solve some of them but there has to be good faith with all the partners that there's an understanding that we're all trying to do the right thing we come with different perspectives and talents but at the end of the day we have to work together to improve not only the quality of care but reduce some of the costs of how we're doing what we're already doing yeah great i really respect and appreciate your leadership i do i'll admit you know when you when greg first started here he came in and said well let's let's try this new system for our techs and let's try our notes and i wrote in this email like absolutely not period i said i'm never doing that greg and you were so kind and said that's fine you don't have to do it and you just you lead by example i'm curious i will think about it at some point but i i really respect your creativity and how you view some of these big challenges and it's great to have a mind that is centered around some of these challenges to help people like me who are a little more reluctant i'd say so anyways i really appreciate your your knowledge and thank you so much for sharing all of this thank you yeah it's been wonderful to have you i just appreciate the whether residents or faculty are out there considering a move in their personal life or just the moving ongoing climate of health care that with the challenges that we face and whether it's patient care quality our own you know wellness um but just the importance of doing all of it well and staying engaged in the system um i just appreciate you being here now doing it with us. So thank you for being here and me on the podcast. It's a pleasure to be here. Thank you so much. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology podcast on our website. Thank you for listening, and we definitely look forward to sharing more.