

=== FILE: Career Exploration： Find Your Passion in Nursing [-4BjtCWSoXk].txt ===

 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx expressions, give us some nonverbal cues on is our conversation landing. So feel free to engage within that that chat space if you have commentary or you something hits home and you want us to explore that further or if you have questions, feel, feel free, throw them in the chat throughout our conversation today. They're likely will be time at the end for some question and answer with myself and the rest of the crew here. So we'll we might not get to them during the webinar presentation, but certainly at the end, if we have time, we'll go through some of those questions. So pop them in those and pop those in the chat as you think of them throughout the webinar. The other thing to know is today is kickstarting a four part series that we're doing here kind of entitled Launch Your Career with Mayo Clinic. Today is all about finding your passion in nursing is something that is really exciting for me is something that I really enjoy talking about. And I think many of us here, for sure, Cheryl can also attest that it's something that we've all had to do for ourselves. So we'll talk a little bit about finding your passion in nursing, what that means, how do we get there? Well, the other the subsequent series will be every Tuesday, same time for the next three weeks, you do not need to participate in all of them. If you want to be a part of them, great. Here from different speakers, it will not just be myself talking today is a lot of Heidi talking. But the subsequent series of webinars will not just be me talking, we'll pull on other different leaders from Mayo Clinic to give you insight. The following one will be about sharing your authentic self in the hiring process, how do you show up? How do you prepare all those good things? And then we will also have a conversation about the nurse residency. So you get to hear about nurse residency here at Mayo Clinic, what does that look like of different sites and regions followed by a panel conversation with Mayo Clinic leaders from across our enterprise sharing their story, answering all of our questions about how they got to where they are and where they found their passion along the way. So feel free to join all of them, or you can just join in whichever makes sense for you. All right, I am going to share my screen just so that we can all see the PowerPoint together. All right, can everyone see my screen yet? Not quite yet, Heidi. Okay, let me try one more thing. Let me go. Have a now. Yeah, there it is. Fantastic. All right. So to start off, I want to share a little bit about myself. So my name is Heidi Bjork. I'm a nursing placement coordinator here by title, but that's a very unique to Mayo Clinic role. So I don't really like to lead off with that because nobody knows what I'm talking about. You will hear a little bit about nursing placement throughout the webinar series. But for right now, I'd like to introduce myself as a registered nurse. I have been working supporting Mayo Clinic Rochester for over a decade already, and a variety of roles, of course, as we do as nurses, I have supported our patients caring for them directly at the bedside. I've also been in leadership here as a nurse manager prior to moving into the role that I exist today as a placement coordinator. I've been here for the last four and a half years, kind of indirectly supporting our patients by supporting our nurse managers across Rochester for me specifically. Behind the scenes, I'm one of just a small team that review the applications, we get to read the resumes, the cover letters, we do all initial interviews with individuals looking to join our team. And we do all the career development for those continuing to work within our halls and walls. So really privileged to be here today and connect with all of you. I handed over to Cheryl, she can introduce herself as well. Hi there, my name is Cheryl Hurley, and I am a nursing placement coordinator, Heidi definitely described that role very nicely here in Phoenix, Arizona. That's the area that I support. And I have been with Mayo Clinic in Arizona since 2012. Prior to that, I am from Boston, the East Coast. And yes, I am sad that the Patriots lost the Super Bowl. And I worked at a large Boston hospital named Tufts Medical Center prior to coming to Mayo Clinic. I too, like Heidi, have been in many different roles during my nursing career. I have been a nurse for 35 years. I know what you're all thinking, I don't look at. But yes, 35 years for me in nursing. And I'm very grateful to be a part of this seminar today. So thank you all for joining. Thanks, Cheryl. And Brittany, do you want to jump in and share a little bit about yourself as well? Yeah, thank you. I am Brittany Croson. I am a talent acquisition recruiter, specifically supporting the nursing department from a Rochester, Minnesota, location perspective. I've been with Mayo Clinic for 10 years, eight of those years have been supporting the Department of Nursing in an HR space. Thanks, Brittany. Thanks, Cheryl. Yeah. Alright, to get started, I want to orient you a little bit about the Mayo Clinic sites and regions. Do know that even if you have no affiliation to Mayo Clinic at this point in time, you can still glean some insights from this conversation. By no means is it just applicable to those who are working or seeking employment at Mayo Clinic. So I want to preface with that. But it's also helpful to know a little bit about the people and the organization that we represent as we come from Mayo Clinic ourselves and have that background. So Mayo Clinic, as you may know, has presence and many sites and regions throughout our country. I directly support Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, but we also have a lot of health system sites in surrounding states in the southern regions of Minnesota into Wisconsin, then even Iowa, as well as some primary sites within Arizona and Florida. States. So Mayo Clinic values are really important to us. And values in itself, I think is something that is really important for you to assess yourself when it comes to, you know, finding passion, what you do, it's really hard to find passion with within an organization that doesn't meet or align with your core values. And so this slide is really orienting you to the Mayo Clinic core values, but more so wanting to make sure that you understand your own personal values, and how that may align with any few term employer that you might be seeking out in the future for yourself. It's probably coming to no surprise if you've looked at anything in Mayo Clinic related that our core value is the needs of the patient come first. Now that is not just an advertisement slogan. I have been here for over a decade, like I shared. And this has truly lived out in a lot of a lot of this decision making here at Mayo Clinic, I've seen it firsthand, oftentimes we're implementing new strategies, contemplating best practice, making some pretty significant changes that may have impact to patient care. And they're difficult conversations, but at the end of the day, the way in which I would say the main influence on how we make those decisions is how does it impact the patients? What's going to happen if we make this process change? Are the patients going to benefit? Is it going to make their stay more challenging? Are they going to feel less comfortable? That is really lived out in how we make decisions and how we prioritize the care in which we do. There's also a lot of other values that we live by, and these need to not only be listed and available and accessible to you as you seek opportunities within your nursing profession, but you have to also understand, are they lived out? And how are they lived out? How does this show up in everyday work? How are staff members held accountable? And how are they evaluated by the values? So in respect to Mayo Clinic, our values, and you can read them for yourself there, I don't have to read them to you, but they follow and act in them, we know very well as our rich ties value. And these are the direct values in which we evaluate our staff every single year. This is how we give them feedback. Are they showing up for our patients and the way in which we think is best practice? And that's really important to find an alignment with your personal core values and any organization or future employer, their values. So that's why we talk a little bit about values. Let's get into a little bit more depth about how you find your passion in nursing. Good news is it starts with getting to know yourself. Now we live in this really challenging world where we are inundated with feedback, with information, with opinions. And sometimes that gets all mixed up and and who we find true to ourselves or how we how we figure out what it is that we value and how we're meant to navigate, navigate kind of our own professional career. So I always say, before you look anywhere, the first thing I want you to do is get to know yourself a little bit more, get off the screens, get off social media. Friends are great influences, you know, family members, but take some time journaling about yourself getting to know what, what sparks curiosity? What are the aspects of nursing that originally pulled you into the profession? What type of work environments are more stimulating to you versus not? What have your past clinical experiences been like? And what are what are the pieces that you've gravitated towards? And what which ones have maybe steered you away or haven't been as stimulating for you? Do you like to work with people, technology or ideas? Or do you want to work with a really large team? Or would you rather be more autonomous in your role? Do you really like moving to leadership roles of working autonomously and being able to really dictate your work? So this is something that I strongly encourage anyone looking to find their passion in their everyday work to do is to really understand yourself. And that will make it much easier as you kind of navigate next steps in your career. Once you get to know yourself, then you can start looking within other avenues within healthcare. As you probably know, there are many spaces in which you can grow professionally. I think the most I would say the most obvious one that people think about right away is acute care working in the hospital. A lot of a lot of programs will really encourage nursing students, for example, to start in a acute care environment. Whereas I think it can be beneficial. I truly think that's very limiting and where you can start. Mayo Clinic and Rochester here specifically hires new graduate nurses into all areas that we have within our hospital, whether that be procedural areas, the ORs, ambulatory settings. Many individuals have spent time in community long term skilled facilities, transitional care units, rehabilitation floors and then very successful as they move through their career path. So one thing I also want to share is that there's going to be opportunities, spaces and places for nursing that don't even exist today that will likely be there in the future. And so I want to encourage you when you're seeking out these different environments in which you could potentially work to make sure you understand that although you can have an idea, a goal and move towards that goal, that could change in the future. You need to be open as opportunities evolve and they unfold within the profession. You know, for example, I was just talking with a new graduate individual who always wanted to start in a pediatric setting. My pediatrics working with kiddos very popular area where a lot of individuals want to move into that space one day. But we really had to have a pretty candid conversation, I would say about what opportunities exist today and how do you really set yourself up for success if pediatric is a goal but it's not available right away. How do you still achieve your goals? How do you find passion and what opportunities are available today and know that there's no experience that you obtain that is not going to be beneficial to your overall career goal as being a nurse. I remind people a lot that most of us went into the career of nursing to care for people period, right? Many of us didn't start in nursing to care for only people with a cardiac P factor, only people with a neurological condition, for example, you're going to find people in all these areas, people who need you, people who are vulnerable, people who need a light, a rock, someone to show up for them side by side, take care of them and the family who surround them and love them. So you're going to achieve those goals no matter which environment you've started in. So keep that perspective as well. Don't be so narrow focused to limit opportunities as they present themselves. And then once you find your footing, so once you get started, once you find a organization where your values align with theirs, you get to know your people, maybe you started in a work environment that initially you didn't think was going to be the place you started. Or maybe you moved into a new work environment after working in a specialty for years and you wanted to try something new to challenge yourself. And you find it's, it's not as smooth of a transition as what you hoped, right? Or maybe you're not as passionate what you think initially about the patient population. I've been there. We'll talk about my journey here in a little bit, but passion isn't found through experience or passion is found through experience, not just inspiration. You don't have to start in a place and be super passionate about a work environment, about a team before you really get to know what that entails. And I think the way that you find passion is is for some with some of these, some of these bullet points that I bring up here today is again, rooting in your values, making sure that you understand that the way in which you show up and provide care is probably going to be the greatest indicator of your success or should be if not, but you need to be proud of the way in which you provide, provide care, celebrate the successes. I can't emphasize this enough that it's, it's so important to take wins and really celebrate them, let them sink in, share it with other people. Nursing is a really difficult profession. And you're going to have a lot of successes, but you're also going to have those really hard days. So celebrate the wins. Be curious and the things that maybe are uncomfortable, why are they uncomfortable? Be curious about learning about different patient populations, be curious about why maybe your co workers respond in the way they do or provide care differently than you. Take care of yourself. We're, you know, we can only be as good a caregiver as we are caring for ourselves, right? We have to be able to show up and provide that compassion healing presence for our patients. But if we're burnt out, if we're not taking care of ourselves, if we're not eating well, we're attending to our emotional needs, that's going to show up. And these are things that we can, we can control ourselves. So take care of yourself. Seek out mentors, right? Find the people in your work environment that seem like they love every single day. There's going to be people that whether it be, you know, in a work environment, co workers, or maybe it's someone you go to school with that when they show up when they walk in the door, people get excited, right? The energy shifts. They come in, they want to be there. Even if they're having a tough day, they're willing to share a joke or laugh or ask you how your day was. Those are the people I want you to find as mentors, they're going to help you find the passion. They're going to give you the inside scoop, right? They're going to be the ones who are cheering you on during those really tough times and helping you understand why. Sometimes we have to go through some difficult periods to really see the outcome. On the other side, mentors are wonderful tools, resources to have because they've been through it. I lived experience, you can't skip experience. You just have to go through it. And these are the people who've gone through it. So learn from them, their successes, and hopefully they'll share some of their mistakes with you as well, right? So you can glean from their mishaps too. Get to know your team. A lot of us went into nursing care for patients, I already said that. But what I think is a common misconception is that your team can make or break an experience. You see these patients for a short amount of time and absolutely I want you to be curious, engage and find enjoyment with the patients that you care for. The team in which you have to show up and be a part of every single day will make the ultimate difference in your experience. I guarantee that. And that's why we talked about those values. Finding a team that lives out those values that is there, they're present, they're respectful, that they're, you know, demonstrating integrity and their work day in and day out. That's what's going to make your experience all the worthwhile. Invest in your team. Get to know them personally. That in turn will allow them permission to get to know you as well. That's how we build relationships, longstanding relationships. And they are the ones who are going to help you on some of those tough days when you're feeling burnt out, maybe you're crying in the bedroom, they're going to say, hey, go take a break, go get a cup of coffee, I'm going to take your next five call flights. That's what you need. And that's going to make the experience. And you're going to say, you know what, I'm going to keep doing this. I believe in what we do. And I know that the team supports me in this process. So help others invest in your team. And don't try to skip through the experience. Don't try to rush into an end goal before you get started. Because the experience is where you get to know yourself in more depth. The experience is how you gain better confidence in your clinical skills. And your experiences are what going to lead to finding that passion in your everyday work. So Mayo Clinic was founded by a group of nuns. And one of the sisters that was really influential to our practice here at Mayo Clinic Rochester was sister Lauren Winnent. And she has a pretty profound quote that every time I read it, I get the goosebumps, you know, those ones that give you chills. And that really hit home. So I'll, I'll read this quote to you. But I want you to read it a second time to yourself. And just think on it. Think what it means to you. And how might it impact how you live out and provide patient care in the future. So sister Lauren, in all of her wisdom, she shared this quote with us. My wish is to leave this place of hope and healing better than you've found it as you pass it on to the next generation. The work is never finished. We are continually called to change, to innovate, and to improve patient care. So when I read this quote, again, I get the goosebumps, I still did. But this is a good reminder that my calling, you know, my, my place in this nursing profession is a spot in time. And that I'm, I'm one part of a much greater impact that I'm trying to have on the world. And it's important to know that we can make impact of those people around us. But the great impact is how we show up together to provide patient care. But to make sure that those values that we provided the bedside within our organization also continues and ripples into our everyday life. Nursing started out for me as a profession. But what I really found is that the values and the lessons learned and the way of life is actually a part of my everyday life, right? It doesn't just stop at the bedside. I don't walk out of the nursing unit, and then stop being respectful to different people or show up in a different way. No, I want to embody those values no matter where I go. And I want to be a light to anyone who comes into my path. And I want to make sure that people know that I'm a safe space to come to when they, when they have concerns or need help. So again, sister Lauren, all of her wisdom, appreciate her. Alright, let's talk a little bit more about me. If you all want to hear that, let's talk more about Heidi as I've been talking this whole presentation. But I think some of some of what I was talking about previously is directly relatable to my experience. And so I want to share a little bit about my journey with you. So you can understand why why find this topic really meaningful. So I, so I started a mail click, mail clinic, excuse me, July of 2015. And I as a new graduate arts was putting my application into, let's put it this way, any floor that I think I could probably do okay in, right? So I had a lot of applications out there. And at the time you could apply to any unit of interest at a clinic. And I got hired on a medical GI floor. I wasn't thrilled. I'm going to be completely honest. GI, not the glamour job that I was hoping to. However, I had a job and I had a job at Mayo Clinic of all places. So gratitude, right? I was really grateful for that. And I had a really great friend, and later colleague that encouraged me to pursue this opportunity. And so I came to Mayo Clinic July of 2015 to start on a medical GI floor. I had done my internship on a cardiac ICU floor at one of my hometown hospitals. And I was pretty dead set, I was gonna spend some time on a medical searchable floor. And then I was going to move into the ICU, which many of us have that same pathway in mind. And what I learned, working on the GI floors that GI is a very complicated specialty, that I had a lot to learn as a new graduate nurse. And I learned that I needed to rely on other people more than I anticipated in those first couple of years. I also learned that it took more than a year to develop competency. I did not move to an ICU floor after one year, like I expected. In fact, I still felt like a baby nurse after one year, it took many years of really getting the repetition, understanding the practice, and getting confidence in my clinical skills, moving into leadership positions, so that I could really feel like I was a competent nurse. The other thing that I found out is that that team on that GI floor was everything I needed, but didn't know existed. They were some of the most competent, compassionate, well rounded individuals that made me a better person and maybe want to be a better nurse. They encouraged me. They got to know me personally. We threw baby showers and we had Super Bowl parties and we had, we pulled pranks in the break room. And we had a lot of fun. Like I said, I went into nursing thinking this was going to be a professional career, but I didn't realize that you could have so much fun and enjoyment in what you do day in and day out. I truly felt more excited at work. Even if I was having a bad day, I was always happier at work. Just because I got to spend time doing something I enjoyed, what I get to do with a lot of friends. You know, so I talk about getting to know your people. They are the ones who make the experience. And that's where I learned this lesson. GI became a passion of mine, right? I said, I was not going to stay here long. GI became a passion of mine because other people found passion in it. So it was with that experience that I learned to love GI. I saw how impactful it was. I saw how complex GI was. And I saw how it was never just GI, right? You know, we have a lot of sub specialized units here at Mayo Clinic. It's never the one specific specialty that you care for. Every patient has a brain, at least one kidney, a vasculature system, right? So you still have to learn and care for the whole individual. From there, I got to experience the Mayo Clinic magic, what I refer to as the Mayo Clinic magic. So there is this magic to Mayo Clinic. And this is all my perspective. But I have talked to many of us who have worked here, who have the same experience that with time and surrounding yourself with the right people, people start to look at you a little different. And they start to encourage you a little bit more and they start to tap your shoulder. And what that is is they are seeing a potential in you that you never knew existed. And this happened to me. I had a great mentor who was on the screen there. His name was Quinn Bissonnette, and he was my nurse manager there. And he started to tap my shoulder figuratively and encouraged me to go on to higher education. He thought I had great leadership skills and that I had a greater purpose than what I had felt that I had working on the floor. I never wanted to leave this floor. I thought this was it. I was going to be a GI nurse the rest of my career. I didn't want to go to the ICU anymore. I didn't want to give up what I had within my team. But he wrote a lot of really complex things on the whiteboard one day. And next thing I knew, I was enrolled in a graduate program and I was going to obtain my master's. So I said, yep, I'm going to have that. I'll put in my back pocket. Got my master's degree. And then again, I've got some shoulder tapping. Next thing I knew I was the nurse manager on another complex medical unit. It was a hospital internal medicine unit with a subset patient population, a post procedural  and I became an arch-manager there. And that was very unexpected, not within my career path and my original career path, but I wanted to take the risk because I felt safe and I felt that there was reward and risk. And so I did the same thing I did on the GAC fund. I got to know my team, I got to know the patients, I spent time investing in those around me, I celebrated the wins, and that's a big deal, because COVID hit pretty soon after starting in my management career. And so really celebrated the wins with those around me. But it was because of that risk that I learned a tremendous amount about myself, my values, and how I can be a better nurse and manager for those who are looking to me as that mentor. And here it is where I started to find that those values that I thought were only living out on my medical GAC floor actually was something that I was living an everyday life. It didn't just stop when I left that really impactful floor. I took into my management experience on the next unit, and from there I found staff members and my coworkers embodied those same values. And then from that point I found myself wanting to pursue a little bit more of a role that I could influence more of a career development aspect. And that's really where I found my passion and purpose. I think all these stepping stones, if you will, were building blocks to where I am today, and I couldn't be happier than I am in my role because I have a passion for helping individuals progress through their own career, finding excitement in the nursing profession, helping them take calculated risks, also calculated risks within their career pathway, and getting to know different people and supporting patient care in more of an indirect way as a nursing placement coordinator. I have a lot to be thankful for, and Quinn Vissnet on the screen is definitely one of the most impactful mentors I've ever had, and truly has influenced many individuals in my life to go on to do greater things. Unfortunately, Quinn did unexpectedly lose his life during the pandemic, an unforeseen accident when cutting trees, and we lost Quinn, and that was really difficult, and it helped a lot of us come together and really relish the experiences that we have with individuals. And I talk about making an impact. He was someone who had a tremendous impact on many nurses who are now nurse leaders across the enterprise, and I hope that someday I'll have the same impact that Quinn had on so many of us with others, whether or not they're working at Mayo Clinic or in the field of nursing. Like I said, I want to bring those values to my everyday life, and so that's my career goal as I move forward. So the nursing placement office, we talked a little bit about this in the beginning, the Office of Nursing Placement and Career Development, is where Cheryl and I live now within our professional practice. We are a team of registered nurses who help support behind the scenes and serving as an extension to our nurse managers. Really our main goal within this office is to identify nursing talent who align with that primary value of the needs of the patient come first. And so anyone who seeks opportunities at Mayo Clinic, that's the first thing we're going to try to glean from you, is what are your values and how do they align with meeting our patients' needs first and foremost? All right, so that is the end of the presentation, as it will. Hopefully we have some questions that have popped up, or comments in the chat that we can certainly circle back and try to help answer. Here on the screen, you'll see ways to stay connected with Mayo Clinic on our different social media sites. So if you're not already connected with us, one way or the other, feel free. And if you're not already connected with us, feel free to join us in any of these platforms as well. All right. We'll look to Brittany, Cheryl. Is there anything in the chat as of right now? There is. Oh, sorry. You go. That's okay, Cheryl. You can go. Oh, I was just going to say with, there was a couple of questions along the way. One participant asked about how to get in touch with us. So I added all the emails to the nursing placement offices that we have. Perfect. Thanks for doing that. If you do have questions or things you want us to maybe talk about or share a little bit more about, feel free to pop those in the chat as you're thinking of them. I'm happy to answer any questions. So Heidi, there is a question that came in about what would you say stands out the most about the Mayo preceptorship? Yeah. So hopefully I understand that question as it was intended. But when I think of what stands out about Mayo preceptorship, so someone who is directly supported to helping you through your orientation is that these tend to be volunteer opportunities. We try not to force anyone to a formal preceptorship. If that's not something that they identify or find passion in, they also get additional training. So this is considered a leadership role. They do have formal training that they go through to be able to support our new orientation the best they can. It is an added challenge to be able to provide nursing care, but also be able to mentor and guide someone along the way and help them navigate because there's so many different learning styles. And so part of this training is to help them navigate, of course, our own orientation model, but then how do you support different individuals with different learning styles through this process so they can be successful? So I would say that's probably what stands out most to us is that formal training. Cheryl, anything you would add? No, I agree with everything that you said. Preceptors are very important as you start your journey at Mayo Clinic in any role. They are the ones that you'll even lean on in the future as you continue your journey. They're usually somebody who the unit leadership has identified as future leaders on that unit and elsewhere within Mayo Clinic. Heidi, there is another question about somebody asking could they have access to these slides later on to view? Yeah, great question. All of these webinars are hopefully being recorded. I think they're supposed to be auto-recorded so that we can send out the recording to anyone who's registered for the series or for each individual webinar. So if you weren't able to attend the whole webinar or want to just review it, certainly you should be able to get the access to that webinar recording here soon. I think it's emailed out to you. And then Simmerpreet Kao mentioned that they are from England and would there be virtual work experience opportunity? I should clarify, registered nurse working experience virtually. You would have to look individually at each site and region. You know, I would say because opportunities of inflow we do sometimes get remote opportunities depending on the site location, but they are infrequent, at least in Rochester. We don't have too many that come about. And most of the time if we do have a remote opportunity, they are competitive and they look for some experience. So take that into consideration, but certainly if you're seeking out opportunity, you want to just know a little bit more, you can reach out to any of those placement inboxes and see if we can get you a little bit more information specific to that site or region. That participant just added, I am a 17-year-old student, so required to gain a lot of experience. Yeah, so it will be a little bit harder for remote experience being over in England. Cheryl, do you know of any other opportunities off the top of your head? I do not. I know that any here in Arizona require many years as an experienced RN. And again, as you mentioned, Heidi, those experiences come about very far, you know, in between. Okay, yeah, but certainly reach out. If you have an interest and want to inquire with us, do not hesitate to reach out to one of those inboxes, and if we can help, we certainly will. Yes. And then somebody is asking if we could send out our email addresses. And, you know, I'm happy to put our emails in there if that would be helpful. Yeah, you can certainly link mine in there. Okay. Great. Next question is, is there also any entry-level jobs for people who are studying right now to get into a nursing program? Yeah. Yeah, we actually have a lot of, I would say, I'm going to call them unlicensed care roles, right? We have a lot of different roles that you don't need to be licensed to move in and work and support male clinic and specific to the Department of Nursing, but even outside of the Department of Nursing, depending on what you're looking for. You know, if you're in a program as a student, there are certain roles that may be a little more flexible in terms of scheduling that you might want to pursue. So depending on where you're located, and if there is a closer site reach or reach out to that placement inbox and send your inquiry and see if we can connect with you and guide you to some of those opportunities that you can be working in and to build a relationship with Mayo Clinic now versus waiting until your license. Yeah. Definitely inquire. Absolutely. Does Mayo Clinic have any internships for prospective nursing students? Yeah, Cheryl, you want to jump in? Cheryl Boehner? Sure. Yes. So I can speak specifically about Arizona. We offer, it's more of like an externship, and I do know it's unpaid. We're actually, we actually just had that application open and we're in the process of interviewing people now for that position. I believe is, I don't, my colleague handles this, so I apologize. I don't know the exact amount of time, but it is quite lengthy. And you would be working probably two to three shifts per week with a preceptor on a unit, and it gives you wonderful experience as you're in the process of almost getting to the completion of a nursing program. Thanks, Cheryl. Yeah, Rochester has something similar, slightly different. We do have a 10-week paid internship every summer, and to qualify it, you have to have completed your junior year of a baccalaureate program to be considered. And that application window opens typically, what I think, right after Thanksgiving, but usually it goes live about December 1st and it closes down, I think, through January. Is that right? Cheryl, does it go through January? You know, the application window is slightly different. It might be slightly different. Yeah, it might be different because we just opened ours for just a couple of weeks, it just closed. So, yeah. Rochester, it's open for usually six to eight weeks, starting in the beginning of December, and then it'll close down. We review applications, and usually those offers go out early February, actually. And that is for a 10-week internship program that starts late May or late June, and goes for 10 weeks. So, there is information on our career site about internship programs. So, definitely, if you're looking about application windows, when you qualify, some more of those specific details, review our careers webpage, and I'll kind of lean you into the right direction in terms of internship programs across the sites and regions. And that's a nice segue into the next question, which is, how long does it take, how long does it usually take to get accepted into the nursing residency program? Yeah, how long does it take? It depends, and that's a nonanswer. I totally understand that, but it truly depends on when you're applying, right, how many positions are available. Each site does it slightly different. Rochester currency is an always open, rolling, nursing residency posting, which you can apply anytime you qualify. I typically say, make sure you're applying in your final semester. Don't try to apply too far out, just because, A, we might not know what positions are available, how many at nurse resorts we can hire, but also your experience. You need to build upon your experience. So, if you haven't even had a capstone while you're doing this, making yourself maybe a less stronger applicant because you haven't gone through that capstone. So, make sure you put your best self for everybody to apply. So, your final semester is ideal when you're applying. And I would say, anywhere between a couple weeks to a month or so, you should hear back. If you are someone who has applied, hasn't heard back to reach out, send us a note. We try to be honest in getting to every single individual, whether or not that means we have to extend the timeframe, which we can move you forward, or if we have made a decision, we want to make sure that you receive any update regarding your application. I just popped a link to the nurse residency site, and it does address different things across all locations, Rochester, Arizona, and Jacksonville. So, please go on there. I know in Arizona, it is not a rolling application. There are specific times during the year that we open up the nurse residency, but as Heidi mentioned, it, you know, each cohort does have a certain number of positions, and it is a very, very competitive process. But I did put a link in there that you could seek out more information. Thanks, Cheryl. That's really helpful. Great. Okay, just kidding. Let's see. Somebody asked, also, is Mayo Clinic in all states or only specific states? Yeah, only specific states. It's not an all state. It's unfortunately, but that'd be great. Yeah, it's Mayo Clinic has presence primarily within Arizona, Florida, and Minnesota. We also have some health system sites that are, of course, in the southern region of Minnesota, we have some presence in Iowa and into Wisconsin. Okay. Next question. We still have time. This participant stated, when I was applying, it asked what facility I could join, and I just picked the state I live in, which is Indianapolis, Indiana. I was wondering, is there a Mayo Clinic there, which unfortunately, there is not. Also, I'm a pre-nursing student and applied for a nursing management position because that's the only nursing position I see posted. Will that get me to another position, even if I applied? Yeah, so, happy to help offline if there is. If you're running to issues with the Careers webpage, when it's asking for a location, it's your location of Mayo Clinic in which you want to work in. So, if you want to work at the Rochester, you want to select Minnesota or Rochester, Minnesota, or any of the other health system sites that you might want to be a part of. So, now, it's not asking for where you are. It's asking for where you want to work, essentially, at that Mayo Clinic site. And from there, you can filter by Department of Nursing role, unlicensed, licensed roles, things like that. So, we can always navigate that space too. Sometimes it's intuitive, and other times not, depending on what you're looking for. Each organization or healthcare organization, they might be a different name for the same role, if that makes sense. If I know what to be looking for at this at this point in time, because Mayo Clinic has a name for one unlicensed care role versus like Cleveland Clinic or, you know, right? Looks like that. Okay. Next question is, is there any incentive or paths available for Mayo Clinic employees to further education through Mayo Clinic University? Okay. So, we do have a School of Health Sciences through Mayo Clinic. So, that's one thing. We do have a School, but depending on the program, we may or not support that through our Health Sciences School here. So, you have to make sure that depending on which pathway you're taking, you also then have to vet it through the Mayo Clinic Health Sciences School. So, do know that it doesn't have everything, for example, we don't have a nursing school here at Mayo Clinic. But we do have a program that supports furthering your education. We actually have two different programs. We'll talk about each of them separately, the conditions of employment, but also a grant investment program. So, let's talk about conditions of employment first. And so, some roles in which you're hired into do require either a certification or a degree obtained within a certain amount of time that you agree to when you take that position, you agree that I will obtain, let's say, for example, you're hired to Mayo Clinic Rochester and with an associate degree of nursing. Mayo Clinic requires a bachelor's degree within five years of starting your employment here. So, this is considered a condition of employment. So, I am saying that yes, I know and I understand that within five years of Mayo Clinic, I will obtain my bachelor's degree. Mayo Clinic supports tuition for you to obtain your bachelor's degree since we require it of you. You do have to go through one of our affiliated programs. So, there are some parameters to which program you can enroll in. But that's something that we help you navigate upon starting here. Great program if you are already planning to obtain your bachelor's degree, have your associate's degree and want to get started working. The other program, our career investment program, is a program that's a tuition support program that helps you obtain a higher degree for certification that is not required for your current role that you want to seek out because you want to further your education and move on or just for your own professional growth, I should say. In order to qualify for this program, you have to have worked at Mayo Clinic for at least one year, being good standing and being a benefited position. So, there are some qualifications to this program. But then there are pathways. So, Mayo Clinic has strategic pathways that you can choose from to further your career. There's only certain number of spots that we allow for quarter and other times around limited spots that you can apply to. You also have to get accepted into the program with the academic institution that you're hoping to be a part of. So, this is twofold. You have to be, or you have to get accepted into the career investment program here at Mayo Clinic, meeting those qualifications. And then also apply to the academic program. These programs are also affiliated with Mayo Clinic. So, there are certain schools that we look for you to obtain your degree through. And then the goal is that Mayo Clinic will help you with some degree of team. You commit at least two years back to Mayo Clinic, preferably in the pathway in which you obtain your advanced degree or certification. Did I miss anything, Cheryl? Oh, no, that was very thorough. Very thorough. Next question is about, are you going to get one preceptor all through your residency program? Yeah. Great question. This comes up quite often for me. And what I like to distinguish is nurse residency is separate from your clinical orientation. Other places, if you go outside of Mayo Clinic and you're shopping around and you're looking at different organizations with residency programs, you might get hired to one residency pool in which they move you around unit to unit to unit. And you might have different preceptors and they'll just place you at the end. That is not how it functions here. And so your clinical orientation, when we talk about you side by side another preceptor is for a short amount of time when you're on the unit and you're going through our orientation model. There, we try to keep your preceptor as consistent as possible. So there's assigned one primary preceptor. But I would be ignorant if I didn't say that you likely will have one or two secondary preceptors that will jump in. Things like time off requests, apps and calls, maybe they get pulled to a lead position. So there will be times where you get exposure to other preceptors, but you will have one consistent thread, hopefully throughout, unless there's a very unique circumstance. We'll have to agree with that 100%. There is a question here or a statement. So I, I'm not sure if I'm reading this correctly. So I apologize to Raju. I think it's asking about recruitment overseas. I'm not sure it just says recruitment overseas. Well, I think will we conduct recruitment overseas if I'm reading the question correctly. Sure. For some of our international hires and what that may look like at this point in time. You know, for those, some of those are case by case situations. So I always say, A, if you're applying to a certain position, read the job description. Likely it'll tell you if sponsorship is available for that specific question. So if you have one specific position in mind, read the job posting in its entire entirety so that you understand whether or not qualify if that's a limitation for yourself. If you have further questions or it's a very broad question, again, you can reach out to our placement inbox and we can share that with you as well. And I'm skipping one question, but I just thought this would be a good segue for a couple of questions in the queue. Can a nurse without work authorization work at Mayo Clinic? And then there is a new grad from, I believe, India, asking how to get admitted into our hospital for work. So I thought that would be a good segue into these two questions. Yeah. So it's a little bit trickier just because there are some individual situations with the work authorization question. Again, when you're applying to a position, we do have some questions that will kind of lean you in one direction or the other. So feel free to apply and go through that process just to learn a little bit about we have some information within the job descriptions that also might answer your question. Anything else that you would recommend, Cheryl, for individuals in that specific situation? No, I totally agree. Again, during the application process, as Heidi mentioned, there are specific questions surrounding work authorization. And depending on how you answer it, it's almost like a tiered response. And again, our placement mailboxes could potentially help with some of those questions. Yeah, and same is true with any international RN seeking employment at Mayo Clinic. If you haven't graduated from a credit program or have work authorization in the United States, it'll kind of talk through that component as well. I know that that is a heavy topic and can get confusing pretty quick. And so that's why I always caution to say, just send us an email. We can review your unique situation and give you some insight if you feel like maybe you're not fitting into that exact box of the responses trying to guide you one way or the other. If it's still confusing to you, just reach out because it'll say about those. So you must have graduated from a credit program. And if not, you must have gotten some applicable RN experience into the work environment. But then you also typically have to have some sort of work authorization, whether that be sponsorship or not. Right. Yeah. So then talk through that niche job posting and description. Correct. And I will say that any overseas educated RN will have to provide a work through like one of the companies like true merit and an educational equivalency that is required at Mayo Clinic. Good point. There are a couple of raised hands. I'm not sure if I'm not sure about how we're handling that Heidi. I'm going to go to the next question. Oh, that was one about, sorry. What are the biggest tips you have for new grads who want to join Mayo Clinic? And we have two minutes left. Okay, I gotta be brief. Yeah, I would say make sure that. Well, you got looking to make sure when you apply, you're very thorough, very professional, and you show your authentic self. Don't forget to review your resume. Make sure your cover letter highlights things that I can't claim from your, your actual resume. Right. The cover letter should be additional things that I want to know about you that makes me say like I want this candidate because of this experience or whatever it may be that doesn't. Is it highlighted so much on the resume? Another thing for you to do is attend the next webinar because they're going to talk about being or showing up as your authentic self when it comes to applying and standing out from the rest of the applicant group. So attend that webinar. That's what all that whole presentation should be about and give you some really great tips and tricks. Yeah. So Heidi, there's quite a few questions that we did not get to. I don't know if we send out like an FAQ or I just don't know how the questions get answered. Yep.  yeah, so if you, so we're at the top of the hour, so we want to be mindful of everyone's time, so we will transition. If you have a question that hasn't been answered today, feel free to reach out one of those placement inboxes, and we'll be happy to get you those answers. If there's any common themes that I'm seeing, we could always send out an email with the recorded webinar as well, if there's some high-hitting topics that I feel like it's important to address, but we'll review the remaining questions and address them accordingly. We're at the top of the hour. I want to make sure that I thank all of you for attending. Hopefully this was insightful, beneficial. If you got some pearls to take away, I'm happy with that. There are going to be subsequent webinars the next three Tuesdays this month, and I think one's into March, even, which is wild to me. It's almost going to be March by the end of this webinar series, but tune into those. Otherwise, if you do have anything, please do not hesitate to reach out. I have a great rest of your day, everyone. Yes. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Dr. Bashar Aqel – Transplant Center - Mayo Clinic in Arizona [z37Mfx_pvJg].txt ===

 when you talk about surgical outcomes, the more you do the surgery, the better your teams become, and you will have a team of experts that have done so many surgeries, and they became very well experienced in that field. For the transplant to be successful, you need a team of experts. In 2025, Mayo Clinic and Arizona Transplant Center has performed more adult, solid organ transplant than any other transplant center in the country. This is the fifth year in a row our transplant center has been able to achieve that national ranking. Despite all of the work we are doing in the field of transplantation, it's really sad to know that every day up to 14 people will die on the waitlist before getting the life-saving organ transplantation. This is a milestone that we have been able to achieve for five years in a row. What does it mean? It means that we have been able to save so many lives over the past five years and more than any other transplant center in the country. Mayo Clinic with three large transplant centers across the enterprise is the largest provider of solid organ transplantation in the nation, if not in the world. An organ donor can save up to eight lives by organ donation.

=== FILE: Focusing on Value： Dr. Michael Repka on the Future of Ophthalmology Advocacy [a4vT6DvZfaA].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your co-host, Dr. Brittany Scruggs. And I'm your co-host, Dr. Eric Boethan. We are here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology medicine and more. In today's podcast, we visit with Dr. Michael Repka, current president of the American Academy of Ophthalmology. Tune in to hear about AAO leadership efforts, including advocacy from Medicare to medical code values. Dr. Michael Repka is the David L. Geithen and Feduniac Family Professor of Ophthalmology and Professor of Pediatrics at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Dr. Repka currently is vice chair for clinical practice and division director of pediatric ophthalmology and adult's trabismus at the Wilmer Institute of Johns Hopkins University. He is president of the American Academy of Ophthalmology. He serves as AAO director for government affairs, is a past chair of the FDA's Ophthalmic and Dermatologic Advisory Committee, a member of FDA's Ophthalmic Device Panel, and is the AAO's CPT advisor to the AMA's CPT editorial panel. Dr. Repka led the pediatric eye disease investigator group funded by the National Eye Institute from 1997 to 2009 as chair and currently serves as a member of the operations and executive committees. Welcome, Dr. Repka. Hello, Michael Repka. Happy to be here. We I must admit for me personally as a pediatric ophthalmologist, someone who's been in your spheres of PDIG and a friend, it's an honor for me to have you here. I've been struck and I think Brittany appreciates the phenomenal roles of leadership you've had and the impact you've made in serving various organizations and we were delighted to have you come on the podcast today to share a little bit about AAO and what you're doing in those spheres. So again, that's a privilege for you to be here. Great, thank you. So if you could just tell our listeners, what is it like to be the president of AAO and what does a normal week look like for you? I'm sure you wear a lot of hats and have a lot of competing interests. So walk us through a normal week. So Brittany, the good part about being president of the academy is there are a lot of other people who are doing a lot of excellent work and you get to be the leader of that. That workload is over, spread over such a large number of volunteer ophthalmologists and the board of trustees. So in an average week, I probably do several hundred emails, but much of those are with my other academy hats, either CPT or government affairs. The president, of course, does field some questions from our members and certainly questions from a lot of our staff about ongoing issues. But it never ends, if you will. I mean, there's something every day, if not every hour. But again, the professional teams that the academy employs, both in San Francisco and in Washington, really make that a pleasure. I think for most ophthalmologists that juggle their day, even managing their office, it's hard to imagine how you have the bandwidth and climb to the status of AAO president. Just for those people that don't know you as well, could you give us a snapshot of, you mentioned a couple of roles there. What has been your path and leadership up through the AAO ranks? How did you get to be president and what were your footprints looking back? Great question and it's certainly been asked many times. It actually started in 1989, so many years ago when I was just a few years out of fellowship. The academy needed somebody to run a task force on CPT coding. And of course, early on I had a great deal of interest in numbers and we were early computerization of billing records. And so I was learning the numbers and it at least fit. And so I went on to chair that task force, then ultimately became the CPT advisor for the academy. That moved on to health policy because of course codes and health policy and ultimately practice management all revolve around the same thing. And I was doing similar activities with our own department because as in many academic institutions, many people just want that billing and administrative stuff to be handled. And it just was something I liked doing. And then other committees and other tasks over the years led to a secretary job for Dr. Dunbar Hoskins in which I was on the back bench of the board. And ultimately that after a few years led to David Park making me medical director for government affairs and then ultimately in Stephen MacLeod's tenure having a chance to do the one year of presidency, which is truly an honor. I'd like to, if you could for the listeners summarize in an AO presidency balance, I'm sure yours is weighted more towards advocacy and CPT efforts because of your background. But what are your biggest hats? As AO president, I know you have teams to help you, but what would be your big buckets that you're serving regularly? Right. So the academy does have directions and people come up in the academy mostly in education because that's certainly the first and most important thing that the academy does for our members. The second big hat is membership, sorry, is membership and meetings. And the third is government affairs. And so volunteer ophthalmologists sort of go in one of those tracks and as we get further along that's when we actually begin to learn about the other sides of the organization. And most presidents do choose an area to focus on. Jane Edmonds last year was in education talking about surgical coaching and other things to improve lifelong learning for ophthalmologists. I've been focused on Medicare reform, which I dare say I'm a failure in because you can see we're here at the end of the year and Congress has not even begun to debate publicly. Although behind closed doors, they're certainly talking about it and understanding there's a need. I think we should talk about that. Amen. Let's go. It's a big topic, but when you started as president that was one of the priorities that I have heard you speak about, that your priority was to tackle Medicare payment reform. And navigating that is extremely complex. It's complex policy. So I'm curious, where do you think the biggest problems are and what do you want to see addressed in maybe the next one to two years? Well, the Congress has to get over some of the short-term problems that they've been dealing with in terms of physician payments. In terms of last year, we had a reduction. In this year, we sort of were made whole, but we're falling way behind inflation. The roots of that, of course, were sown back in 2015 when Congress last attempted Medicare physician payment reform with the macro legislation. And that really went a ways to advancing how payment was going to be done. It hypothesized what would turn out to be an unrealized dream of moving most physicians over to advanced payment models or alternative payment models, which just haven't been able to be developed in a manner that is able to both save money and encourage value care. That has to be brought back. It has to be resurrected as a topic of debate of how to get us to go to that next level. Many people at that time just figured, well, there's enough waste in the system, whatever that was, and nobody was really willing to define it, certainly on the professional side, at the level necessary. Certainly we have lots of health policy experts who tell us what we should do on waste, but I'm not at all convinced that they really see it from the physician's perspective. So now we need to get Congress back engaged. And unfortunately, we're at the end of the non-election year, so our window of opportunity, honestly, for 2026 is probably close to closed. We'll have a couple months where Congress may do something, but because we don't have a spending bill, we don't have a finalized budget. The time is probably going to get taken up with that, and we're going to get delayed once again. We certainly have met myself, our staff, our CEO, have met with various members of Congress and their staff, and I think it's clear everyone recognizes the system is now at an impasse or broken, and we need to go somewhere different. But to get the political will, and frankly, the majorities in Congress to actually agree, is currently a long shot. Yeah, that was my question. How much is the appreciation there that it is broken versus, and not knowing how to make change versus with the changing faces and topics gaining the bandwidth that it is an important topic, but people have empathy towards the situation, but it's just getting a hammer that fixes the problem is a long ways away. Right, as well as, Eric, get the budget for it, and there's this mentality that the budget can't have more dollars or new dollars brought in, and that unfortunately continues to handicap the Congress in moving forward. Now I will be the first to agree that we obviously do not want huge budget deficits. We can't afford to pay for absolutely everything that people want to do in the Medicare physician payment system, but doctors also need to be treated more fairly compared to the rest of the providers in the system. In other words, we're not accounting, we're not receiving some of the benefits that other parts of the program are, for instance, hospitals or outpatient facilities or even skilled nursing facilities. They all operate under rules that have allowed positive updates for each of the last 20 years, and we have not. I'm going to take one thing that you said and maybe rephrase it and then add to it. You said that policymakers potentially don't have the clinical insights, right? They don't. They don't have the clinical insights that we have, and so we need to have a voice when it comes to policy change. The question is the ophthalmologist listening, instead of getting frustrated, what are some very practical ways that we can get involved? I know that your team goes to DC, meets with people, but what can we do on the ground here other than just get frustrated? And specifically talking about Medicare payment cuts and Medicare payment instability. So those would be two of the important issues, Brittany, and of course the other is what coverage policy looks like. But there are certainly ways for people to do these things locally. Every member of Congress is home usually from Thursday evening till Monday morning, and the House of Representatives members, so the Congress people are usually in district offices which are frankly close to where you work. Getting to know them, stopping by and saying if you need any help on medicine, on ophthalmology, I'd love to sit down with you and talk about that, or your staff. So we need lots of voices in the community. We certainly pay a professional staff to meet with them and their DC staffs, but it really is critical for the doctors and the staff in the communities to know about these issues that really bother us. And it's hard. They're worrying about farm legislation, military legislation, social security. It's just a very difficult time for any member to know or be an expert in even a few fields, so they really do need help. Obviously, the second thing is donations. Donations to their reelection campaigns are unfortunately part of our system. They're how we get access. One might not like to say that, but it's a reality that elections cost a lot of money to run and the members need the money. Or the candidates for election who support policies that we prefer. They need support, our support, whether that comes from the national medical packs like Optpac, Optomology's political action committee, or private donations or individual donations, I should say more accurately, to them. Lastly, getting to know even carrier medical directors in your region. It was a long, awful job. Many people started doing it and said, I don't want to go listen to discussions of the latest cardiac advances or the latest problems in other aspects of our field, perhaps in ENT. But when the Optomology issue was to come up at a carrier advisory committee, we needed interested Optomologists willing to talk, willing to write, willing to speak with and call some of the medical directors who are at least set up to be responsive to us. You brought up Optpac. I know that for people that when they renew their membership, we have these opportunities. Certainly at our national meetings, there's pushes to have contributions made to support and protect patient care in our practices. Many people give this their state academies to have advocacy advanced locally. Can you talk about the importance of Optpac in addition to your local community support? How is it different? How is it utilized? What happens when support goes to the AAO through that fund? Contributions to Optpac, of course, have to come from members of the academy. They're not a PAC that can accept outside contributions. It is a nonpartisan Optomology PAC in the sense that we support both Democrats and Republicans on issues that matter. Largely, it's in payment, in Medicare coverage. Those kind of activities allow us to support as a group members of Congress, both Senate and House of Representatives. We do not participate in presidential elections. We don't participate in local elections. We really are at the federal level. That's what's allowed under the law. Again, it buys contributions to various members showing our support, but also getting us FaceTime with the member, both during mid-year forum when ophthalmologists travel to D.C., but also year-round when I go to D.C. or our staff goes to the Hill or Dr. McCloud or other members of the Board of Trustees that come to D.C. I'd like to talk about codes. You brought up earlier your history, and I'm certainly well aware in my subspecialty, or our subspecialty, appeads your role in understanding, communicating, and helping to process codes. On a national level, it's always this sort of black box of sending in information about what we do and how codes for billing procedures get valued and then later on correlate to billing. You've been one of the sausage grinders of evaluating, processing, and advocating for codes. Can you talk about how the code value process works and how it's updated over time? Sure can. It's extraordinarily long. What people wish is it would happen that I get a new code and I have a value next week, but that's not our system. Today, CPT is the way physicians in the United States report CMS and AMA. Both organizations work on the updates. There are annual updates of CPT codes where new codes are added. A few are deleted, and others are modified. Those meetings appear three times a year. They're open. Everybody who wants to see that portion of the casing of the sausage filled is certainly able to ask to attend. Certainly members of our industry go, as do members of much of the medical industry around the country, do attend. Each of the specialties has an advisor. Ophthalmology has a number of advisors. Myself for the Academy, the American Society of Retina Specialists has an advisor, as does the, as do the society's cataract and refractive surgery and oculoplastic surgery. In general, we may write an application for a new service. Usually if it's a new device, the company submits that and goes through the process, and the Academy and other advisors from across medicine will comment on it. The act of getting a new code simply is not, is agnostic to cost. It does require something to be done more than once a year. It needs to be done. Some indeterminate number of times that we can say it's done across the U.S. But fortunately that threshold varies by the amount of the denominator of the population eligible. You wouldn't expect a surgery, for instance, for glaucoma to have to have the same number of procedures done per year as something for heart disease. They just are at different levels in terms of the patient denominator, and that's taken into account. Once there's a new code, if it's a Category 1 code, which is one that CMS usually but doesn't always have to pay for, gets valued. The value is set from surveys that go out to our members, their randomized surveys. Depending on the service, we send a few hundred to a few thousand out. It goes out with a bland cover memo signed by the CEO of the organization. So right now Dr. McCloud asking you to please fill out the survey, which can take 20 minutes, 25 minutes. It's shorter if there's just one code on it. It's longer if there's a family of codes, such as when we had to value OCT with the new OCT and geography code that became part of the 2025 fee schedule. Members will say how much time it takes, what resources are used, and then we take that information to a panel called the RUC, or Relative Update Committee, which is a private group of doctors. CMS does not control though, although they do participate in terms of commenting during the process. Members of the RUC then debate a value and come to a consensus valuation, which is then submitted to CMS. CMS over the years has accepted most potential valuations. Perhaps over the last five years they've become more aggressive in deciding that the valuations submitted by the RUC are too high and have been unilaterally, well, they sort of control the payment. So it's both unilateral, but it's in their power to reduce it to something they think is more fair. They may often use a crosswalk strategy to put out that value. Now they put out the values or publish the values in July of the preceding year, and then the public gets to comment. And sometimes if we comment that you guys got it wrong, you lowered it too much, they'll fix it, sometimes they won't. That process is in their hands and they can reject or agree to complaints from the host of interested stakeholders. That may be industry, if it's a technology, that may be largely medical societies, if it's not technology. But even individual members can write in and you'll see some codes where there are 100 comments. Sometimes they look a little duplicated, which they are, but the CMS will then comment, 100 physicians said something about the valuation being incorrect. They won't actually identify which, but if you look at the letters that went in, you can sort of figure out who made what comments. And then they publish a value in November and then that becomes the rule of the land on the 1st of January for Medicare fee for service payments. I have a question for you, Eric. So when you were in training, how much training did you get on CPT and codes and billing, et cetera? Nothing. Not much? No. I think that's pretty standard across most programs. So question to you, Dr. Rupka. What can trainees and early ophthalmologists, like early in their practice listening, what can they do to be more informed and make sure that they stay empowered and that they're, they know what they're doing when it comes to billing and CPT and coding? How can we get better as a community? So there are many consultants and even departments and compliance offices in our institutions and our training programs that do some of that. The problem is it usually is not tossed at the residents very much. In olden times, I certainly remember one or two leading manufacturers in our space who had coding seminars for senior residents during the springtime of their third year. And that probably would be a good idea for people to at least get some brief exposure to the system. You're not going to learn it, of course, sitting in a lecture. It really is going to require hands on. The programs most compliance offices put out for the universities, I think including my own, are purposely and necessarily generic. And so it's hard to learn. I do worry that some of the coding tools, which actually make coding faster or at least putting in claims faster, may cause further failure to understand the background behind codes. There's a whole lot of verbiage that sits in the CPT book. But most young faculty or most young clinicians never open or have to open a CPT book anymore, either electronic or paper. So I do think we are missing the boat on that. In some ways it's because simply there's not enough time in a resident's day to learn it. But some will be interested and they will take it on early on in their practice. You bring up time in relation to the coding. My understanding is physicians have continued to wrestle with managing their practice, keeping their practice afloat, with stagnant billing or receipts to keep up to inflation. They've become more efficient. And many tools that we have in our practice help us be more efficient. There's a conversation, at least I've understood, that as efficiency has been evaluated by CMS, is that becoming a contender or how would I put it, a negative against the billing of codes or a conversation piece that's affecting code value? Absolutely. And it really starts next year. But the story about efficiency is, of course, what physicians have done over the last three decades, whether it be in office practice, learning how to use ancillary personnel to make their days more efficient, how to use EMRs to make their days much more efficient than they were. There's always been this background buzz that, oh, CMS is going to see how many patients you can see in a day and then set an arbitrary cap based upon some timescale for each code build. They've never done that per se. But what they are looking at for 2026 and, in fact, implementing for 2026 is something that is simply called the efficiency adjustment. And that efficiency adjustment factor at a negative 2.5% on practice expense, sorry, on work value units for surgeries, for testing results, imaging results, is effective next year. So it's going to be driving down some of the work values in all, in many physicians' armamentaria. It's not going to affect their E&M coding. It's not going to affect their ICodes, but it is going to affect every test they order and every surgery they perform. And it's going to take each of those codes down differently depending upon how much physician work is in those services. So a test, for instance, has much less physician work, so we'll go down a bit less. Physicies have much more physician work and we'll go down more fractionally. But I think that's the beginning of the... Yeah, that's not what I would expect. So how is that going to affect physician reimbursement? Down. Just generally even with surgery. What's the rationale that the surgeon-involved efficiency would be dinged more than technology-based efficiency? Yeah, that's exactly right. And that's simply because in this formula, which isn't based upon any study on any data, it just says we're going down 2.5%. That is really driven. The services with greater surgical work, physician work and surgery would be that compared to testing because interpreting a test is usually pretty quick because you're not doing the test, you're not getting credit for the test. So yeah, surgical codes will be hit proportionately greater when you look at the overall price of the code. How is this going to affect subspecialties differently? So retina versus comprehensive ophthalmology? So the more E&M or iCode services you do, the better you are because the good news for them is those dollars coming out of one hand are going into the dollars on the other side so that surgeries, testing will go down.  will go up. I know that's a great point. Yeah, it's just interesting to think through practices and certainly a meaningful issue for so many people understanding each year there's a new wave of financial challenge in the billing process. Right. So, Brittany, the one thing then you said about subspecialties, and that's really clear. When we've run various models, we can see that difference if you compare uveitis, neuroophtha, to a busy cataract surgeon, or a retinal surgeon. The difference is the former are going to go up and the latter are going to go down. Okay, let's talk about practical things. So yesterday I did 65 injections in a half day. And I think that's pretty average for a retina specialist. We see a lot of patients. So we have an injection clinic here, so it's very efficient. But even despite 60 to 70 injections in a half day, we still have a hard time making money because we have so many patients who have Medicare and Medicare doesn't reimburse well and the payment cuts have really impacted everyone. So the question to you is what's the solution? And five years from now, what is this going to look like for us? And are we going to have to change what we do? And how do we get paid? So the first thing is we have been in the process of having letters sent to the Hill by some of our congressional champions to say this efficiency adjustment, which by the way was complained about between July and December by nearly everyone. So getting champions to write letters to HHS and to the administrator, Dr. Mehmet Oz, to say this is unfair, what's the data to showing this? Yes, what this could do though is reduce access for some of the services whose valuation is relatively low and increase access for services where the valuation has gone up. It's a pretty common economic principle in our industry as well as many others. But yes, you would have, you know, that would not be a good outcome for you. Can you share when you look at the advocacy broadly and we zoom out a little bit, how is the academy managing, you want to assume all boats rise between comprehensive practice and sub specialty care? We just touched on the nuances of these code valuations on a micro level. But backing up, how does the academy balance advocacy for the breadth and width of ophthalmology versus subspecial interest? Yeah, so every year we convene basically the president or president-elect of all of the societies and we convene in Washington in January to talk about the problems for the upcoming year, the various problems that each of the subspeciality societies is having. And we take that list of problems and ultimately develop a priority worksheet for the DC office for that calendar year. And so we're a few weeks away from doing that again. But there are issues like valuation of E&M codes that went up a few years ago and the I codes did not follow in parallel. The global surgery period has not been fixed in terms of reimbursement. So we recognize that some are going to succeed. We talked for instance with Neuroop who said we have to support this valuation and the fact that it's being paid in part by the globals not being expanded in the surgical codes, all surgical codes. That's just a difference of opinion we're going to have to have. And that makes sense. And certainly they took the opportunity to write their letter in support of that change. But most of the time our issues are not really different. There's not really a difference between a retinal specialist or a cataract specialist in terms of overall reimbursement issues, coverage issues. There may be things that if you were in the retinal specialty society, your staff would key on and pay all your attention to the valuation of 67028 for instance. Although for us that's a huge volume for everybody across the field. So sometimes we have to pay attention or the most attention to the most common problems. But we try not to ignore any. There are other problems that are beyond our scope. And there are things like Medicaid reimbursement which is near and dear to APOS, my colleagues, our colleagues there. But that's a problem of 50 state legislatures plus Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia, the Congress in funding, the Academy of Pediatrics, family practice. There are others that really have to lead that because that's where the bulk of the activity is. And so medicine although some days doesn't appear working together in DC, at least on major issues, we're all in the same place. I mean there's always jockeying for the better advantage but that's what you would expect in the program. So I think we also listen to everybody and try and figure out how we can help even if it might have a slight negative impact on some. I had a question about trauma. I mentioned it prior to this meeting that we could talk about different things including trauma. I certainly am aware of the challenges or sort of the hot potato for ophthalmologists and practices managing trauma and the difficulty it is in different regions of our country to have access. What's Academy's current thoughts, engagement and program development? What are you doing in trauma? So trauma has been a priority of the Secretary for Education for about a half dozen years. When Chris Rappewano was Senior Secretary, he and Dal Fajardo, who is Vice President at the Academy, developed a training program, literature program, how to talk to hospitals about contracting for call. Chris has made that his signature project for his presidency in 2026 because it is a big issue. We are talking with, have been talking with the American College of Surgeons who designates what the requirements should be for trauma centers at level one or level two, what the access to eye care should be and really explain some of the problems including there's no slit lamp, there's no indirect ophthalmoscope in the ER of the trauma center, there's no OR capacity to do eye trauma. The equipment doesn't work, there's no nursing. The list that our members have developed is extensive. This has been a subject of a number of council advisory recommendations to the Board of Trustees over the last decade. And so we continue to work on it. The College of Surgeons is convening there a panel of the surgical, sorry, of the ophthalmologists who are on their, or our colleagues, ophthalmologists who are on their ophthalmology specialty panel who is having work with the trauma system people in January to further refine who can, who should and stating at the end of the day that no one must but we do need to get people willing to do trauma call to care for patients. We also know that the academic medical centers are feeling overrun, their residents are feeling overrun in terms of the volume of cases being transported to them because of inadequate coverage in the community. So it's a multi-pronged effort. There is a whole set of resources for trauma up on the Academy's website. They will be launching or announcing a toolkit to help members with this process. And I think at the end of the day, like everywhere, this is going to come down to hospitals compensating ophthalmologists fairly for providing a service that keeps that hospital designated a level one trauma center. Until those negotiations happen in a clear fashion, probably we're going to continue to swirl around the issue. Can we talk about resources a little bit? So you talked about the toolkit and that the AEO website has a lot to offer. So my last question is just as president of AEO, what are some of the resources and tools that you do offer that maybe are underutilized or that you want to make sure that the listeners are reminded that are available? Yeah, I think, Brittany, almost everything there. I think about what I forget to utilize is constant. And probably the most important tool for many of us is the iWiki program that really is a fantastically rapid resource for finding out almost anything and the huge number of people that have helped write in keeping that program going. My thanks to Chris Rappawano for keeping the Will's Eye manual up there, which you have to remember is present. And then practice management tools, they're all there. Most of them are open for ophthalmology members. You don't have to be a member of AAOE, the Association of Ophthalmology Executives. So lots of stuff there. The Academy continues to work on getting indexing to work more slickly, and I think that all of those things should improve. For advocates, the most important set of documents turns out to be the OTAs or Ophthalmology Technology Assessments and the Preferred Practice Patterns. Those documents really help us drive coverage policy for whatever techniques we want to do. They really are listened to by the committees that evaluate those kind of documents, the evidence-based committees at the carriers, so at the commercial or at the, well, they're all commercial carriers, whether they be Medicare Advantage, Medicare Administrative Contractor, or just commercial insurers. They really do look for us to talk and expect us to talk levelly and not over-optimistic in those documents, and truly they do meet that level of rigor that is perhaps not unique in medicine, but really is special in ophthalmology. Okay, my last question will go to the current trend where lives are so busy, it's hard to get young ophthalmologists involved in administrative roles. So we've highlighted many of yours. We didn't even talk about PDIG today and your leadership of that research organization or co-leadership. My question would be this, given your motivation in leadership of these organizations and participating, what's one experience you've had as president of the AO that has really captured your appreciation of why it's so valuable to serve, why this organization should be contributed to, and how that might motivate a young ophthalmologist, wondering if they should sign up for a committee? Yeah, well, Eric, I'm on my trip to my first panel meeting, that is the CPT task force. I had no idea whether these ophthalmologists would listen to me or even care what the program I was doing. Dare say, I never thought I would end up in the bottom or somewhere in the basement of the Capitol with about 20 presidents of various medical societies across the country, meeting with the doctors caucus in the bowels of the Capitol, really talking about the next stages, what we needed to do for Medicare reform. It's quite a direction shift and it was a great experience. Some of those doctors in fact share alma mater and so forth, so that was nice as well. But so much work to do, and even though they're doctors on the Hill, they don't seem to be able to move our target very rapidly. I certainly appreciate your leadership, your gifting, and just your presence, your voice and being there. Those of us in APOS have always cherished that voice, and for those of us in ophthalmology, just appreciate your leadership of our organization to do those things. Whether in the basement of the Capitol or our national meetings, we appreciate your voice at the table, and certainly appreciate your voice here on the podcast. Thanks for being here and thanks for reminding us to be an advocate for our field and for each other. I think it's important to also remember to talk to people who make these decisions. This is really hard work, so we appreciate you being our leader. Brittany and Eric, thanks very much for the opportunity. I think everyone should remember that going and talking to the politicians is important because we can be excited about the new technology that we've learned about that we're using and get them excited about it being the next step for their constituents and our patients to make their eye care better. Thanks again for today. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology podcast on our website, YouTube, or in most podcast platforms. Thank you for listening, and we definitely look forward to sharing more on our next podcast.

=== FILE: Leadless Pacemakers and Extravascular ICDs [45uaFpEAycA].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected our cardiac device implantation and extraction. Dr. Segroux will share with us how leadless pacemakers and extravascular ICDs are redefining device therapy by minimizing lead and pocket-related complications while expanding our options for patients with complex anatomy or infection risk. So we'll explore how these systems differ from traditional transvenous technologies. So, Alan, tell us a little bit about these devices. And how do these leadless pacemakers differ from traditional transvenous systems in terms of technology, the complication profile and clinical outcomes? And why should I, sort of a general cardiologist, be more knowledgeable about this or perhaps excited? Great. Well, thank you for the opportunity to be here today. And this is a really evolving field. There's a lot of new technology coming out in this. And I think it has a real chance to improve outcomes for patients. So when we think about the traditional transvenous pacemaker, you created a subcutaneous pocket, and then you had one or two, maybe three leads that transverse the veins that went into the heart. Leadless pacemakers, on the other hand, are completely self-contained. Everything from the battery to electronics are integrated into a small capsule that sits entirely in the ribentrical. The big advantage is that with traditional transvenous pacemakers, pocket and lead-related complications are the biggest issue. So we can have issues such as lead fracture, lead infection, pocket hematoma, pocket pain and pocket discomfort. We can also get complications from implanting the leads, such as pneumothorax or even lead dislodgement. So therefore, if you can remove those lead and pocket-related complications, the leadless devices provide that, and they are really valuable in terms of minimizing those complications. One of the things that's been fascinating to me is the evolution and seeing how often you all are recommending these leads. And I'd like you to hear from which patient populations. But also, it's stuck in their heart. Are there concerns about dislodgement and other things and embolus, which you don't think of if it's a lead. So first, patient population, and then what should we be thinking about? From I who don't necessarily understand all the ins and outs. Yeah, so patient population is definitely expanding. But the most classic indication for implanting a leadless device is probably someone with atrial fibrillation who has complete heart block who requires ventricular pacing only. So single chamber ventricular pacing is probably the biggest population that we do. But we now have expansion with systems. We have a dual chamber leadless system, which provides us with both atrial and ventricular pacing. And so this is gonna see a growing indication in that area. There are also the other classic indications. So high risk of infection or prior device infection, and particularly in people who are immunosuppressed, who are on immune modulated therapies, these are populations that we consider. The other key thing is that when you put a transvenous device in, you have to have access to the heart. So if you have someone with difficult access, such as dialysis patients with fistulas, people that have had central venous occlusions, people with prior lead extractions have damaged the vein, or where we're unable to implant leads, then leadless options provide a really good option. We're also probably gonna see, as we see more and more tricuspid valves being done, either percutaneously or surgically, then these leads may provide an option for pacing in those scenarios. There's a little bit of nuances about how far you implant away from the valve, but overall these represent pretty good options to preserve valve function after these surgeries. Yeah, I think the impact, when I, 20 years ago, you electrophysiologist pacemakers pretty much said, it's not because of my lead that caused this TR, right? I mean, that was sort of the comment, it's like, that was just gonna happen anyway. And I think we've really evolved from that, that even though there is some intrinsic valvular or right-sided heart, that it clearly, at least in some patients, has more of an impact on the tricuspid regurgitation development than we previously acknowledged. Yeah, no, I think that's definitely true. But the key question is when we intervene, a lot of the time we've done extractions for people with severe TR, but they've had the severe TR for months or years. And so there may be a point where the valve cannot remodel, but by far and away there is. You see leads go across the valve, it's impinging. I describe to patients, imagine if I put an electrical cable through the door, and the door is your valve, you're not gonna be able to shut the door completely. And so there has to be some role with the lead in terms of that. But I think we still don't know exactly who we should be trying to fix these leads in, but I think the data is definitely there. So I feel much better about my understanding about leadless pacemakers. So let's shift gears a little bit. What are some of the key design and functional differences between extravascular and subcutaneous ICDs? When we switch a little bit towards defibrillation therapy, again, similar to leadless, we wanna minimize hardware inside the heart. If we can make things smaller or make things extravascular, then we are at an advantage in terms of limiting complications or serious complications and hospitalizations. Both systems, the subcutaneous and the extravascular, are really on the same design philosophy. They basically say, we're gonna be on the outside of your heart and our goal is to defibrillate you, okay? The subcutaneous system has been around for the longest and it is a lead that's placed, subcutaneously underneath your skin here and the can sits in your axilla area. It's a very good device with lots of clinical data supporting it. The one downside to this device is, it doesn't provide any anti-tachycardial pacing. And so if a patient goes into a lethal rhythm such as ventricular tachycardia and you wanna try to pace them out of it, instead of shocking them, this device does not have that function. All transvenous devices have the ability to do anti-tachycardial pacing. And the advantage with that is you minimize your risk of shocks and minimize complications associated with that. The extravascular ICD is the next generation system where the lead is placed under the sternum and so it's almost like we're doing a mini surgery and we basically tunnel the lead underneath the sternal bone and then again, the can goes out to the side. The advantage with that is because you're closer to the heart, you're able to provide anti-tachycardial pacing and you can also provide some backup bradycardial pacing which the subcutaneous ICD can't. And so because the lead is closer to the chest, the battery or the energy required to defibrillate is lower. So what's great is the extravascular ICD is a similar size to the transvenous. So from a cosmetic and patient comfort point of view, this has been a real improvement in that area. That's great. And so when we're thinking about it, and obviously you're going to be directly talking to the patient, but what are the advantages and limitations that we should understand, somebody like me, but also how you talk through with the patients in terms of, I'm thinking about battery life and none of these devices last forever. Most people, particularly if they're younger, are looking at some kind of replacement in the future. What else should we be thinking about? Yeah, great. So we'll tackle that from the leadless pacemaker point of view because that's really an important point. So the leadless pacemaker, the issue is probably the biggest issue they have is battery longevity. And particularly we're getting about 10 or 12 years out of the single chamber ventricular devices, which is good, but we don't really know, well, what happens in 10 or 12 years? Should we extract it? Should we put another one next to it? Do we put a transvenous system? So a lot of that's still a little bit unclear. If you implant a dual chamber leadless system, and so we've done this for people that have had venous occlusions, have an SVC syndrome or had infections, I'm always really causing them to discuss with them that the battery longevity for a dual chamber leadless system, the atrium only lasts about five years on average and the ventricular only lasts about eight. And I tell them that's not a reason not to get the device because they often clearly need it, but it's just something to bear in mind that, when you come back in four or five years, we need to start thinking about what we're doing. And as we get more experience extracting those systems, I imagine it's gonna be a simple extract and then re-implant. In terms of the ICDs, the battery longevity is pretty good with the extravascular you're looking at about 12 years, which is really good for an ICD. For the subcutaneous, you're still around eight to 10 years. The key thing that I tell patients is, there's nothing perfect with any of these systems. And so, although you're trading the ability to not have stuff inside your heart, you're getting the added risk of inappropriate shocks. And that is by far the most Achilles heel issue with the subcutaneous systems. And part of that is because you're like having a far-field collection, right? And so you can pick up noise, you can pick up muscle movement, and the device can be fooled into thinking, you're gonna leave the rhythm and shock you. The subcutaneous ICD, probably most issue is senses, most of the issue is T-wave oversensing with the subcutaneous ICD. And the inappropriate shock rate from that group is probably in the realm of 4% for a subcutaneous ICD. When the extravascular ICD came out, it was very interesting. So they ran into like a completely opposite issue and the issue was they were tunneled under the chest and they were very close to the achalopendage. And so being close to the achalopendage, they started picking up P-waves. And it was P-wave oversensing, which was the problem with the extravascular ICD. And actually in the original trial, the inappropriate shock rate was close to 8% for patients with extravascular ICD. So pretty high, they subsequently have brought out newer algorithms, a P-wave algorithm to exclude P-waves from the signal analysis to determine if they're in VT. And that, I think we're gonna see the shock rate probably come down to around 5%. I think eventually we'll probably get it down a little bit lower as we start getting AI and all this kind of stuff into there. But it's still a bit of a killy's heel in terms of the limitations of subcutaneous ICDs. And I think those of us who have cared for patients with either appropriate or inappropriate shocks, it's, it may not be physically a complication, but from a mental health standpoint, anxiety, and all of that, it's really big. I mean, it's something you guys have to deal with all the time. Yeah, and it's like, and I'm very upfront with patients, but I think it's really important. And they say, well, what's the bad thing about getting shocked? I said, your heart will probably be fine, but we see a lot of anxiety and people are always worried, well, when am I gonna get my next shock? I can get a shock at any time, you know? And so there is a lot of anxiety around that, especially inappropriate shock. So what we can do to minimize inappropriate shocks is really important, you know? Yeah, so you've talked about some of the things that we still need to learn about these relatively new devices, you know, battery life, next steps when we need to, the inappropriate shock. What are you excited about? What's around the corner? If we were to say, what should we, meaning somebody like me be listening for in terms of whether clinical trial results or just new devices that might be around the corner? Yeah, so we, I mean, this is an ever-evolving field and there is gonna be probably two main interesting things coming out. The subcutaneous ICD is gonna be paired with a leadless pacemaker. So the subcutaneous ICD will be able to provide ATP and pacing support. They recently finished their clinical trial and they're waiting FDA approval. So that's gonna be coming around the corner, which will give us another advantage for patients. But I think the key thing that's probably gonna come, we know leads are bad. And sometimes we can't get around without putting leads in. But we also know that when we pace people in the right ventricle, a lot of them get pacing-induced cardiomyopathy. And so we do not have a system that's currently available, which amalgamates the ability to provide leadless and the ability to provide cardiac resynchronization therapy or conduction system pacing. So in the future, there's gonna be a lot of growth in this area. Can we do conduction system pacing with a leadless device? And there is some preliminary work that's gonna be done, but as of now, we do not have a current device that's available for that. So if somebody really needs that, they're pretty much need three leads to get to that. Correct. So yeah, so if someone needs CRT or a cardiac resynchronization therapy, a leadless device is not a good option for them. Well, thank you. I honored a lot today, as I'm sure those of us, those who are listening to us. So thank you so much, Alan. Okay, appreciate you. Thanks for having me, Alan. So this wraps up this week's episode of interviews with the experts. I'd like to thank Dr. Suguru for joining me today and discussing this really important and novel topic. We look forward to you joining us again next week for another interview with the expert. Be well. ["Mario's World Class Care"] At Mayo Clinic, relentless learning fuels world class care. I'm Dr. Benjamin Hibbert, Chair of the Division of Critical Care Cardiology. If today's episode gave you a fresh insight, imagine what a full course can do for you and your patients. Head to cveducation.mayo.edu and explore our live and online programs, quick on-demand modules, and CME accredited masterclasses, created and taught by the very voices you trust here. Join thousands of clinicians who've already turned curiosity into expertise. Level up your practice now at cveducation.mayo.edu.

=== FILE: Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project： Daily Skin Care Routines We Should Be Doing E52 [46ikT2WKSUU].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Kamp. Your skin is the largest organ in your body, and it does a lot more than just make you look good. It's our primary defense against the outside world, and it regulates many of our body's internal functions as well. Given the major role it plays in our health and overall performance, it's important that we take care of our skin to keep it healthy for as long as possible. And it would be nice if we could make it look good while we're at it. To do that, we need to start taking better care of our skin now, rather than waiting until it ages. To help us learn how, the title of our session today is Daily Skincare Routines We Should Be Doing for Life Long Skin Health. Our expert guest today is Dr. Sarenia Wiles. She's a dermatologist and director of the NIH-funded Mayo Clinic Regenerative Dermatology and Skin Longevity Laboratory. She pursued a research fellowship at the Harvard Stem Cell Institute and received her MD, PhD, from Mayo Clinic. Dr. Wiles holds two U.S. patents on methods and materials to reduce scar formation and four U.S. patent-pending technologies for 3D skin bioprinting. She also serves as research chair for Mayo Clinic Center for Aesthetic Medicine and Surgery. Her work has been featured in Harper's Bazaar, The Wall Street Journal, National Geographic, and Dermatology Times, and was highlighted on NBC's Today Show. Today we have three big questions that we're going to work through with Dr. Wiles. The first big question we're going to tackle with her is, what does our skin actually do for us and why is skin care so important? In our second section, the big question is, how do we make sense of the most common skin care options out there and sort fact from fiction? In our third section, we're going to have her give us all the answers. What are the regular skin care practices we should all be doing to help us have healthy, vibrant skin lifelong? Serena, thank you so much for joining us here on the Human Optimization Project. Really thankful that you're able to come on and let us learn from your expertise. Great to be here, Chris. All right, so let's dive into our first section. So in this section, we'll be talking about what the skin actually does for us and why skin care is so important. So can you first help us understand what exactly is skin and what is its function? Absolutely. So your skin is your largest organ. It's your largest regenerative organ. So every 30 days, we have a new skin barrier. And it's more than just structure or appearance. It actually has a lot of very important function. So you can think about the skin first and foremost as a barrier. So it serves as a barrier to keep all of the external toxins or pollutants out. So it's protecting you. It serves as this layer that keeps out infection, keeps out the bad. Second, it also helps us with absorption. So it helps absorb the right types of topicals that you're putting on or moisturizers. And in response, it secretes. So if you're a young teenager, you're secreting oils for acne and other types of toxins that can be secreted out through sweat if you're exercising. So it's this active organ that can absorb and secrete. It has this dynamic ability to regulate your body's temperature. So it's a thermal regulator. It allows you to fluctuate between heat and cold and the right way to achieve homeostasis or balance. It can also help you with different ways of making new components for immunity. So vitamin D is a hormone that is predominantly made in the skin. So actually UV here absorbs and helps make that vitamin D production. So the skin is the only organ that makes vitamin D, and it's so vastly important for so many different things. So it's a great producer of that. And then finally, sensation. This is how we sense the world. This is how we feel external touch and even whether it's danger or harmful, whether it's heat or pain, and we're sensing a lot through the skin. So it's this incredible external facing organ, but the skin is an incredibly reflective organ of our systemic health. So there's a lot that we can learn from it. And I would argue one of the most diverse organs in terms of its function. It's interesting to me how people think the skin is so simple, yet it's actually one of the most complex organs that we have in our body. It's really astounding. Absolutely. So what are some of the common issues we see with skin as we start to age and get older, other than wrinkles? We all know about that one. But what are some of the other problems that we see? Yeah, Chris. So all of the functions that I mentioned earlier, they start to decline. And that decline in function affects how we are able to utilize the skin's ability to protect us, right? So if we start from the top, so the skin, I think about it as cake layers. So the top layer of the skin is called the stratum corneum. And so there's a lot of natural, moisturizing factors and lipids and factors that live there that basically help to protect the skin. And this, like you were alluding to earlier, really can be variable. So the palms and soles of our skin are very thick. So this is important because you're using our hands and our feet and evolutionarily, they serve to purpose. So thinking about the different textures of the skin is so important. And then we move down to the second layer of the cake, which is the epidermis. So this is where our regenerative cells live. The cells are called epidermal stem cells. They turn over every 30 days. And that regenerative component is so important to keep the water in. It's so important for your skin to function in that barrier surveillance and immunity by keeping its hydration locked in. As we get older, we lose this moisture and we lose consistently that water. This then allows us to be more itchy or more dry. So you're seeing a lot of these changes that are functionally evident in adults where it's more itchy skin, dry skin, like you alluded to earlier, the structural wrinkle changes. But there's a lot of functional decline that goes with it too. Like you're not thermoregulating adequately, so you get colder easily. Your sensations go down for patients with diabetic foot ulcers. It's not optimal for peripheral neuropathy. And all of those things are very intertwined in how the skin ages. Interesting. So is it fair to say, this is probably an oversimplification. So call me out if it is. But as it ages and we start to see changes, certain things we can see, discoloration, pigmentation, wrinkles and things like that, as we start to see those physical changes, does that probably also correlate with a functional decrease as well? So even though, yeah, maybe you don't like the wrinkles, you don't like the way that that looks, there is some incentive to improve that. Not just because you're trying to fix how you look, but also the actual function of the skin. Absolutely. So if you were thinking about why a wrinkle is happening in that area, it's photo damage. It's over time chronic exposure to UV and pollution. And when that photo damage occurs, it affects your next layer of your skin. So we talked about the stratum corneum, your epidermis, and then you have your dermis, which is like your scaffold. So in that dermis, it's collagen, elastin, extracellular matrix proteins, glycosaminoglycans, all the things that are giving the right tools for that skin to function. What are those functions? In the dermis, it's wound healing. Wound healing and protecting your blood vessels is huge. So if you get injuries and you're a surgeon, so you can kind of see how patients regenerate and repair after surgeries, right? So that response to healing is much different in A-50-year-old than my 5-year-old daughter who heals very quickly. So that is a very important component of the dermis. And when you have loss of collagen, you're seeing it structurally as a wrinkle, but you're also seeing its functional decline as the propensity to rebound or heal is not as optimal. Wonderful. So what we're talking about here today, it goes beyond just the appearance of our skin. It is also the function, which is critical in so many different ways in our body, but the two are really linked. So the appearance and the function somewhat are related and connected with each other. And I wanted to, we talk about aging and we're talking about healthy aging and trying not to age and making our skin last. How much of our skin's appearance and function, how much of that deteriorates over time in a natural way that's determined by our age and genetics that we have no control over versus how much of it could we actually control based on behaviors or habits or interventions? I love this question because I think in this generation, we're all looking to control and looking to figure out how we can modify the things that we can. And in that ratio, it's about 25% is genetically fixed. So 25%, it's thanks mom and dad. These are factors that we cannot change. They're inevitable of certain types of skin conditions or are benign changes like seborrheic keratosis, which are these stuck on waxy brown papules that patients get over time. So those are like genetic, they're 25%, right? The other 75% is modifiable. That's a big number. So if you're thinking about it, the skin as this largest external facing organ is the only external facing organ that consistently encounters the environment. So how can we modify that 75%? I mean, thinking about factors like UV, which is the biggest driver of breaking down all the different layers of the skin. And then you have pollution where you have particulate matter from pollution and people that live in bigger crowded urban cities having more exposure compared to rural areas. So definitely those types of pollution matter. Water where we live, if you have well water versus city water, those types of exposures, hard water. These are constantly contacting your skin. So there are different things that you could be thinking about for modifying different risk factors. Awesome. Okay. And you're going to give us the recipe for that in our third section. You're going to tell us all of the things that we need to be doing. And I think we, you've kind of already set this up when you were defining skin and its function, but can you highlight for us what are some of the benefits of taking better care of our skin? Yeah. When you think about the benefits, it's really goes beyond the structural ideas, right? So sure, you can have improvement in skin tone and texture and the appearance, but there's a lot of benefit that we get from a disease perspective. So the skin has its own set of diseases that you get with age, but you also have the skin to reflect diseases as well. So starting with the reflection, I always talk about skin as this mirror to systemic health. So there are ways that we can see when the body starts declining, whether it's heart failure, even we're learning things like cognitive decline, you will start changes in the appearance of the skin, whether it's the glow going down, people just looking different when they're in the ICU, right? You can see that the change in a person's face compared to when they're out and about and having a healthier lifestyle. So really that reflective nature of systemic health is something to be talked about. And then the other side of it is the skin conditions itself. So taking care of the skin and looking and understanding it as early signal detection, is it the car engine light that's coming out on and saying battery needs to be changed? So is it that cues that you're getting that something internally is offset? Or is it something that's innately present on the skin, patients that have melasma, which is conditioned that worsens with UV exposure, but also heat. So different, you know, I have a chef that comes in to see me and his melasma is often exacerbated by being in the kitchen. So it's these things that you wouldn't think about in your natural surrounding environment that you could optimize to help mitigate some of these risks to the skin. And what about so that that's sort of talking about the things we're experiencing now, or maybe it's a signal about things that are coming in the future. What about what does our skin tell us about our past in terms of, you know, the skin that we have now is determined by some of the choices and exposures and those 75% of the modifiable things that we did or didn't do when we were younger. So so when you look at somebody's skin, how much information does it give you about their past? It's it's a lot. So I actually can tell if a patient has been a lifeguard in the past, or if they're a pilot, and depending on, you know, where they grew up, even for some patients. So there's there are cues that you can get from the number of blistering sunburns that you've had. If you've had tanning bed exposure in the past, if you have smoking history in the past, and certain things that over time that you have not done while protecting your skin, different areas suburban versus urban areas that you've lived in. So a lot of these contributing factors go into how a person ages. So you can tell a lot. It's like a it's like a map. It's a history, right? And what is modifiable in that is to look and see where you can take it from that moment forward. A lot of patients worry about where what has happened already. Oh, I was part of the baby oil generation where we used to put baby oil on and reflect us and go out and tan. Is it too late for me? It's not. You know, I try to say that that modifiable 75% is true regardless of your age. So you could be a 20 year old with that same modification and 75 year old with that same your rate of aging is fixed at 25% genetically and the other 75% regardless of the past can be changed. Wonderful. Okay. So you don't have to give up if you've made a lot of poor decisions in the past. Best time to get started is right now right now and turn it around. You can still make a difference. All right. That's good to hear. All right. So let's jump into this second section. This is where it gets really confusing for me. There's so many recommendations out there and so many skincare options and everybody needs to be doing all of these different things. And when I look at it, it feels to me like I'm supposed to be spending $500 a day in six hours, you know, in the morning in the evening taking care of my skin. And so I want to get your thoughts when it comes to skincare, there's so much information. How are we supposed to make sense of that? Do you have sort of a rubric or a thing that you would suggest people think about when they're looking at a new recommendation or new skincare product? What logic do we apply to that to say is this hype or is this fact? Yeah. Great question. And I think right now we're in an environment where social media has really dictated a lot of how consumers receive messages on skincare and hair care and nail care. And when you're going through that, it's really hard to do that, right? Because there's so much. Is it a 10-step routine that I need or is it consistency and UV exposure avoidance? In going through that, I mean, there are key things that we talk to patients about. And we could talk about things like protection, which is first and foremost, making sure that you're getting protection from UV, from pollution, and any sort of external exposure that you would be putting your skin at risk. So starting with the sunscreen, I talk about sunscreen as the greatest longevity ingredient for skin because it really is this ability to protect your skin using a broad spectrum sunscreen, which means that it's covering UVA and UVB. So most sunscreens, they have the factor SPF. SPF refers to UVB protection. It does not confer UVA protection. So making sure that the label says UV broad spectrum, SPF 30 or above, and that's really important. And then just a bit on sunscreen, because it's so important, is that you don't need a high SPF. I think when you're achieving between above 30, you're hitting the right protection. But what you do need is consistent reapplication. So people often forget when you're outside that you need to reapply every two hours. So setting a timer if you're at the beach or setting a timer to, you know, if you're golfing and you need to finish your nine holes, I tell my golfers, reapply once, 18, reapply twice, right? So making sure you're kind of timing these things is really important. So protection is number one. Repair is number two. So repair is when the skin barrier feels hydrated. So that stratum corneum and epidermis really need to stay like a basket weave that's tightly knit so it's not losing water. To do that, a good moisturizer, making sure you're applying moisturizers within five minutes after getting out of a shower, not taking too hot of a shower, and using a moisturizer that has, you know, ceramides, they talk about lipids and things in there. That's really key because getting a nice moisturizer on your skin twice a day, especially if you're living in Minnesota or other colder climates, very important. Three, I talk about signal. So signals are evidence-based actives. And I know we're going to go through a lot of list of actives here in a minute, but these are evidence-based actives that have good peer reviewed science. You know, there are certain actives like vitamin C and retinoids that have shown good activation of skin renewal for years, but there are newer actives that are just as promising if not more with less irritation. And when you use that term active, you're saying it activates skin repair? Activates different skin cells for different things, like whether it's repair or it's regenerate. Whatever that skin cell's normal function is. Exactly. You're having to, okay. God. Establish its baseline. I see. Okay, perfect. Yeah. Okay, so protection, repair, signal. And lifestyle. And lifestyle, okay. And lifestyles is where your podcast was, I guess, launched into, right, with the optimization of all of our behavior and habits. And when it comes to skin, there are definitely habits of daily living, sleep, diet, stress reduction, and movement or exercise are so key, like for other things. And within that lifestyle is also your habit of putting on a topical. And I always go back to that protect and, you know, talk about that sunscreen again, right? So if you incorporate such a small habit of applying sunscreen and remembering to reapply, that means you've taken the first step of something that's modifiable, controllable, and the first step towards achieving something positive for your whole body wellness. And you're more likely to get on that treadmill, more likely to pick a healthier option on the menu. The first win is always the hardest. Yeah. Awesome. Okay. Well, I appreciate you reinforcing the lifestyle message here, which, you know, we preach all the time on the human optimization project. So thank you. Appreciate the support on that. Okay. So I spent some time online searching in preparation for this because I know there's a lot of information, a lot of different products out there. And I've heard of a lot of them, but I'm not that familiar. And so I educated myself. And it looks like to me, when I look to see, so what are the 20 most common skincare products or routines? And I looked at a bunch of different lists and this is kind of what I put together. And I broke it. And I don't know if this is a fair way to characterize it, but I broke it down into three groups, topicals, and then procedures, and then experimental. So that's what I have. And I was wondering if I can run through this list with you. Love it. So I'm going to say a 10 means everybody should be doing this. A five is maybe it's helpful for some people. And a one is total waste of time, effort, money. Don't even think about it. Yeah. Okay. That's our scale. So 10, everybody do it. One, nobody should do it. So maybe you give me just the numbers first. Okay. And then we'll go back and we'll hit them into the list. Okay. So I'm going to say a 10 means everybody should be doing this. A five is maybe it's helpful for some people. Okay. And then we'll go back and we'll hit them individually. Okay. All right. In the topicals, a daily cleanser, daily cleanser, that would be a nine. Nine. Okay. Moisturizer. That would also be a nine. Another nine sunscreen. I know what you're going to say on the sunscreen. Sunscreen is a 12. I love it. Okay. Perfect. All right. Off the charts. Retinol or retinoids. Probably an eight. Okay. And then we come back here and tell me the difference in those. And then vitamin C serum. Vitamin C would be a seven. A seven. Okay. And then we'll do acid. I would do a six. Six for that. Okay. Exfolience. Exfolience, I'd say a five and it depends. Five. Okay. Five with an asterisk. All right. How about eye creams? Eye creams are a six. A six. And pimple patches. Pimple patches are a five because it depends. Okay. Five. All right. Perfect. So five with an asterisk. All right. So those are my topicals. Now let's go into procedures. Botox. Botox is a nine. Okay. Itx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx andx Pyrrhepe is a 7, depends. Okay, 7 with an asterisk then. Dermaplaning. Dermaplaning would be a 6. Okay, red light therapy. Red light, Sennate. Ooh, exosome therapy. Exosomes, it depends. But if you got the right one, it's a 9. Alright, I love it. Okay, that's my list. And so, okay, there are some surprises on here for me. I'll be honest with you, I don't know what some of these things are. So, I'm excited. Let's run back through them and talk about it. Most of them I'm kind of familiar with, not everything. Okay, daily cleanser, you gave it a 9. So, we should all be doing that every day? We should all be doing that, exactly. So, it's so important for your skin at nighttime. So, your skin does two different activities. It has a circadian rhythm. So, let's talk about that real quick, because then that clues you into why cleansers are important. So, at nighttime, your skin is repairing. And at daytime, your skin is defending. So, during the nighttime, you've just finished repairing, and you've kind of regenerated your skin and renewing your skin. So, there's a lot of excretion that's happening during the nighttime. So, washing your face in the morning is important, even though you haven't done anything, your skin's been active renewing. And then, at the end of the day, it's important to wash your face again, because of its activity as a defender. You've just gone out and got a bunch of exposure to different factors. So, bringing that back home and getting it cleansed is important. Okay, and does it need to be a facial specific cleanser? Can I just use my bar soap? You can use a bar soap. That's really fine. Uncented bar soap is fine. Keep it simple. Okay, moisturizer, you gave it a nine. All right, I didn't believe in this until I moved to Minnesota. Yes. Now I get it. It is important. Tell me about it. So, moisturizers keep your barrier intact. And a lot of patients will say, all of a sudden, I started feeling itchy, I started feeling dry, all of a sudden. Well, it's not that it has happened all of a sudden. It's that you're consistently aging and you lose more water with age. And when you lose water, you need that moisture to lock it back in. So, it's that barrier protection with moisturizer that really helps to keep that barrier strong. Perfect. All right, sunscreen, you already gave us, you gave it a 12, you already kind of told us why. So, I know that one's easy. Question for you. Is the sun doing damage to my skin if I don't get a sunburn? Yes. Okay. All right. So, I shouldn't just use sunburn as the marker of whether or not I've had some skin damage. Yes, the sunburn is you've crossed the threshold. Way too far. You've burnt it. All right. More than well done. Okay. So, even if you're somebody who thinks they're not in areas with a ton of sun, you would still recommend probably regular sunscreens. Even on a cloudy day. Even on a cloudy day. Okay. All right. Not just because you didn't get burned doesn't mean you were successful here. We should protect it regardless. Exactly. And I always tell my patients, you're getting the most sun exposure in the car. Believe it or not, it's driving to and back from work. For most people, we're working indoor jobs. So, it's not like we're outside and people always think of sunscreen as when I'm on vacation, but it's your car drive. So, I tell patients to have sunscreen in their car. So, put it on to work and when you're driving home from work. Okay. Retinol and retinoids. You gave it an eight. Pretty high. Now, this is an activating thing, correct? Yes. Flutter and active. It's an active. Yeah, exactly. So, it's an important active. It's evidence-based, but it's really important to look at degrees of retinoids. So, there's retinols, retinaldehydes, retinoids. So, there's over-the-counter retinoids and then there's prescription strength retinoids, which are stronger. If you're over-exfoliating your skin from a retinae, a prescription strength, you've got to knock it down because if you're over-exfoliating and you're seeing the skin scaling all the time, people think that's a good thing. Oh, I'm turning over my skin, but it's actually creating low levels of inflammation on your skin. So, I actually encourage patients. I love an over-the-counter retinoid because that can create a very nice renewal effect without over-peeling the skin. Perfect. So, we don't have to go super expensive there. Okay. Vitamin C serum. You gave it a seven. Yeah. What does that do? So, vitamin C is an antioxidant. So, when we talked about what the skin does during the day, it's going out and kind of defending against all these different exposures and toxins. Vitamin C is an antioxidant. It protects that. When you get free radical damage from UV or other types of exposures, they create those free radicals go in and they damage your DNA, risking you for skin cancer. What an antioxidant does is it goes in and like Pac-Man, it kind of eats up all the free radicals and it kind of quenches that. So, you have less oxidative stress, better antioxidant. So, vitamin C is kind of high up there, but the caveat here is that some vitamin Cs are not stable and some vitamin Cs can actually be a little bit of irritant to the skin. So, if you notice some signs of irritation, what is that going to be? Is it going to be redness or sloughing or? Exactly. All of the above. So, redness is the easiest factor you can tell and then you can kind of feel. People feel irritation too. It kind of is a tingling kind of burning sensation. So, those are signs that you may be irritated. Overdoing it, stay away from it. Okay, good. Hyaluronic acid, you gave it a six. So, maybe some people should think about it. Who should think about it? People that have drier skin should think about it and I would add that it needs to be low molecular weight hyaluronic acid. Most hyaluronic acids are too large to penetrate the skin barrier. So, they just stay on top, which is not a bad thing. It's still creating a barrier, but if you truly want that active to get in, it's smaller molecular weights. Okay, exfoliants was a five with an asterisk. Who needs it and who doesn't? People that have sensitive skin do not need it. And if you're already using a retinol or a retinoid, you don't need it because you're already exfoliating your skin. Okay, perfect. Pimple patches, I think that one's for you. You gave a five asterisk. It just depends if you're having a breakout. If you're a dad of a teenage daughter, you're going to put it up higher on the list. Right, right, exactly. All right, if you're having a breakout and that affects you. Okay, so now the procedures and I know that there's a lot of different controversy around these, but Botox was rated as a nine. So, so tell me what it does and who should think about it. So the reason in my practice in aesthetics, I see a lot of people who come in for confidence, right? As we age, what happens is that there is a mismatch of our external appearance and our internal mental state, right? So when, when that mismatch occurs, you're looking at yourself in the mirror and you're like, I feel forever 29, but I look not that, you know, and, and, and, and or you're, you're somebody who's an executive and you want to go for a promotion and somebody's asking about retirement, right? So there's a mismatch there that's going on where, where we're trying to get patients or people to function at their optimal state and their confidence level really comes into place. So for me, I look at Botox as an instant confidence booster. It does provide results. So in three months, you're seeing changes in patients face and you're seeing results where their wrinkles earlier on kind of help reduce. So it really helps reset that, that change for patients. It's not for everybody. You know, we have a deep conversation to talk about what that means because some patients, you know, come in every three months for Botox. Others come in twice a year or some people come in before, before a major event in their life. So it really depends. And I look at it as a, as a tool to help patients get to where they want to be. Okay. Great. Dermal fillers. So well, we've seen it go wrong. You gave it a seven. Give me your thoughts. So dermal fillers have a place. In my practice, I have a very conservative practice and there's definitely a place for fillers to give people.  palpital appearance, whether it's scar-related, whether it's facial aging-related volume loss, I think where we see it go wrong and this pillow-face concept that we're seeing now is when you do too much or it's injected in the wrong hands. Typically, those changes you're seeing with over 10 syringes of injections, we're doing one or two. So, conservatively applied over time with a careful injector, you can really see nice results. And facials, you gave it a say. Facials and chemical peels both were sixes here. Yeah, so facials and chemical peels resurface the superficial layer of the skin that's starting to cornium in the epidermis. You have to be cautious of where you're going and if you're skin of color. So, some darker skin types, certain types of peels and certain types of facials are actually more harmful and you can get post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation or pigment changes from the irritation. So, you really have to be careful and it's for the right patients. It can be helpful. Okay. Microdermabrasion. What is it? And you gave it a four, one of your lower scores. Yeah, so microdermabrasion, honestly, could probably be a five, but it's an older technology. It's like sandpaper ink, right? So, it basically goes exfoliating with the device. Exactly. Okay. Yeah. And so, you can have irritation, people overdo it. That's where it becomes controversial. And now a lot of med spas are offering it. So, if you go and they bundle deals. So, if you go in too quickly for procedures, you can actually be doing more harm than good. Especially if you're combining it with some of the exfoliants or the retinols. Exactly. Yeah. All right. I'm learning here. I'm learning. You got it. Laser skin rejuvenation. That sounds enticing. You gave it a nine, too. What is that? I love it. I love lasers. I mean, we could spend a whole podcast on it because there's so many different types of lasers, right? You can have lasers. Lasers target color. So, lasers, in a sense, are micro-thermal injuries. So, they're heat-based and they go into different layers of the skin. And they target colors. It could be a tattoo removal that's targeting green or reds or other black inks. It could be a laser for a pulse-style laser, which is for vascular changes. Rosacea patients tend to do really well with that. It could be a high-frequency laser, like a picogenesis laser, which is great for melasma patients who can't overheat their skin. So, be very cautious with it. It could be safe for skin-of-color patients if you go in the right wavelengths. And my favorite part about lasers is certain types of lasers, like a Fraxal laser, or even a V-beam pulse-dye laser, can reduce skin cancer risk for up to 50%. Wow. It's a huge study. We published this in dermatologic surgery a few years ago. And so, I really recommend it for anybody that's at high risk for skin cancer, whether you grew up in a southern state or you're a golfer or somebody that is a transplant patient that's more predisposed to having skin cancers. A Fraxal laser twice a year will really reset your skin. Wonderful. Microneedling. You gave it a 7. Microneedling is really dependent. I love microneedling for my patients with acne scarring. So, if you're coming in with acne scarring, it's going to do, I mean, we do a nice microneedling. We sometimes combine it even with PRP, which is a blood, you know, your own blood that's spun down and concentrated to have its growth factor activating. So, in the right patients, it'll be really nice. Great. And that's it. So, PRP was next, which was a 7 with an asterisk. So, as you just said, that's your own blood products. They get spun down. You get the growth factors and anti-inflammatory factors and then re-inject those. Some PRP has been used for hair loss and other things too. So, what are some of the other skin functions of PRP? Exactly. So, PRP is platelet-rich plasma. So, it's your own blood that is taken out and we concentrate it and we use it for different aesthetic purposes. We actually run a PRP hair clinic, an alopecia clinic, where we inject it for certain types of hair loss. We're also doing that for acne scarring and other facial rejuvenation measures. There's a 40% chance that the patient does not respond. So, it's a pretty high chance and that's because it's patients' own factors influence it. So, similar to how, you know, you're talking about optimizing, we actually have a PRP optimization protocol two weeks before a patient comes in. So, we try to optimize their diet, try to get them to move more, try to get them to sleep better because all these factors and hydration, of course, drinking water really affects their platelet concentration and we're really seeing that that helps patients have a better response to these treatments. Okay, great. Dermal planning was a six. Yeah, dermal planning, microdermabrasion, I kind of group those similarly. Okay. In-office procedures can have the risk of over-exfoliating, especially if you're doing some of the other. So, can work would be careful. Okay, this one's getting a lot of attention recently, red light therapy. Yes. So, maybe tell us what it is. You gave it an eight, too, which is a fairly positive score. Maybe tell us what it is, what it does, and if you're going to use it, how you should do it. Absolutely. So, red light's gotten quite popular and red light is on a spectrum. So, red light and infrared are visible light spectrums and low levels of heat that actually can activate mitochondria. So, at the skin level, that's how it's working. It's kind of resetting and rebooting skin mitochondria, giving you the right energy so you can turn over cells better, faster. We've seen a lot of evidence around wound healing. So, actually, I've started to recommend my patients who have lasers, full-face facial rejuvenation, facial ablative lasers, they go under red light for a week or two after their procedures, if they're able to have that and afford it. And we could do that two or three times a day, and it's short exposures that activates mitochondrial rejuvenation and helps your skin turn over for better wound healing. People are using it often. You'll see a lot of social media posts of dermatologists walking around with red light masks and other people. And I think the idea is that it's doing more consistent use, is red light is creating collagen, regeneration, etc. I think the evidence is still arising around that. And I know that there are red light beds out there, a whole bed. And there's some people talking about red light therapy actually helping some of the deeper tissues with muscles and connective tissue and things. I don't think we quite have the evidence for that yet, but people are definitely looking at it. So, who knows? But it seems like there is very good evidence for wound healing in skin and then probably increased collagen production in healthy skin. Exactly. And I would just caution for certain types of patients, you should not use red light. And those are patients with melasma because it can make your melasma potentially worse. Great. Thank you. All right. Last one. Exosome therapy, nine with an asterisk is what you gave it. So, what is it and who should think about it? So, let's define exosomes first. Exosomes are cell talk. They're like text messages that cells send to each other. And these can be beneficial signals or harmful signals. And it all depends on the source that it's coming from. So, if it's coming from a harmful cell, like a cancer cell, an inflammatory cell, they could be sending signals of metastasize or inflammation. But if it's coming from a regenerative cell, like a stem cell or a platelet, then it's sending signals of renewal and repair. There's a lot of variability right now in the market around exosomes and we could talk about that. But I think the platelet source for exosomes has been really promising. We've done a lot of studies around that here. And we're finding that that's helpful for a lot of different things, even beyond the skin for osteoarthritis. People are using it for heart failure. Now, everything is under clinical trials for medical indications or from an aesthetic point for topical application on intact skin. It's shown some benefits. Okay, great. And a lot of these things, especially some of the procedures, some of the experimental things are injections and they are procedure based. And so I would tell our audience after listening to this and getting this information, be careful. Like anything you're applying to your skin or injecting into your body, make sure you're doing it in the right way, a reputable way, going to a reasonable person or professional. There are complications reported with some of this stuff too. If you're going to shady places and having untrained folks do it, so just be smart and be careful. Okay, so that was excellent. Thank you for running through that with us. Let's jump into our third section. So now, we have that laundry list of different options available to us. Now I want to try to make it practical for people. So I think there's a lot of time and money that could be spent on this. And we just went through that whole list and I'm thinking, well, there's a lot of this stuff I probably should be doing, but I'll be honest, I don't have a lot of time. I don't want to spend a lot of money. So how much time and money are people currently spending out there? Because it seems like it can get out of hand really quickly. And what's a reasonable expectation for how much time and money we should be investing in our skin? Absolutely. So the average consumer spends about $500 on skincare. And I'm not talking about teenagers right now because who have whole shelves of skincare, which is probably a lot, that's probably a monthly basis. 500 a year? 500 a year is the average consumer. Okay. And if we were to take it back to highlighting what are the key actives and key ingredients, most of those are actually found in a drugstore. So you don't need to spending huge amounts of products to achieve the same results. And I would highlight that consistency is king here because being consistent in your habits is where you're going to see the highest results or the highest ROI from investing in your skin. All right, perfect. So consistency is king. I love that. Tell me though, if I have a, and I know this is going to vary, but if I am consistent, I'm doing these things every day or so, I'm twice a day. How much time do I need to be dedicating here? I mean, would some of this stuff, is it going to take me an hour to do this every day? Or can I do it faster than that? You could do it a lot faster. I think that's where it's become so overwhelming in what we're seeing and learning and social media and other ways we're educating ourselves. A three step skincare regimen in the morning and at night should really just take you 15 minutes, if not less. And I talk to my patients about incorporating skincare as brushing your teeth. You don't think twice about, okay, how long do I need to set my timer to brush my teeth? You're brushing your teeth twice a day. It's a regimen. It's a habit. That's how we should incorporate these skincare habits that it should be accessible, washing your face, putting on a serum and putting on a moisturizer or a sunscreen. So there's a lot we can achieve in a small amount of time. Okay, wonderful. So let's do that. And you kind of alluded earlier to sort of a structure framework where you talked about protection, repair, signaling and lifestyle. I'd kind of like to take a minute to go through that. And maybe if you don't mind, give us like the minimum. Like here's the bare bones basic, everybody, you got to do this every single day. And then tell us, okay, now if you care a little bit more and you have the, what are the first few things you should be adding on to that routine? So let's start with the minimum. Everybody needs to do this every single day. All right. What's that regimen? So minimum, the bare bones minimum in the morning, wash your face and put a sunscreen with a moisturizer. Okay, wash sunscreen moisturizer. And you mentioned earlier for the moisturizer, you know, you mentioned serum, is that the same thing or is that different? No, that's different. So that's the bare bones minimum. Now we're going to graduate you to a little bit more advanced beginner. Wait, before you said in the morning, wash sunscreen moisturizer in the evening, what are you going to do? You're going to wash your face and then you can put a moisturizer on. If you're able to, I'd put a retinoid on first. Okay. All right. And then moisturizer. All right. So my bare bones minimum, everybody needs to be doing this is in the morning, wash sunscreen moisturizer. And then in the evening, wash retinoid moisturizer. All right, perfect. That's not, that's not going to take very long. That's a couple minutes. And there's a lot of products that have them combined so you can do a sunscreen with a moisturizer. Super easy. Okay. All right. I'm feeling convicted. I'm going to make some changes in my life after this. Okay. All right. So tell me what's the next level. Graduate me up to the next level once we get that going. All right. So now you're going to wash your face in the morning and then you're going to put an antioxidant on. Okay. There's a lot of active. So I'm going to give you two or three that you can go after. So you could do a vitamin C. You want to look for a vitamin C. That's a THD vitamin C. It's the most stable vitamin C. You could also add a niacinamide, which is going to help brighten and protect your skin. That's another active. And then the third active is a platelet exosome. So you could utilize a product like platin that can help do a lot of the above with antioxidant protection. So three examples. Is it okay to do all three of those? Or do you pick one of those? I would pick one. Pick one. Okay. Keep it very simple. So one active. Okay. And then you could do a sunscreen with a moisturizer after that. Okay. All right. So three steps. So the wash, sunscreen and moisturizer, that's going to be for everybody always. I'm picking up the pattern here. Okay. All right. And then what are we going to do in the evening? So in the evening, you're going to wash your face again. And then you're going to add an active, which is a retinoid that we've already talked about. You can also escalate and do like a platelet exosome. There's also a lot of peptides that are absorbed in the skin that are fantastic because we talked about it at nighttime. Your skin is rebuilding. So you need to give it that building blocks, the building factors. So peptides like copper peptides and lots of others. Hexapeptide. So we can share some links to the Mayo Clinic store that have these actives if people are interested. And we can, you know, talk about that. But essentially, it's a peptide and then a retinoid. You could do both of them and then follow it up with a moisture riser. Okay. Is there another level beyond that? There is, but that's where I would add if you, that's if you have a certain type of skin disease. So if you're introducing a disease like if you've got rosacea, if you've got melasma, if you've got acne, then we'd be thinking about where in that regimen, we would add your medications to that. So let's run through that real quick. So some of the most common things. So acne, what would you, so for acne, would it be okay for them to use either of those plans you just outlined? I would start with the basic plan. A lot of patients that have acne have sensitive and irritant skin. So you have to be careful with the actives you're adding. You know, benzoyl peroxide or cleansers that I would switch them into. So instead of using a gentle cleanser, I would have them use a benzoyl peroxide or a salicylic acid cleanser. So it's giving them an extra exfoliation. And then I would have them, you know, use a topical medication, whether it's like benzoyl peroxide with clindamycin or another active that they're interested in based on, you know, their skin profile, and then top it off with a sunscreen moisturizer. Okay, great. And then what modifications would you make for somebody with rosacea? With rosacea, I would bring in factors of antioxidant. So in my rosacea patients, I do encourage them to use the vitamin C serum if they're tolerating it or niacinamide. There's also topical medications that we can do for rosacea skin because the skin microbiome is shifted in rosacea. So we utilize products like metronidazole topically that can help re-stabilize that microbiome. So they would incorporate that in. Typically, I have them put in the medicated products first on their skin, so it gets absorbed quickly, then you can layer. Okay, great. And then last for somebody with melasma, what modifications should they make? So melasma patients, this is so important that they use a sunscreen with tint in there because melasma patients are not just looking at UV damage, but there's also visible light damage. So you're going to see sunscreen labels that have broad spectrum tinted sunscreen. So the tint on there is not necessarily for foundation or skin appearance. It actually, the tint has iron oxide that protects from visible light. So that's a really great additive in a sunscreen for melasma patients to add in. Okay, so let's say I'm somebody who historically was just hypothetically washed my face with a bar of soap one time a day and didn't do anything else, just hypothetically. And then let's say I started this sort of minimum protocol of washing sunscreen, moisturizer in the morning and then washing a retinoin and moisturizer in the evening. How long would it take for me to start seeing some changes, do you think? Great question. So I would encourage you to look at it at three different phases. So you can start to see barrier changes within two or three weeks. So that's that top layer of the skin. You may be looking more glowy, just more refreshed. And then depending on if you're adding actives that are going to like reboot your skin like retinoids, that can take up to three months to see changes. Okay, got it. And then my last question is, how long should we stick with the skincare routine before mixing it up? You know, a lot of things, your body sort of gets used to it and adjust and you have to mix it up. Is this the same or you say consistency is king? Does that only apply for three to six months or is that indefinite forever? Yeah, it depends again. And I think part of it is you can tell if a product is irritating your skin or if you're allergic to it or something's not going right pretty quickly within a day or two. So if that's your reasoning, then stop right away in time to switch. Otherwise, if you're new to skincare and you're adding these actives and add one at a time, you're tolerating it great, give it about two or three weeks and stick to it up to three months, I would give everything a fair shot if you're tolerating it up to three months to see if it's improving. And some things, it's kind of like you have to just do it consistently for long term benefits. It's not a short term benefit, right? You brush your teeth to prevent cavities, you use sunscreen to prevent skin cancer. Right. And my last question for you here is that I think as we start to look at this, we look at this long list, you've given us a lot of options. Should we ease into some of this? I shouldn't probably go do all of these things tonight, or I'm going to be blistered tomorrow, right? And so what's my appropriate cadence for introducing these new skincare things? Yeah. I think starting with basics of the three step regimen in the morning and then we can all start right away. Go for that. Okay, got it. And then the other, let's sort of when we graduate up to using some of the antioxidants and the actives and the peptides, would you say maybe one at a time for those things? Exactly. Yes, I wanted a time because even certain products, some of these products can be a little bit more cost prohibitive like peptides or certain platelet exosomes. And if that's the case, you want to slowly introduce them and see which one gives you the best benefit, best bang for your buck, and then move on to adding multiples. There is something else that we didn't talk about here, which is called skin cycling. And skin cycling is this idea that you don't need all actives all the time, that you can actually take pauses and breaks and do some things on Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and others on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday. So you can kind of stagger these actives too if it gets too much for your skin to introduce new ingredients. Okay, fantastic. Well, this has been incredibly helpful. I learned a lot and I appreciate it. A lot of the stuff that I needed to know, which is really good. So I'm going to take a minute here. I'm going to run through my notes and summarize those for myself and for the audience. And then I'm going to give you a chance to answer our big three questions again, kind of rapid fire style, if that's okay. Great. So my summary, I didn't realize skin turns over every 30 days, which is incredible. And then also the function of the skin is much more complex even than I knew, and that it is a barrier. So it keeps out bad things. It's important for absorption. So it absorbs good things. Hopefully it secretes bad stuff away and helps us get rid of toxins. It's also a key thermal regulator and helps with internal homeostasis within our bodies. It also helps us with our immunity and some function in terms of it. It's the only source of vitamin D that we have naturally. And then lastly, it provides sensation. So it's really how we sense the world. So it is a very functionally diverse organ. It's obviously the largest organ in our body. It does decline with age, but only about 25% of our skin status is determined by our genetics. And so only 25% is fixed. 75% of that is modifiable. Even if you've made a lot of bad decisions in the past, you better go ahead and get started now because you can impact 75% of your future, even if you didn't do it right in the past. There is some natural decline as we age, and as our skin starts to show visible changes and the appearance is affected, we know that that also probably correlates with some functional changes. So in doing this, we're not just trying to look good. We're also trying to improve the function and overall skin health. I like how you talked about in the daytime, our skin is defending. And then in the nighttime, it's repairing. The average person spends about $500 a year on skincare, a lot of which I bet is probably wasted if it's not targeted correctly. Consistency is king and taking care of your skin. You did a great job running through my list of 20 different products and techniques. And I appreciate that. And then you sort of gave us sort of the minimum skin routine and the advanced skin routine. I'm going to run through the minimum again. So in the morning, wash it, sunscreen, moisturize. In the PM, wash it, apply retinoid or retinol, and then moisturize. So start there. And then we talked about some other things you can do as you pop up. So some vitamin C's, nicotinamide, some platelet exosomes, and oxidants, and other things that you can be doing as you reach later stages. That's my summary. I've got a lot of work to do. So I appreciate that. Now I'm going to give you a chance to answer our three big questions here. You ready? So number one, what does our skin actually do for us and why is skincare so important? The skin is your largest external facing organ and it helps keep your whole body healthy. So it functions at multiple different levels and optimizes overall health. Number two, how do we make sense of the most common skincare options out there and sort of fact from fiction? I would say here being consistent with things that have evidence that's backed them like a good sunscreen, good moisturizer, cleansing your skin and protecting your skin. So making sure you're achieving shade and seeking shade as well as wearing UPF clothing when you're outdoors for long periods of time. Great. And our last one, what are the regular skincare practices we should all be doing to help us have healthy, vibrant skin lifelong? I think changing mindset here that we're not trying to achieve perfect skin, a perfect appearance, but rather to achieve more resilient skin and a skin that helps you defend and just be strong for the rest of your life. I think keeping that skin protected and clean and hydrated and moisturized and protected from the sun are all important things we could do to invest in that resiliency. Awesome. All right. Well, we always like to issue a challenge or a call to action here at the end of the show. And we try to help people get the first big win and you've made this incredibly easy. So my challenge to everybody is to adopt the minimum skincare regimen if you haven't already. So we talked about that in the morning. You're going to wash sunscreen, moisturizer in the evening, you're going to wash use a retinoid and then a moisturizer. So try that. And how long do we think we need to start doing that before we see changes? Some changes you may see as soon as a couple of weeks, but for maximal benefit, maybe up to three months. Exactly. So I would encourage you do that for three months and then see. And then you can start thinking about moving on to the advanced plan that we outlined. So, Renny, thank you so much. It was incredibly helpful. I learned a ton. I'm sure our audience did as well. We really appreciate you taking the time. My pleasure. Thanks, Chris. Good. To our audience, remember to live intentionally, consistently, better, keep striving to be the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you liked this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea. Email us at optimize at mayo.edu and be sure to look for us on Instagram, X and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.

=== FILE: New lungs, new wife for Mayo Clinic transplant patient [WYBxIdK_I58].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to light that I actually had this disease called PPFE or pleuroprancomal fibroelastosis and it's a very, very rare and I believe newly discovered lung disease. By July of 2025, I had to go back into Phoenix Mayo Clinic because my breathing and my shortness of breath, my fatigue were at an all time high. That's when they decided lung transplant was the only viable route. They put me on ECMO in Phoenix. I got flown on a private medical jet Rochester. My name is Sahar Siddugi. I'm one of the lung transplant surgeons here at Mayo Clinic in Rochester. Anybody that is on ECMO support, that's critical. If you stop that machine, the likelihood of that patient surviving is very, very small. So I had Pectis to activate him for my entire life. It's a chest wall deformity where your chest wall is sunk in. I had surgery to correct that in 2023. They put two metal bars into my chest to correct the shape of my ribcage in my chest wall. That was one big reason why other hospitals had denied me for the lung transplant because it was too complex to have to deal with those bars plus putting in new lungs. I really don't think another hospital could have done what Mayo Clinic did. That's the beauty of Mayo Clinic. We take on these types of challenges. Obviously, there were certain intricacies of the case. One, he was pretty sick and impatient out in Arizona. Two, he had previous surgery on the chest, which always makes surgery more difficult from a lung transplant perspective. And then three was the sort of how he was born with his chest deformity. So my wife is Isabella. I call her Issa. We met in college. We had been together for five plus years, staring down the barrel of a very serious surgery and we figured we wanted to go through that as husband and wife. The night nurses came in early for the shifts and they decorated this atrium for us as a little impromptu wedding chapel. They made these cute little rings out of beads and that's pretty much like we alone. Not quite a chapel in Vegas, but it's the next best thing. So we got married on July 26 and the transplant happened on July 31. We were in the operating room at least eight times during a two week period. This is the beauty of the magic, I would say, of Mayo Clinic. Truly in this case because it's beyond one surgeon or one part of a team. It really involved a huge multi-disciplinary team and also the support from Arizona to get him here and to help us postoperatively as well in his care. The care I got was just unparalleled. It was amazing. I know that the job's not easy, but they make it seem easy. They're so good at what they do. He had the fortitude. He had the fight in him to get through all of this and that's a big part of these things. For the first couple weeks I would keep getting surprised by how deep I was able to breathe. Being able to do the dishes without getting tired, do the laundry. It's just little things and it just feels incredible. I would like to thank the donor and the donor's family. They gave me another chance at life and that's something that I'll forever be grateful for. To know that he has that bright future that we wanted for him, that that plan that we tried to execute worked out, I mean what better joy. Dr. Suddi is a complete lifesaver the way she took a chance on something that other hospitals, other doctors said, no we can't do this. She said, yeah, watch me. And she nailed it. She knocked it out of the park. Now that I can function, the world's our oyster. We can do anything.

=== FILE: Update on Idiopathic Hypersomnia ： S8-Ep1 [Mf2-yc4bKFk].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected I'm your co-host, Dr. Maithri Juna. We are both consultants at the Centre for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. For 70 years or more, it's been recognized that there are sleepy patients who seem different from those with narcolepsy, but a single underlying cause has remained pretty elusive. The very term we use, idiopathic hypersomnia, indicates some of the difficulties understanding this complex and most probably heterogeneous disorder. It's not a rare disorder. Recent studies suggest the condition may in fact be more common than narcolepsy. To discuss current thinking about idiopathic hypersomnia, my guest today is Dr. Maggie Blatner, a board-certified neurologist and sleep specialist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Maggie, thank you for coming on today. What is idiopathic hypersomnia? Is it a disorder of exclusion after we've ruled out sleep apnea, insufficient sleep, drug-induced hypersomnia and narcolepsy? Or is it a specific clinical entity identifiable by clinical and polysomnographic features? Or perhaps is it both? I think this is such a challenging question and I think it's challenging for people who consider themselves experts in central disorders of hypersondelitis. By definition, idiopathic hypersomnia includes excessive daytime sleepiness, but even that as a diagnostic feature can be challenging in this disorder because for some people that manifests as lapses into sleep during the day, for others as severe fatigue and prolonged sleep duration, and it certainly does seem to be an array of phenotypes. It is a heterogeneous population that we struggle, I think, to identify and diagnose efficiently and accurately. The question about whether this is identified by specific polysomnacrophic features is something that certainly has been looked into. There certainly seem to be some clusters of features that we can see within certain phenotypes, but there's not just one definition. In fact, our diagnosis of this by two confirmatory tests or two separate tests really contributes to this broad array of manifestations or phenotypes we see within idiopathic hypersomnia. Okay, well let's move on then to thinking about how do we diagnose this complex and multifaceted condition. So the international classification of sleep disorders third edition, as you say, specifies two different ways to confirm the diagnosis. The first is the way most familiar to sleep specialists, a multiple sleep latency test showing a mean latency of eight minutes or less with no more than one sleep onset REM period. Is this a validated measure, or have we simply extrapolated from the criteria for narcolepsy? Also as we're thinking about this, they study suggesting that the number of sleep onset REM periods, so REMs on an MSLT, is unstable and may vary with repeated tests. Could you comment on the suggestion that a subset of idiopathic hypersomnia may in fact be the same disorder as narcolepsy type two, and we should in fact lump rather than split, become lumpers and lump them together as a single entity? Yes, absolutely. And that's early terminology that comes up is how our narcolepsy type two and idiopathic hypersomnia, similar, how are they different? Why do we sometimes see if people have multiple sleep studies, which often in idiopathic hypersomnia people do have multiple sleep studies, we see fluidity and diagnosis, particularly with narcolepsy type two. The multiple sleep latency test, which is overwhelmingly is used to diagnose hypersomnia, tests the tendency to lapse into sleep. And so for people who experience sleepiness as inappropriate lapses and to sleep during the day, this can be a pretty good test. For people with the kind of classic prolonged sleep duration, sleep inertia, it's not always a problem staying awake so much as a problem waking up. And in that case, the multiple sleep latency test does not capture trouble staying awake necessarily. And so in studies that look at how accurate or how reliable is the mxlt for idiopathic hypersomnia, doesn't always hold up as well as we'd like. So some studies suggest about 50% sensitivity for idiopathic hypersomnia with the multiple sleep latency test. And again, there is some fluidity if people have tests, multiple tests, the presence or absence of, you know, two, one, two, three, you know, sleep on set REM periods, which would differentiate narcolepsy type two from idiopathic hypersomnia. And so in terms of diagnostic clarity, this can be really challenging even with a multiple sleep latency test that shows a mean sleep latency less than eight minutes. Yes, well, just this very morning, I had a patient who had a mean sleep latency of 11.5 minutes on the mslt, but at geography for a week before showed more than 660 minutes average sleep time per night. So an alternative acceptable criterion, even in the presence of an normal mslt is 11 or more hours of sleep demonstrated ideally by polysomnography over 24 hours, or averaged over a week of activity with unrestricted time available to sleep. The data in support of this came, I think mainly from French studies on the 24 hour story, which was quite well done. But because this seemed so impractical in the United States, when we put together ICSD three and I had the privilege of chairing the committee that did the central hypersomnias, we came up with this alternative of a week of actigraphy. One of the problems is that people sometimes do a week of actigraphy while they at work and they set an alarm for six a.m. every morning and therefore, of course, you don't get prolonged sleep. So we always try and encourage people to sleep in for that week if it's at all practical. So how validated is this actigraphy measure? Should we continue with it or should we in the United States be now attempting 24 to 36 hours studies? Is this at all practical? I think that the documentation of prolonged sleep time is very useful, particularly for people who this is what they're experiencing. They're experiencing difficulty waking up in the morning that's impacting their schoolwork, that's impacting their family life, that's impacting their jobs, because they just feel they need so much sleep. And so when talking with people and taking a sleep in clinical history, if that's the complete, if that's the concern, then I think that documentation of the long sleep either with prolonged home, hopefully, hopefully unrestricted sleep opportunity monitoring or an in-lab test may be better confirmatory test. The question of how validated are these? I think there's growing evidence that this is a better measure of the problems of sleep and sleepiness in people with habitual prolonged sleep than the multiple sleep latency test. It's of course a question of what are you using for your gold standard diagnosis? If it's not the multiple sleep latency test, how do you determine the diagnosis of idiopathic hypersomnia? And so these prolonged 24-hour, 36-hour sleep monitoring periods can capture prolonged sleep duration. And again, I think that there is more and more evidence that this is a valid, a reliable method of documenting abnormally prolonged sleep. I think the challenges you rightly bring up is the practicality of that in a typical community sleep lab or even in an academic sleep lab. The other challenge, of course, is if we can confidently say that this is a better test, that this is absolutely more confirmatory for people who have long sleep, it does make an efficient and confident diagnosis, then I think we're obligated to overcome or address whatever practical challenges there are. This needs to be a test that we can offer. It needs to be something that we can do with a high degree of control and certainty because if we're not offering the right test for people, it becomes a question of access to care, health equity, and really delay of diagnosis. And so yes, the practical concerns matter, but there are challenges to be addressed rather than stopping the conversation and saying, well, we can't do it here, so we're going to try to find something else. I think as the evidence grows that this is potentially a better test, we need to be thinking about creative ways that we can address that and offer this diagnostic test. I think that's really the right approach. We continue with Actigraphy for now, but actively work to see whether we can practically do this technician availability, lab availability, and the practical issues of reimbursement for running a test for 24 to 36 hours. But you're right, we can't just say it's impossible to do in our current health system in the United States. And I hope you'll take the lead in trying to move us in that direction. Well, let's consider the subset of idiopathic hypersomnia patients who I have, which I call have the classic phenotype. In ICSD2, we called it idiopathic hypersomnia with long sleep, but that was dropped in ICSD3. So let's just call it the classic phenotype, long, undisturbed sleep, considerable sleep inertia on waking, irrespective of how long they've slept, long, unrefreshing naps, a high sleep efficiency greater than 90% on polysomnography, which is one more objective biomarker. And as we've talked about, usually more than 11 hours sleep in 24 hours, monitored by 24 hours of polysomnography, or as a surrogate marker, actigraphy. So in this subset, far better defined phenotype. What are some of the hypotheses about possible mechanisms that may be going on here? This is such an interesting discussion. There are, I think, a number of real contenders in terms of what's the underlying physiology. And before I talk about those, I think it's so important of a question, because once we can better understand the pathophysiology of this prolonged sleep duration, we'll have better biomarkers which will lead to more efficient diagnosis and hopefully lead to more targeted management. So this is a critical question in the population of idiopathic hypersomnia. And I think there's three or four kind of leading hypotheses for the physiology. One of those has to do with that this is a problem of sleep drive, that there's very high sleep pressure and people can just keep sleeping and sleeping and sleeping. And so kind of from our terminology, and this is a problem with process, that there's a lot of sleep drive. And there's some evidence that in some people there may be enhanced GABA signaling. And this is the rationale for treatments such as flamazanil or chlorathromycin, and I think we'll talk a little bit more about those. And so there's some evidence, but it certainly doesn't seem to be everyone with idiopathic hypersomnia. There's also some evidence suggesting a state of chronic inflammation. So just like people are tired when they're sick, there's like this chronic inflammation. So tumor and acrosis factor and inner lukin and just all of these kind of, I'm feeling sick, I'm feeling tired, maybe contributing to kind of the fatigue and sleepiness that people experience. I think there's also some really, I think interesting evidence about a circadian rhythm disorder or disruption in circadian rhythm that contributes to either a prolonged biologic night or a lapse or a problem with the circadian waking signal, the alerting signal, maybe not the alarm clock not being loud enough or not being present. There's a few studies that seem to suggest a circadian component is driving or process C is driving sleepiness here. And so I think, you know, if anyone's guess, and I think there's probably multiple different phenotypes that are attributed to different pathophysiologies. And I think in the research studies, it's becoming more and more clear that we need to, when we study the physiology, we need to look very, very clearly at what people are experiencing. What is the phenotype? Does this is idiopathic hypersomnia? Really not alcoma is idiopathic hypersomnia, but are there different features or different clusters that we can better study so we can better understand the physiology here? The homoesthetic one intrigues me, it may not be right, but it really intrigues me that it's a problem with process S, which we don't really think a lot about. So that I hope we'll get more information on. The other issue, of course, is the differentiation between idiopathic hypersomnia and chronic fatigue syndrome, because they tend to have some overlaps. But I think it would be right to say that in general chronic fatigue syndrome patients do have more disturbed sleep at night, rather than long sustained sleep and don't have this as much hypersomnia sort of characteristics. So I think we can separate these out clinically in most patients. Yeah, that is a really challenging differentiation. And it's so important to take time to really distinguish our people experiencing fatigue, which is low energy. I don't feel like doing something today. It's hard for me to get out of that versus are you actually sleeping when you're in bed? Is sleepiness really the problem here? And whether we discover that there's different mechanisms, I think that remains to be seen, but in clinical practice, taking the time to differentiate fatigue and sleepiness, I think is critical, particularly when we talk about efficacy of medications for idiopathic hypersomnia, which can sometimes be limited in treating the fatigue that people experience. Well, let's move on to treatment. Clinical experience suggests that the same stimulants that we use to treat narcolepsy are often also pretty effective in idiopathic hypersomnia. Is that your experience also? I think it depends. I think when when I'm talking with people about treatment options, I try to have people focus on what's the most troublesome symptom, because the medications that we've historically used, the stimulants and other wake promoting medications for narcolepsy, which can be very, very effective, help people to stay awake. But if people are experiencing prolonged sleep durations, severe sleep inertia, those medications don't always address those symptoms. So for people who are experiencing daytime sleepiness that's impacting their ability to participate in school to do their work, then I have seen a lot of benefit with the wake promoting medications. However, if the trouble is more with prolonged sleep duration, severe sleep inertia, and general fatigue, those medications don't always have the same efficacy in my experience. And so alternative medications are certainly conversations that we have. And there's also, I think, within idiopathic hypersomnia, sometimes where these medications don't work as well as we'd like them to. And so I think there's a real need for more options for people. And hopefully, as we understand more about this disorder, more targeted mechanism driven therapies. Well, the only FDA approved medication for idiopathic hypersomnia is low sodium oxybate. Now, as everybody who uses this drug knows, we give it a night. And it's really a sedating drug. So there was concern as the clinical trials were being proposed for this drug, that perhaps it's going to increase the sleepy inertia in the morning. And so in the major trials, they gave the option of giving the drug once a night before bed rather than the more usual way of giving the second dose in the middle of the night in the hope of avoiding it. But as I understand, and I wasn't involved in the trials, but as I understand the results, it really didn't make a difference whether it was given as a single dose before bed or one dose before bed and one during the night, there wasn't an increase in sleepy inertia at all. And it did in fact, if anything, it helped in that certainly increased sleepiness. What role do you think the drug plays in management of IH? I think this can be a very effective therapy option for many people. And I have actually seen in clinical practice that this medication can reduce sleep inertia. For some people, it may allow for less sleep time. I think the studies are still kind of coming out about the shorter sleep time with oxobates. But I think it can be very effective. I think that it is a good resource and a good tool in our toolkit for treatment of hypersomnia. Like all medications, it involves shared decision making and a real conversation about the potential benefits and the potential downsides. It's not the right medicine for everybody. Which is of course true about all medications. But I often schedule extra time to really talk about it's a medicine you take at night. Do you have nighttime routines that make this something that is reasonable for you? As you say, it causes very deep sleep. Are there things going on in your household that may make date sleep not quite the right therapy for you? So it really becomes a balance. But I have seen it be very, very helpful in terms of both daytime sleepiness and sleep inertia. And so for people who sleep inertia, that's the biggest concern that they have. It certainly merits consideration. Well, the most recent guidelines by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine for management of idiopathic hypersomnia give the antibiotic clarithromycin a conditional recommendation for treatment of idiopathic hypersomnia. Now some of us have been concerned that there may be insufficient basis for this recommendation. You alluded to this a little earlier. What are the scientific background to suggest that this drug might work? And what's your opinion on the studies that have been done? I mean, none of them were controlled. Do you think this is something that should be really there as a practical drug for today as opposed to further studies needed? I think that's such a great question. So the rationale makes a lot of sense. So if idiopathic hypersomnia is because of an enhanced or differentially modulated GABA signaling, then certainly medications that act at the GABA receptor, such as clarithromycin or flamazanil, could potentially address sleepiness and address symptoms. And I think that the studies are certainly important because they show that there is a population of people who do seem to respond to clarithromycin or, again, mechanistically related potentially flamazanil. There many of these have been retrospective. And I think there's an additional consideration of what outcomes we're looking at. And this is true for all medications. Are we looking at objective measures of wakefulness, such as a maintenance of wakefulness test? Are we looking at subjective experience of sleep symptoms and quality of life measures? And I think this is, again, true across the medications that we use for both narcolepsy and idiopathic hypersomnia is what is exactly our outcome? Is it, again, objective measures? Is it subjective feelings of wakefulness ability to kind of participate and cognitive outcomes? So there's all of these kind of patient directed outcomes that I think really merit further evaluation. The other point about clarithromycin that has come up as I've talked to other sleep clinicians has to do with comfort with prescriptions of medications. And this is, I think, true throughout central disorders of hypersomnelence that in many sleep clinics, we don't see these conditions as often as other sleep disorders like sleep apnea and insomnia. And I think that your index of suspicion, even within even as a sleep clinician within the world of sleep medicine, you have to be very sensitive to what people are saying and experiencing to recognize and diagnose these disorders in a thoughtful manner. But then also know about the treatment options and what to expect in terms of in terms of symptomatic management, you know, which medications might give you the most efficacy in different ways. And so clinician comfort with diagnosis and with treatment options is really important. So when I talk to people up clarithromycin centers that use it commonly have really good luck with it. Whereas if you're prescribing it once a year, once every few years, I think it's much, much more challenging. But it would be it would be nice, of course, to have some control trials to demonstrate that it is always an effective, simple open label studies just aren't adequate are they these days? No, certainly, we absolutely need high quality studies of options, medications for people because there's there's, you know, there's such a challenging challenging condition to treat. Well, Maggie, thank you so much for sharing your experience. Is there any final message you'd like to leave with our listeners? This has been so fun to talk about. I really enjoy talking with you and in general about this condition. And I think, you know, the most important thing that I've seen in my practice is listening to people's experience and approaching diagnostic evaluation and management in a thoughtful way that really takes people's preferences and priorities into account. And so I would encourage ongoing thoughtful care of these often challenging conditions. Well, thank you so much. Thank you very much. We hope you enjoyed this podcast. If so, please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in sleep medicine and sleep health. Thank you.

=== FILE: Wear Red Day [HcA5Oy31Isk].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected life, very healthy I thought to discover that I had this big issue was it was definitely life-changing. I am Chelsea, I'm a young mom who came to Mayo Clinic because I have mitral valve stenosis and I came for help in potentially pursuing high risk pregnancy. I was just really drawn to the fact of how can we you know help her make this happen in the most safe way possible. I think when we first met we had a lot of discussions revolving around various options and I think it really came down to better understanding do we think that Chelsea could have a pregnancy with her current valve or do we need to go to valve surgery because valve surgery brings on some other risks and considerations for a pregnancy and ultimately we felt it was safe for Chelsea to have a pregnancy with her underlying native valve disease. Pregnancy really is a stress test so it's really the ultimate stress test for the cardiovascular system and during the women's pregnancy and their health journey and so that's because of many changes that occur. So in pregnancy plasma volume expands, vascular resistance generally lowers and heart rate increases and those hemodynamic and physiologic changes can impact women with certain heart conditions more prominently. So when we think about valve disease valve disease such as what Chelsea has which is mitral stenosis tends to not tolerate those hemodynamic and physiologic changes as well and so what can happen and kind of similar to your story is when you reach that kind of peak hemodynamic or physiologic stress of the pregnancy which is usually around 28 to 30 weeks gestation is really when women can manifest or have worsening of symptoms and even such as Chelsea when you have pre-existing disease and we're generally doing well and not having issues because of those changes that happen during pregnancy symptoms can manifest. That is definitely one of the things that has stood out to us about Mayo Clinic and has made our experience here with you know prior to my pregnancy and then also throughout the pregnancy just feeling so so heard and that we could advocate for ourselves also I felt like you know the providers all really listened to my heart and it just felt like such a team effort to have have what I was wanting with their expertise in this and also just to have the confidence that there was a safe path forward and it was incredible really incredible to have that. Yeah and I would just add that I think certainly that shared decision-making is of utmost importance particularly in this kind of subspecialty of cardiology where you know we're really helping people make decisions that guide their families and guide their future. Many symptoms of a normal pregnancy can overlap with heart symptoms so shortness of breath, feeling winded when you're walking, having lower extremity swelling or edema, feeling really fatigued or tired. Those symptoms can certainly all be present in a normal pregnancy to a degree but cardiac symptoms can manifest very similarly and oftentimes to more of a degree where it impacts your daily life, impacts your ability to complete your normal tasks and as you know as Chelsea experienced you may have no pre-existing cardiac history and may have an underlying cardiomyopathy or valve lesion that then can really actually you can develop new symptoms during pregnancy because of the hemodynamic and physiologic changes which occur. Similarly women who have known or pre-existing heart disease conditions and are otherwise very well compensated could still develop symptoms in pregnancy and lastly it there are certain even pregnancy related conditions which can occur one being something like peripartum cardiomyopathy which can occur during pregnancy and and cause new symptoms so for all of these reasons it really is important that women and patients speak up when they have symptoms that they're concerned about that makes them worried and a proper evaluation is done to look for and exclude cardiac causes. As a patient is that it's so important to be aware of your own health and if something seems wrong that's something that I've definitely learned from this experience if something seems wrong it might be wrong and find someone find good doctors that can help you. Heart disease and pregnancy can occur and there are many women with cardiac disease that will then become pregnant so just a general awareness amongst providers and patients themselves I think is really important. The fourth pregnancy definitely looked completely different knowing that I had a medical issue my first three pregnancies were very straightforward really very easy I had pretty bad morning sickness but I mean very very easy all things considered and so this fourth time knowing that there was this you know big medical condition was definitely different worrying about the safety of my baby about the safety of me knowing that I have other children it just it threw a lot more elements into the mix and I was very thankful for all of the the visits here we ended up you know delivering locally close to us but just the shared care and knowing that anytime we had questions even though we're not right next door in proximity that you all were available and through the portal communicating back and forth was amazing I was really really thankful for that and just knowing that I've had any questions anything that seemed abnormal we could talk about that work through that and yeah it was definitely a lot different doing a high-risk pregnancy than doing just a normal pregnancy but it was a very positive experience. Very commonly we have joined visits or follow-up visits with both maternal fetal medicine and cardiology along with other testing or imaging echocardiograms etc as needed and really we try and coordinate those and at least touching base each trimester more if needed and again that really for Chelsea was kind of once per trimester we really aimed for and sharing care with her local team which was worked out great and we do very commonly but it's really individualized to what each patient needs so and yes and being available in between appointments certainly and there's a lot of you know we just we want to know when things are not feeling right or something's different new symptoms new concerns and really the plan is then adjusted accordingly. Mayo has absolutely been that for us I would very much recommend to mothers just to really keep that in mind to pay attention to your body pay attention to yourself and and seek out that team that can help you in that those next steps in your journey that you don't always know are going to be there you know those very unexpected medical things that happen in different health crisis it is it's incredible to have someone alongside you that can help you in that journey. Well said.

=== FILE: When Algorithms Meet Empathy： The Future of Patient-Centered AI ｜ Tomorrow's Cure Season 4 Episode 5 [7Vh3gn8AbRk].txt ===

 now is the time where we have an opportunity to make a real difference. We can bring care to patients in the comfort of their homes. We are at a point where we are able to blur that separation on physical care and digital care. But for this to happen, it's going to need more than technological capability. It's going to need that partnership, the regulators, the policy makers, and everybody to come together. Everywhere you look, automation and AI are reshaping healthcare, from smarter diagnostics to streamlined workflows and even big decisions about how machine learning fits into human-centered care. But how do we make sure it serves patients and caregivers, not just algorithms? Are we chasing efficiency and hope, or overlooking the risks and responsibilities that come with it? That's ahead on this episode of Tomorrow's Cure, a podcast from Mayo Clinic that brings the future of medicine to the present. Thanks for being here. I'm Kathy Wurzer. We have two great guests who've spent a lot of time thinking about the intersection of healthcare and AI. Dr. Anjali Bagra is a professor of medicine at Mayo Clinic and directs enterprise automation, keeping patients and people at the center of every technology shift at Mayo Clinic. Dr. Ravi Bapna is the Curtis Carlson Chair in Business Analytics and Information Systems at the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota. He's also the author of Thrive, Maximizing Well-Being in the Age of AI. Truly a pleasure to have both of you with us. Thank you so much. Thank you, Kathy. It is a pleasure to join you. Absolutely. Pleasure's all ours. I know that you two have been keeping track of what's happening in our society. And as you know, the people building AI are saying that the technology is advancing more rapidly than the vast majority of people realize. And I'm wondering if the technology develops at the pace that lab leaders are predicting, how prepared is society for the changes? Let's take a step back. I mean, I think AI being this very powerful, general purpose technology, unlike anything that we've seen before, has created a lot of sort of angst at some level and also has this crazy potential. And a lot of this is because, unlike prior general purpose technologies like electricity or computing, it's fundamentally intangible. These algorithms are lurking in the background, let's say doing diagnosis or they're predicting. People don't understand them necessarily. They can't see them. They don't have a relationship with them. And therefore, it's pretty much, I would say, misunderstood. And I think the challenge, when you have something like this, is that the ability of organizations to integrate and adopt this into whatever they're doing to improve their, let's say, delivery of healthcare, that takes time. That's a challenge. It's non-trivial. And I think that's the stage we are in right now. The technology is moving at a really fast pace. Organizations are trying to keep up, but I think there's always a little bit of sort of this lag that I think we are seeing playing out. So Dr. Bagra, how prepared is our healthcare system for these changes that AI and automation are putting in place? Great question, right? Because that's a fundamental question. A, why do we need this? And B, are we ready? So just to give a little bit of context to our listeners, this is not new intel, but we know that healthcare is at a breaking point. When we look at the cost of running healthcare today, it's over $4.5 trillion. So nearly one-fifth of our GDP is going into sustaining healthcare. And we've tried all the traditional fixes in the past. We've tried hiring more people. We've tried new payment models. And we've tried digitizing the analog. And we know that none of this has worked. So I loved how Ravi kind of kicked off with, you know, AI is this potential not fully harnessed yet, because industries need to do their preparation to be able to harness all the benefits. So I would say today's question is not, how do we do more of the same kind of a model that we've used in the past within healthcare, but it really is, how do we do things differently? And how do we harness the capabilities that we have today that we've never had? In terms of how ready we are, before I jump into that, I do want to be clear that AI and automation are not replacing people, because I think that's a fundamental concern or skepticism that we hear. So no conversation is complete without addressing that upfront. So these are not replacing people, but they are adding to our toolbox. They are adding tools that we've never had before to allow creating scalable solutions for problems that have been age old. And how ready are we? Well, I'll say that automation is already quietly changing healthcare in the background. There is so much happening in the background that may not be visible to our patients. For example, things like automation and AI enhancing images and enhancing our ability to read images for picking up things that human eyes can't see. And this is not just in radiological images, but also in pathological images and pathology specimens. We generate vast amount of data in healthcare, and we use less than 9 to 10% of data that we generate because of the impossibility of the human mind and brain to be able to harness the data. So I would say we are very much ready to use these in terms of opportunities where the work continues to be needed to done is processes for seamless integration, for enabling the humanin the loop where necessary, for enabling that these technologies actually help us be more human and more nimble with taking care of our patients. These technologies help us do what we've never done in the past, diagnose disease way before we've traditionally done them, and really provide the personalized care that every patient deserves. Can you help me out here, both of you? Let's take automation perhaps, when it comes to automating some repetitive tasks. I can see that helping the situation, but I'm wondering how it might enhance the value of physicians and say researchers expertise, right? How is the use of AI and automation helping to amplify human skills and strengths? So one example, quick example that really jumps out is what I use in my office every single day. I see complex patients from across the national practice at Mayo Clinic. On an average, my patients have around 20 to 25 complex problems that we need to address because they are referrals from other medical centers. So there is a lot of information I gather during my visit with my patients. Traditionally, back in the day, I would need to go back and dictate all of that information in a clinical note that could then be used as a reference by other specialists and other physicians taking care of these patients. But now I don't do that anymore. I get my note generated automatically. It's automated through use of ambient AI that works in the background. You're ubiquitously, my patients love it. I show it to them, you know, how this is in the background, and we are going to have the note pop up. I don't need to memorize every detail. I don't need to scribble details about their medical conditions. I give my full attention to my patients when I'm in the room with them without being distracted and the need to write things down so I can recall important information to be able to include it in their clinical note. I think that to me has allowed me to be more human, more present, more in tune with my patients' emotions without having to be distracted by a computer screen or scribbling the notes. And quite honestly, the same note can be used with the use of AI to generate a patient discharge sort of after-visit instructions in a very non-medical jargon terminology. So there is a lot of day-to-day application in my clinical work. Similarly, there are many applications in research, and I'm sure Ravi can share a few of those. Just to build on, I think a couple of points Dr. Bhagra made. I mean, I think one, you know, this example that she gave, if you think about the value of this data that's being generated, right, one of the superpowers of generative AI at least, right? So we can think of sort of two buckets of AI, traditional AI, which is still very useful, you know, doing predictions, you know, like she was talking about for disease and variety of other settings. And then generative AI, so we can think of this as a, you know, supercharged cognitive engine, right? So if you have all these transcripts from all these conversations between patients and doctors, and of course, once they are duly anonymized and sort of, you know, cleaned up, that itself becomes a really, really rich repository of data for us to, in the future, understand, you know, again, how disease spreads and how, in a personalized way, you can have these interventions out there, right? So I just wanted to sort of, again, just build on this idea that we are still harnessing only a very, very small fraction of the data we generate as a society. And I think one of the things that generative AI has done is that it actually has reduced the cost of doing the analytics on this data. I think that is a really exciting potential, right? And just another thing that I think will be, maybe we can get into a little bit more, and also related to your question, Kathy, was this idea that, you know, automation, yes, we have to do that. Every organization is going to look to do that, to free up, you know, scarce resources, in this case, time of physicians. In addition to that, the lens that we really propose, and Dr. Bhagra and I have been working on a framework for this around human-centered AI, is the lens of augmentation, right? So how do we augment human capacity in a way? And I think that lens becomes a really good way to think about sort of this, you know, future with AI. Say, I don't want to get too much in the weeds, but I was thinking about this when it comes to generative AI. I was reading somewhere that about 95% of generative AI pilots fail in the healthcare industry. And I'm wondering, what is it about healthcare that makes automation uniquely challenging? I think that number will shrink over time, hopefully, and that's our goal collectively. But one of the things that gets missed sometimes in this cycle of innovation is technology is just one part. What we need to align is people and processes. We really need this triple aim to come together. It's technology, people and process. Technology brings capabilities, but if the processes are not ready, if the processes are not updated, and if we don't do the very important step of process mining and then layer technology that's brought in by people, that's often the reason why we see high failure rates in pilots. It's either the process that was not mined or the people that were not appropriately skilled or ready. So in our case at Mayo Clinic, for example, this process is very decentralized. This is not a top down initiative where design studios are coming up with gen AI algorithms, and then we are plugging and playing. It's actually quite the opposite. We basically start with defining a problem. We start with a question, what is the problem we are trying to solve? And how can we get to the desired state? And that really involves deconstructing the current workflow. I feel organizations that perhaps are doing it in a more expedited way without deconstruction, without really understanding the process, without upskilling the people and without the buy-in of the people. That's where failure rates are higher. Aside from the people and process, we also know that technology is rapidly advancing. So what was the best technology six months ago is obsolete in today's world. So I think there are many complex factors, but largely speaking within healthcare, if people process and technology aren't moving together, and if we aren't keeping up with the pace of the change, rapid change in technology, and managing change around in the organization, those are big areas of cracks I feel at a systemic level. And of course, there are many others, you know, ability to scale pilots and cost prohibitiveness and people in process. We got to keep that always ahead. It sounds to me that in terms of the implementation of some of this, it has to come, as you say, Dr. Bagra from the ground up, right, from bubbling up. But if you've got managers, I would think that there has to be a level of trust and transparency, right, when you're implementing, say, automation in a hospital setting. Where does that come from? Who actually drives that forward to help the workforce? Yeah, that's such a great question, Kathy. I would say within healthcare, trust and transparency are the basic tenets on which, you know, we build our relationship with our patients within our teams. And everything we do, trust and transparency is core. Now, in terms of who is responsible for trust and transparency, I think this is everybody's responsibility. We take it very seriously as a care team within our organization. But I think it's very bi-directional. Fundamentally, with a patient, we know that I will not be able to achieve any outcome with my patient if the patient doesn't put their trust in us. To be able to get to that trust, we are always very transparent with the knowledge we share with them, with the prognosis of their disease, for example, the kind of treatments that are available with what is not possible. That's also a very important part of the discussion. And why I'm sharing this with you is we use exactly the same framework when it comes to technology. It's not any different. It's a mindset. It's a mindset of building trust. So for us, within all of our innovation teams at Mayo Clinic, this is core to what we do. Having everything on top of the table, what works, what doesn't work, we never take technology specifically as proof of success in any way. We also discuss openly the challenges that come with it. Challenges for our staff in adoption, challenges for our patients when we bring these in the room, because it is another extra layer or a paraphernalia in the patient's room. So transparency being open, discussing failures as much as successes, discussing pitfalls, discussing where these can be used to our advantage, but also then discussing what some of the unintended consequences some of these tools are within our practice, discussing how we are at a risk of making things transactional versus experiential and always being proactive in managing around that. I think all of those are behaviors that need to be adopted by organizations and everybody in the organization from top to down, from bottoms up and all around. This is, I would once again say, a combined responsibility and this doesn't happen just during casual conversation. I think what's also wrapped around this, trust and transparency is strong governance. What are the things we don't allow with these tools? What are absolute non-negotiables in healthcare? And I think there is good deliberate attention to this. For example, Ravi was talking about his framework. We don't do this work alone. We do this transparently with all of our partners that we are learning with and from. This question of where does innovation come from, like bottom up or top down, is an eternal question in many ways. And I think the answer is actually both. And in the specific case of AI, what we find is that in many situations, the awareness of the art of the possible is sort of what's the gap when you start getting up into the director, senior VP, into the C-suite. Because again, many of these folks, when they were trained, this was not a thing. And the hype is so much. So what's the reality and what's the hype? So we do a lot of work at the Carlson school just trying to help people see through this and say that, look, these are the sort of low-hanging fruit. These are sort of the more ambitious projects. You have to have a process to get to these. And I think just demystifying that for the senior leadership, that's the top down angle I think that sometimes is missing. So when these things come together, as they do at Mayo Clinic, and as a patient have experienced all of this, which is kind of a weird thing to say. But when Dr. Bhaggadra was talking about this explainability of a treatment, last time I was there, I got a report from my visit. It actually had links to breakdown complex medical terms that I could understand as a patient. So I think that's where, again, this human centricity of deploying AI becomes really first and foremost. I also want to share that Mayo Clinic was one of the founding members of CHI Coalition of Health AI. And this is really around responsible use of AI. Because yes, we can do this. And a lot of times we have capability, but the question becomes, should we? What are the defining tenets of responsible as well as ethical use of AI? So trust and transparency is everybody's responsibility from top down to bottoms up, as Ravi mentioned. And it also needs creative partnerships because healthcare impacts all humans. It's really an experience by our society. So trust and transparency also cannot be built alone. We need partnerships. You mentioned the human element here. And Dr. Bhaggadra, you also talked about transactional versus relational care, right? I wonder if there are worries. Do you worry that without proper guardrails, some of our care could become dehumanized because of the use of automation in AI? This is a very important question always in front of us, is what we are doing, adding to our patients experience, adding to our patients outcomes, adding to their longevity, early diagnosis, and are we unintentionally in some ways trading off the experience in healthcare? I would say there are many aspects in healthcare delivery that are very transactional, right? So there we know 30% of work done within healthcare is administrative work, is pure administrative work. Now, if you think about that administrative work, a lot of that is repetitive, very transactional, and doesn't really include a lot of relationship building. I would say it's a no-brainer that that pocket of healthcare work is ready and ripe for automation with appropriate human oversight. However, when we come to taking care of human beings, when they are most vulnerable and needing human connection, that's why we don't want care experience to become transactional. Now, it's also true that one of our biggest challenges in healthcare is burnout, right? For the longest time, we've admired the problem by generating massive amounts of data around what is burning out the healthcare workforce, but we haven't really had tools to address burnout at scale. So I would actually argue and introduce this concept of AI and automation paradox. I think these tools allow us to rehumanize healthcare because I shared with you how before I was using these ambient tools in my clinic, I would be distracted to some extent because I didn't want to miss any information and I'm scribbling and I'm on a computer screen and I'm trying to make sense of all the data, a massive amount of data that my patient is sharing, but now I can have my entire attention to my patient. So that's, I think, a very real example, relatable example where I actually am in fact more human with my patients. And I can tell you, Cathy, I decided to become a physician in elementary school and I was not envisioning documentation and paperwork when I decided to become a doctor that young. It was the hope in healing, always the hope and healing aspect of the profession that drew me into this calling. So I would say, yes, when not done right, when not done responsibly, when not done ethically, that's a risk. But when done right with appropriate humanin the loop, with appropriate mining of processes, and I love what Ravi said earlier, with clear definition of the outcomes we want to drive, I think these tools really allow us to be more human. And I think the power of frameworks is that they help to communicate complex ideas to a lot of people in a simple way, right? People remember them. So one of the things that Dr. Bhagra and I have been working on, which is around this again, idea of human-centered AI is what she had referred to earlier as the four A's, right? And we already talked about augmentation. So this augmentation mindset rather than just pure automation, we have to do automation to save up that time and that 30% that she was talking about, right? But then can we use that excess capacity to augment the human sort of enterprise? I think that's one of the four A's, right? But if we start from the very beginning, the awareness of the art of the possible. I study companies that succeed and companies that fail in the tech sector, the most powerful CEOs are going back to school, right? They're in the business of life, I'm learning. So this awareness of what can we do when having that sharp nose to say, you know what, this is not actually a good application for our setting and this one is, I think that's really important. So that's the second A that we talked about. Building this technology in an accountable way, right? We know AI systems when not designed with the appropriate guardrails can actually exacerbate biases that we have in society, right? And so there is a lot of research happening at the U at other leading institutions around the world on making sure that these systems are accountable, that they are fair, that they're transparent, they're explainable, right? So there's, so I think that accountability becomes really important. And just projecting to the future, I think the fourth A we bring into this framework is this idea of thinking in an agentic way, right? So I think agentic AI is like the hot new buzzword. People ask me, what is this? But the simple idea that your listeners can sort of think of is we have this very powerful cognitive engine, you know, Gen AI capabilities can understand and, you know, even get into the perception of human language in a very powerful way that we didn't have before. If you marry that with existing knowledge, research, documents, you know, the repository of collective wisdom that exists in a digital format at an organization like Mayo or at the University of Minnesota. And you also combine that with the all the tools you have already built out using traditional IT, right? So, so anything that has, you know, what we call an API, which is just basically a way to talk to a system, right? So now I'll give you an example just to make it really, really simple. You know, I was teaching my students the other day that they could build an agent that can go out and do a comparative analysis of, you know, two different, let's say, tech companies, make some projections about, you know, forecasting their revenue, and then connect that insight, summarize it and send it into the Slack channel of a particular team in a particular organization, right? So I can connect that to, you know, in this case, the tool, external tool would be Slack, right? When you start thinking about, you know, combining these things together, that really opens up, you know, tremendous capabilities that we haven't even started to scratch the surface of right now, right? So I think, I think those four days, I think become really powerful to thinking about human centric AI. Can I talk a little bit more here about human centered artificial intelligence in that? I'm wondering if there's pressure to know when to trust AI and when to override it. And I'm wondering if that might be an ongoing mental calculation, it might be mentally taxing, say, for a physician as it pulls physicians out of possibly intuitive patient centered care and into a constant kind of risk analysis situation. Might that be a pain point? Might that lead to some burnout? So information overload definitely causes more cognitive demand. But as physicians, you know, we are always trained to compare contrast data. So before AI was evidence-based medicine, before offering a treatment to any patient, you know, we always want to ensure that we are staying up to date with the latest clinical trials, the latest studies. So I think just by nature, our job, we ingest massive amounts of data, not just objective data points on our patients, but really to pick the best treatment. There is a lot of analysis going on to, like I say, offer the best possible treatment to our patients. There is definitely a learning curve in how to use these technologies to our advantage. But I'll give you an example of how this actually has flipped our abilities, actually, in a way that we can be more efficient with less cognitive demand, because with tools such as Open Evidence is a great example, where instead of me manually going in and researching the latest and the greatest clinical trials to help guide treatment for my patients, which is what I would ordinarily do, now I can use tools that can give me the five most important studies to know. And based on my patient presentation, here is a suggestion of the best possible roadmap for my patients. So I'm kind of shifting gears now in how I'm spending my, I would say, cognitive bandwidth, I'm making different kinds of decisions compared to when I didn't have these tools available. So yes, to your point, there is a training curve to this, learning curve to this, how do I use these technologies. But essentially at the end of the day, I'm the one making the best decision for my patient in combination with their desires. So I think these tools are actually allowing me to have less cognitive burden versus more cognitive burden, because they are allowing summarization of data that I would ordinarily spend massive amounts of time on. But yes, it does involve me getting more adept at using these tools. So the buck still stops then with the provider? Absolutely. What happens when an automated system contributes to patient harm? You know, who's responsible? The nurses, the software developers, the healthcare institutions, the provider, has anyone figured that out yet? I think this is a question that's asked across industry. When things go wrong, who is responsible? I don't think it's just healthcare. But like with everything else, you know, at the end of the day, the buck stops with the care team taking care of the patients. And that's why this responsible integration with the appropriate humanin the loop, and you know, the appropriate governance in the oversight are absolutely critical. There have been record number of lawsuits, who can sue an AI algorithm? Like who is responsible when things don't work out the way they were intended to? For us in healthcare, you know, we know that it stops with the team. It stops with the physician, with the people taking care of our patients. You know, as an educator, you know, we have to really think about changing the model of our educational system in the light of this new technology, right? So a big skill that we have to teach people coming out of the Carlson School of Management is how to use the AI in the appropriate way, right? So I have to, I have to bring these tools into the classroom. I have to, you know, push the students, you know, my baseline has shifted.  and consistencyxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx make a decision by blindly trusting this, okay, the buck will stop at you, right? I think that becomes important. The only other thing I would add out here is that, you know, I was on a similar panel with Dr. Bhagra a couple of years ago and I heard this example that, hey, you know, maybe the doctors that, you know, are not using or not augmenting their capabilities with this, you know, latest model that can detect, let's say, that can look at mammograms and detect breast cancer in a very accurate way, maybe the lawsuits will come for those doctors for not using the technology actually, right? Because, you know, you're probably, again, you know, underserving the patients, actually, right? So that's another angle that we should keep in mind. We've been talking about augmentation, automation, awareness, and accountability for A's when it comes to AI. I'm wondering, as we look at what's happening in the healthcare industry, do you worry about rural or underserved facilities that may lack the infrastructure at this point to adopt some sophisticated automation technologies? I mean, if they can't keep up, might that lead to worsening healthcare disparities? I mean, in my view, you know, it's an opportunity to use this technology to better serve those communities that already we are not serving, right, at the appropriate level, right? So partly, like, you know, like COVID was a big shock to the system, and suddenly telemedicine became very accessible. And it allows now actually people who are, you know, not really close to a particular, let's say, you know, a hospital or a clinic to actually, you know, use, use it like in this case, this, you know, virtual technology to even even talk to these doctors out there, right? And so I feel that this becomes a real opportunity to extend that high level quality of care. I feel that, like, this is the time to do it, like this, the resources and the tools are there for us to actually make this a much broader capability accessible to a lot of people who are underserved right now, right? Will that happen? I think that's going to be determined by like other social political forces that unfortunately sometimes, you know, don't work in the way that we want. And Dr. Barker, what do you think? You know, I completely agree with Professor Babna on this. I would say we've always had some kind of tailwinds. Historically, when we look at times of massive change, COVID was a classic burning platform, you know, that really united humanity across the globe. And that's where industries came together, regulators, providers, insurers, like everybody wanted to do their fair share in saving humanity. And I think that is a demonstration of what is truly possible. Because when we go back to our old ways of doing things, I think we go into those silo mentality. But specific to rural healthcare, those are the kind of the tailwinds that we need. And we know that we are projecting workforce shortage, not just within healthcare, but across industry. But we know that it affects healthcare disproportionately. For the longest time, we've been talking about shortage of primary care physicians. And think about the solutions that are available to us. You know, now is the time where we have an opportunity to make a real difference. You know, it may not be human workforce, but we can bring care to patients in the comfort of their homes. We are at a point where we are able to blur that separation on physical care and digital care. But for this to happen, it's going to need more than technological capability. It's going to need that partnership, the regulators, the policymakers, and everybody to come together. So personally, as a physician, I've practiced across the globe, and I've seen very disparate areas of medical care. I think we have the capability, we just need that result. We need the continuation of tailwinds and understanding of other factors that need to come together and align. We've had a really interesting conversation about the possibilities of AI and healthcare here, and I'm so grateful to you both. But I was doing some research before our conversation, and the literature reveals, though, some significant gaps in our understanding regarding patient safety, ethical considerations, data privacy, a lot of unanswered questions yet, right? I think you both would probably agree with that. And there's no way to put the genie back in the bottle. But I'm wondering, what kinds of guardrails might be needed, and can they be implemented at this point to make a difference? Yeah, sure. I think it goes project by project. I think the lens that we started off, okay, what is the current friction in the system? What is the need that we need to solve for? And once we take that perspective, which I strongly endorse, right, because the opposite is there is something shiny and new object out there. Let me try to get some insights from it or get some value, you know, that's not a very effective way to start. So if you start with that problem driven approach, then for that particular context, you know, there will be a set of relevant guardrails. For example, if you build an algorithm that is going to, let's say, you know, look at a variety of socio economic indicators, it's going to look at imaging, it's going to look at pathology to detect some type of disease is the representation of different subgroups of people, you know, sufficiently balanced in that algorithm, right. And if it is not, there are methods now, like including things like synthetic data generation and other things that, you know, my PhD students, others at our one universities are working on that can a help you, you know, detect whether you're likely to see these types of failures, you know, or sort of, you know, let's say differential, like false positive rates across across different subgroups, and be then to go back and retweak those algorithms and to improve them, right. And so I think that has to be baked in into every literally problem we want to solve using this technology out there. Dr. Bagra, what do you think? Professor Babna nailed it, you know, it really needs to be baked in. So there is this idea of mindset in healthcare, you know, it's always safety first, and it's physical safety, but it's also psychological safety. So we are all about safety, quality, that's at the core of everything that we do. And I think with these technology integrations that we are seeing in healthcare, we are actually introducing a whole new set of capability. I'll give you a tangible example. When I trained many decades ago, I'm not going to give it away, you know, we were always in the ICU setting, we were always preempting things like sepsis so that we could mitigate a like prevent sepsis, but then have metrics around early diagnosis and appropriate management, minimizing mortality from bad outcomes from sepsis. And there is massive amounts of data generated on every single patient from every ICU bed, including ventilator data, hemodynamic data, their biochemical data and a lot of other very complex data points. So it can be very challenging to stay on top of all of that. But fast forward in today's day and age with appropriate use of AI, we can detect early signs, very early signs of sepsis and act on them. So when we talk of patient safety, you know, there is an element of a human error, rapid deterioration and processes that need to come together. And I think like these tools are really now allowing us to mitigate all of those patient safety episodes by early diagnosis, early detection, but then also with agentic that we were talking about earlier, also mitigating some of these processes in an algorithmic way. Definitely, this is again, there are two sides to every coin, we just need to always stay on top and have that responsible integration of technology. But realistically, we definitely have way more capability at this point to mitigate patient safety events with the appropriate monitoring. That is, that was traditionally not possible with just human oversight, but with human and machine oversight together, we have way more capability. The other thing I would say is, we talked about workforce shortages, our nurses are overworked, you know, they have a lot of burden of taking care of the patient at the bedside, but also documentation. So using these technology, we can actually minimize some of those safety concerns by again, augmenting and automating where appropriate, some of those processes within healthcare delivery. So we actually are in a very good position now with the use of these tools to prevent many safety events that were not possible with human alone oversight. So human and machine brings great possibility. Can I center patients for just a moment because I want to bring them into the conversation. If they're listening right now, I'm adding their thinking, okay, so what can I do, what could my family do to prepare for a more automated future in medicine? Do you have any advice for patients listening who might think, okay, well, this is going to be the future. What do I need to do as a patient? Professor, any thoughts on that? We know to some level what they're already doing, right? I think it wouldn't be a surprise to anybody saying that, you know, people go to chat GPT and, you know, ask for, you know, questions. So patient journeys, we like to think of consumer journeys, but patient journeys have for a long time now started in the digital realm, right? Google used to be the place where people would go and look for answers. I think that shift is now moving towards platforms like chat GPT and others, right? And so I think that's a great resource, I think for patients to inform themselves and to come in, you know, at a higher like baseline level of knowledge and information when they are meeting, you know, their care providers out there, right? So that's my initial thought at me, Dr. Margaret, I don't know what you're doing. Yeah, I think if we go back to our four A's that we've been talking about, the one that I encourage my patients and honestly learn a lot from, as well as the awareness piece, our consumers of technology outside of healthcare for a variety of different reasons, right? If I watch Netflix, I will get 10 recommendations of, you know, what I need to watch. Or if I want to make a reservation in a restaurant in any town, it's not like I'm going to physically drive and then think where I want to go. So I think humans, all of us are patients and providers, we are becoming very agile, almost like dependent, right? On technology for a day to day, comforts and conveniences. And if we just kind of bring that whole thing within healthcare, that experience and healthcare, I think our patients can engage way more effectively with their healthcare experience if they kind of adopt these tools to their benefit and advantage. I can tell you when I trained, I trained in the day and age of paper charts, my patients did not have access to their records at the time. And they would have a health related conversation pretty much only when they walked into the clinic on their scheduled healthcare appointments. And today, my patients, it's very different. They're on their portal all the time. My patients get access to their tests before I can see their tests. They send me questions all the time. We have conversations all the time. And of course, it was Dr. Google for the longest time, but now it's Dr. Chad GPT. So I think we are blurring the boundary. And we are also reducing that hierarchy in the relationship that existed in the past. To me, this is a very exciting time to be a patient, right? Like I have more access than I ever did to my own medical records. I can see behind the scenes. I can see under the hood. And that gives you agency, right? That gives them agency. Yes, exactly. So I think that to me, and having practiced at a time where my patients did not have access to any of this, you know, it was pretty much a one way communication of information from me to them. Every time I saw them in clinic or rounded on them in the hospital floor, today feels very different. It's combined decision making. We are in this together. And I think it's more powerful. It's the right thing for us to do. But there is still candidly a pocket of patients who may not have the right awareness of what the capability of these tools is. And I'm always focused on, you know, how can we do a better job of empowering and educating our patients about our partnership and how we could be better partners in their care experience. Dr. Bogger, you mentioned this, that there are some people who are just that might not understand what's happening or don't understand the technology, they might be afraid of it. What would you say to a patient who might have some misgivings about where we're going right now? Yeah, I think it's very understandable. You know, human fear is what keeps us alive. Like, that's the reason why we stay alive. I think sometimes the fear becomes irrational. And the reason for that could be just lack of information. So when I come across patients who fear this technology, my fundamental approach is to first try to understand, meet people where they are, because there could be very realistic reasons for the fear. A lot of times I find it was just lack of information. And once I share more information, and we talked a little bit ago about trust and transparency. And when we discuss the possibilities transparently, as well as the tradeoffs, and how we are managing proactively responsible integration of these technologies, I would say a lot of times my patients come along. In fact, they get excited about what's possible and what they weren't really aware of. Sometimes, though, it does raise a question, you know, whether technology is the best tool in a certain situation. And like I said, you know, technology is always and will always be just a tool, another tool. It does not replace what our patients come to healthcare for. It does not replace the hope which we humans are here to give and the healing that our patients should experience. Say what I end our conversation on a personal note, and I would be remiss if I didn't riff off of Dr. Bobna's book Thrive. How do you both plan to personally thrive in what is a very rapidly changing environment? Dr. Bobna, I'm going to start with you. My life's mission, I think, for the last 25 years has been to help leaders in companies, executives, managers, try to sort of, you know, convert their data into an asset, right, to really embrace data driven decision making, to embrace the scientific approach. There's lots of evidence that shows that as being a business school professor that this is strongly linked to higher, better, you know, performance, right, and not just profits, but also, you know, just sort of overall greatness, I think, right, in companies. And so for me, you know, this new technology has been like, you know, again, a serious dose of tailwind. People have started appreciating, you know, what I've been trying to say for 25 years. So I think there's a big audience now to try to demystify what all of this is and to give people direction. And again, I am a lifelong learner, I think, as everybody is in this panel. And that's what I try to convey to others as well, right, like that, the only way to sort of, you know, thrive truly is to embrace that. And then, you know, I think if we collectively do this as a society, we can have a level of sort of prosperity and care that we have not had before, I think. So I'm really excited about that potential. Dr. Bagra, now is the time where these tools are enabling us to thrive in what seemed like a broken sort of system to some extent. So I would say, now is the time to focus on smarter, more human care. What's most exciting to me and what helps me thrive is that we've learned the boundaries, as I mentioned a little bit earlier, we are in this together. There are so many of us who are excited about the possibilities. We have more partnership in this work. And that is very invigorating and personally inspiring to me. And Ravi and I have been like doing this for some time now, and just being able to learn from each other, doing this together to challenge the status quo, and knowing that we have real capability to make experience just exponentially better for human beings. I mean, who would argue like this is this is what thriving looks like. And we are certainly doing this together and having fun with it. I have had a wonderful time talking with you both. Really, it's been such a fascinating conversation. You both doing great work. And I appreciate your time. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Tomorrow's cure is a production of Mayo Clinic with production help from the podglomerate. Be sure to follow tomorrow's cure wherever you get your podcasts. I'm Kathy Worzer. Thank you so much for listening.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.487816Z ===
