Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your co-host, Dr. Brittni Scruggs. And I'm your co-host, Dr. Eric Bothun. We are here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today, we are joined by Dr. Thomas Oetting, an ophthalmologist and educator at the University of Iowa who has shaped cataract surgery worldwide. Tune in to hear about his impressive career, his teaching philosophy, and his passion for surgical education, plus some fascinating insights into the future of ophthalmology. Today, I'm excited to introduce our guest, Dr. Thomas Oetting, a leader in ophthalmology education. Dr. Oetting is a clinical professor of ophthalmology at the University of Iowa, where he has spent over two decades training future ophthalmologists. He's a recipient of numerous teaching awards, including many Iowa Resident Teaching Awards, the ASCRIS Educator Award, the AAO -AUPO Stratzma Award, among many other awards for his career -long commitment to education and patient outcomes. He's also the co-founder and editor of iRounds, a vital resource for ophthalmic education. Along with his numerous courses and presentations, Dr. Oetting's passion for teaching has made him a mentor to more than 100 residents during his career. Dr. Oetting, welcome. Well, thank you so much. I really appreciate the chance to at least see you virtually. We're so excited, Brittni, that you're there and you seem like you're close enough for us to send patients to you at least. And we're so proud of you for all you've done in your career. And so thank you. Yeah, we're glad you're here. And I do get some referrals from iowa and i send patients that way too so it's a it's a great relationship um but there are many things we want to talk to you about today and uh thank you for joining us thank you for being one of my main mentors as a resident when i was at iowa um so first i thought we would start by just opening up the discussion about your uh your journey how did you get into ophthalmology and specifically how was the journey to ophthalmology education specifically well you know my my journey is like so many other folks i think uh the technology of ophthalmology was interesting to me i started off in engineering uh and i worked uh in electric engineering in the air force and i um went to grad school in engineering but my wife who was you know right there with me uh was in medical school. And I was just so interested in what she was doing. And so I just sort of made a switch and decided I was going to switch to medicine. And so I switched over. But I still in the back of my mind was sort of how education was done, both in engineering and in the Air Force. And to be honest with you, I was pretty disappointed at first at how people were educated in medicine uh i i thought it was sort of random and uh not very structured and so one of my one of my missions um when i when i started working here at the university of iowa was to try to make things more structured and um and what i mean by that is in in the air force and in in And in engineering in general, there is much more of a structure where you say to somebody, hey, here are the things you're going to learn today. Here's your goals for the day, or here's your goals for the week. And then the resources were so obviously centered on those goals. But the most interesting thing about it was the assessments were also focused And so I found in medicine that a lot of times the goals were obtuse and not clear. You were never really sure what you're supposed to learn. You're what the agenda was. Sometimes the lectures that were given were just, you know, some guy that you could drag up on the podium and give a talk because they were willing to give a talk. But it had less to do with sort of what your overall goals and objectives were. So one of the things I was trying to do was do that rare thing that works so well in education, where you line up your goals, your resources, and your assessments. And when you do that, education is so much easier and more fun and more sensical. And so I think my Air Force background, if anything, helped me more with that, I think. And so when I was training in surgery, you would just watch a case, and then you would do the next case, and there was no way to really practice. There was very few video resources. We had one video on a VHS tape that we sort of shared from person to person, and it was very unstructured. It was difficult, and to be honest with you, I never felt like it was safe. I always felt like that we were asking our patients to take too much risk in that environment. So anyway, that's kind of how I got started on this quest to try to make our educational program here at Iowa more safe for our patients, more structured. As a veteran, I was really interested in our veterans' hospital. My father was a career military officer, and I spent some time in the military. And so I really wanted to come back and work at the VA. I wanted to make it safer. I wanted the training to be better. And so that was my sort of initial quest, my initial why I came here. When Brittni suggested you as our podcast guest, I was immediately struck by her excitement about you as a critical role and a mentor in her surgical training and appreciating your passion for that. It's evident on how that's the case. Can you share, because she mentioned to me also about how your curriculum has become a global tool. I want to get into the rest of the training, but before we do, as we're talking about your career, Tell me about this program in terms of starting out at Iowa, saying you wanted to build a better educational structure with rubric, with competence evaluations, with feedback. But what is this bigger curriculum? Well, I mean, I think the secret, I think, to education is to try to have goals that are obtainable in a short amount of time. And then you build and build and build and build. And so I think one of the keys was to try to figure out how we could break down cataract surgery into parts that were manageable and parts that were obviously going to be achievable and then work from that way forward. So, for example, you know, one of the most important things is to know what the instruments are that you have available and what the names of those instruments are. And when I first got to the program at a VA, I just would ask our chief residents when they were leaving to name the instruments in our tray at the VA. And often they couldn't do it. And I thought, well, gosh, you know, that sort of basic stuff is so important. But it was never clear to those amazing people that they needed to know this. They needed to sort of focus on some of this stuff. so um just a simple thing like have a goal the goal is i want you to be able to name all the instruments on the cataract tray and there is an instrument quiz that he developed and it was actually kind of hard yeah and so i think but when you just say to somebody hey i just want you to know the instruments on the cataract tray it sounds trivial right it sounds like something that everybody would know but but just building on things like that so so the the goals would you would have firm goals on what you want people to be able to do so we we had a process of um of things that were done in simulation a process of things that were done by doing parts of cases um and a process of things that were done you know by didactic sort of uh or video training or or media training like the instruments so if you ask if you ask uh residents in training that are young early residents and you say what's the hardest part of of cataract surgery they'll often say that it's the rexus um and so one of the things that we started uh and and i say we i mean our program uh we started the idea that we would just do the rexus on some cases uh with our busiest surgeon dr johnson and so the idea was we were going to deliberately practice this tricky part and so the residents had already done a few cases they'd already done some simulation but they were going to in the or just practice the rexus with our with our busiest cataract surgeon and so it did a couple things by doing just parts of the case it'll it allowed it allowed him to not have a schedule that was totally ******* up by this is a resident case this is not a resident case it's just adds another three or four minutes to his case secondly he developed an expertise in teaching because teaching is also tricky. There's a learning curve for teaching. So he focused on teaching the REXs. And none of these cases counted towards the ACGME numbers, but who cares? Because the point is that they got to do a REXs on about 100 cases with this surgeon who became quite expert at teaching how to do the REXs. So by saying, let's just pick one part of the case that we think is important. And we're going to deliberately practice this. We're going to focus our simulation training on that. We're going to, we're going to have didactic training on that. And we're going to, we're going to really take it seriously. The same kind of thing you would do if you were a fighter pilot instructor, you'd probably work really hard on how to land, right? Because eventually you want to go home and see your family. And so it's kind In our world of make-believe, for early surgeons, the rexus is the hard part, and so we worked on that. So doing parts of cases, doing simulation, having a plan, having goals and objectives is the key to it. And I always think, well, what would be the thing if Brittni didn't know how to do something? What would I be so embarrassed if she didn't know how to do? And so if Brittni graduated from our program and couldn't do cataract surgery, I mean, I would be embarrassed. It would be like, you know, that would be something that we should have done better. And so I think every specialty, you have to pick off what are the things that you really want them to be able to do. And then once you figure out what they are, those are your objectives. And then you say, how am I going to train them to do this? and so like for for you as a strabismus surgeon maybe they have to know how to do a pritomy or they have to know how to suture um a muscle and and maybe those are the only two things but you you are you would be embarrassed if they didn't know how to do those two things and so you come up with a program where you you you have um opportunities for them to learn in the or opportunities to train simulation and um so it's been a it's been a few years since i've been in residency so i don't know if things have changed but one thing that was i thought pretty unique with the iowa curriculum is when you think about cataract surgery you think about grooving taking out the lens right the crystalline lens that's actually not what you start with so in addition to the rexus you start by loading the lens and actually placing the lens so it's more of like a back to start. So you start at the end and then you work your way up. So I don't know if that's something that you found was really effective, Dr. Oden, or how did you develop the curriculum in that way and starting with those steps? Yes. So another interesting thing about when you look at cases, there's little parts of cases or little tasks that make up a case. And some of those are simpler than others. But the problem with cataract surgery is it builds. So if you make a crummy incision or make a crummy rexus or do a crummy nucleophractus, then the whole rest of the stuff that follows is more complicated. But if the whole beginning of the case is perfect, then those last parts of the case are often the simplest parts to learn on. and and one of the things that one of the overriding goals that we have for for our surgeons is to be able to figure out how to use instruments inside the eye how to know the ap depth in the eye how to sort of work inside the eye and so when you when you're learning how to work inside the eye you want to do it at the safest part of the surgery so that your patient takes less risk and so you know as britney said that the best part is the end of the case because you, especially when you're just doing IA, and so that's the part of the case where IA is more prominent, the IA device is less likely to injure tissues inside the eye, and so while you're in there with the, just doing the eye, removing this elastic, for example, you, it's harder to damage the eye if you get off track, but you can still develop the skills of using that instrument in the eye. You move your hand up, the instrument goes down. You move your hand left, the instrument goes right. Putting the lens in is probably the simplest, especially now, is probably the simplest part of the procedure. However, you go home and tell your husband, hey, I put a lens in today, and all of a sudden, you know, he was so skeptical about your future, and all of a sudden, he's like, wow you know britney's gonna make some money for us she could put lenses in and um and then the other crazy thing about that is that when you do those little parts of the case at the end all of a sudden all the lectures that you've been bored watching all the videos you didn't care about all of a sudden become really interesting because you say wow this is a little trickier than i thought this is more interesting than i thought and so um when you do that with junior residents, you incite some passion in them that is useful for fighting burnout. It's useful for getting them inspired about the work that we do to prepare. And so, yeah, backing in is a great way to train. And we stole this idea from Utah. Utah used to call it halfsies. So Utah would say to their junior residents, you want to do the beginning of the case or the end of the case? And so I just decided that the end of the case was much safer, probably better for the patient. So I just only offer the back of the case. I echo that when we review cases, we have a trauma video segment here. But whenever residents have meaningfully gotten into their anterior segment expertise, their amount of engagement and curiosity and appreciation exponentially improves that way. You shared about simulation as part of this because you're being intentional about the core competencies at different pieces, the pieces that you really need to teach or you'll be embarrassed. Simulation has really been adopted in many or maybe most residency programs, in my understanding. Our residents here have a lab, the simulators. Share with us in your understanding what's the current introduction or how universal are cataract simulators and is it true that most residencies have them? And when are residency programs getting the residents in the lab? Is it happening in the first year now? Is it the second year? What's the journey in residency prior to operating on a patient? well i think i think simulators are super important but i i want to just make one point about them because i think there's a tendency to want to have a carnival you know where everybody comes together there's representatives everywhere there's snacks outside the room uh there there everyone is in there working and um the problem with the sort of carnival wet lab um although it's efficient. It's efficient for faculty and it's efficient for representatives of industry. But the problem with the Carnival Wet Lab is all the people in there are not at the same level, right? So when you watch a Carnival Wet Lab in a program, what you'll see is there are some people that are intensely interested. And those are the people that tomorrow are going to operate or this week are going to operate. And then you'll see people over in the corner that are like ********* each other with the ia and they're like oh wow you can burn right in through the cornea with the phaco tip you know they're just they're just ******** around and it's nothing wrong with those people it's just that they're not going to operate for like two years and so their interest in the wet lab is is is appropriately not high you know they're worried about other things like how to refract or whatever and so the way i think wet labs should go in a program is there should be a longitudinal wet lab. And by that, I mean that there's one person or maybe two people that are in the mix and they are learning about, they're about to operate this week. And so what we do at our VA is that the person that's going to do that backing in that Brittni mentioned, the person that's going to be doing the back part of the case, before, on the Monday before they go to the OR, they're in the wet lab with a faculty member during the daytime and they are working on how to fold lenses they're working on how to use the ia they're working on how to push the pedals in a wet lab and they're also working on suturing because in case the the incision doesn't seal they're gonna be sitting there and I'm gonna say hey are you ready to place a suture so and then And as the rotation progresses, they get more and more complicated in what they're doing in the wet lab. And then similarly, to be doing the whole cases, when that rotation starts for them, we bring them to the wet lab and they do a whole case or two on a semi because they are now ready to bring all these things together and move forward. so that the the job the the training for each of your residents depends on where they are in the training program right their desire to learn uh is going to be dependent on what's coming up next for them and so we we we've always called this just-in-time learning and the idea is that there's there's a cost to the inventory of what you learn and so um people appropriately will will will optimize and uh and so what you want to do is you want to you want to have the simulation thing ready for the person when they are they need it and so then they're going to get much more out of it and the whole process is better the other thing with simulation is if you if you have simulation that's at night or on the weekends and you bring and you pick the junior faculty and say hey guess what your additional duty is we're going to call you the vice chair for simulation and we're going to have you come in weekends and nights and we're not going to pay you any money and you're going to be the simulation person. Those programs always fail, right? They fail for a couple reasons. Number one, they fail because you have shown the whole world that this is not important by making it night and weekends. So you've declared it's not important. I mean, you don't do, you know, the finance meeting for the chair doesn't happen nights and weekends. it happens during prime time, right? So the things that are important happen during prime time. And so what we were able to do at Iowa was we were able to get a slot for faculty to do it during the day so they can be a dedicated professional simulation. And our person is this amazing Jackie Hogsdale. And we've been able to get the resident out of clinic so that they can do it when they're rested. And then we've said, this is just as important as clinic. It's just as important as the OR. The simulation is important. And once you make those few statements, then people say, well, you know, okay, I'm going to take this seriously. I'm going to really do this. I'm going to take advantage of the tools. I was a visiting professor at this program. I'm not going to name the program, but I was up in their beautiful wet lab and they had like an eight station wet lab beautiful view of the city and i noticed that the wet lab was pristine perfect there was no eyeball being used exactly there was no eyeball juice on anything but the ping pong table had had crud all over it there was stains of food and beer or whatever and so it was it was a startling because if you don't if you don't use the wet lab it's worthless and if you don't plan on how to use it with faculty support, using it during prime time, making it clear that there's a curriculum. So we have a curriculum for this wet lab. You can get online if you want. If you just Google Iowa wet lab, it'll come right up and you can see this week by week curriculum you have for what your responsibilities are. And just like I was saying before, we have objectives, we have resources and we have assessments in some cases as to what we expect during that time. And when you do that, it's very useful. Yeah, so I have a question about transitioning from wet lab to maybe some early cases for residents. I think we all know as attendings that's stressful, right, to put it lightly, to be operating with people who maybe don't have the best control of their hands. My question, I know you're a master educator. everyone listening to this podcast you know what we all want to be better educators but not everyone is as good as you are not everyone on this podcast listening is a cataract surgeon so we have different types of surgeries and different teaching that we have to do my question for you is especially with the early residents when they're getting you know they're getting into the operating room what are some key points for effective teaching for for all of us all attendings who are very you know very much wanting to set their resident up for success well i i think it's a great question i think one of the one of the great things um that you could say came from the acgb changing the criteria for surgery so for example for now in retina you don't actually have to do the whole case. So you just have to be present. That doesn't mean that there's not important things on retina or glaucoma or cornea for you to teach. It just means that it doesn't force you to have them do the whole case. And so what I would do if I were you is I would work, I would have the retina service work with the program director and say, what are the set of skills that you want us to teach during this time? They're not going to learn how to do vitrectomy, possibly, at least not a parse plana. They're not going to learn how to take care of little bitty children with eyes that are about three millimeters big. They're going to learn other things. So you might say, you know what, we want to focus on, we're going to teach residents how to do a pyritomy. We're going to teach residents how to close a pyrimony. how to place a trocar. We're going to teach residents how to remove a trocar and place a suture. um and and that's it that's all we're going to do and then while we're doing vitrectomy we're going to have a set of we're going to teach residents how to think about how to do an anterior vitrectomy and i think if you just pick those three things messing with the conjunctiva putting in a trocar and doing um and and understanding how to do an anterior vitrectomy while you're doing a pars plana which they're not going to probably do they could do it in some programs they learn out and then and then you sequestered the job and more than likely these these skills have already been done somewhere else possibly and these skills will be useful to the next rotation because if they do peds next they want to know how to do uh peritomy if they do peds next they might want to they don't want to know how to suture the sclera um and so that's what i would do if i were you i would not have an unrealistic goal that they're going to do of atrectomy. I don't think that's important. I think the important thing is for them to know how to do a task, a subset, a part that you think is useful for their long-term goal of being a general ophthalmologist. And then there's going to be some that'll come through that are like, wow, this person's so good. I think they could, like you were when you were resident, that's so good that you would say, okay, well, Brittni can do a whole case of parse plant of atrectomy, and it will be useful to her future. But anyway, that's what I would do. I would just sequester it. And just for every subspecialty, there are things that are useful to every ophthalmologist. And then the thing that I think is important, and I'm sure that you guys have encountered this already, but when I was training, I did all extra caps, right? I didn't learn how to do fake. I was a resident or barely learned it. So I had to teach it myself. So what I was learning was skills. I was learning how to manipulate conjunctiva, how to make an incision, how to suture, how to work inside the eye. And so these skills are transferable no matter how the technology changes with time. And so you're teaching how to manipulate tissue. You're teaching how to go inside the eye and get outside of the eye. Again, you're teaching is the eye closed at the end is everything okay at the end and then and then you can use this time they're probably i don't know if there are some i can imagine that there's some times that you can chit chat about how to do a vet or something you could use it as an opportunity for didactic training anyway that's what i would do if i were you i like the understanding and appreciation that skills from one area complement another or equipped you to develop new skills you were residency director at one point and as you have appreciated the vital role of having these intentional focused steps in the journey of cataract training. How does that affect your residency director role for all services? Is there a cross-pollination where now you've changed your curriculum in the strabismus program or in doing glaucoma surgery? At Iowa, do you feel like that journey and leadership you've learned in cataract has affected other areas? And what would you advise for other residency directors trying to improve their programs? Well, I do think that we tend to operate in silos. We tend to not work together as much as we could. And I do think that the more we can sort of come up with a set of skills that we want people to have by the time they leave and then partition those skills and work together, the better off we'll be. And so I think that's one of the jobs of the program director. I would like to say one story in the context of program director, because Brittni's sitting right over there. When my children, I was mentioned to you earlier that my children are now 30 through 35. And when I was starting as a program director, my children were in various jobs. And I was kind of shocked by the amount of responsibility that they had early and the amount of independence that they had early. And when I was a resident, I was always kind of surprised by how everyone was kind of treated in sort of a juvenile way in some senses compared to when I was in the Air Force. You know, there was a sense that you weren't supposed to think too much on your own. Um, and so, but when Brittni came in, um, you know, she had this incredible research career before she came. And, um, and I was thinking about my children, how, how in, in one of their companies, they were all given these little weekly mini sabbaticals where they were allowed to do whatever they wanted for a half day. So, um, I think one of the, one of the most powerful things that we did in our residency was, um, was we started this thing called captain of your ship time. And it was really, we should have dedicated it more to Brittni because the idea came because I wanted to make sure she had the ability to do this. But the idea was that for a half day, every other week or so, you could do whatever you wanted. And what I wanted to do was I wanted to respect the amazing people that we had coming in. And I wanted them to have time to do things they thought were important um now for some people it could be something like going to the dentist or counseling or be doing push-ups or whatever for some people like Brittni it was a series of unbelievable research projects and um because then she could during the week have access to researchers and um statisticians and and so forth but I think one of the One of the mistakes we make is if our training is going to be so long, I think it's too long. But if our training is going to be so long, then we need to not kill the part of our trainees that is so special. And so as a result of this project that we started during Brittni's time, we've had some unbelievable projects that would have never been able to proceed without this access to daytime energy or whatever you want to call it. And so that's the thing I would encourage programs to do. I would encourage programs to try to not kill the amazing people that are coming in with 100% service mundane activities and give them, because it'll help your department more than you can imagine. I mean, you're going to get all kinds of cool fame. And believe it, we took total credit for all of Brittni's projects. I was told not to mention them on this podcast because there are projects, they're not hers. But the truth of the matter is, they were her projects. It's wonderful to appreciate that priority, not just in education and structure, but also the priority in how you structure time for your residents. And residency programs and directors always try to do that better. But these are wonderful examples of creative things to complement the learner. Yeah, I'm going to give an example of what I was allowed to do. And it was an amazing thing. I worked with amazing giants in the field during that time of your captain of your ship time. as a resident I was able to assist on 70 pig vitrectomies with multiple different staff Dr. Elliot Sohn, Dr. Ian Hahn amazing surgeons and that gave me extra surgical experience as an assistant but also set up my career as a pig surgeon which is as you know my main model now I don't think I would have had the confidence to do this as a career and have the knowledge and expertise to start my own lab with pig surgery if I didn't have that time at Iowa that also gives you time to like grow cells you know as a scientist like you need that time during the day and go to lab meetings and thank you Dr. Oetting like seriously thank you for listening to your residents thank you for empowering them and providing them with their people and the resources because I'm not sure that I would be the clinician surgeon scientist today if that had not been the case So I very much appreciate it. We only have about five more minutes. I just want to touch on another subject in education, and that's just how our technologies have changed. I've heard a variety of feedbacks of flipped classrooms and virtual learning, and it's an interesting environment that's sometimes hard to get everybody in person for department meetings or whatever it might be. Share with us your appreciation for opportunities and our challenges for how the virtual learning environment affects residency training or your department. Yeah, I do think it's a dual-edged sword. I think the problem with virtual learning is that, to a certain extent, it damages our culture and our ability to get together. I love the idea of aligning your objectives and resources by putting things online that are sort of your favorite videos or your lectures. I think that's very efficient. I do think, though, that the relationships that we develop with each other are so important for when the sea gets shaky during the stormy times. And so the only way you can really do that is by having activities where you're all together. And so you can do that with social things. You can do it by having lectures where everyone gets together. You can, um, but, but don't, um, don't set up a program where everything's virtual and no one's all together because what's going to happen is in, in every program or every organization, not just residency programs, there's going to be times when one person has trouble, uh, they're out, they're sick, they have a baby, um, uh, their parent gets sick or something. Um, and, and the thing that, that, that, that helps an organization is to know each other so well in other times like you guys last night i guess at mayo had a had a get together real live get together we all hang out and um and i i just i think that's so important and one of the ways you do that is with rounds and one of the ways you do that is with lectures and so i i think when you do a flipped classroom i think that the beauty of it is if you say okay for we're going to cut down the the the time of lectures from two hours to one hour but the the one hour that we're not doing it anymore is not going to become clinic. It's going to be either you sleep in or that's the time you look at videos or whatever. Because the danger of having these virtual things is that all of a sudden you say, well, just look at it at night and weekends and we no longer have time during the week where we're dedicated to do that kind of stuff. So people's connections with each other go down. The overall time that people have to do stuff goes down. And so that's the danger of the flipped classroom. But if you do the flipped classroom where you say, okay, we did have five hours scheduled for our content. We're going to only have two hours together, but it's going to be really good time. We're going to ask questions of each other. We're going to get together. We're going to talk. We're going to be with each other. And we're going to talk about the things that you saw in those videos. Then I think that's useful. I think overall that the net of that is a gain. But you just have to be careful. I have a question if that's okay. I think we have a few more minutes. So my question is regarding like the journey of cataract surgery and how advances have happened. You said that you started with extra caps and now you're doing very complex cataract surgery that's completely different than how you were trained. So my question is what is one of the advances of cataract surgery that you think is one of the like the best things that's happened since cataract surgery like since you've learned cataract surgery and then also what are you looking forward to something that maybe is to come that you're really excited about well i think i think there's some one of the one of the um mundane but really powerful things that came uh was capsular stains and it's going to sound so boring uh to you but um it it changed so much for us it allowed us to um do complicated cataracts and see what was going on. Uh, it allowed us to, um, let, um, more junior people operate on those cases, which is, which is nice. Um, it also, some programs use capsular stain so people can see the Rex's better while they're learning how to do the Rex's, uh, which is useful. So to me, I think that's one of the, one of the big ones. Um, I, I think the, um, you know, the, The thing that's really crazy is that the ability to put the lenses in has become so trivial now because you just push a button on the Alcon device, for example, and the lens goes in. So putting a lens in used to be a big deal. It used to be hard to put it in. The three -piece would flip out. It would come out fast. And so there was a set of things that we worried about before that we don't worry about anymore, and I think that's been a big change for us. The machines have gotten better and safer. And I think that's good. But I think the big thing that's coming probably is some kind of robotic surgery. And there's a couple of companies that are working on that. And I think Alcon invested in one of those companies. And so I think that will be an interesting possible paradigm shift for us where we're not holding the actual instruments that are inside the eye, but we're holding something that's holding those instruments, you know. We're holding onto a robot. And I think maybe for cataract surgery that will not be as important, but it certainly might be important for your very delicate surgery in retina or for doing injections in retina. And I think so manipulating devices that that are connected electronically to a device that's connected to the eye, I think it's going to is going to be an interesting twist. And and then I think from a learning point of view, we've got this crazy thing happening with AI. so already there are there are you know divide their their chat gpt and others are already much smarter than me they're nipping on your heels britney i'm telling you they're coming and um and so and so we're gonna have to figure we're gonna have to figure out what um what we teach and what we don't teach we're gonna have to figure out how we use these devices how we how we partner with this technology um i mean we don't really care anymore you know what's what stain you use for for some a biopsy right i mean we're just going to look it up we're not going to we're not going to memorize that and so how are we going to change our process in testing residents how are we going to change our process and how we team up together um and um you know it's it it was a very similar to when the, when the internet came out, you know, we resented the internet. You guys, neither of you guys are probably old enough to remember this, but when the internet first came out, we totally resented it. We tell residents not to use the internet. You know, it's not a good source. You know, we, I did a couple of papers on it years ago. And I mean, and obviously now it's, it's, it's just, it's just part of our lives. And, and I think this is going to be part of our lives. We're going to have to figure out how we maintain our ability to lead and go forward with this technology. And I think that's going to be fun and interesting. Well, Dr. Roening, I just certainly appreciate the enthusiasm that Brittni had before as you as someone in Iowa that's a master educator and appreciated by your residents. But certainly recognize and appreciate it nationally and globally for the priority, the leadership, and the passion to help our learners learn better and advance our field. So I thank you for the gift of sharing your time with us today and sharing your insights in this field. Yeah, I just want to say thank you for being here and for being a mentor to so many, including myself. I do want to end with like what I hear in my mind when I'm training other people. It's out of the eye, ma'am. Well, yeah, I grew up in the South, so everybody's ma'am or sir. We all have our mentor voices, and those voices are so dear to us and important. So thank you for being a voice into the next generation of ophthalmologists. Hey, thank you both. I appreciate it. It was nice seeing you all. Thank you. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast on our website, YouTube, or on most podcast platforms. Thank you for listening, and we definitely look forward to sharing more on our next podcast.