There's nowhere in the world like Mayo Clinic. I think patients come here and they feel that and they say that to us every day. Part of being in a surgical field, you gotta train to be a technical master. The residency training here takes it to the next level. You get an experience here that can't get it any other program. The mission of our department is to train the best neurosurgeons in the world. Our residents will finish our program and know how to operate independently, make good decisions, and take good care of patients. Our neurosurgical program has 28 residents and is one of the largest training programs in the country with a rich history that goes back all the way to the Mayo Brothers. The opportunities are endless. Here at Mayo Clinic, we strive to give the residents all the tools to be the best version of themselves and become the neurosurgical leaders of the future. Every morning from seven to eight, we have an hour long conference covering any topic from cranial to spine surgery, to having visiting professors talk to us about their fields of expertise. It's great to have just daily commitment to education before we proceed to the operating room for the day. So when you're a surgeon, I mean, my mentors always told me, they said, surgery is your first, second, third, fourth priority. To me, this is the perfect program for that because you're able to operate independently very, very early, and fundamentally, you need to graduate as a safe, independent neurosurgeon. If you don't have that, honestly nothing else really matters. What makes the Neurosurgical training program in Rochester, Minnesota unique compared to the other programs in the country, is several things. One of 'em is our mentorship model. Residents get to train with one or two staff for two to three months at a time. And the advantage of this is that they're able to see how far along you are in your skill set. So starting from, you know, from your first or second year residency, they'll be able to see, they can do a layman activity independently. They know where to drill, they know how to stay safe, preserve those key structures. And that I think is an environment that's conducive to early operative autonomy because allowing someone to do critical proportions of the operation is really based on trust. The crown jewel of our program is our chief residence year. The chief residents get to be very autonomous. They run their own operating room, have their own or staff, have a nurse, have a dedicated team that helps see these patients. They operate on patients that they see in clinic or from emergencies. And the staff are appropriately involved as needed. We have a lot of support. We have the PAs and NPS help us during the day managing floor patients so that we can just be focused in the or. I think the program is pretty special and that you can do pretty much whatever you dream of here. Our program prepares you for a career after graduation really by starting that process early on. So when we come into residency, you're asked to identify a couple mentors and we have frequent check-ins with our program director and our program chair at least twice a year. And that's when they start working with you and identifying your specialty early on in the elective time where you work closely with staff in your chosen specialty and those act as your mentors that really can help broaden your network of people. I think one of the things that makes the Mayo Neurosurgery Residency unique is our elective time. We have two protected years during which we're able to do research or if we want to do an infolded fellowship or if we want to do a master's program or complete a Ph.D through the Mayo Clinic Graduate School. The access to research resources that you hear, it really is world class. We're heavily invested in research because, you know, we recognize that we don't have the answers to everything right now. We need to do better. I try to meet with the residents every year to talk about their research opportunities from the start of their residency all the way through to the end, to kind of get a sense of what they're interested in, uh, make sure that they know what the opportunities are. And research can be clinical research, it can be bench research, it can be translational, it can, uh, encompass a whole lot of different things. Finally, we have a number of research labs. I think we are up to 11 in the department right now, and of course we have all the labs in the institution that are also available. In addition, we've cast accredited fellowships for peripheral nerve, for neurosurgical oncology, for skull base, for a complex spine. And we're working on developing one for functional neurosurgery. So if residents have a particular interest in that area of neurosurgery that evolves over the time of their residency, this is a way to get additional training within the context of the residency that they can say when they're finished. I'm a true expert in this particular aspect. Another reason why I wanted to come to the Mayo Clinic for my residency training is because of the support for attending national and international conferences. The department and Mayo Clinic will cover your attendance up to five conferences per year, which is extremely unique and very supportive and allows us to have investment in creating our career before we graduate. And I think that that is something that absolutely makes Mayo a unique place to train. We designed a surgical anatomy curriculum for PGY one to PGY four in neurosurgery with scheduled dissections throughout the residency program. And these are mentored by our Ph.D. Anatomist, Luciano Leonel, who is highly trained in surgical anatomy and by our staff. And they're graded in a very objective way. The way we have set up the program with PGY one, we have them in the lab learning and refining the skills with the drill. While PGY's two and three, we will perform more invasive approaches such as the frontal zygomatic approach and the hetero sigmoid approach. And PGY's four, we have them performing the largest amount of dissection in the lab considering their experience in the OR and the knowledge required by them. These intends to not only make surgery safer in the patients, but also decrease the learning process and the learning curve to master a surgical procedure. We strike a pretty good work life balance because of how big our program is and how we share our call burden in addition to really how we distribute all time and who scrubs, what cases you can actually spend time learning about the cases, the complex cases you'll be doing the night before, the week before even in some cases. I think it's really just as good as it gets  in neurosurgery, at least. The culture here is the vision to have a global environment for empowered belonging. Everyone is welcome at Mayo Clinic and we strive for a culture of true equality through clinical work, research and teaching opportunities. This is a pretty cohesive program. We're all a pretty tight-knit family in that sense. All the way from your co-residents to faculty as well early on, getting dinner at different faculty members houses to, you know, sitting down and just talk and shop about research about different cases and having fun. And it's not always just on a, you know, cohort basis. Sometimes it's really just individual faculty trying to connect with you. I mean, I've found that to be really exciting and just awesome. Um, it's a pretty welcoming environment, you know, you feel at home here, you have a good time. Our softball team is not about being great. We play in our beer league , you know, and a lot of people take it really seriously, but we try to make it inclusive. It's a good way for us to get to know the medical students and a good way for us to get outta the hospital and hang out together. We don't have tryouts for our team, but we all have fun. Time in Rochester here has been great. It's very nice, it's very clean, it is very affordable. My commute to the hospital is about five minutes by car. Really. There hasn't been a whole lot of traffic that I had to deal with for a resident. That's really what you want. Again, neurosurgery residency is not something that's easy. You're gonna be working really, really hard regardless of where you go. It's a very demanding field. There's a lot to learn very early on, both in terms of medical knowledge and management, but also in the or. This place makes it as easy as possible. I have lifelong friends, incredible mentors. It's the easiest living possible. So I've had an absolute blast and I'm just, I'm honestly really lucky that I had the chance to come here. I want to end by congratulating again, the residents and fellows. We did an amazing job. It's not an easy accomplishment to do. Not everybody can do this. And it just speaks volumes for what people can do with the hard work and discipline. Mayo Clinic neurosurgery, it's unlike anything else. It.