Well, I had surgery in Mayo Clinic two years ago this month for a very rare uh cancer of the appendants that um I went over there in the middle of the night and a surgeon was available to well they had to do an assessment process. They're famous for their team assessment process and it was in the appendix, but since the appendix settled down and didn't burst, they had the time to do the assessment, but there was a surgeon standing by in case I had to have immediate surgery in the middle of the night coming from the Luther um ER. So, I did have a surgery over there. It was for the appendix cancer, and they were able to get the appendix before it burst. and it wasn't in the lymph glands, but it had already spread to the vaginal cuff. And so it was considered a metastatic stage four grade three when it was found. And it is a very rare cancer and it's a rare presentation of a metastatic um site. So I had surgery there. They said it ended up better than textbooks. So that was good. Beth Kess cancer is a sneaky foe. I had 12 rounds of chemotherapy here at Luther Middleford um with some um consultative guidance from Dr. Axel Growthy in oncology over there at Mayo. So uh I also while I was a patient at L at Mayo requested a consult with the paleiotative care person and with their complimentary integrated medicine person because I read their newsletters and so I knew that that was a service Mayo had before I even knew I was going to end up over there and um so before I even had the surgery because it could have ended up being really bad. It wasn't but they were preparing me that could have been really bad. So um so I learned that about the integrative um complimentary medicine they had for inpatient and then I called that woman and she was able to help me get linked with um Dr. Ahmed Sud who is in the um outpatient integrative complimentary medicine program in the internal medicine department. So when I came back for a follow-up consultation with Dr. growthy to determine a recommended plan of care. I was able to meet for the first time with Dr. Sue and I have been meeting with him quite regularly for over almost two years and I'm thrilled that they have that integrative complimentary medicine program and I hope someday that that will extend to their regional partners like here that they have more integrative complimentary medicine. They actually do acupuncture over there at Mayo, but I I live in Oaklair and I've been working with an acupuncturist here in Oaklair since 2003 because I do have some complicated autoimmune problems as well. And uh so but Dr. Sud always encourages me to keep on with the acupuncture even as much as once a week if I can afford it. I have to pay for it out of pocket. But I do find it helps the body restore and balance itself and helps the body better get rid of the toxins from chemotherapy. Um I also do massage. I don't know if they offer that at Mayo, but it's certainly a complimentary modality. I do that on a regular basis. And um healing touch. I use aroma theapy. I use reflexology and I use chiropractic and all those really help the body work as effectively as possible. Another thing that's very helpful with Dr. Sud and I have heard him speak at the women's cancer seminar over there as well um is how powerful your your thoughts are, your cognition when it comes to healing. And so um how to really use the power of your brain and of your mind to train your emotions. Obviously, when you're told you have a terminal cancer diagnosis, you know, and you've got a life you want to keep living and you've got children and people you care about, it's really hard. So, he is very good at helping you first of all just accept the reality. I think it's very important to just be able to accept the reality of things as they are. Always knowing that the body can surprise us and can heal itself in many ways. And that healing takes place on many levels, emotional, spiritual, physical. So while maybe also end up dying from the cancer, which seems quite likely, um the quality of the time that I have while I'm alive can be much better. And that's what I think the integrative and complimentary therapies can help with. So I go to him. It's almost like um I see him as a very wise human being and a very skilled healer on all the realms. and I will raise up a question I struggle with on my cancer journey and he's always got some interesting metaphor that might help me reframe how I'm looking at a situation. Um he just helps puts things in a better perspective and he helps me he helps remind me of what I already know and to use what I already know works for me. So he's just a wonderful person to have his book on complimentary medicine that he's put together is excellent and I've recommended it to many people. So, he's quite an asset over there and I like I said, I hope Luther Middleford with their new cancer center will be able to incorporate more of these healing modalities. I personally think it's the back work that is keeping me as healthy as I am. Um the cancer unfortunately even after 12 rounds of chemo last summer did or summer of09 did come back in February of this year into the paritinal cavity and back into the vagina area. So we're back with a real serious fight on our hands and at this point now they pretty much consider it advanced and incurable and terminal. So, we're just working on some concoctions in the chemo therapy and um complimentary approaches and so far so good. I just came back from Mayo Clinic last week and the oncologist there looking at the cat scans from over there felt that the condition is stable and that the treatment protocols at this point are doing the trick. So, that's good. Whenever I go to Mayo Clinic, I go to they have a spiritual center there, a meditation room or something. I forget what it's called. Center for spiritual care, I think. Caught my eye one time walking through the halls. So, I always go in there. They have a prayer wall where you can put intentions. So, I always write intentions and put them in their prayer wall. And they have an in inside labyrinth. And I always walk that uh before my oncology appointments and I pray for guidance and I pray that I'll be able to accept whatever I learn and that I'll be able to clearly ask the questions on my mind and it always seems to help. I think it's fantastic they have that through. And then I always go to the cancer library over there. Uh it's a very helpful place. Um, the navigators that work with you there to research your information are excellent and they know as soon as I come in, they say, "Okay, let's see if there's any more appendix cancer information for you because it's so rare." But they always find something for me and they help me figure out how to search things on the computer. And um, I usually go to the they also have a women cancer center on the ninth floor, I believe it is. And because um was in the vaginal cuff and also because my sister died of ovarian cancer and I had cervical cancer once, I usually go up there and so the sister had cervical cancer once. I usually go up there and just look at their resources up there and the staff and volunteers up there are also just great and I ran into one of the chaplain up there once who did a very good job recording a relaxation meditative CD that I listen to at home. I usually come home from mail with a whole bag full of resources. They have so many educational resources there. And if I have time when I'm over there, I sit in on their um lectures. They always have educational programs every day for patients and also for professional people. And since I have a masters in social work, I've sat in actually on a few of the professional um presentations that they've done. You probably don't know I'm there, but I just go there anyway. Nobody stops you. I went to one on music therapy used for healing, which was excellent. So, I'm glad that Luther Middleford is linked with Mayo Clinic. I think that's great. And um I appreciate the focus on quality that both institutions have and I'm always amazed at how efficient they are at getting people through there at May. There's thousands of people milling around the halls, but they really keep you on schedule for the most part. And everybody there is extremely pleasant and extremely professional. When I saw Dr. Sue, he's always telling me you should write something for patients. And I I said to him this last time, that just sounds so final to write something. He said, well, don't let your perfectionism keep you from doing something that will be good enough. So, I thought that was very helpful. But then he also said, "Do you want to do something that will help other patients?" He says, "I have many people that come in here who are truly suffering. Do you want to do something that might help them?" And I said, "Well, you know, I do. I've worked as a social worker for 35 years on aging and disability issues. And so at this point, I'm doing try to do anything I can to live out my personal mission statement, which is helping goodness grow." And we don't always choose where we end up in our lives, but we certainly can choose how we approach what we do with what we've got to work with. And so I really am on a mission to well, there's a prayer of St. Francis. Make me an instrument of your peace. And I really see that that's the life work I'm about now. So um so I write, I give speeches, I um I nurture my family and friendships, particularly time with my daughters. Try to create quality time. It's very I'm very intentional about how I use my time every single day. I take nothing for granted. And the other great thing Dr. pursuit has helped me really do because I have an overactive mind is to focus in the here and now particularly through careful observation of the natural world. First time I saw him, he had me look at a picture of a daisy and I was supposed to tell him what I saw. So I immediately said, "Well, oh, I'm probably thinking of the girl who's picking the daisy who probably is hoping to find love and so she's going to pull the daisy petals." I was going on and on and on and he said, "No, look at the daisy. Fully see the essence of the daisy." And he also said the very first time I saw him, first of all, he said, "I can see you are suffering." And I so appreciated that he acknowledged that I was suffering. I had a lot of hard things happen including a divorce I didn't want and a job I lost, a career I lost with this cancer diagnosis. So just that he would even talk in that realm just made me feel so much better. But he said he started to write on a piece of paper. He said this is what's most important. And he just wrote don't. And I said postpone joy. And that's literally what he was writing. So we were like we've always been on the same wavelength. So I've been on the mission of joy and I just keep at it. And I have my future amazing life adventures list. And I started out at Mayo Clinic before the surgery actually. because I knew it could be bad and I was just going to suck the tomorrow out of whatever life I had left. So I keep checking away on my list and I have many more things that I add to the list. So um so that's me. Well on the list as a mother were things like um hoping to see my daughters both settled into careers. One is only 20 and one is 24. One's still in college. Hoping to meet the people they fall in love with. hoping to live long enough to meet them. And um in the big picture, if I could really stretch this out and really beat the heck out of this cancer, I would live till they have been maybe married if they're ever going to get married if that's their choice and see grandchildren or significant children in their lives so that I could have a chance to have a bit of a grandmother role. I mean, that's I stretched way out for that if they don't even have boyfriends to my knowledge. But if I could choose what I would want to do, that'd be really great. I am going to write letters to leave behind in case I don't make it. Um, so, so the personal things were on the list. My mom was just diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in southern Ohio. My twin sisters got heart failure going on. I always thought I would be the one to leave Wisconsin somehow from some blocks of time and help them. In fact, that was my very first response when the doctor called me and said I had cancer. I thought, "But wait a minute, I'm the one. I'm the family social worker. I'm the one that's supposed to go down and really be able to be of assistance to my mom and and my twin sister." And so I just thought, "Well, tough luck on cancer. I'm I've already got this plans. So, you know, sorry, my docket is full. Um, and then I always wanted to get on Oprah to talk about handling life challenges that happened to women in midlife because I have like 27 challenges. So, that is still on my list. Um, I did want to have a private one-on-one with President Obama. This is before healthcare reform was passed, but since it might get decimated, I still may have to do some healthc care advocacy. Um, I still want to testify at the Senate on issues about maybe cancer research, maybe insurance, what insurance funds and doesn't fund, but I definitely am going back to Washington. That's something that's definitely in mind for me. Um, I'm going to try to do some more writing. Um, not just in my memoirs, but poetry and essays. So, I've do some writing, but so many people keep telling me there's a book in all of this for you, Diane. Just get going on it. So, I've had so many people tell me that that it would really be great if I could do that. So, um, uh, nolva Scotia. I always want to go to nolva Scotia. I want to take a cruise on the Great Lakes. There's cruise boat now on the Great Lakes. I love Lake Superior. So, I'm still aiming to go down a paddle boat down the Mississippi River to New Orleans, preferably with a jazz elder hospital seminar going on. So, those are some of them. I always have ideas in mind. And I think um well, to be alive, you can't get out of life without suffering. you just can't. So working on attitude is I think extremely important if you're if you're faced with rough news and anybody who's got a serious diagnosis and it's doctoring at Mayo you usually have sometimes some pretty rare and serious diagnosis. It is true that attitude is the one string you can play on sometimes and you really can go a long way if you can figure out ways to improve your attitude. And um the why me is human, but the flip side, why not me? I often think about that when I have a pity party. Um I do have a caring bridge site on the internet. And I for me that allows me to just say whatever's on my mind. And one time I was feeling a lot of pain. Another time I was I was just afraid. And I just put a little line out there, help, I'm afraid. And I immediately had all these people respond all over the United States friends or friends of my friends or friends of my family and I just immediately felt so much better. So having the medium or you can either buy a phone call or caring bridge Facebook whatever it is just to say help I'm in a hard spot right now. Can you help me see this differently? Um, I have a circle of care of friends and family that gather together, some of them far away, just send me a note in the mail every two weeks, which I just love going to the mailbox. And uh, some do meals, somebody's bringing a meal tonight, for example. So, two or three nights a week, they share a meal with me or bring a meal over, particularly a week, I'm having chemo. Sometimes they help me get to Mayo Clinic or they help me get here for chemo if I'm not strong enough. They helped rake my leaves. They've helped plant flowers. Um, you know, one even one of my friends even cleaned my bathtub one day when I just did not have the energy. But I know that is the ultimate friend. So, I think it's very important to nurture friendships and family. And try to be concrete because a lot of people want to help, but if you're not concrete, I could use help with this. And ideally I could use help like within two weeks. Well then my mother taught me to always write thank you notes. So I promptly write thank you notes or thank people. It's very important to thank people. And um I'm always looking at what I can do with my talents and what I can do with the time I have left. So I'm all I'm looking at how can I create my legacy. I don't have money. cancer is very expensive. Um, but I have talent and I have my words and I have my voice. So, anything I can do that will help make a difference down the line, I'm willing to do it. If there was a clinical trial I could be in, I would. But because this is such a rare cancer, they said there's really no clinical trial I can do. So um I have an autoimmune condition syndrome and I have been in four different national genetic studies of that in Washington DC of the National Institute of Health in California, Minneapolis. So um I am donating my body to Mayo if they'll take it um for medical research. If they won't take the whole body, I'm going to talk to their brain center now that my mom has Alzheimer's. Maybe they'll just harvest my brain. So I like to find ways to live on after I'm gone.