Hello everyone and thank you for joining us today. My name is Lisa and I'm the intern with the Equity Inclusion and Diversity Committee here at Mayo Clinic. For this video, I'm here with George and he will be answering a few questions about his role and experience at Mayo. So, could you please introduce yourself? Well, good afternoon, Lisa and to all within the D, L, and P team. My name is George from Bowman. I'm the Associate Administrator for the Department of Laboratory Medicine. And within that, I have the responsibility for, I suppose, the well being and looking after a team of almost 3,000 people within the department of laboratory medicine and pathology here at Mayo Clinic. Thank you so much for introducing yourself. What made you choose Mayo Clinic as an employer? So Lisa, I'd have to say that I think choosing Mayo Clinic as an employer is easy, right? The reputation of Mayo Clinic is world renowned. I grew up in Johannesburg, South Africa and even I knew about the Mayo Clinic before. You know from years ago, choosing the Mayo Clinic is not the hard part. I think what's more important for me is what made me stay. My wife is also from South Africa and we came here on a three year plan to Rochester, Minnesota. And that was in 2011. And we've been here ever since. I mean, there's more that I'll share I suppose as we go through this discussion. But there's no place I've ever been that's quite like Mayo Clinic. I've been fortunate that I've been able to work in the healthcare sector in four different countries, in Australia and South Africa, in the UK, and now the USA as well. I've never been in an environment quite like Mayoclinic model of care is unequalled by any other institution globally. Then the people here at Mayo Clinic is our differentiating asset. There is nothing that beats the people here and the teams that we have at Mayo Clinic that work every day with one thing at the center of it all, and that's the needs of our patients. Coming to Mayo Clinic was an easy choice. My wife and I were both chose to come here from South Africa because we wanted to advance our education and our abilities and take those skills home again, we thought. Yet we've stayed here now 12 years in Rochester. Because of what we get to do every day at the Mayo Clinic. It's good to hear how Mayo stands apart. What's the what's your favorite part of your job or daily work? Yeah. So my favorite part of my daily job, I'll tell you now, I opened my eyes each morning and I'm actually genuinely excited to get to work. And I think that's step one, is that I just know that I'm going to a good place, I'm going to be surrounded by good people, and every day I get to make a difference. So that's one of my favorite parts of my job. But to sum it up, I think the thing that I take most seriously, but is also the most rewarding, the sense of responsibility I feel each and every day for our members of our team. I really feel like I have a responsibility to work every day to make LMP the most welcoming, happiest place at Mayo Clinic to work for all of our team members. And the most rewarding place for them to work where they all feel welcome and appreciated and where they can be themselves, I feel a huge sense of responsibility for that. But when I see it play out, and I see what it means when our teams are high functioning and happy and delivering on our promise to our patients. It's incredibly rewarding. I take that sense of responsibility to our members of our team very seriously, but it's also the most rewarding part of my job. That's good to hear. What would you like to tell our audience about Mayor Clinic? I would like to tell our audience that we must never underappreciate or take for granted what it means to be part of a mission based organization. I've told others before, I've got a friend. He's an investment banker in New York. He makes a ton of money every year. But he has hands down the grumpiest man I've ever met. And he's told me firsthand, he said every day he wakes up and his job is to make shareholders richer and make other people richer, and he's remunerated financially for it. But I think it crushes him inside. And yet, every day we get to come to what is truly a mission based organization. Where every day the work that we do is to improve the care of our patients. No matter what your role is at Mayo Clinic, you get to do that. I always encourage my team members to not just think about Mayo's primary value, which is the needs of the patient. But what does that value mean in your role? What can you do in your role for the needs of our patient? That's the difference. Is to be part of a mission based organization is something you must never take for granted. You already touched on this a little bit, but could you elaborate on how the work you do makes a difference for our patients? Lisa, full disclosure. I don't think the work I do makes any difference for our patients, but I like to think, I'm just teasing LMP. The Department of Laboratory Medicine, Pathology really is the bedrock of our practice. Mayo Clinic is the premiere diagnostic center in the world. We have incredible testing capabilities within the labs, combine that with our radiology expertise. Then the third part of the triangle is our amazing clinicians who are face to face with our patients when we provide them with the information that we get from our incredible testing capabilities, share that with the imaging that our radiology colleagues producing. And then give them all the information they need to those front line clinicians. We are giving them everything they need to make them understand exactly what they're dealing with when they are dealing with their complex, complex patients and the complex conditions our patients are facing. What is it that I do for our patients? In my role as the Associate administrator for the Department of Laboratory Medicine, pathology, I like to think that I'm removing barriers for our incredible scientists, physicians, consultants, technicians, developers, allied health staff, all of those people. Removing barriers for them to do what they need to do to help our patients. That's, I think my role is to make sure the people who want to care, who can create these incredible tests, that amazing sensitivities that rare diseases getting them empowered to be able to do that. That's really my role and that's what I can do for our patients. Can you share a story that demonstrates how Mayo Clinic provides you with a sense of belonging? Yeah. Lisa, it happened early on in my Mayo career. I was walking through the halls. It was early evening. The halls of Mayo Clinic were empty out. It was in the clinic. Walking towards me was a father and a young son. And the son you could see had had multiple medical and surgical interventions and wasn't fully ambulatory and he was next to his dad. Young boy. I remember as I got next to them, I I saw the boy look up at his dad and he said something and I didn't quite catch it. And then I saw the dad turned down his son and looked down at him and he said, I love you too, my boy. You're the best part of my day. It killed me right as I got past, but what I realized was this was a young father with a young child. This wasn't their first stop along their medical journey. You could see that the child had multiple medical issues. But that they were here at Mayo Clinic for the first time in probably many years of this medical journey that they were on. They really had hope and they were receiving the healing and the care that doesn't happen, by mistake. That happens because they're surrounded by this great care team that we've developed here at Mayo Clinic. That care team comes from diverse backgrounds and experiences. And we don't treat the person as one disease type or one entity. We treat them holistically and we bring that whole Mayo team around them. I just always thought about that it was just as a young father myself, that ability to provide something for your child and to provide hope for them and to provide relief from their pain or discomfort, things like that. That doesn't happen by accident. We do that because we have these incredible teams at Mayo Clinic that come from these diverse backgrounds and bring everything together to help our patients. That's really, you know, that made me feel great. And you know, we treat patients, you know, we've got millionaires who fly from around the world to come here. But we also treat our local community and we look after everyone. Everyone is welcome at Mayo Clinic. And when they can't afford to pay, we find ways for them to pay or to write off that debt. So it's a great and special place to be. And yeah, I think Mayo does a good job of trying to welcome all into our doors to provide them with that hope that we all deserve, right in our time of need. And that's a very touching story compared to other jobs you've had. How does Mayo Clinic compare? I hope from my excitement when answering these questions, it comes through very clearly that nothing compares. And again, we had only planned to stay here three years and we've stayed 12. And we have no plan of going anywhere else. Because we Mayo Clinic are an incredible institution. We're a national treasure in the United States and globally we are held up as the gold standard in healthcare. We should continue to be restless, satisfied with that. In other words, always looking to be more and wanting to be more than just the status quo. It gives me great pride to work for Mayo Clinic. It gives me great pride when I'm asked out in public where I work and what I do. And I get to talk about Mayo Clinic because of who we are and our reputation. But in terms of Mayo Clinic on the inside, how it compares its head and shoulders above any other organization I've ever been at in terms of how it looks after its people, in terms of how it stays true to its mission and its values. Then in terms of the successful outcomes it has for its patients, it's the full package. And as I said, I'm very proud to be part of the Mayo Clinic team. For the last question, what do you see as your future at Mayo Clinic? I would say that we're a Mayo Clinic family. My spouse and my spouse also works at Mayo Clinic. We both love what we get to do every day. We don't see ourselves going anywhere. It goes back all the way to your first question, Lisa, about what made us choose Mayo Clinic. We grew up in Johannesburg, South Africa. We did all of our original training there and our postgraduate training there. And then we came here for some additional education. And then always planned to go home. And when you come from a city of almost 8 million people, when you come to a city of 120,000 people, it's kind of different. And you know when you've never shoveled snow ever in your life, and now you do it six months of the year, you know? There's a lot of things that don't look like home here. And the draw of home is very strong. And every time I go home and when I come back here, I'm always very homesick. But we stayed, we chose to stay because of Mayo Clinic and I don't see myself going anywhere else. This is where I want to be. This is where I think I really can make a true difference through the work that I get to do every day with incredible people. And I hope I get to do that for as long as as possible. Yeah. Your enthusiasm really shines through. Thank you so much for participating. That was your final question, Lisa. Thanks so much. That was great.