Acute kidney injury um is a definition of damage to the kidney. Kidney is usually a sympathizer with whole body inflammation. When inflammation happens, when blood pressure goes down, kidney is an organ that gets damaged and uh this damage can leave scars in the kidney that future causes future chronic kidney disease or can increase the chance of need for dialysis. Certainly avoiding progression of acute kidney injury uh can help with avoiding causing improve mortality and morbidity in the future. That is very well documented in literature. Uh kidney is a very sensitive organ. Uh it's a canary in the tunnel. Um it gets damaged really easily uh when inflammation is significant enough to cause other organs to get damaged as well. So therefore detecting acute kidney injury can help to understand the prognosis of uh other organ failure as well. Well recently in the past 20 years or so there is a lot of attention to acute kidney injury. The reason is that the recent data shows that acute kidney injury associated with higher mortality and morbidity of ICU patients. uh even in hospital patients, patients who have very minimal acute kidney injury, they they die significantly more than other patients and who did not have acute kidney injury. And apart from that, patients with acute kidney injury has have higher chance of development of endstage kidney disease within uh year or two after their episode of acute kidney injury. H they are more vulnerable for next round of acute kidney injury as well. So it is a significant cost, significant morbidity to patients and hospital cost. In our study uh we looked into um uh initially about 500 patients. We tried to find markers in the urine and plasma that could predict acute kidney injury about uh 12 to 36 hours prior the current markers. This time is critical because uh this allows us to provide prophylactic measures or start treatment of the acute kidney injury or studies on acute kidney injury that can improve the outcome. Indeed, cardiologists did the same thing about mid 1990s with coming up with troponins that improved their outcome and now they have many inter interventions that can improve outcome. Uh so in our study we identified two biomarkers out of a list of 340 biomarkers that subsequently validated in a large multic-enter trial in North America and Europe and these uh study these two biomarkers were able to detect acute kidney injury about 12 hours to 36 hours prior to current uh current way of diagnosis. Certainly if we can uh start using these biomarkers in clinics and in research we can certainly come with uh ways to treat acute kidney injury well before it establishes to a level that can worsen mortality and morbidity of these patients. Uh indeed um in Europe uh it is in clinical uh use. Now we are uh in a phase of initiation of FDA trial. Hopefully if FDA approves it then we can be used in clinics as well. Um again if we use analogy of an cardiology as analogy uh we can see that acute kidney injury uh could be treated. Uh however now we are losing a critical time when cells are injured but they're viable. When we diagnose acute kidney injury indeed cells are dead and there is a very difficult situation to bring those cells back. We just need to maintain patient at this point. However, this gives us opportunity to provide treatments uh that we can avoid further injury or reverse the injuries. So therefore improve the outcome. This is this is uh the goal in the future and we have to wait and see how the therapeutic interventions based on these biomarkers would would show results. Well um acute kidney injury even very minimal rise in uh biomarkers current biomarkers of blood which is serum creatinine by.3 migram per deciliter is associated with about 25 to $5,000 increase hospital cost and we are hoping with avoiding progression of acute kidney injury uh we can decrease length of stay in a hospital admission plus we can uh decrease the hospital cost but by avoiding further renal replacement therapy uh or or other measures. Uh therefore uh eventually in the future these biomarkers can potentially help uh to decrease this cost significantly.