[Music] Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. If you don't first understand yourself, you'll never be able to understand and interact with the world around you. We've talked about the concept of emotional intelligence a lot on the Human Optimization Project, with the four main components being self-awareness, self-management, social awareness, and social management. Today, we're going to focus on all things related to self-awareness, and we have upcoming episodes dedicated to the other three components of emotional intelligence, so keep an eye out for those. For today, our title is "Self-Awareness, the First Step in Improving Your Emotional Intelligence." Our expert guest to help us cover this topic is Kimberly Collins. Kimberly is an executive coach, Enneagram consultant, author, musician, and small business owner. She holds a master's degree in music and is a professionally certified coach through the International Coaching Federation. She co-founded and managed a large orthodontic practice for over a decade, serving as CFO and overseeing HR, operations, and team development. She now works with leaders and teams around the country teaching on topics like self-awareness, personality dynamics, communication, and burnout. She's the author of "Enneagram in the Workplace," which is a fantastic book, and I would highly recommend it. She's also a frequent guest on various leadership and business podcasts. Well, Kimberly, thank you so much for joining us today. Really looking forward to having this discussion with you. Yes, me too. Thank you so much for having me. Awesome. So to get us organized, I like to break these up into three sections, and each one kind of has a theme or a big question. So I'll go through those now. So our first section, our first big question is, what is self-awareness and how does it fit into the bigger picture of emotional intelligence? Second big question, why is true self-awareness rare and what modern traps keep us from understanding ourselves? And then in the third section, we'll try to start talking about some solutions. What steps can one take to start improving their self-awareness in a meaningful way? Sound good to you? That sounds great. All right, let's dive in. So in our first section, we're going to talk about kind of what self-awareness is and how it relates to emotional intelligence. So let's just start with a simple definition. How do you personally define self-awareness? I think that's such a great place to start because self-awareness has been so co-opted by our popular lexicon to mean pretty much anything, depending on who's saying it and the context in which they're saying it. So when I'm working with clients, I like to define it as, it's a conscious knowledge of our inner workings for the purpose of managing ourselves better and understanding ourselves better. And our inner workings can be anything from understanding our fears and our desires, our beliefs, our values. It can be understanding our emotions and our emotional triggers, as well as our body sensations and the information that is giving us so that we can understand ourselves better and show up better in our lives as well. And I like that you use that as sort of a two-part definition. So it's understanding ourselves and our inner workings with a purpose. So expand on that second part where you talked about with the purpose. What is the purpose or intent of it? The purpose is so that you can show up better in your relationships. You can be more productive. You can make more conscious decisions. You're not going through life in an automatic way. So self-awareness is not the goal. It's not the end goal for any kind of self-awareness practice. It's the means for improving your life overall. One of our core values for the Human Optimization Project is intentionality. And I think that's exactly what you're talking about is that these are things that don't just happen in a haphazard fashion, that you're very thoughtful and intentional about what you're doing and why you're doing it. Absolutely. So next I'd like to talk about how it fits into the concept of emotional intelligence. So in our third episode, we had Mary Ann Gini on and she talked about the sort of the overview of emotional intelligence and having four main components with the first being self-awareness and then self-management and then social awareness and then social management as being the four. So obviously today we're focusing on that first one. But can you tell me why that's important and how it fits into the big picture of emotional intelligence? Absolutely. So self-awareness is that foundation and that cornerstone for the growth in all the other areas. And these aren't discrete sections that we master and then move on to the next section. They are influencing each other in real time. And the more that we are able to understand ourselves, the more we're able to manage ourselves, the more able we're able to understand ourselves, the more we can be aware of other people and their emotions and influence those as well. So self-awareness really is the starting point and it has to be continuing to grow as we grow in our skills and other sections as well. So by starting point and foundation, I think it's a great place for people to start on this journey, but it's never really something that you leave. Like you don't finish step one and then go to step two and finish these discreetly. Correct. Absolutely. We always can improve in our self-awareness. Like I said before, it's not a goal. We're never going to get to the end of self-awareness and check the box that we know ourselves and now we can put that to the side. Life gives us opportunities to continue to explore what is going on inside so that we can improve in other areas as well. Okay. So self-awareness, great place to start, but don't expect it to be something that ends. Correct. It's an ongoing journey and then as we get better at it, then we'll layer on those other components of self-management, social awareness, social management. Absolutely. So now we talked a little bit about definitions. Can we talk a little bit more about sort of practical applications and what does self-awareness look like in action in real life? Absolutely. So self-awareness can look very different depending on the person who is using it because self-awareness does not mean being nice and nor does it mean having a cookie cutter personality. It's about being aware of how you are showing up based on what's happening on the inside. And so self-awareness in action needs to be described in more broad terms like being able to respond over react, being able to make conscious choices about what is happening over some kind of habitual response. So that's the biggest broadest way that we can see self-awareness in action, but that could be knowing what your emotional triggers are and being able to step back from it before you can create some kind of bad situation for yourself. It could be knowing what your limits are both energy-wise or emotional wise and creating a life that plays to your strengths and mitigates your weaknesses as well. And it can be also adding more meaning and joy to your life. Sometimes I feel like we live our lives in grayscale. We're just doing things out of obligation or expectation and we lose sight on what brings us joy and what's creativity and connection for us. And so self-awareness in action can also be creating more complexity and depth in our lives. So it's a little bit more than just understanding what you're doing. It's also a little bit of understanding why you're doing what you're doing and what you want to be doing differently. Absolutely. Is that fair to say? Absolutely. What is driving the bus and how can we drive it better? I love it. And a lot of these are things that you're already doing automatically. So it's not like you're necessarily changing your action here. You're just being more conscious of the why behind your behaviors and your actions. Absolutely. So what are some of the benefits of being self-aware? I think some of them are self-explanatory and folks kind of know or at least maybe have a feel for it, but I think it's helpful to put words on it. So maybe in your mind, what are some of the obvious benefits and some of the not so obvious benefits? Absolutely. So some of the obvious benefits, but also things that you can't necessarily measure. Things like deeper relationships, because if you're coming to the relationship with a better understanding of who you are and what you're bringing to the table, you can improve that and you can have deeper, more meaningful connections. Other benefits would be, like I said, creating a more complex, meaningful life, bringing more things in that bring you joy. It could be better decision making. This is an important one, especially for leaders who are having to make so many decisions. If we can make these conscious decisions instead of habitual or automatic decisions, that can really improve in our leadership. It could be better communication as well. There's also some measurable benefits as well. The authors of Emotional Intelligence 2.0, Travis Bradbury and Gene Greaves actually have measured emotional intelligence and have put a dollar amount on improving our emotional intelligence score. At each point we can improve it. There's actually an assigned dollar amount depending on the industry. So if you need that kind of motivation as well, that there is better leadership opportunities, better growth within organizations, as well as better income potential. So it really hits on a lot of the different domains we talk about here on the Human Optimization Project, including financial. We don't talk about a lot, but that's a huge one too. And maybe not, you know, finance, I think is important for all of us. It's critical. Maybe that's not the end all be all, but usually that is because of and related to improved interpersonal skills, increased leadership, you're a better thinker, you're getting more things done. So all of those things are sort of correlated and aligned with one another. Self-awareness, is this something that people are naturally just good at, or is it cultivated over time with practice? I think it's a both and. I think sometimes we can be naturally inclined to certain areas of self-awareness. Maybe we're someone who's really in touch with our physical limits. We know when we are drained energetically, or what really lights us up, or maybe we're aware of our values. That's been something we've focused on from a young age, or maybe we're really good at knowing our goals, or what our emotions are. But self-awareness is such a broad term, and it encompasses so much that leaning on our natural proclivities to be where we get our information would stunt our growth so much. So really self-awareness is about becoming aware of all aspects of ourselves. And there is an infinite amount of information out there for us to dive into. So unfortunately, I think that this is something that, well, fortunately, unfortunately, we can improve on this greatly, but it will take intention and practice. And I'd like to tie that back to one of the earlier points you made about this really being a journey, and not just the destination, you don't finish it. So it would be easy to say, "Oh, well, you were just born with more self-awareness than I am." And that may be true, but that doesn't mean that I still shouldn't try, right? Like, I'm living my life and my journey, not your life and your journey. So regardless of where we are, so if I'm the person who's born with a little bit less self-awareness, that's all the more reason for me to work on it. And same for you. If you're the person who's born with more self-awareness, you still haven't crossed the finish line because there is no finish line. You should still be working on it as well. So regardless of our starting point, we all have room to improve and reason to improve. Absolutely. Now, when we talk about self-awareness and the term self, we have to be careful in managing our ego as well. So I wonder, is there some danger in spending too much time focusing on our self, and then we become too internally focused, and we start feeding our own ego and not thinking about the people around us? Right. And this is a great topic to bring up whenever we're doing a deep dive into ourselves, because our ego is going to be there to play games. And the ego, how I'm using it, is our sense of self-esteem as well as our sense of self-importance. And its main job is there to protect us, protect us from the pain of having to change, protecting our sense of identity. And it is going to play games with us to help us not have to change. And so it's going to employ strategies to distract us from our self-awareness journey, such as defensiveness or denial. Maybe it's going to rationalize things, or maybe it's going to compare and compete with other people. And so it's there to distract us from the pain of having to discover what's going on on the inside. And so there can be a danger of over-looking at ourselves, but if we know what the ego is doing and it's there to protect us, we can have a little bit more of a compassionate look at its strategies and just notice it for what it is doing and continue on in the journey. You use the term compare and compete, which I really like. I think that is at the foundation of ego is a sense of comparison. And where do I stand compared to others? I am better than somebody else, or I'm worse than somebody else. So ego by its very nature is competitive. And I think that to tie that back to the point we've already made a couple of times, we're all at a different spot in our self-awareness journey, different starting point and a different trajectory on our growth. But we have to live our own journey here and should not try to compare or compete with others. I think when we do, that's when the focus on the self becomes unhealthy. When you start to do this to say, "Because I'm doing this, I am better than you." That's when the unhealthy portion of the ego can come in. And we do a lot better just eliminating that and just say, "Hey, I don't know where you..." In reality, none of us really know where another person is. I don't know where you're at, but I know I'm trying to get better. I hope you are too. I'll encourage you in your journey. You do the same for me and we won't compete. We'll work together and try to win at this thing. Absolutely. So speaking of others, one of the areas that I think this comes up in a lot is in conflict resolution. I think that anytime you have two people gathered, there's a good chance for conflict to arise. So how can self-awareness help us sort through those conflicts, whether they be big or small? Absolutely. And I really think this is where self-awareness starts to give us really big gains, is that self-awareness is going to allow us to keep these elements separate. So it keeps me from conflating myself, the problem, and you. If I'm aware of what is going on internally, I'm going to be able to see the situation more clearly. It also helps us with our conflict resolution planning. If we're blessed with time ahead of time to come into a conflict resolution and do a little planning ahead of time, maybe we're able to see what our emotional triggers are around the solution. Maybe we're able to plan what our goal is for the conflict resolution and compare that to our values. Maybe we're able to understand what could happen in it and make some planning around how we're going to de-escalate when things get high. If you're not blessed with time ahead of time, knowing what your emotional triggers are, as well as what your tells are that you are becoming activated, will help you step back from the situation before you say or do something you regret. That's excellent. And we're going to have future sessions about conflict and navigating that. So we'll have dedicated sessions on that, but that was a very rich answer with a lot of things. And oftentimes we go into these situations, we're either not prepared, we don't know what we want, we haven't established the goals that want to come out. We allow our emotional biases to sway how we feel, what we say and what we do, which makes getting to a resolution very challenging. And I think all four of those problems, self-awareness really lies at the root of those and can help us with that. Absolutely. All right, let's transition into the second section. So we're going to talk about why this seems so hard. Like when we talk about it, it's like, that's obvious. Yes, we should all be doing it. Okay, so why don't we? So my first question is, how are we doing with this? Overall, is there a percentage of people that are like considered self-aware versus those that are not? So self-awareness is more difficult to find some direct data about how self-aware we are. But emotional intelligence in general, there is some data out there. And again, I'm going to quote the authors from Emotional Intelligence 2.0, but they found that 36% of people worldwide are considered highly emotional intelligence. 36%. With the rest of us getting about a C average, we're going to get 75 out of 100 on their emotional intelligence assessment. So we've got some room for growth, but we've also got company in being average emotional intelligence as well. Woof. Yeah, right. That's tough. That's tough. Okay, so I will say that's a little disheartening and a little deflating. But I would say to the audience, even though that sounds incredibly negative, good news is if you're struggling with this, you're not alone. That means everybody else is. The other thing I would say too, though, is that if there are these concepts out there that are universally challenging for people, if you can make some small marginal improvements in that, it'll be huge leaps forward for you. So don't let that dishearten you too much. Know that you're not alone and small progress is going to go a long way since we're all doing so poorly. And the world needs it too. Yeah, absolutely. So now is as good a time as ever. So why are we so bad at this? And that's a great question. And I think it comes down to it's hard to be aware of what you're not aware of. A lot of the things that we do are sitting in our blind spots and it's difficult to know what we're good at and what we're bad at. And so I think that's one of them is we don't even know where to look when we're starting a self-awareness journey. I think it's also difficult to put this in high priority in these very busy lives that we have. We have a million things to do. We get from breakfast to dinner without maybe even knowing how we're doing it. We're so on automatic that to add some kind of self-awareness just feels like one more thing to do. And like I said the importance of it as well not knowing the real benefits that it can give our lives even in small improvements like you said big gains with small movements. We're unaware of those benefits and so we push it off to the side waiting for more time that maybe when the kids get out of the house or we retire maybe we'll start journeying down this road. Okay, so we said you know a lot of people may not be aware of the benefits. We just talked about those in the first section so that's no longer an excuse for our audience. We also talked about, you said that some people just don't know what to do. We're going to get to that in our next section. So we're crossing a few excuses off the list for everybody here which I think will be helpful. But I loved your first point. The problem is you're not self-aware because you're not self-aware. If you're not self-aware it's really hard to know that about yourself. So I actually think in these situations it's probably best just to assume you're not as self-aware as you could be. So just take that as a baseline fact. You layer that on with the fact that we said this is a journey and you want to go you know forever. It's an infinite game. Let's just have the baseline that we all could be better at this and we all should be improving. So then that eliminates that problem as well. So we'll slowly keep checking these boxes to eliminate these problems. One of the things that I think is a real hurdle for many of us are emotional triggers. And you mentioned that earlier in the first section. So what are emotional triggers and how do those impact our self-awareness? Absolutely. And emotional triggers in particular are such a hotbed of fantastic information about yourself. So if you're looking again for small improvements with big gains, emotional triggers have a lot of information for us. But emotional triggers especially in my industry is going to be anything, any situation, circumstance, interaction, conversation that is going to make us believe that maybe one of our core fears is about to happen. And we're going to react in an emotionally reactive way that is aimed at protecting us from this core fear from happening. So we'll see lots of fight, flight, freeze, fawn responses to just a simple interaction. And it's because we believe that one of these core fears is going to happen. And this can look very different depending on the person. It could be a text message that was not answered or not being invited on the girls trip. But what it's coming down and boiling down to those core fears is going to be things around feeling loved, feeling like you belong, or feeling like you are safe. And if anything is making us believe that one of those core fears is about to happen, we will react in big ways. Especially if we're not aware that that is something that could happen. I think that's excellent. And I think it was a good point that we all have these different triggers because we all have different core fears. And then there are different things that set those off. So that's going to be an individual answer for everybody. But I think if people spend a little bit of time thinking about it, and if you're in a position to ask a close friend or a loved one, they can probably tell you what yours are. They know what buttons to push. Your kids could probably tell you. Kids could really do it. They're very good at pushing those buttons. And then in addition to triggers that I think can hold us back, sometimes I think our own cognitive biases can do that as well. So are there some common cognitive biases that we're subject to that keep us from being self-aware? Absolutely. There's lots of them out there. A couple of my favorites, one of them is the fundamental attribution error, which I always like to describe to my clients as we judge ourselves by our intentions, but we judge other people by their actions and usually apply that to a fundamental personality flaw. So for example, I cut someone off in traffic. That's not according to my values, but I'm going to give myself a free pass because I was getting my cat to the emergency vet. Somebody else cuts me off in traffic. They're just a rude person who's doing a rude thing. So again, it's that our ego trying to get us off the hook. We're competing and comparing. I'm not that bad because I had a reason to do that. I like describing the fundamental attribution error as if you mess up, it's your fault. I mess up, it's your fault. Yes. That's exactly how I think about that. That's great. Are there any others that commonly trip us up? Yes. I love the Dunning-Kruger effect as well. This one is illustrated in a fantastic study by Tasha Urich. She's an organizational psychologist and she did a study with 50 participants where she had them do a self-assessment as well as interviews with researchers. And then she asked each individual as they came out, "Are you a highly self-aware person?" And 90% of people said that they were a self-aware person, whereas when the results came out in the test, only 10% to 15% were self-aware. So this overestimation of our own knowledge and abilities is the stunning Kruger effect. And that's the truth. We overestimate what we are good at. And sometimes we actually overestimate how bad we are at things as well, but it definitely gets in the way of self-awareness. And I think sometimes when we learn about a new concept, we mistake our own enthusiasm for expertise. So if you're listening to this and you're thinking, "Oh, this is self-awareness. I need to work on this. This is great. I'm going to do it." After listening to this podcast, you will have some tools to start improving. Hopefully you'll have some enthusiasm to do it, but it doesn't yet mean you have expertise to do it. And that's something that takes a lifetime. But don't discard that enthusiasm. Use it. Just use it in the right way. So say, "Hey, I'm enthusiastic to begin my journey to start this process of becoming better at it as well." Absolutely. And I would say too that a lot of times our enthusiasm means trying to improve other people instead of improving ourselves. Right. Absolutely. Any other biases that you would add? Absolutely. I mean, I think that the Halo effect, thinking we're better than we are, anything that the ego is going to employ to try to distract us from the work we have to do, comparing with other people, competing with other people, denying the information that we're coming in, or rationalizing it. So all of these biases are ego's play to distract us from the work we have to do. Good. And ego unfortunately is at the center of a lot of these. Absolutely. Earlier you mentioned, one of the reasons we struggle with this is just that it takes time. Yeah. And time scarcity is a massive problem for all of us. If we had 36 hours in the day, we all think we could conquer the world. How does time scarcity specifically impact our self-awareness? Absolutely. And like I was saying before, I think we all feel like there's not any possible thing that we could add to our day, that we are rushing from the moment we wake up to the moment we go to bed. And sometimes I think too, we assume we need lots of time to use self-awareness practices when really we need the intention to add this to our day. That changes how we see our interactions. If you add the intention, "I want to be self-aware in this conversation with another person," you're going to get information from continuing on with your day, but just being more mindful of how you are feeling in the present moment. Sometimes we're so distracted by what came before or what is expected of us after that we're not even in the moment feeling what we're feeling and noticing that. So self-aware just doesn't require a lot of time. It just requires intention. But this time scarcity is this black cloud that's hanging over our days telling us we don't have enough time and that we just need to wait for this time off in the future when time will open up and we'll have all the 10 days to go on a mindfulness retreat. Right. It doesn't take these huge steps. I like it. So time and intention are different things. Absolutely. We need more intention, not necessarily time. And I think for those that feel like they are struggling on the time front, ask yourself the question, "How much time am I wasting by not being self-aware?" Because so many of the activities that we do, these routines and rumination patterns that we get in with our unhelpful thinking, all of that, a lot of that is due to a lack of self-awareness too. So if we're able to become more self-aware, we might start freeing up a little bit of time in our lives as well. So I think that the investment may be worth it. Absolutely. Good. So what would you say to someone who's hesitant to work on their self-awareness because they're afraid that it might make them look weak or soft? And this is one of the reasons why I always like to bring up that financial kickback from having high emotional intelligence. But really anymore, our cognitive intelligence gets us in the door and our emotional intelligence is our ceiling. In many corporate, especially corporate jobs, your ability to grow within that organization is dependent on these soft skills, your communication, your collaboration skills, your conflict skills. These are what is going to help you be able to grow in that organization how you want to. So it's not just about being nice or again, having that cookie cutter personality. It's about being able to show up with your adult self at the table, not in a reactive state. And that will be what helps you grow in most organizations. Excellent. All right, let's transition to the third section here. You're going to give us the plan on how we can become pros at this. Okay. All right. So our third section is what steps can one take to start improving their self-awareness in a meaningful way. So my first question in this section is how do we know if we need to get better at this? And we've kind of talked about this already, but what are your thoughts on that? I would say if you're wanting to start a self-awareness journey, I think an area that you can look at would be areas that things aren't going well. So again, those areas of emotional reactivity, either it's conflict or it's being very triggered, especially frequently, looking at areas where you're feeling detached and numb or other types of burnout symptoms, areas where you feel like you're just not living your best life. Things, again, are in grayscale and you feel like you're just moving automatically from breakfast to dinner. And so these are just areas that you could look. And the punchline is that we all have areas, if we look at our lives, that things are happening and they're not optimal or they might not be as connected or meaningful as we would want them to be. And these would be areas that would be my first dive in. We all sort of had that sensation at times where we feel like we're just spinning our wheels and working hard and doing a lot, but sort of staying in the same place. Absolutely. And I think if that's you, which it is, it's all of us that this might be a sign that this is something to work on. Because oftentimes that comes from not understanding who you are, what you value, what you want, what you're going to prioritize, and intentionally how you're going to spend your time and effort and energy and intention. Absolutely. Okay. So if we know we can get better at it and we want to get better at it, and now we've realized that we need to get better at it, the question is, how do we get better at it? And this is challenging, I think, for this. I know there's not a step one, two, three, four kind of plan for this, but do you have sort of a general roadmap or framework that people can go through? So where do you start and kind of what are the next steps for this self-awareness journey? Absolutely. And I think it needs to be tailor-made to the person who I am working with, because we all have stressors and expectations in our lives. And the idea of adding something to our life can add a lot of anxiety and a lot of resistance then as well. And so whenever I'm working with a client, I always like to say, this self-awareness journey is about creating a pocket of time so that you are becoming present to yourself and you're able to become aware of your inner workings so you can understand it better and manage it better. That can look very different depending on the person. And then when we're using a practice, either by looking at areas that are not going well, so emotionally reactive areas, maybe we're doing a joy inventory, finding things that they can add to their lives that add more meaning and connection. Maybe we're using a personality framework to help illuminate blind spots for them, or we're just doing a simple observation practice of pausing a few times a day to notice ourselves. The idea is that we start very, very small and we try to be consistent with that small action. And we also try to be very gentle with ourselves as well. A lot of times when we're starting a self-awareness journey, we can push too much to the side of self-judgment and criticism. And the research is out. Dr. Kristin Neff, who's a self-compassioned researcher and her colleagues have shown we change better when we are kind to ourselves. And this doesn't mean letting ourselves off the hook. It means recognizing our humanity that this is hard. It feels hard because it is hard and being kind to ourselves as we're going through this practice. So start small, be consistent, and be very gentle with yourself. I like that. And when you talked about getting started, you know, we are busy. We have a lot going on. You're not necessarily talking about adding in something new to your life. You're sort of talking about just understanding the things you're already doing. Absolutely. Is that fair to say? Absolutely. So taking intentionality into your everyday life and using it as an opportunity of understanding what's going on on the inside when you're still going about your day. So it could be as simple as setting a timer, you know, a couple of times a day and taking two minutes and noticing what is happening at this moment. What am I feeling and what do I need? And that can be enough to give you a lot of information. I'm really stressed out right now and I could use a break and then taking that break if you need to. So it doesn't have to be big. It just has to be consistent with a lot of good intentionality to it. And this is something you can work into your everyday life. You don't necessarily have to like leave everybody, close the doors, turn the lights off, go to a quiet spot for 15 minutes. You could say, all right, while I'm driving in in the morning or I'm on the bus commuting or riding my bike or on the treadmill, whatever, just reflect a little bit on what you did today and what went well, what didn't go well, why you said this and why you didn't say that and those types of things. So I like that concept of adding intention, not necessarily time. That's a huge takeaway for me. Can we talk a little bit about the appropriate mindset a person needs to be in to do this? So you mentioned we're going to start by just sort of reflecting on the things that you're already doing. And then sort of the next point you made was you have to be kind to yourself and be forgiving and know, which should be easy if you know this is an infinite game in a lifelong process. So be much kinder to yourself, take a long term approach. Let's talk a little bit about the mindset that you have to be in here. And I think this gets a little bit of the concept of the fixed mindset versus growth mindset. And how does that play into this? Absolutely. So the idea is that we need to be open to the changes that we're going to come across. And that will require us again to have that self-compassion approach for ourselves. We're not going to be able or willing to grow if we feel like we're going to meet judgment every time we uncover a new bit of information. And so taking that growth mindset, that's going to be about giving ourselves the kindness and the space to do that. We've talked on here before about being an emotional scientist and taking how you feel in your emotions as a piece of data. Yes. Without judgment. Like a scientist, you know, you look at all the, hopefully a scientist will look at all the facts, do the experiments, put it all together, and then make a conclusion based on the facts objectively and without emotional bias. And I think that we should do the same thing. It's really hard because most of these topics are emotionally loaded, but we really need to be a scientist rather than a judge. So just say, this is information. I'm going to use this in the process to improve. I'm not going to necessarily condemn myself or others, or don't want to overly inflate myself or others. And then the ego part sort of takes control. Right. Exactly. We also talk a lot on the Human Opposition Project about understanding your own values. And I think that's a key component to self-awareness and knowing yourself. So can you talk a little bit about how a person's values tie into this? And here we define values as the things that you find meaningful and important to you in life. So, and ultimately I find most people have a general sense for what their values are, but aren't really able to articulate them. How does that hurt us in our self-awareness journey? Absolutely. And values are such a rich source of information about ourselves and they do require a little bit of specific diving into. There's some great values inventories out there. One is Brene Brown has one on her website where she has a whole list of values and has you go through a process of narrowing down to three or three to five that really describe what you want in your life and what you are striving for. Values can be such a great source of information for self-awareness too, because if we are now aware of what our values are, we can slow down and be weighing decisions and goals we have against these values that we have now cultivated and are in front of us written on a card three to five different values. And they can help guide us when emotions get high because it brings it down to things that are truly meaningful for us. Sort of gives you that North Star that you can use to guide yourself. What about the concept of identity? Because I think a lot of this is we all have a little bit of an idea of the person we want to be or at least the person that we want the world to think we are. And so much of our actions and our words and our thoughts go into trying to build this identity that may or may not be consistent with who we really are. I wonder or worry that sometimes our desire to continue to carry that identity forward may cause us to be less self-aware or at least deny the parts of ourselves that aren't consistent with that identity. Maybe that's helpful sometimes but probably harmful in a lot of scenarios. So how does that factor into self-awareness? Absolutely. And identity is such a fascinating topic and we all have in our back pocket a number of roles that we would identify as me. And the more closed off and fixed those roles are the more inflexible and rigid our identities become. And as a result more weak our identities become and more subject to burnout and attack and breaking under the pressure of day-to-day life. The research is out and it shows that the more complex our identities as well as the more flexible we can be in who is me. And me encompasses both good and bad parts of me that plays into our humanity and it's actually more flexible but strong than this rigid weak sense of our identity. And I think defining our values as we talked about in the last point really helps to inform that or shape that because often times I think we'll try to create an identity for ourselves that's rooted in what we think the world values rather than what we as individual values. And then we subject ourselves to trying to live out to the world's standards and we're chasing the world's definition of happiness which is very fickle and always changing. And so it ultimately sets us up to be pretty disappointed and unsatisfied. Absolutely. We're kind of sponging in the expectations from the outside world and trying to use that as a way to make us happy or more fulfilled when really this is outside information that has nothing to do with who we really are. So this topic is obviously focused on the self, being self-awareness, but I want to know is there a role for other people to help you? So is there value in having some form of accountability with friends, family, co-workers, professional coaches, consultants like yourselves? So how do we bring other people along in our self-awareness journey and how can we participate in theirs? Absolutely. So anytime somebody has maybe a history of mental health issues or trauma in the past, of course, a professional should be in that conversation, a licensed therapist to help with that. Bringing other people alongside, especially friends and family, these need to be trusted individuals, but they also can shed a light on areas that maybe you weren't aware of like we talked about earlier. Sometimes it's hard to be aware of what you're not aware of, you know, is that catch 22. So bringing in friends and family trusted others who are going to speak truth into your life with kindness would be how I would put that boundary around that. Of course, we'll have lots of people who would tell us what's wrong with us, but it might not go that well. And then coaches as well can come alongside and be a neutral third party who can walk alongside individuals who can point out areas of blind spots, but are also not emotionally invested in your outcome. That's the only caveat I would say to friends and family is to some degree, they are emotionally invested in you either improving or seeing their view of you. So being aware of their bias will help you be able to take in that information without taking it too personally. So ideally, you would love somebody, your accountability partner in this, to be somebody who knows you and understands you, who wants to see you succeed, but is not necessarily emotionally invested in the outcome. Absolutely. Which is challenging. That's very challenging. So you need somebody with relatively high emotional intelligence. I'll be with us. That's what we all need to be working on this. Yeah, we'll find those 36%. Yeah. Excellent. Okay. Well, this has been an excellent discussion. I've learned a lot and I appreciate it. I sort of filled my page up with notes here. So I'm going to take a minute kind of as we start to wrap up to summarize everything that we talked about. So I loved your definition of self-awareness in the beginning and that it's this ability of knowing your inner workings, but also with purpose and intentionality. So it's not just being aware, but it's also being aware with a purpose and with intention. And we talked about self-awareness as a foundational concept of emotional intelligence, which we've hit on several times. We talked about how self-awareness can influence the ego, good and bad. And that ego by its very nature is sort of competitive. That's not the goal of self-awareness. And then it's not to do this so that you can then lodge yourself above other people. Unfortunately, you told us that only 36% of us are highly emotionally intelligent, but I think that's motivation for us to all get better. We know that we're not in this alone. Some of the challenges that we commonly have is that we're not aware of what we're not aware of, which is sort of by definition, somebody who's not self-aware. It can be challenged to make this a priority. Time scarcity is always an issue. We don't know what to do. We don't know what the next steps are, and we're not always aware of the benefits. And I think we've checked most of those boxes off for people in this discussion today. We also talked about emotional triggers and cognitive biases to be aware of, all of which I think were really good. You're lying about time and intention not being the same thing. I think it's fantastic. So this is something that doesn't necessarily require more time. It just requires more intention. And then you gave us some tips on how to figure out if we're doing well at this. So ask, you know, what's not going well in your life? Do you feel detached in the number? Are you not living your best life? Do you have periods where you feel like you're spinning your wheels? If so, check into your self-awareness. And then lastly, you gave us a wonderful plan in the third section. I'm going to just summarize it real quick, or at least my notes. So first, you don't have to add something new to your life. You can start with the things you're already doing. Just give more attention, not necessarily more time. You want to observe. You want to start small. You want to be very kind to yourself and not overly critique yourself. We're taking a long-term approach. You need to be open to changes. Do not judge your emotions, but be an emotional scientist. Use them as data. Tie it to your values. Think through your identity, and then get appropriate accountability as you outline for us in that third section. So you've answered the three big questions for us masterfully over the last 40 minutes, but I want to give you a chance to kind of give the discrete kind of rapid fire answers here. So our first one was, what is self-awareness and how does it fit into the bigger picture of emotional intelligence? So self-awareness is the conscious knowledge of our inner workings for the purpose of being able to understand ourselves better and manage ourselves better. And it is the cornerstone for emotional intelligence in general. It is the starting part for our journey and something we're always going to be circling back to. It's not a goal, it's a process. Love it. Our second big question, why is true self-awareness so rare and what modern traps keep us from understanding ourselves? Right. So it's difficult to know and be aware of what we're not aware of. We're in a catch-22 when it comes to self-awareness. So that will keep us from going on this journey. It's also difficult to prioritize when we have so many other strains on our time and our attention. And it's hard to know how to prioritize this against other things that are coming in. And of course, our ego is going to come in and play all the tricks that it can to distract us from the pain of change. So we'll have to be combating that or at least compassionately coming alongside it as we go through that journey. And what steps can one take to start improving their self-awareness in a meaningful way? Absolutely. So it's all about bringing intention and presence to our day so that we can be more self-aware of how we are moving about. If you're going to bring a self-awareness practice, always start small, be consistent with that practice, and be really gentle with yourself. And if you're finding that you're struggling at all or you need an extra pair of eyes on your blind spots, bring in the appropriate accountability. Who will support you in that journey? Very well said. So we always like to end this with a call to action or a challenge. And we really try to encourage people to start putting these things into practice. Rather than just learning about it, we want you to actually use it and change behavior. So our challenge for today, you set this up very nicely for us in the third section. So go back and review that third section and listen to all the different steps that Kimberly laid out for us. But we're going to start with the first one. So next time you are either in your car, on your bike, or on the bus, you know, going to school, work, or wherever, just take a couple of minutes and, you know, turn the earphones off or the radio off and just reflect on your day, either the day before or that day, and ask yourself, "Why did I say what I say? Why did I do what I did? And why did I feel how I felt?" And just ask yourself those questions and reflect. And then the second part of that is, whatever the answer is to that, when you figure it out, do not judge yourself for that. Just use that as data. So that's the challenge. Super small step. You can do it in two minutes and make it a part of something you're already doing as a part of your regular commute. So that's our challenge for the audience. So Kimberly, thank you so much for joining us. This was a fantastic session. I really appreciate you coming in and letting us learn from you and from your expertise and all your experience. Absolutely. Thank you so much for having me. Excellent. So for our audience, our session today was entitled "Self-Awareness, the First Step in Improving Your Emotional Intelligence." Hopefully this will help you get started in that process. If you enjoyed this, go back and listen to our first discussion on self-awareness, our own emotional intelligence with Mary Ann Gennie, and then we're going to have future sessions coming up on self-management, social awareness, and social management. So be on the lookout for those. And as always, remember to live intentionally, consistently better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you like this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback?