[Music] Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. If you lead a group, team, family, or set of friends in any way, I'm sure you'd like to be able to boost their morale, increase engagement, decrease turnover, and improve creativity. Well, one scientifically backed way to do that is to become a servant leader. The concept of servant leadership has been around for many years and for good reason. Multiple studies show substantial improvements for groups who are directed by servant leaders, and data also suggests that it improves the joy of the leaders themselves. It's a win-win. Accordingly, our topic today is servant leadership, how serving creates winning teams in work and life. Our expert here today is Heidi Dieter, chair of the Department of Research Administration at Mayo Clinic. Heidi has extensive leadership experience across many roles in multiple industries. At Mayo Clinic, she served as the development administrator, administrator for practice and research operations, vice chair of research administrative services, chief operating officer of the Center for Science and Healthcare Delivery, and is currently the chief research officer. Prior to joining Mayo Clinic, she was a senior administrator for MannerCare, MultiCare Genesis, and Marriott Senior Living Services. Heidi, welcome to the program and thank you so much for joining us today. Yeah, thanks for having me. So we always like to keep it organized around three big sections. In each of those sections, I have a specific kind of big question that we like to ask. So in our first big question, that is, what is servant leadership and what are the benefits? Our second big question of the day, why do so many of us struggle to put servant principles into practice and what common traps derail us? And then in the third section, we'll start to get into some solutions. So our third big question is, what concrete practices can anyone adopt to lead through service and unlock peak performance? Sound fair? That sounds great. All right, it's a tall task, but I think you're up for it. I look forward to figuring it out with you. All right, let's do it. We'll do it together here. So we'll start in that first section where we're going to just really kind of talk about what servant leadership is and what the benefits are. So this concept of servant leadership has really been around since the 70s. It was initially described by Robert Greenleaf, but much has changed since then. We're living in a very different world. So can you give us an updated definition? How do you define servant leadership in modern times? Yeah, and actually, I'm not even sure if I would say the definition is different. I mean, there is a ton that has changed in the world, no question about that. But when you think about it, the ultimate definition of servant leadership is serving other people. That doesn't change over the course of the decades, right? So it's really just about taking care of your employees. Wonderful. So I love things that kind of transcend time. And I do think that this is a concept that absolutely does that. But I like what you said and that how we do it may look a little bit different than it did in the past. So we hear a lot about these different styles of leadership. So servant leadership is kind of one style. A couple of the other styles we hear about that are really popular are transformational leadership or charismatic styles of leadership. Can we go through each of those and maybe explain how are those the same or different than servant leadership? Yeah, well, starting with servant leadership, I would say that really comes from a place or a posture of humility, right? I mean, you have to be really humble to be a servant leader. So then when you contrast that with something like charismatic leadership or transformational leadership, now you're talking about what is the focus, what is the posture of the leader? And when I think about transformational leadership, I think about you're trying to change something. There's something in the organization that you're trying to change and you're getting people to drive towards that specific change. When you think about charismatic leadership, you're talking about the individual themselves, their communication style, how they go about doing the things that they do. You can probably be a servant leader and also charismatic and transformational, but the focus I think is different in what you're trying to accomplish. And I kind of think of these as sort of descriptors or flavors rather than distinct categories. It's not like a multiple choice test. You only get to be A, B, or C, right? There are different components to each. And I think that oftentimes some of our best leaders do a really good job of recognizing the situation and recognizing the needs and sort of molding themselves to that. Totally agree with that. Absolutely agree with that. Situations require different types of leadership at different times. Right, absolutely. So when it's done really well, what does servant leadership actually look like? Yeah, I think about the people that have done servant leadership really well and what are the characteristics that they have. And at Mayo, we're so fortunate to have such a strong culture. Call it our rich ties. So it stands for respect and integrity and compassion, healing, as well as teamwork and innovation, excellence and stewardship. So our culture at Mayo really fosters that type of leadership just because of the values that we have and the people that we bring in. So when you think about, okay, how do those play out? How do those values play out? Well, suddenly you've got really engaged teams. You've got high morale and high engagement. You've got people that are using discretionary effort to work really hard and get things done because they believe in the values that we have. And I think when we talk about Mayo, we had an episode previously at episode four with Christina Zormer, we talked about sort of creating winning cultures. I do think that the culture really lends itself to the leadership style or sort of dictates the leadership style and vice versa. So I think in certain environments, it's much easier or much more natural to be a servant leader or transformational or charismatic or sort of all of the above. What are your thoughts on that? Yeah, I completely agree. One of the examples that I was looking at recently was in our own organization, Sister Generos, who's no longer with us, but she was the St. Mary's Hospital administrator for many years, like 1971, 1986, somewhere around that timeframe. And Mayo's history started with the Franciscan sisters. So you think about the culture that they bring, the values that they bring into an organization. And Sister Generos was, she was a servant leader, no question. She led by example. And she had a phrase that she used to share that values are caught, not taught. And so she would go around the hospital and she'd be cleaning the floors or serving meals to patients. That was the kind of leader that she was, and that was the kind of leader that she aspired other people to be. So in an organization like Mayo Clinic, it's very easy to be a servant leader. That's a lot of the people that are here, are servant leaders just based on our culture. So can we talk about the benefits of doing it? Obviously, it wouldn't still be around as a concept for whatever that is, 50, 60 years. And honestly, it was sort of named servant leadership in the 70s, but it's really been around since the beginning of time. And I think something like this wouldn't transcend time unless it were effective. So I'm curious, what do you think are the benefits to the group when the group is led by a servant leader? Yeah, I think one of the main things that I have noticed over the years and really high functioning teams is that there's a strong amount of trust. So that's kind of the basis of strong teams. I think about a book that Patrick Linceoni wrote called The Five Dysfunctions of a Team. And when he's talking about how do you have really high functioning, effective teams, it's based on that foundation of trust. So servant leadership starts with trust, and then you've got a team that is strongly committed to each other because they know that they have each other's backs. So that would be the first thing that I would say. Definitely you see an increase in productivity. You would see an increase in retention. Once you have strong teams, they don't want to leave each other. So they tend to stay together and employees don't want to leave, and other employees want to come in to that. So it's that high morale, higher engagement that I've seen in the past from teams that are really high functioning. You know, we talk a lot about joy in the Human Optimization Project and how important that is in improving our well-being. Really, the three big factors that really drive all of us to joy in our own versions, but they're things like having meaningful interactions with other human beings, fulfilling a purpose, and making forward progress. And all the things you just talked about, you know, building trust, increased productivity, increased retention, improved relationships between co-workers, and then also making the job desirable, really get at that as well. So I do think that's one of the hidden benefits that people don't realize is that if you're in that sort of environment where those things are coming true, you're just you're going to be happier. Absolutely. Life is going to be better. Yeah. And I think that, you know, we can't expect our life to be pure joy all the time, but the more of it we can find, the more it's going to help. And that also gives us the increased bandwidth to then, you know, work really hard, go above and beyond, pull those late-nighters, or we can, you know, when we have to, we have extenuating circumstances, we have to push ourselves a little bit harder, we're able to do that if we have this reserve of joy that we're pulling. Yeah. Work is so much more fun if you enjoy the people that you're doing the work with, right? Absolutely. There was a story about another servant leader, Herb Kelleher. He was the CEO of Southwest Airlines, and he talked about happy employees make for happy customers, right? And so it made me reflect on some of my earlier years as a leader way back in the day. And I learned so much from my employees. I'm so thankful, so grateful for them being patient with me. But I didn't start my career as a servant leader, right? You're young and you're new and you jump in and you are really focused on what do they want me to do? I have to deliver results, right? I remember working for Marriott and Hotel, and they also had a healthcare division that I was in. And I remember my employees when I came in, these were high level managers, very capable. And I was just a young whippersnapper. And they were so great at taking care of me. They really liked to have joy at work. And so I would get these notes on my desk. I would get these cookies with smiley faces on my desk. And I'm like, "What's going on? These people are awesome. I love working with this team." And it took a little while before the director of nursing pulled me into her office and said, "Hey, you know all those things that we do for you?" I'm like, "Yeah, yeah, that's what we want you to do for us." I was like, "Oh, oh, shoot. Okay, I get it now. This is a culture that they're trying to create with their teams, but their leader, me, wasn't quite on board yet." And so reflecting back on Kelleher's comment of happy employees make for happy customers, I was really starting to see Marriott really develops their leaders, which is they want people to really be invested in their employees. And then those employees invest in the customers. And then the financial performance just happens. So that's the three legs of the stool. And learning that really early in my career has completely shaped how I've led ever since then. As you're saying that, you got me thinking about the five love languages, Gary Chapman, and we often tend to show others the love language that we wish to receive in return. And so it's a phenomenal story of thinking about the employees doing that to the leader, saying, "Hey, this is kind of what we want from you." But I think that goes both ways. The leader can then do that for the employees as well. And servant leadership may be another opportunity to do that. So let's talk about... We talked about the benefits to the group. Let's talk about the benefits to the leader. So how can the leader themselves benefit from servant leadership? And I ask this question because oftentimes you think, "If I'm going to be a servant, that sounds rough. That sounds terrible. That sounds like indentured servitude, sort of, "I'm always sacrificing, and this is going to be a huge challenge for me." Is that the case, or can it be more beneficial to the leader? Oh my gosh, it's so beneficial to the leader. I shared the story of how I learned from my team. But you think about when you're mentoring someone, isn't it always that the mentor gets more out of it than the mentee? It's the same thing with leadership. So I'm thinking about, again, all the things that my teams have taught me over the years. But what you get out of it as a leader is that personal growth and development. It's that deeper personal fulfillment. You get stronger EQ, emotional intelligence. You've got stronger trust from the team members. You trust them. They trust you, which has all sorts of fabulous ramifications from it. Stronger influence. It's just all about growth. And as a leader, you don't want to be the one that's teaching everybody. You want to be in it as much as your team's in it. So the more growth that you can receive as a leader, the more it goes back and forth between you and your team, which there isn't anything greater than that. It becomes that sort of two-way street in both directions. And not to forget, earlier on, you mentioned that there actually is improved productivity and retention. And all of those are benefits for both, the group as well as the leader. So there's some shared benefits in that. So is this something that is applicable just to CEOs and executives? Or is this really true of all of us? Because our listeners are coming from all walks of life and all backgrounds, and we all have different situations. But you could probably make the argument that we're all leaders in some capacity, whether that's over a massive organization, small little team, just our family, or a group of friends. Yeah, you can be a leader in any role, right? I mean, you think about your kids leading on the soccer field. You think about the, "I've got teams that are in the labs doing research." They don't have a title, right? They're just doing their work, but they can be leaders wherever they are. Informal, formal, title, no title, you can be a leader wherever you're at. So all these things apply to individuals. I agree 100%. I think anytime where there are more than two or three people gathered, there's an opportunity for leadership. And actually, it doesn't have to be just one individual in that group. It can really be everybody. I think having a servant leadership mentality opens the door for multiple people to play leadership roles and sort of shares that burden of leadership. Agree. Well, I'll have to ask you a question because as physicians, we consider all of you leaders at Mayo Clinic, but you don't necessarily have the title. How does that play out with your patients? So this is something I actually talk to our residents about a lot, because oftentimes when our residents come in to their medical training, they think of leaders as somebody who's going to be the president of the society or the future department chair or somebody like that. But I tell them you're actually all leaders in every interaction you have. When you're in the operating room as a surgeon, there's a team there and that team needs a leader. When you're making rounds on the wards, you're interacting with a lot of people. There's a team there and you can lead in that. Honestly, when you're just sitting across from a patient, it's just you and that one patient. That's one of the best and most intimate relationships that we have and very important. That's an opportunity for you to lead. And honestly, it's an opportunity for the patient to lead the physician as well in telling their story. And so really, this is in every aspect of our lives. I think no matter what your profession is and also your personal life, too, you're going to lead as a member of your family or as a person who lives on your block or in your neighborhood or in your church group or whatever it is. So the leadership opportunities are everywhere. We just don't always see it as that. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, thank you. So let's jump into our second question. So this is, you know, we talk about this being all over the place. We all have the opportunities to do it every day. Clearly, the benefits are vast. Sometimes we still struggle with it, though. So in this second question, we'll talk a little bit about why this is hard for us. So first, let me ask, overall, how are we doing in this? Do most people who are leaders, do they tend to practice with a servant leadership style and mentality or is this something that's uncommon? So my lens is often Mayo Clinic, right? And we talked about that a little bit earlier, where we have such a strong culture here and such strong values that we often have a lot of servant leaders. When I leave the walls of Mayo Clinic, not as common. So it is a little harder to find people outside of Mayo Clinic who have such a high percentage of servant leaders in the same location, just in my experiences. I think that's very fair. But why is that? So what are some of the most common barriers you've seen that prevent folks from being servant leaders? Well, we're human, which means that we're selfish. Just inherently, we're just selfish by nature. And so you have to actually have a different mindset when you're thinking about servant leadership. And so I think a lot of people want to be servant leaders. It sounds like the right thing to do if you care about people. And yet, you have to be really intentional about it. And so that takes a little more work. That's good. And I think too, along the same lines of sort of being selfish is that oftentimes, we sell ourselves short. We're selfish, we think we have to take care of ourselves. But that's short-sighted. And ultimately, for us to be our best selves, we need all the people around us to be their best selves as well. And so I think that we really do have that tendency to be selfish and let our ego kind of play into this. But unfortunately, I think it fails us in that regard. So what about current time pressures? And that can be a real challenge too. You've got a lot of competing interests, a lot of things vying for your time. Some people might say, "Listen, I just don't have time. It's easier for me to just tell everybody what to do." Absolutely. That's a very real challenge. Ego, time, I think are the top two, in my opinion, that get in the way of people being a servant leader. Because if you think about servant leadership, you're really thinking about the other person. So you're on their timeframe, not on your timeframe anymore. And that means you need to slow down, you need to stop, you need to listen, and the world is going really fast. And it's hard to keep up and the demands are high, both at home and at work. And so to just pause all of that, to listen to someone who might be going through something or to help them walk beside them, that takes time. And you've got to be committed to doing that, or it's not going to work. And I think the time, scarcity, and selfishness actually compound one another. We don't have time, so then we just fall to our default, which unfortunately is selfish and ego-driven. And so in order to rise above that default setting of focusing on the self, you need to actually take the time. You don't have a lot of time. That becomes a real challenge for people. So I think that it requires some intentionality. No questions. No question. You have to actually think about it when you wake up, "How am I going to show up today?" and reflect on it as you're going to bed at night, "How did I show up today?" The good news is if you do that enough, I think that can become habitual, and then that can become the default, which is really nice. So I would encourage people to recognize it may be challenging early on, but that's a short-term challenge. And I think that's also one of the other things that limits people is a focus on the short term. And so oftentimes, you may not see the fruits of your efforts with servant leadership early on. Sometimes it may be a little bit delayed. Right. Yeah, no, I completely agree. I would say, again, having to be intentional about it is a habit. It's something that you have to intentionally develop because it's not going to come naturally. So if you can think about it every day as, "How am I going to show up today?" Get feedback on how you show up, reflect on it, start again. I think that's where it starts to become natural, more natural to you, recognizing that again, you're going to have those days where something happens, a deadline hits, and you're going to have to turn into, "I need this from you now, and I don't have the patience or the time right now to sit down and walk you through it because we're on deadline." But I think for the most part, if you are truly intentional about it, if you really are coming at it from a place of what your heart desires for humans or other people on your team, 95% of the time you can show up in this way and still be both effective and get everything else done that you need to get done in a day, home at work, and you'll feel better about it. It just requires the intentionality and consistency. We all have these preconceived notions of what a leader looks like, and I think oftentimes many of us think of this person who's very, very straightforward, sort of stern, always has the right answers, very clear cut, and almost kind of hard or harsh in their personality. And I worry that that may have some people thinking that, "Well, servant leadership, maybe that's too soft and that it's inappropriate." So are there negative preconceived misconceptions that you think people may have about servant leadership, and how does that limit us? No, I think it's exactly what you just said. I think people think that that's soft, that as a leader you're soft, that you are two people centric, or that you can't make the hard decisions or be directive. And just another example, if you go into chat GPT and you Google the most famous servant leaders, Jesus pops up. I don't know if everybody would agree that he's soft, right? Like 12 disciples and a lot of issues going on there, last supper, wash their feet. Okay, I'm probably not going to wash the feet of my employees. Gross. But he did it, right? It was the ultimate act of humility, but he also held them accountable. And so as a leader, as a servant leader, you can both take care of your employees and be super humble, maybe not as far as washing their feet, but getting close to that. And you can also drive results and hold them to accountability and make sure that they deliver on what they're supposed to deliver on. And still obviously be tough and to experience persecution and crucifixion and whatever else it may be. And there's so many other examples too. If you think about Mother Teresa, Martin Luther King Jr, and all these people that you would consider servant leaderships, nobody thinks of them as weak or soft. Not at all. And I actually think a lot of different leaders have talked about this in the past, that oftentimes weakness is not being able to control our own emotion and change our own defaults. And we've sort of already said that our default is to be selfish and sometimes it is to be harsh. And so actually acting in that way is the weakness. Having the ability to recognize that intentionally change or pivot from that to a servant mentality is actually much more strength. There's more strength required for that. I completely agree. I was doing a little bit of research last year on the word submission. It just gives me prickles in the back of my neck. I don't, I just, the idea of it is like, oh, that sounds so subservient. And so I dug into it a little bit to learn more about it. And what I found is that submission is actually power under control. And when I read that, it completely just flipped the switch on what submission is. And I thought, power under control, like that's hard to do. But when you think about servant leadership, it's the same thing, right? It's you've got power. You've been given the title in many situations. As a CEO, you've been given power, but you don't have to exude that power, right? If your power is under control and you're then empowering your teams to do better, if you're focused on your teams, that's much harder to do than start barking out orders to people. That's easy to do. Getting angry at people, that's easy to do. Hearing something that might not be going the right way and then listening as to why did we get to that point? What do we need to do differently? What are other people's ideas? That's power under control. That's phenomenal. I love that definition. So there's been some research that's shown that managers tend to overestimate their own levels of servant behavior compared to their employees' perceptions. Why is that? Who's right? Who's wrong here? The employees are always right. Employees and customers are always right. It's their perception. It's their perception. That is reality. So they're always right. I think the reason that it gets a little imbalanced in how people feel about this is there's a lot of things that we do as leaders for our employees that our employees don't really know about, right? And it's not like you walk around and say, "Hey, I spent five hours this weekend re-editing a document that you were supposed to have done last week." You just don't do that. But that's our job as leaders is to do that, to take care of our employees, to make sure that they look good when they have to do the things that they need to do. So I think there's this, gosh, if they only knew what I was doing for them and yet it doesn't matter. They need to feel supported regardless of how long it takes you. But I suspect it's why there might be a little bit of a difference. It's probably similar to parenting. My kids don't know what I do for them, right? They don't care. They just want to make sure that at the end of the day they're fed and they have what they need to do. And then they won't notice it until one day their parents and they're like, "Oh, mom and dad did a lot for me. This is how hard this is." I'm anxiously awaiting that day. Yes, I'm anxiously awaiting that day. Well, I think it's good because oftentimes as employees, you're exactly right. We don't see everything that's happening behind the scenes. And unfortunately, as humans, we all sort of have this negativity bias where we tend to think that our distinct threats are negative sentiments are much larger than they actually are in reality. And so unfortunately, we don't tend to give people the benefit of the doubt, which is also true of our leaders. But I think you could argue that if you're somebody who consistently demonstrates a servant type mentality or behavior, your employees are probably more likely to give you the benefit of the doubt and less likely to have that negative bias towards whatever your intentions are. And hopefully when you do something new or you start shaking things up a little bit, they'll say, "Okay, in the past, this has always worked out for us or this person has always had our best interest at heart. So I'm going to keep listening to this and maybe it's going to be okay." Yeah, completely agree. Completely agree. All right. We talked about a lot of the benefits of being a servant leader. Are there risks? Is there a downside to being a servant leader in some situations? Or maybe can you do it to go too far? I think so. I do think that there are a couple of risks. And one is that you are so focused on pleasing your employees that you become a doormat. Right? So suddenly you're not holding people accountable because you're more worried about how they think about you, feel about you than the ultimate results at the end of the day, which we're here at Mayo, we're here for the patient. So we have to be serving the patient and everything that we do. So as a leader, you've still got to hold people accountable. And some days you're not going to be liked for that. So I do think that there is a fine line, like everything else, that you can take a strength and make it too much one way or too much the other way. I think you have to be careful not to necessarily lower your expectations, but perhaps lower the methods by which you try to get them. So you still want to have the team, the company, the group, and the individuals all succeed. And you can't lose sight of that, which I think is really good. Yeah, I agree. Also think that you can run the risk of overempathizing at times. It's important to understand who people are, where they're coming from, and what they're doing. But if you do that 100% of the time, it is mentally and emotionally exhausting. Draining. And so I do think that there's a risk of burnout if you go too far in that direction where you're constantly feeling everybody's pain around you. Yeah. And I can't imagine in your world, you're working with patients and you're having to deliver bad news as well as the good news. How are you helping trainees understand how to compartmentalize? It's a huge challenge for us and where that comes into play in the surgical world, you may see in a clinic day, let's say you see 30 patients, 29 of them are so happy and doing amazing well and they're so thankful. And then you have one that's struggling. And when you leave, what do you remember that day? You remember the one, right? Not the 29, the one. And so it's incredibly challenging and can be overwhelming because you feel a huge sense of responsibility and burden for that. And so I think that we have to do a really good job, one of appreciating the other 29 that are doing well. And we have to celebrate those wins when we get them. Because it's very easy to say, okay, we expect to win. That was the expectation. Good. Box checked. Let's move on. No, no, no, no, no. You got to stop. You got to pause. You got to celebrate. Even the small things. Enjoy it. Even if you expected it. So really don't let the other 29 be dismissed without celebrating that. But then for the one that is struggling, I think you have to sit down and kind of figure out why. And one of the things that's always helpful for me is sitting down with a patient across from him and saying, okay, let's look at everything. What did we do? We did surgery. Surgery went great. There were no issues there. Let's say you're doing physical therapy now. You're going to physical therapy. You're following the plane. You're doing everything you should be doing. Okay. This is not your fault. You know, and so kind of hashing that and saying this is biology of healing or this is a problem or this is a thing that happens. It's an infection. We couldn't help it. And sometimes I think it can be really helpful if you do that with the patient and the family and whoever is involved. And you can say, okay, we understand everybody here is doing all they can to give you the best outcome possible. That also helps us recognize we're all on the same team here with the same goal. So then that burden becomes shared. So you're not the only one with 100% on your shoulders. And we all say we have all done our parts. We will all commit to continue to do our part to kind of help. And then I think you share that. And I think that that really helps. So we try to enjoy the things that are going well. And then we both we share those as well. And then we kind of divide the burden of the things that are not going well. And I think that helps, but it's still really hard. And I still struggle with it. How about for you as a leader? How do you do that? Yeah, it is really hard, right? When you're taking time to meet with your employees, understand what's going on in their lives. I mean, there are days when I'm like, if everybody on the team knew everything that was going on with everybody on the team, people would wonder, how do we even function? How do we even move one step forward? Because these are busy professionals that are dealing with issues with their kids, issues with their parents, issues with finances, issues with you name it. And yet they show up for work every day and try to do whatever they can on behalf of this organization. But as the leader, you know all that and you're trying to manage, okay, I know that this person just got a bad diagnosis, but nobody else knows that. But how do I protect them from some of the tasks that are coming their way without telling people what's going on in their world? And just that general reminder of, hey, y'all, just remember there's a lot of things going on outside the walls of this institution and make sure that you're looking out for your colleagues and you're helping them and you're checking in with them to see how things are going. But it's a lot and the five minute drive home doesn't give me enough time to decompress what happens. So thank goodness for fabulous spouses who are willing to listen to what's going on so you can share that burden with someone outside the walls of work, right? Which as a leader, you often have to share the burden with your spouse or others outside of work. Very good. And I think it gets back to our point we talked about earlier, you have to assume benign intent anywhere you can, you know, and so I think fostering, hopefully your culture will allow you to do that and the servant leadership style will allow people to do that as well. But even then, sometimes it's still hard and sometimes it's just hey gang, we're going through something really difficult. This is going to be very hard and I can't make it go away. You can't either, but we're in it together. I'll at least say that. Our situation is terrible right now. Here are the things we're going to try to do to make it better. I can't fix this immediately. There will be pain and suffering, but let's all get together and band together. And sometimes I think that that's a challenging situation, but at least, you know, hey, we're on the same team and our leader has our back and they're trying to do the best things for us. I think even if that's as far as you can get, that's a huge help. Yeah. Sometimes that's all you need. Okay. So we're starting to talk about some solutions. Let's get into this third section here where you're going to give us the easy plan on how to be an excellent servant leader all the time. Sure. Okay. So my first question though, before we get into that is, is this something that people are just naturally born with, the servant leadership style mentality, or can it actually be developed over time? Yeah, maybe a little bit of both. So what I would say is that I think that people are sometimes wired to care for others. I think about my mom who's no longer living with us. She was absolutely servant leader, even though she didn't have a title as leader, she just took care of people. She loved to do it. That was her thing. So I think people are sometimes wired that way, but even those that are not wired that way, absolutely something that you can learn. Absolutely some new habits that you can develop. It's a mindset shift, right? It's a different posture. And so you have to be intentional about it. But absolutely, there are things that people can learn and put into practice. Well, my mom's the same way. And I always felt that way about her. She's naturally like that. And if you look at others, think of Mother Teresa. I bet Mother Teresa was probably born a better servant leader than I am. Yes. But I also think she worked harder at it than I do as well. And so sometimes you get that combo of somebody who just has a natural tendency towards it, but then literally dedicates their entire life to it. Yeah. That's unbelievable. And that's where you get true superstar leaders. But we don't have to necessarily measure ourself against the Mother Teresa's of the world, right? And so honestly, yeah, some of it probably is you're born with or not, but that doesn't matter. That's happened. You didn't have any control. Now you got to look at what you can control. And so it doesn't matter where you are on that scale of how much you were given. All of us can improve. Even Mother Teresa could improve and did improve over the course of her lifetime. And so those of us that were born with zero servant leadership ability do have some room to improve. My next question is, how can I tell if I need to improve? So is there a way I can say, I'm doing pretty good at this or I'm not so good. I need to work on it. Yeah. Sometimes you have to be careful about your own self-awareness. Some people will lean towards, yeah, I've got this dialed. I'm great. I'm a fabulous servant leader, which is probably a problem. Yeah. Get back to see you portion about ego and selfishness earlier, right? I mean, a humble person probably isn't going to say that. Sure. But on the flip side of it, you might also beat yourself up because you're not Mother Teresa. So how do you know where am I at on that scale of one to a hundred? Where do I, where do my current skills align? Again, ask your employees and they might not tell you to your face, right? Because it's a vulnerable place for them to be. But if you're starting again from that place of humility and you've built trust with your team, my team's pretty good about telling me when I'm off, they won't come and say, Hey, you're being nasty. They will say, Hey, when's your next vacation? Like, Oh, okay. It's time. It's time. Let's get you out of here. Do you think fun plans this weekend? Oh, okay. Maybe I need to take a step back and recalibrate. Sure. But I think, you know, again, Mayo Clinic does such a great job of leadership assessments that oftentimes they come out in a leader 360 where someone or there's consistency of, gosh, we just don't feel like we're getting what we need from this leader, especially in a culture like ours. It's kind of squeezed out where if people aren't servant leaders, they don't tend to last very long, but absolutely build those relationships with your employees and other colleagues to understand what are you hearing from my team members? What does my team saying about me? And then asking your team, how am I doing? You know, one on one in group settings, how am I doing? Okay, is there something that I could improve on? And again, they're not going to give it unless you're already vulnerable and have built trust with the team. So you need to start there. And I like that you said employees, team and colleagues too. So it's not necessarily just the people that you're leading, but you can also your peers and other leaders or superiors or family members. And one of the things that I find helpful is that sometimes it's hard if you haven't really cultivated that environment of radical candor where people feel like they can talk to you, it can be challenging for somebody to say, Hey, Heidi, here's what you're doing wrong. And so you kind of have to open the door for them. And so I'll often say, Hey, tell me three things that I should do better. And because now I've, I didn't actually even ask them. I told them this is technically a command. It's like, tell, I want to tell me. So I want this and I'll say, tell me three, not one, three. And so then even if they can't come up with three, they're more likely to come up with one if you know, if you ask for three. So I think there's some ways you can do that, where you open the door to say, I'm coming to you for this. I really want this. In fact, I want you to tell me three things. Like I want a lot of this, that can be helpful. So those are a couple of other tricks. Okay. So now that we know that we can get better at it, and we know that most of us need to get better at it. Can you tell me how we get better at it? That's the big question. And I know this isn't like an easy, you know, five step process to become the world's greatest servant leader, but can you outline some steps that I can take to become a better servant leader? Yeah, absolutely. And I want to go off of what you just said, the comment that you were just making about making sure that your team's aware of what you're trying to do. If you want to be better at servant leadership, it's not like you can flip the switch tomorrow and start putting these things in practice. And then your team suddenly going to be like, Oh, wow, she's a servant leader now. You have to be intentional about the change that you're trying to make. And I'll share a quick story with you. Years ago, when I was starting in administration at Mayo Clinic, I was brought in from another team and I was given a task. And it was based on the role that I had just left. And so I thought, cool, I'm the expert in this space. So I'm going to take off running and I'm going to put some new policies in place and it's going to be amazing. And my teammates are going to love me for fixing this problem for them. Often running, you're smiling, you know where this is going. So I came forward to my team and said, okay, here are all these changes that we're going to make now. Isn't this wonderful? And it was like dead silent. These are my colleagues, right? And they were like, okay, who's the new girl? Does she not know how this works here? And thankfully they were such a collegial group and so kind that they basically said, yeah, who did you ask about any of those recommendations before you decided to share them with us? And I thought, well, I came from the area that, you know, this is related to and so I had all the ideas. I just put them down on paper and they're like, yeah, it doesn't work that way. Right? So kind of reversed on that and went back and did some more focus groups and working with my employees, my colleagues, my employees came up with a better proposal, of course, right? It's always better when it's done in a team, but not too long after that, I had the opportunity to go to a week long executive course at the Center for Creative Leadership. And part of that course, I told that there is like bootcamp for leaders, right? They break you down and then they build you back up in a week. Part of that is a ton of assessments from your employees, your colleagues, your boss and stakeholders. So knowing that I had already made some pretty big missteps with my colleagues, I went to those that I was asking for feedback from and I went to the people that were most critical, right? I was like, I got to fix this and said, I'm going to ask you to give some feedback from me. It'll be anonymous, but I need you to be harsh because I want to change. I want to grow. And so I went to each one of them before I had them do the feedback, receive the feedback when I was away at the week long executive training. And then when I came back, I went to each of those individuals and said, this is what I heard. I don't know what your feedback was, but collectively, this was the feedback that I heard. These are the three things that I'm going to work on. Does this align with what you think that I should be working on and will you hold me accountable? Like you're in meetings with me, you see how I function, you see what I do well, you see what I don't do well. Total game changer. Yeah. Total game changer. Because now they were like, oh, oh, she really does want to do well. She really isn't trying to be a jerk. She thought that was her job. She's new to Mayo. She's learning how to work in a matrixed environment and she wants our help. Let's help her. You gave them ownership in the process. Totally. Yeah. Well, I think one of the risks you run is that if you've been leading in a certain way for so long and then all of a sudden you show up tomorrow as a different leader, everybody's going to say, wait a minute, who's the new guy? Who's the new gal? What's going on here? And there'll be a lot of... It can actually perpetuate distrust and they're going to be confused about who you are. But what you did was you said, I want you to tell me what I'm doing wrong and you let them know that and I'm going to be working on this and then here's what I'm going to do. Will you hold me accountable? I mean, you sort of allowed them to take part in your process. So now they're not surprised by it, which is great. Second, you got better feedback because it's their interpretation and not yours. And then third, they got some ownership in the process and some accountability. Yeah. And we all learned and grew. So then you asked, well, what can we start doing? Listen. You need to start with listening. I had growing up, grew up in the church and the pastor would say, he was a very charismatic leader, by the way, big guy, big booming voice. And he would say, "God gave you two ears and one mouth. Use them accordingly." And so I would say as leaders, use them accordingly, right? Listen more than you talk. Give people an opportunity to share their thoughts before you weigh in and make a decision. So that's a great place to start. Okay. This is fantastic. So as we start to wrap up, any other top tips that you would give somebody who's looking to become a better leader? Yeah, exactly. Show the team members that you care. You need to empower others, let them take center stage. You're not the one taking credit, give the credit to the team. Be transparent and vulnerable. You have to admit when you make mistakes, as big as they might be, as embarrassing as they might be, your team needs to see that you fail too, right? Gives them the freedom to fail as well. And then you have to commit to their growth. Doing all of those things, letting the team know in advance, but then showing up in those ways, your team will see a difference. That's fantastic. I'm taking some good notes here. All right. So as we kind of wrap this session up, I'm going to take a second just to kind of summarize my notes here and some of the things I learned. So early on, we talked about the key elements of servant leadership and really coming down to humility, sort of being at the foundation, but also hopefully it's related to the culture of the group and organization that you're leading and you have to tie it to your own values and see yourself as a steward rather than an owner. Some of the benefits to the group are increased trust, productivity, improved retention, and the jobs more desirable, all of which contributes to joy and wellbeing. Those benefits go to the group, but they also go to the leader as well. So the leader is going to have increased joy and things are going to better align with their purpose and values as well. Some common barriers to being a servant leader, the two big ones, time scarcity and our default mode to selfishness and managing the ego. So many things come down to that, which is really challenging and frustrating. I loved your definition of submission to power under control, which I think was really good. So I think that's fantastic. And then at the end, we talked about some steps that people can take and you gave a great example of how you've done that in the past. So first of all, know it's going to be a slow process. You need to listen to other people, go and get feedback from others and tell them that you're going to get feedback and how you're going to use it. And then really enact that feedback, come up with a plan, share it with others so they can take ownership in it and then continue to foster growth and contentment of the people around you. Fantastic. Good summary. So now I'll give you a chance to summarize here. You've answered our three big questions masterfully over the last 45 minutes or so, but I want to give you a chance to answer them discreetly here. So our first big question, what is servant leadership and what are the benefits? Primary goal of the leader and servant leadership is caring for other people, right? Benefits both for you and the team would be increased morale, increased retention, trust of the team, better productivity. Excellent. Second big question, why do so many of us struggle to put servant principles into practice and what common traps do you? Yeah, as human beings, we're inherently selfish. So we got to get our, get our ego out of the way, put it aside. And our third, what concrete practices can anyone adopt to lead through service to unlock peak performance? Listen more, talk less, empower other people, be invested in people's careers and then be transparent and vulnerable. Excellent. Phenomenal summary, great session, learned a lot, filled up my sheet of notes here. So I appreciate that. As our audience knows, we always try to end this with a challenge. So we want people to learn this content, but then we want them to actually go put it into practice. So the actions and the behavior are critical. So the challenge that we're going to have for people today are the first action step to help you become a better servant leader. Number one is listen to others. So I want you to do what Heidi did and find some people in your life, whether they're your, your coworkers, your teammates, your employees, your boss, your family, your friends, whoever, somebody who knows you well and that you love, um, and, and somebody that you can trust and ask them for genuine feedback on how you're doing on this. And when you do say, like we talked about earlier, tell me some things that I need to improve because I'm wanting to improve. And so do that to start to gather the first of all, just the fact, the act of doing that is a form of servant leadership. Sort of you're, you're, you're turning down your ego and you're being humble and asking. So just taking the steps and doing that, regardless of the feedback you get, you're starting along that process of servant leadership. So take that as your first baby step to start making some progress. Heidi, thank you so much for joining us. This is a great session. Thank you. So to our audience, remember to live intentionally, consistently better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you liked this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us know someone who might benefit share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or topic idea? Email us at optimize at mayo.edu and be sure to look for us on Instagram, X and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.