Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. Our world is fueled by feedback. Most people crave more and it's essential to helping others improve and achieve success. Despite this, most of us still struggle to provide honest, meaningful, and actionable feedback to others. Accordingly, we're leaving a lot on the table by not getting the most out of one another. To help us improve at this, our session today is titled "How to Give Feedback The Art of Being Candid, Clear, and Constructive." Our expert guest today is John Poe, the Department Chair of Education at Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science. In that role, John leads strategic and operational planning, leadership development, fiscal oversight, and performance. With more than 25 years of leadership experience, John has held a diverse range of key roles including management, accountant, clinical practice administrator, business plan leader, revenue cycle manager, graduate medical education administrator, division chair for shared services, chair of quality and affordability, and associate administrator for the Kern Center for the Science of Healthcare Delivery. John's an active member and leader on numerous Mayo Clinic committees and boards including the Charterhouse Board of Directors, Mayo Clinic administrative executive team, Mayo Clinic executive operations team, and the People and Culture Committee among many others. Well, John, welcome to the program and thank you so much for joining us today. Well, thanks Chris. I truly appreciate being invited and would more than be willing to share some experiences that I've had and see where we go from this in a conversation. Excellent, let's do it. So we like to keep things organized. We have three big sections we're going to walk through and I have a big question that kind of highlights each of those. So the first big question we're going to tackle, what exactly should effective feedback look like? And then the second is going to be, why is it so challenging for us to give candid feedback that's also constructive? And then the third, we'll try to get into some solutions and I'll ask, what are some clear practices we can put into place to become better at delivering feedback that works? Great, great. Good with that? Sounds good. All right, so we'll jump into this first section where we're going to kind of define what feedback is and what it looks like. So how do you define feedback and how is it different than general praise or evaluation? Yeah, I know it's a wonderful question. I really, I stress the fact that how we define feedback is important in the sense of, are people actually receiving what we're speaking about, right? Whereas evaluation is pretty clear cut. You either performed well, you didn't perform well, and there's a grading system that's attached in some form or fashion. Well with feedback, it's actually, it's received and there should be actionable steps afterwards, right? And the challenge is, I'd say feedback is not just you wanting to tell someone something, it's why are you telling them this? What's the purpose behind it, right? I can tell you, I've learned in the 26 years working here at Mayo Clinic, feedback is one of the most challenging things for all of us. It really is. It takes commitment, takes time, it takes intent, you have to reflect, you have to really be firm on, are you challenging yourself to understand why you feel like you have to give feedback to? So let me go down that road a little bit. I try to give feedback when it's an opportunity for someone to improve on something, not just on the praise side, but improve on something. And in order for someone to take that feedback, we have to have a relationship. We have to have that trust. We have to understand that we're helping each other. As much as I want to give feedback, I also want people to give me feedback. So that's a position I'm personally trying to take when I want to offer out feedback. Is this something that I could receive and do something with it? Whereas evaluation, you know, you get an evaluation once a year, there's a standard form, it tells you what you're going to be graded on, tells you what, where you perform in relation to what's expected. Well, feedback should not be that formal process in my mind. Feedback is part of our conversation and our relationship. So trust is critical. Well, I think you've highlighted some key elements there as well that are really important. So you mentioned trust. The goal is for improvement. You need to have a relationship with that person, so you need to know them. So I think those are all key elements that must be present in order for the feedback to be effective. Are there some other key elements that you think you would add on to that list? Yeah, you know, I kind of alluded to it in the other words that I was choosing here in the intent. The intent has to be understood. And why do I say that? Because I think sometimes when we feel compelled to give feedback, our emotions are so charged, it's not really feedback. Oh yeah, it's an unloading, an emotional loading. It is. And then it becomes self-serving. Which is almost, yes, therapeutic for the giver, not helpful for the receiver. Right. And I don't translate that as truly feedback. Right. That's one thing that comes out critical for me. Now, I'll also offer up sometimes even stepping back, pausing and saying, "Hey, I should give feedback to this individual for this, for an observation I just had." And I personally stopped for a second and said, "Okay, am I doing this for improvement opportunity for them?" I have to also ask, "Are they willing to listen to it?" So I'm going to point to, is the timing right? So intent and timing are also critical in this. Is the timing right? If I wait, especially if it's off an observation, if I wait too long, the connection for that conversation to really be impactful, diminishes over time in my perception. That's kind of how I read it. And when you say timing, I'm hearing two separate things in there. One, that it has to be timely and probably close to the event that you're given the feedback about but it also has to be an appropriate time where it will be received. But if they've just gotten some terrible news about something else, they're distracted, they're overwhelmed, or they're not going to focus, then that's not going to be well received. So there's a few elements to that in there. Correct. I also think feedback is one of those things that has to be balanced. You mentioned sort of the emotional unloading, which is not helpful. It has to be balanced in that you need enough of a squeeze that you can motivate somebody, but not so much that it devolves into defensiveness or people feel like it's a punishment. And so I think that that balance can be really difficult to navigate. I totally agree. And I'll use a recent example. Typically what will play out is we'll be in these large group sessions or a group meeting or a committee meeting and whatnot, and you'll see an observation. And I feel compelled and maybe I want to reach out to that colleague or a person on our team. And I usually start with, "Hey, you have a few minutes. I want to share an observation." And that's the first signal. If they say, "Sure." Well, it's wrapped around this observation that played out in this committee meeting. I want to make sure you're aware kind of from a lens of me looking at what played out. What do you think? How did it go? So you start with some questions that starts that balancing. That really gives you a sense. Okay. Did they see it? Did they feel it? Did they observe it? Even though they were probably doing it, you know, where are they at? Because if the self-reflection is not there, then there's a great opportunity for people to first receive this in a defensive stance, like you said. The minute you take a position of offense and defense, it's no longer constructive conversation in my book when it comes to feedback. Okay. I also qualify. I use a lot of, "Hey, here's what I saw. Help me if I saw it differently than what you did." So it's not, it's an exchange between us. It's not a one-way street. And that's almost before you even give the feedback. Truly. You're double checking to make sure you're on the same page. Correct. It's like, "This is what I'm seeing. Tell me how you're seeing it. Let's get alignment on that first." Right. Then we'll go to the next step and talk about how this is good or bad or, you know, consistent with what we're wanting to accomplish. Very much so. Because if you get that reception back, that's not going to be that constructive, or you feel like, "Wait a minute. They're not in the right head space. They're not ready to hear anything that may be helpful." Then don't push it. Right. The minute you push it, now you've derailed yourself on possibly being successful in this. Yeah. Excellent. You also mentioned earlier that this has to be goal-oriented or forward facing. Right. You have to do this with the intention of improving some behavior or action or something in the future. Right. Which I think is sometimes not always the case with praise or evaluation. That's another way that feedback is distinguished. So tell us a little bit about how you think about the next steps after feedback, how it's important. Yeah. I think the next steps after feedback is follow-up with the individuals. I not only want to focus on one event, but let's say we provide feedback to a colleague and the colleague says, "This is great. Okay. I want to pay attention to this." We actually at times make agreements amongst ourselves and says, "Okay. Next time I'm presenting, can you watch for this?" Or vice versa. Sometimes I'll actually say to the individual, "Hey, tell you what. Look, when I'm presenting, feel free. Observe how I'm doing this. Is it impactful? Is it helpful? Evaluate me." Okay. So we become supportive of each other in this conversation. Now it's interesting, in that same train of thought I would offer up, everyone should be able to give feedback. This isn't just because I'm in a position, I'm in a role. Right. I actually want you to be successful no matter who you are. So feedback should be a commitment that we come with. Okay. That's the forward thinking. It should be part of who we are to help each other. Okay. I can tell you, I'll take feedback from anyone. I feel like that's how you grow. It can't be positional. Otherwise, it's just, it's not true. And I think your willingness to receive that feedback from others is going to make them more willing to receive it from you when it comes. Yes. They know you're open to it. So they say, "Hey, this guy, he takes it from me. He must think it's important." Yeah. I tend to say, "If I'm willing to give it, I'm willing to receive it." Right. That goes with the humor. It goes with the feedback. It goes with how we treat each other. Yeah. I love it. All right. So let's talk about some of the benefits of giving feedback. I mean, some of them are obvious in that the whole goal is improving performance. Right. All right. So we know that's an obvious benefit if you do it well. What are some other benefits? We've alluded to a few, but... Yeah. Well, personally, I think some of the benefits of feedback is it rounds us. So I was a coach for youth soccer for 11 years, and I found the best way to actually have the team come together and operate as a team is to provide feedback that they're willing to listen to. They, as a team, can build around it. They see the motivation. They see the opportunity for improvement, and they see the wins. So what's the definition of the wins? So feedback for each person's got to be defined a little bit differently. We have colleagues that, you know, they want to grow off of feedback for the next promotional opportunity. There's nothing wrong with that. We have colleagues that want feedback because they want to better themselves individually. That's fantastic. We have colleagues around us consistently saying, "Hey, how do I become X? How do I better myself?" Well, it starts with feedback. Are you willing to take it? Are you willing to hear it? Are you willing to actually give it? I think people, when they get good at hearing feedback, they also become some of the best people to give feedback. Yes. Yeah. And I think that enriches relationships too. And this may feel like a stretch for a lot of people, but I actually think that well-done feedback has a very clear and direct link to joy. If we look at the things that generate joy in our lives, there's really three things. Fulfilling our purpose, making progress towards goals that matter to us, and meaningful connections with people. And you can use feedback to do all three of those things. Realign behavior with purpose, show that people are making progress or help them to make the progress. And if you do it well, now you deepen a relationship and you make a connection with somebody. So I think if done well, that can be a good joy builder. I totally agree. I've seen it actually work for the betterment of individuals. They feel much better after the feedback's received, frankly, for those reasons. Just like you said, it's the joys, the impact, the impact we create around us through people. I'm at a point in my career that you start thinking about purpose again, right? Yeah. Part of that purpose is what impact have I had on others? I'm not nearing retirement, but it's in the future. I talk to some colleagues that are in a like situation. They talk about, "Well, I can remember this person, this person, this person. Why?" When you ask the why, they say, "Well, this person actually helped me. How did they help you?" Well, we had a conversation around X, Y, and Z. This is how they helped me be a better person in this environment. And those memories alone tell you the impact was positive. I think that's what we want to do. If there's a legacy to be loved, it's about how you made people feel. How did you help them? How do you improve? Were they part of a greater whole? That's how people get their joy in my book. Now, there's a few. There's a few that are very driven. They want to be the first recruit. They want to be ranked number one. They want to be climbing the ladder. That's fine, but I bet you if you get to the core, part of this is actually being part of a bigger whole. And that's what makes males culture, personally. And I think all those things are easier to do on the positive side, but oftentimes feedback has a real negative feeling or a negative connotation to it. Yes. So how do you navigate that positive versus negative feedback? Or maybe those labels aren't even appropriate. Yeah, no, I actually think they are. And I would say sometimes when I thought I was giving good feedback, it actually backfired on me. And it backfired in the sense because I wasn't reading the person well enough that I understood that, hey, they're not, the words I'm choosing are not the words that are being received. And it turned into a scenario where they had one recent example, a recent last, probably five years ago, the person felt like I was talking down to him and I didn't read it that way. And it didn't happen. It didn't come to my attention to that person expressed total disappointment in how I was treating them. And I thought, wow, I had a pause and I had to reflect. And part of that pause was to say, okay, I thought I was doing it this way. Right. And I actually sat down with the individual and I said, listen, thank you for telling me you felt that way. I'm trying in our conversations to get a sense of where you're coming from. Am I saying stuff that's either provoking emotions that are not most favorable here? And the person said, no, I felt like you were actually testing me because I was asking questions. I said, interesting. I said, I appreciate that. It helped me refine how I approach giving feedback because I tend to like to ask questions. I'm an old auditor. Part of that auditor career was to understand how to get people to understand that the audit function was here to help them, not to police them or whatnot. So I always tried to go up my questions with a non-threatening. I thought, I got to pay attention to this. They felt like I was testing them and I was really trying to seek to understand. Well, and that gets back to what you mentioned at the beginning about really knowing the person that you're giving the feedback to and maybe, and it's hard. That's really challenging to do, but sometimes the way you do it is through the feedback, right? Like through that experience, maybe it didn't go so well. The first round, it was double feedback. You figured it out now, right? All right. Let's slide into our second section here. We're going to talk about why this is so challenging for us to give good, candid and constructive feedback. So what are the most common mistakes you see people make when trying to give feedback to others? Yeah, not checking themselves with their emotion, right? Feedback is intended to provide examples of opportunities for improvement and action to be taken for that improvement to happen. But typically what plays out is the emotions get so heated in the moment and someone strikes and I've seen it. I've done it. We all get tired. You just need the colleagues around you that say, "Hey, wait a minute. I know what you wanted to do, but here's what you did." Even the person giving the feedback. And I think that's where the breakdown happens. The minute you get this opposition scenario stood up, that's me and you, not us. When you get the me and you kind of principle going on, that's why it becomes challenging. The walls go up. The walls go up. People pick positions. They dig in. And once you dig in, you're not receptive. So too emotional, not understanding the other person. What are some other common mistakes you see? Yeah, I think the timing, again, I'll reference timing as an example. If I observe something and a month later I call someone up and say, "Hey, can I give you some feedback on something a half a month ago?" I don't know. I'm pretty busy. I know if I have received that phone call to go, "What are you talking about? I don't even know what happened last week." Right. So I think timing of the actual event where you provide feedback is critical in this. And ask permission from the person about giving feedback. Again, I think if I take the emotions out of my interest in giving feedback, most of the time it's, "Okay, is this going to help them?" Is my next question to myself? Or is this something I just want to say? And if it's just something I want to say, why do I want to say it? I've had colleagues reach out to me and say, "You know, I really appreciate when you call and you say what you say because for whatever reason, you can tell me I'm completely wrong and I feel okay afterwards." And I went, "Okay, I don't know how to take that. Thanks." Right? So the feedback. I'm just hopeful it's actually helping you because my interest in this is really for the other person. It's not for myself. Well, I think by asking yourself that question ahead of time, "Why am I doing this?" It allows you to pause a little bit and come out of your own self and your own ego and just think about the other person. And so you're starting to try to build some alignment, even though you haven't discussed with the other person yet. You're starting to try to figure out how can I build alignment and be aligned with this other person. And then your other point of asking permission to give the feedback is another way. I mean, that's a great thought because that's going to check the box on the timing issue. Because if they say yes, you know the timing is there. It's also going to let you get a little bit of alignment too, because now you've set the stage. They know what the conversation is going to be and you can get a little bit aligned. And if you're not aligned, they're going to say, "Well, what's it about?" Or, "Why?" And then that's going to give you a chance to say, "Okay, here are the other steps I need to take before we move forward with this process." Right. I agree. And I would also say the environment that you're actually presenting this opportunity. So I don't ask anyone in a group setting, "Hey, are you open to some feedback?" Don't set them up that it's an environment that's uncomfortable. Yeah. Now that your best friends are sitting next to us or your boss is here. Yeah. And I'd also offer up feedback. Such a personal event that, you know, it's not a email. It's not a team chat. It's a phone call. I stop you in the hall and say, "Hey, would you be open to scenario?" So I always put those into the equation to say, you know, this is not just as day the business day goes on that I'm going to write you an email, therefore it's off my list. Now it's up to you to reach back into me. Otherwise, I'm moving on. No, personalize this as much as you can. Keep it real. Well, in doing that, you're showing the other person that you care a little bit as well by saying, "I'm taking the initiative to come and find you and talk to you or call you or whatever." You know, from my own personal perspective, time is the most valuable thing I can give anyone. It really is because I know we're all stretched for it. So if I'm going to take the time to do it and reach out personally, I think it's also a signal that I think it's important I want to help on the back end of this. Many people have given me feedback and I always end with thank you. And I've got colleagues and friends across the institution that frankly, you work with them one year, five years later, they may be in a completely different area or you're in a different area. And those people that still feel compelled to reach into you and say, "Hey, John, I saw you do X, Y, and Z. Are you open for some feedback?" Of course I am. That's what you want. That's great. Yeah, that's great. So how are we doing as a society on this? We all want feedback or we say we want feedback. Are people getting it? Are we doing a good job of giving enough or are we not doing it enough? Yeah, personal opinion. So I always qualify. Not versed with academics behind it or anything of that nature, personal opinion and observations for myself. I do not believe we're doing it well. And in order to make it different, I feel compelled that that should also influence me to do more of it. But why I don't think we're doing it well is we have reached this environment where everything's so busy, we don't have the time, remote and hybrid type scenarios have put barriers or opportunities for us not to bump into those. Intentional collisions don't happen, which forces us to actually have conversations. If we're not having the conversations, then this has to be prescribed. That's where we're at today. And I worry because I think the culture at Mayo Clinic was built off of the people. I get it. We're here for the needs of the patients, but without the right people, the patients will stop coming. And part I have in the right people is how we treat each other, how we act, what we lead with, our values, all of this. And I think even to have our values, feedback's critical to ensure that those values are in place and that we're actually holding each other accountable to those. The crucial conversations like we used to call it back in the day, they're not happening. And I worry. Yeah. Well, it's interesting too. And I think there is data that shows when you ask managers or supervisors how often they're giving feedback versus you ask the employees how often they're receiving feedback. Big difference. People think they're giving it quite often. People feel like they're receiving it not that often. The reality is probably somewhere in the middle, but both sides are viewing it a little bit different than what the reality is. So I do think that that shows we need to be doing more of it. And it would probably, the employees would probably recognize it if it were more meaningful and impactful. And part of that is I wonder if employees think that they're not getting much of it because so much of the feedback they're getting is not helpful. Yeah. And it's easy to forget unhelpful feedback. Truly. Or it's so prescribed to a process. Right. I mean, how many people when you ask them, if you're relying on the annual evaluation as the feedback mechanism, how many evaluations are you behind? And I will tell you the majority are behind. Way behind. So then I always express this. Well, you shouldn't wait for that. Feedback should be, it's within, it's the norm of what we do. It's not a prescribed timeframe. It's not a form. Right. So commit to that. Yeah. We also talked earlier about feedback having to be balanced in that it needs to be firm enough to motivate action, but not so firm that it kind of demotivates or demoralizes. And also, if you're too soft, then it may not motivate. So it is a little bit of a fine line. So I want to ask you what are some of the downsides of being overly harsh with feedback? And then after that, I'm going to ask you what's the, what are the downsides of being too soft? So let's go overly harsh first. What's the problem with that? Yeah. I think the overly harsh part of that is you, people shut down. Okay. They, they do pick that defensive position. Now you're telling them what to do. It's not feedback. You're just telling them what to do. So do you want to be a leader or do you want to be a manager in that conversation? A leader inspires, motivates, and people walk away with actionable steps. Manager tells them what to do and you either did it right or you did it wrong mentality. And I think that overly prescribed approach puts you in that situation where people immediately just go, okay, you know, they're either going to give up, walk away, burn out, burn out, push back. I mean, it's got all the negative connotations attached to it. Is that over prescription or that overload? And I think people, there's often a false sense of success with that because sometimes being overly harsh can help somebody get what they want short term. Sure. Immediately, you know, people will, will fear is a motivator. Sure. Not a great long-term motivator, but sometimes. And so I think some people will think, well, this is, this is working. Not for long. Yeah. If it's usually not working, if it is, it's only going to be for a short time. You know, I'm going to use another example of what I personally experienced. So in one period in my career, I was actually a firefighter for the Air Force. I became a crew chief. So this is position on the truck that actually you're supposed to be instructing how things play out and you're supposed to give feedback and instruction, right? Well, the reality is you can tell someone in a scenario that's life, you know, you, someone's life is on the jeopardy. You can tell them, here's the feedback and this is why you need to do this. Well, there's an association of the outcome you're aiming to achieve. It's life or death. But the reality is, is when we were doing this training stuff, I always try to encourage people to listen. We're all supposed to give each other feedback. We recognize this is life and death, but at the end of the day, you got to have my back, right? I don't care what position you are on this truck. So we accept it when you had to be very prescriptive and pushing, because there are certain things that point blank, if you don't push it, the importance of it doesn't get heard, right? But the majority of this stuff that we're doing these days is, is not life or death. Right. And in those life or death situations, there's hopefully some collective understanding or agreement. That's the point. That's the point. You said it much better than I. We're turning the heat up here and that's okay. Yeah. We know why. What about the flip side of that? What about when you're too soft with feedback? What are the downsides there? Yeah, you're seeking more friends. Yeah. You're seeking more friends. And we all have friends, right? And we all want more. And we all want more. Yeah. And we feel good about it when we walk away and everyone has friends, right? I mean, the downside is, is they're not going to grow from that perspective. You're not being transparent enough to actually help someone. You're actually, you're making them feel good. If the intense to make them feel good, more power to you. And if the intense to help them beyond the friendship that you have, too soft is not going to get you there. It's interesting. Actually, I hadn't thought about it until you just said that, but maybe there are some short term benefits to being too soft. You make a friend, you make somebody feel good. Long-term though, is it good for their overall growth, the progress of the team? It's probably not. Yeah. Well, Chris, great point. What I would offer in that is, again, part of feedback is, is that relationship. That's the core part of this, right? So if your relationship is fairly new, you might have to be more soft than you typically would be. As you develop that relationship for more reception, you should intentionally start backing away from the softness so it's more concrete and actionable. So there are probably times that I unconsciously am more soft than I would probably be with others. And it's probably because where I'm at in that relationship, begin with that person. And we've been talking about feedback for an individual, but there's also feedback for a team. And there are two different ways I think we should think about approaching that. Yeah. So tell me about that for the team. How do you approach that? Yeah. So for the team, we really try to lead our groups with this concept of team of teams. That we're all in this together, right? That it's not HR structure. It's not my people versus your people or my structure and your structure. It's all about if we have purpose behind what we do and we can define what we need to get done, it doesn't matter where you report or what structure. Come together. As leaders, we should be putting people on the problems because of the best people to be put on that problem to solve for it. So when we give feedback, it should be group feedback, right? So I'm doing a lot of intentional collisions where a good portion of our team is remote or across the enterprise so they don't see each other physically often. So we do huddles. We're back to the whole things of having huddles. Why do we have huddles? I don't want an agenda. I want us to go round table popcorn agenda type saying, "Hey, do you have a topic today you want to share with others?" It's creating these opportunities for those relationships to solidify a little bit more. They actually have conversations, not presentations, not reportals. It's actually start the conversations where people can really test each other. And get to know each other. You're exactly right. And as that relationship advances, then you feel more comfortable with each other. You know the strengths and weaknesses of everybody. It allows you to get better feedback, allows you to just squeeze a little bit more. But also, I think with that squeeze that you give the other person, if you know them better, it also allows you to say, "Hey, I'm squeezing you because I know you can do this because I have faith in you." Which you don't always have at the very beginning. But over time, you start to develop that trust. And now I know, "Okay, I can push a little harder because I know you've got more in the tank and I think that you can do this and I believe in you and I'm going to support you in that." And I'd add to that. So we've been working on the individual component of this of one-on-one feedback. But as a team now, the intent here is they actually have them. What we do amongst ourselves between the two of us, they actually start doing amongst themselves as a larger group. As I've tried to convey this, you got to have feedback. You have to have trust. The foundation of this is trust in relationships for feedback to be received and acted on. On the individual side, when they start doing what I see us doing when it's one-on-one, but they do it amongst themselves, there's my joy. Now I'm walking away going, "All right, I feel like the team's on board. We get it." We're getting it. Feedback. It's important. That's great. Yeah. All right. Let's transition to this third section here where we'll start talking about some clear practices that we can put into place. And so we've already highlighted a few of those. There's a lot of different models and frameworks out there for delivering feedback. And I think some of those can be helpful. Sometimes they feel overly rigid or prescriptive. What's your take on that? Do we need a specific framework or model to work from? Only if it helps you. Okay. Because remember, I think the success of feedback starts with the individual giving it. Okay. And if it helps you to have a model to help frame how you think and operate, more power to you. I typically start with, personally, "Okay, here's the situation. Here's what I've observed. Are you willing to hear it?" Okay. And then go into the actual description of this. Now, some people like to go deep. I usually start with a little bit and see how the reaction is. Okay. When you were presenting, "Here's what I saw. Did you notice the body language around the table?" And the person goes, "What?" I said, "Well, maybe that's phase one. Were you there to just tell them what you wanted to say or were you there to actually provoke them to be part of what you wanted at the end? What was your impact? What impact were you seeking?" Right? And usually what you find is, is people go, "You know, I put so much effort into the presentation. I put so much effort into the materials. I didn't pay attention." Right? And when you make that connection and going, "Okay, what was your intent? Where did you see it?" You know, opportunities for improvement, they can self-identify before you even have to go, "Like, yeah, when that person, when you said this and that person reacted, what do you think? Well, I could have done this, this, and this." Now, they're part of the solution. All I'm doing is bringing forward the event, okay, the situation. I'm trying to talk about what actions they took and then what impact did they have? It's the outcome. What outcome did you get your outcome? Or if you didn't, why not? What could you have done differently? And usually what happens is that's the conversation that we exchange, right? So it's like bringing back the scenario, sharing kind of what the observation was, and talking about what was the impact you think. Are you going to be invited back? It's interesting. So I'm taking notes as you're saying that, and I realize most of what you said were asking questions rather than actually giving them your opinion. You were asking questions. So you know, and putting this together, which you said earlier, so for you, it's sort of, you know, you first sort of start and ask yourself, "Why do I want to give this feedback? What are my intentions here?" And then second, you ask the person, "Can we talk?" or "Can I give you this feedback?" And then your third was, "Here's my perspective. This is what I'm seeing." The fourth was, "What was your intent or your impression and what did you see?" And "Do you think you hit that mark?" And then, "Why or why not?" Right. I mean, out of all of it, what is that, seven points there, six of them are questions. Sure. Sure. That's the danger, as I spoke to earlier. If you're not good at asking questions, if people take positional, you know, you gotta, it's cautious. But I do that for seeking to understand, one, two, also help me understand where they're coming from, from the perspective of did they see it. If they didn't see any of this through your question, I probably don't get to seven. I probably don't get to six. I probably stop at two. Right. Right. So you're not always forced. You don't have a set agenda. Here are my bullet points. We're getting to the end of this no matter what. Right. AKA, then I don't end up with a, you know, a model or an approach that's stuck. Right. Right. Okay. Right. Excellent. Yeah. You talked earlier about the appropriate setting for giving feedback. I'd like to come back to that a little bit more. Yeah. And, you know, there's times, maybe it's one-on-one times it's with the team. What are some factors that people need to be considering about being in the right either physical space, mental space, whatever, about the setting and maybe the mechanism, whether you're texting this or talking about it in person. Yeah. So I spoke about the mechanism. I really believe feedback should be personal. So as much as you can do it, you need to do it in face-to-face and also offer up a good portion of the feedback that I usually when I do, I reach out and say, Hey, I got some feedback. I'd like to share with you. I intentionally do not do it in my office. Okay. I go to their office or I meet them somewhere. We meet in the river room. We meet and you pick it. I'll buy you coffee. Yeah. Okay. It's in, it's in their environment, not my environment. Because that's that positional thing again. I don't want it in roughly or intentionally. There is no intent here that this is coming from a positional or from just my perspective. If you're willing to hear it, I'm going to come to you because I feel valued. I value your, your reception, your, the importance you have in this that I'm, I'll come see you. So it's effort again. It's, if you give the effort and they're, they see it, they're more than willing to listen. So there's many times I just walk down the hallways and say, Hey, do you got a second? Oh, if you don't, Hey, I got an observation. You want me to schedule something? Sure. So I take the onus on getting it scheduled. And usually that scheduling is in their environment. That's great. And it tells them that this clearly matters to you and it's important and that you're willing, this is not something you're dumping on them. You're willing to meet them halfway or maybe even further than that. Correct. All right. So we've talked about a lot of different concepts and topics around this. I'd like to like give a, let's do a real world example. Can we do that? I'm going to give you a scenario here. I'm going to see how you'd give me feedback on it. Okay. So let's say I'm a member of your team and I'm doing a poor job and I'm not meeting deadlines, getting distracted, not delivering on, on what I said I would or what's expected. I mean, this is performance I would say is not just noticed by you, but it's starting to be noticed by other members of the team and maybe driving down team morale. And I'm fairly clueless, or at least my behavior suggests I have no idea that this is a problem and it's going on. How would you approach that with, with me? Yeah. Usually what would happen is I'd walk down your office and say, Hey, Chris, you got a second? Sure. You either say, yep. Let's do it. All right. Hey, observation for you. A couple of things. First, I'm extremely concerned about you. I care about you. What's going on? What do you mean? Yeah. Well, we've recognized some performance things that raised its head and you're late on a couple items here. It feels like in this last presentation to the group, maybe you're a distracter a bit. Others have raised the question to me. I've encouraged them to reach out to you. You know, I'm not a big fan of people coming to me about someone else. I always start with, well, did you give them feedback? Did you start with them? So you may or may not get some folks leaning in. I hope they do. We all care. We want to make sure you're, you're doing the best that you can. This is uncommon for you. I've seen you succeed and do well in presentations. That last presentation that you did at our all staff meeting was well received. Some of the best feedback to what we've ever had from a presenter. But this event that just played out with the committee yesterday, it wasn't you. Is there something that we can help you out with? Yeah, it's interesting you say that. You know, I've had a few people that have come to me and started to say something. So I wondered if maybe something was going on. But really the thing yesterday was actually Jake's fault. I feel like Jake, he was supposed to have all the slides to me in time and he never, he never got him in and he really let me down in that. Okay, fair enough. Fair enough. We'll have you talk to Jake. I have not. Yeah. So part of this is recognizing something else may be going on with Jake too. So as a team and we're leaders in this, we all have a responsibility for each other. Reach out to Jake, find out what's going on. You had an opportunity. We never want to set each other up for issues where it may not be the best showing of ourselves. So lean into Jake, let me know how that goes. If there's anything I can do to help, but we need to improve this. Your success is depending on Jake's. My success is depending on yours and vice versa. All right. Sounds fair. So I like that. So we'll, we'll, we'll pause that and several things that you did in there that I noticed that are really, really good. I mean, first you made it obvious that you believed in me, that you, you thought that I could do a good job. And you also highlighted the fact that this is uncharacteristic from some of my other work, which was great. So it tells me that you have at least been paying attention to some of the, some of the things in my past. So to speak, you, you also, I mean, you, you asked a lot of questions to try to figure out what was going on. And, and then even when I blamed somebody else, you followed up with another question, which was, have I talked to Jake yet? So it was still a way of, you know, putting it back on me to say, oh yeah, there is some accountability and ownership in this and never, never once that I felt like you were coming down. You also was very clear that you were supportive of me and that you wanted it, not just for your sake, but you really focused on how you knew I was better. And that was what the team needed out. I mean, not specifically for you. So you didn't make this about yourself, trying to get something out of it for me. Right. It was really good. Yeah. Hey, great summary. I'm trying to receive somebody, somebody told me about how to receive feedback. I'm trying to do that as well. All right. So as, as we wrap up, maybe just the last couple quick hit, some maybe top tips for somebody to keep in mind when they're going to give feedback to another individual, what are a few things, maybe a quick checklist or some suggestions you would have for them. Yeah. Yeah. First step, pause, stop for a second, ensure that this, you don't have the emotions driving your desire, right? Second, within that pause, reflect on what points for clarity purposes, are you going to be able to be clear? You also have to be concise with us. You don't want to demotivate. You want to motivate, right? The difference is we spoke about feedback and first is evaluation. Evaluation is performance based. You either pass or you didn't. This isn't that scenario. Feedback is to improve and they have to have the actual, they have to see actual steps come from the, the points that you share. Excellent. I love it. All right. So let me, I'm going to kind of summarize what we've been discussing here so far in this session and we'll give you a chance to run through the three big questions again. So we talked about how feedback is different from standard evaluations or just praise. Some of the key features of feedback are that the goal is to improve. You need to have a relationship with the other person. There must be some trust. Your feedback has to be true and candid. You have to think about your intent, which shouldn't be about yourself. It needs to be timely, meaning close to the event and also the person. It has to be a good time for that person to receive it. Should be unemotional. It needs to be balanced so you've got to be firm, but not, not too firm. Very clear with the next steps and also two-way. You have to show that you're open to the feedback as well. We talked about how we can link feedback to joy and that feedback is a great way to help clarify purpose, progress, and connection, which is what defines joy. We talked about a lot of common mistakes, which I think was really helpful and then also I loved your framework that you gave with those six or seven points and you first ask yourself, "Why do I want to give this feedback?" And then second, you ask the person, "Can we talk?" or "Can I tell you about an observation? Can I give you feedback?" Third, you say, "Here's my perspective. This is what I'm seeing." And then you ask, "What was your impression? What did you see?" And then you ask, "What was your intent?" And then, "Do you think you hit that mark?" So you're really giving feedback by asking questions and sort of guiding them through that process. And then I loved your tips at the end. Take a pause, check your emotions, make sure you lead with clarity, be concise, give actionable steps. Wonderful. All right, so now here's your chance to sort of answer these three big questions. You've done it masterfully over the last 45 minutes or so, but let's give the quick hitter answer. So what exactly should effective feedback look like? Yeah, effective feedback should look like it's really the actions that follows from the feedback. So if it's effective, they actually have improved. They've taken that and they've done something that they weren't doing. Right? Good. And they walk away with this and feel good. I said remove their emotions, but at the end of the day, they got to feel good about it. They really do. Good. And our second big question, why is it so challenging for us to give candid and constructive feedback? Because it's personal. That's a one-on-one thing. And we all want to have our friends and we all want to make people feel good, but the reality is we're also here to help them improve. Great. And then our third, what are some clear practices we can put into place to become better at delivering feedback that works? Yeah, one, be intentional. I think you got to be open to it if you're willing to give it. Okay, so we learn from each other. That's what I'd end with, frankly. Excellent. I love it. Well, this has been a great session for me and I've learned a lot and probably some of the biggest takeaways for me is that this is like so many things we talked about in the human optimization project. You have to be genuinely curious. You have to ask questions. You have to start with the other person's best intentions in mind. These are common themes that come up really in all of our topics. So I'm glad to see those ties running through all of these things. Good. Well, thanks for the time today. Thanks for joining us. This has been fantastic. We really appreciate having you on. Thank you. And to our audience, remember to live intentionally, consistently, better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you like this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us, know someone who might benefit, share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at optimize at mayo.edu and be sure to look for us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.