The complexity of what we do in emergency medicine has really become far greater than it was back when the majority of programs have been three-year programs. and expanding that to include things like communication and coordination of care, which are really the skills that in the future emergency physicians are going to need to have, will allow residents to really explore the complexity of emergency medicine and find areas in which to really excel throughout their careers. There's so many things to love about this program. Pretty much any resource that you could ask for to pursue any goal that you'd want to. I want to go into community medicine. I don't plan to do a fellowship, but the fact that I have the opportunities to learn from all these amazing um specialists in each field. I think the blend of working in the community and seeing a different aspect of academics versus community is incredibly important for residents coming in just to appreciate what they want to do. And without that exposure, it's really hard to determine do I want to be rural critical access? Do I want to be community? Do I want to be academic? And then really like paving your way through that. As a medical student, I was interested in health policy, international health, understanding the structure of the health care system. And so, I wasn't getting that out of medical school. And because of that, I went and got my law degree. Took a break from medical school, went got the law degree, went and ended up taking some more time off and working for the federal government. An incredible opportunity. I've kind of spun that into my career in terms of research, teaching at the medical school. And throughout that, Mayo has been incredibly supportive of me of pursuing that. Mayo is excellent at accommodating individuals interests and that's what we're going to try to do whatever that is. The things that amaze me about uh the Mayo Clinic emergency medicine program are the cutting edge new techniques and practices that we have. Advanced ultrasound skills of various different convolutional network type applications where we can autodetect ejection fraction and cardiac output as well as transophageal echoes. It's such invaluable information. I'm seeing things like ECMO within our ED and helping stabilize patients in that way as well as then the digital health side which is where a lot of my focus is as well as implementing artificial intelligence. One of the benefits of this program is that we have a very robust cardiothoracic ICU and with that a robust ECPR program and as an emergency medicine resident you have the opportunity to be involved in this whether it is the actual ECPR resuscitation that happens in our trauma bays or it's actually coming up and rotating through the cardiothoracic ICU and caring for these patients watching them wake up watching them have to go home to their families to see another day. It's so incredible. I went to medical school here and I trained elsewhere and came back. And so many people ask why you come back. What Mayo says we are, we are. When we make decisions, we don't make it for a system. We don't make it for revenue. We make it for what is best for the patient. And that's a very empowering work environment to be a part of and to be able to show again future leaders what it means to develop health care and deliver health care on a system level that is truly directed at the patient. The fact that I have an institution that respects and supports my desire to be there and to be able to sit down and have critical conversations with patients and take the time to have those impactful moments. I'm grateful for it. >> During your intern year, you'll have two weeks dedicated to EMS education where you'll spend time with our EMS crews, with Rochester Fire Department. You'll see our dispatch center, and you'll have a variety of other experiences designed to give you an overview of our EMS system here in Rochester, Minnesota, and the broader southeast Minnesota area. The curriculum is longitudinal. It goes through all four years of curriculum. We'll have opportunities for you to act as a medical director if that's your interest. We'll have opportunities for you to spend time with our critical care transport teams. We might even be able to get you on a fixed wing flight where you might travel somewhere else in the United States to fly a patient back to Mayo Clinic to provide them the high level of care that they need. >> One of the big benefits I think of coming to Mayo would be that you'd be able to have access to all of all of the work that's going on within the institution. And you're not limited to the emergency department because we do partner with so many folks. There's a lot of opportunity to kind of get in and start something and take an idea that you have and let us help you kind of find the resources that Mayo has to build on that and make it a reality. >> One of my roles here at Mayo Clinic is co-director of the learning healthcare system. And I think that that's a fairly unique position for emergency medicine to be in. That's not just in emergency medicine. That's across all of Mayo Clinic. Uh and not just here in Rochester, but um throughout Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, uh Florida, and Arizona. And a learning healthcare system is really a way to take some of those implementation science principles and uh catalyze them up so that we can quickly figure out what works uh what doesn't work and spread it through the whole health care system. And it involves listening to patients and listening to the frontline staff and not taking a top- down approach and dictating what the priorities are going to be. There's real problems in healthcare on a daily basis across every specialty that that really requires some pragmatic solutions. The EM trainees would have an opportunity to really see firsthand how a learning healthcare system works and the role that emergency medicine plays in that. I've had a great passion in the business of medicine and leadership within it and Mayo Clinic provides really unique opportunities especially for residents and we get access to some of the most inspiring leaders here at Mayo Clinic and learn about navigating innovation and leadership all within the framework of a very successful and robust academic medical practice. I love it when uh when we have visitors here and to tour around with them and tell them our story and some of the background from here, some of the super cool things that have been done here, the the way it's run and the things that have been invented and the the philosophy about it u really truly being about the patient first. I've actually only experienced it 100% in one place and that's here at Mayo Clinic.