Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be, so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. Regardless of your official role or job title, you are a leader. Leadership takes on so many different forms and this is true both inside and outside of the workplace. Anytime you interact with another human being, there's an opportunity for leadership. Fortunately, we all have leadership skills inside of us. The question is whether or not we fully understand them, work to develop them, and put them into practice in our everyday lives. In order to help you do just that, the title of our session today is building blocks of leadership. How to find the leader inside you. Our expert guest today is Dr. John Benson. John is a neuroraiologist and associate professor at Mayo Clinic who has published over 150 peer-review journals in five book chapters. He's deeply involved in education as a fellowship director, course director, and associate chair of continuing medical education. His real passion, however, is leadership development. He's the founder and director for the Mayo Clinic Resident Leadership Academy, a leadership development program for residents across the institution. In this role, he actively works to teach others about the components of leadership and how to cultivate those skills in both their professional and personal lives. We're very fortunate to have John with us today and the three big questions that he's going to answer for us today are as follows. Number one, what are the key components to effective leadership? Our second big question for John is why do we often struggle to embody these qualities or struggle to see them in ourselves? And then number three, we'll start to get into some solutions as we ask what practical steps can we take to become well-rounded, fully formed leaders. Well, John, welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project podcast. We really appreciate you joining us today. >> Thanks for having me. It's great to be here. >> All right. So, this is a topic that I think is widely applicable. Uh really any any human being I think would would benefit from a better understanding and grasp of this. So, I'm excited to discuss it with you today. But I'd like to start maybe by hearing a little bit more about your background. You're obviously somebody who's super passionate about educating and also passionate about leadership development and that led you to start this resident leadership academy that you've been running for many years now. So can you give us some background? What was the origin behind that and what are the topics that you cover? >> Well, in some ways it kind of started with disappointment. Uh you know I I was trained at the University of Minnesota. So I did medical school and residency there. And I did a few rounds of leadership training along the way. And to be honest with them, none of them really clicked with me that well. I I thought most of them were short sessions that I didn't get a lot out of. They kind of had fluffy content and I just didn't think that any of them were really digging at any sort of the core competencies of leadership. And then later in my residency I did go through a class that was somewhat along the lines of what this course is built upon. So it kind of gave me a framework and I think the other big thing that happened is I started my job here and so I'm in a big division. It's 55 people in neuroraiology and at the time that I started there was a lot of people that had been relatively recently hired and you could see that a lot of them were being put into new leadership positions and you could kind of see the struggles that they were having along the way. And I I do think that medicine is is kind of like a lot of industries in which it has this funny relationship with leadership. they can pay a lot of lip service to it, but then it doesn't give people the tools that they need and the resources that they need to actually launch their careers and be successful in these positions. And you know, the the example I always give is running a meeting because I think you you watch someone in their first leadership position and they get a task force of people together. They bring them together and they sit down for their first meeting and all of a sudden they have a lot of their mind because they're trying to decide in those moments the best way to run this meeting from beginning to end. They have to make sure that all the voices are heard in the room. They have to act as an advocate for women and minorities and then they have to bring this thing to some sort of actionable conclusion. I mean, it's [clears throat] someone that is being asked to run a meeting and no one has ever taught them how to run a meeting. >> [snorts] >> And so that's what we're really trying to develop in this course is these kind of early fundamentals of leadership that they can build upon. [clears throat] >> And it sounds like for you there's a big emphasis on sort of the action steps or the take-home. I think it's one of the issues with so much of this content is that there's knowledge to be gained which is valuable having the knowledge but the knowledge alone is not helpful unless you actually make changes in your life or practice or community or workplace or home home place. So it's actually the implementation of of the knowledge that can often be really challenging. >> Absolutely. It's it is the action that's key. And I think of a lot of leadership training as developing muscle memory because a lot of times these steps that you're taking along the way, you can't sit there and actively think about those steps in the moment. And I think you can compare a lot to athletics. You know, I was never very good at soccer when I was in high school. I think when in retrospect what I was doing is I got really interested in kind of the fancy footwork and the fun skills that you might see on YouTube or something and I do wish in retrospect that a coach or my parents had sat me down and said look it's going to sound boring but in reality most sports are just kind of a combination of 10 different fundamental skills right >> so for soccer it might be passing the ball and kicking the ball and hitting the ball or occasionally throwing it And if you just nail those fundamentals, you kind of got it. And and and really when you see a very good athlete, that's probably what they're doing. It's it's the people that have had the patience to sit down and practice and really learn those fundamentals. And I don't think that when you watch an elite athlete play a game, they're not really thinking that much about how they're moving their body. They're probably just so used and ingrained in that muscle memory. And that's kind of what you have to start early leaders getting developed in is creating that muscle memory early on that they can build on. >> And I've I've seen your curriculum and I've talked to some residents that have gone through your program and you've sort of essentially done that for leadership. You've developed sort of these kind of fundamental skills of of leadership. So can you tell us what are some of those fundamental skills or topics that you that you cover? I view it for me and again these are medical leaders um and anyone in a different industry could view it in their own path too but I try to view it as kind of the next big step that they might take. So you know it's just like any sort of teaching I try to answer it in the way that I would want someone to explain it to me. So for us I try to build it on what would a department chair or division chair want to know once they get to that position. And so we really, again, this is really basic fundamentals. We really try to base it on communication, financial, uh, literacy, um, crucial conversations, negotiation, uh, and we deal with somewhat with diversity and women leadership and things like that. We do have probably a core curriculum like that that we kind of, uh, base every year on, and then we play a little bit with the edges to try to find out what else might be successful for the future. >> Great. So, so now let's talk a little bit more broadly about leadership and it is a it is a big um overarching term that means a lot of different things to a lot of people but can you tell me how you define leadership in general? >> You know, a leader is someone that people follow. I think more specifically you could say it's someone that can influence or motivate people towards a shared goal. But you got to keep in mind that it can look very differently depending on the person, the context, and the place that that person's in. Just as an example, a leadership in a crisis situation is going to look dramatically different than a leader in a an area of stable growth. So, have you ever heard the story of Shackleton? It's a great story for people that are interested. But >> uh in 1914, Shackleton was leading this group of people um on the first attempt at a trans Antarctic crossing >> and they ran into trouble really quickly. Their uh ship got surrounded by ice and ultimately sank and they escaped to these ice flows and then to a place called Elephant Island where they were essentially starving to death. And there's a lot of stories of leadership in there, but he managed to get a few people on this just like 20 foot boat and they went 800 miles to go get help. >> Now, >> while leaving a lot of other people behind >> behind. Yeah. That they had to go rescue. Not one person died. >> Telling them, "Yeah, we'll we'll come back for you after we canoe our or paddle [laughter] our way 400 miles. It really is back." It's it's astounding. So that is going to look very different than let's just say Tim Cook in 2011 who took over for Steve Jobs. Now also a very strong leader, but it's not necessarily leading in a time of crisis. He might be focusing more on adaptive problem solving and operational excellence and strategy and things like that. They're both very important components of leadership, but uh the key is that it can look very different in different areas. Mhm. And I like that you say it it's someone that can influence or motivate someone towards a shared goal. I think that's a pretty rich definition actually if you think about influence versus motivation, shared goals. I mean there's actually a lot in there uh to to to go through and it can take many many different forms. I think it's an excellent uh description for it. So what is it that qualifies somebody as a leader? We often think that it's a job title or a diploma or a degree or a badge that you wear, you know, on your on your shirt. Um, but I think it's a lot more than that. In your opinion, what what qualifies somebody to be a leader? >> Well, I think you hit the nail on the head there. Uh, because there is nothing that qualifies someone as a leader. You know, there's no set of skills, there's no job title, there's no office. None of that can ever create what we kind of view as a leader. I think you have to remember that we get so ingrained and I fall into this trap too. We all do that we can think of a leader specifically as looking in a certain way, maybe alpha or charismatic or visionary or something, but almost always with a specific title or something. And what it does unfortunately is it hides the much more uh common elements of leadership that exist daytoday. And because we don't think of th those other areas as as being leaders, they're largely invisible to us. But you know, this kind of goes to the con uh the concept of influence without authority, right? A lot of these people that are very skilled at it, they have characteristics that are similar. They might uh be good at problem solving or building bridges or bringing people together or maybe just serving as a good resource or a role model. And because of or despite the fact that they don't have a specific title, I think that they act a lot uh without direct commands. But there's certainly very powerful members of a community. You can see this pretty easily with just a simple exercise if you'd like. You know, in your own division or department, if you ask yourself, I want to get something done. Who are the five people that I would want to have on my side? Now, you might always or nearly always answer the department or division chair, but almost certainly a lot of the other people that you might mention are just influential people in their own way and are local leaders, even though we might not describe them as that, that are great at influencing again people towards this shared goal. >> And that question actually doesn't just apply to my department or division. I mean, I can ask that in my household. I can ask that in my neighborhood or on my team, my my wreck, you know, softball team, wherever. I I can ask that question anywhere. >> And getting back to your your first definition, you know, a leader is someone that can influence or motivate someone towards a shared goal. There's nothing in there about structure or hierarchy or superiority or or anything. Uh so I like this this concept of in uh influence without authority or having the untitled uh leaders. So, do you believe that people tend to be born good leaders or is leadership something that is generally developed through deliberate practice and experience? I think this is a little controversial. What's your take on it? >> I think it is controversial and again it partly it comes back to just how strong our biases are towards this as again just picturing and not being able to step away from what we view as being a leader. Logically, I think if you ask a lot of people, they would say, "Yeah, I think we can develop a lot of these things, but it's so you're fighting so much against the grain of what's already taught to you by society as being a leader that it's really hard and even when we get people into our course, it's hard to convince them that we can develop them into certain ways." Now, I want to be fair. Certainly, like anything else in life, when you have people come into our course, they can be more naturally gifted or talented in certain areas. I do think it's almost like people walk around with a little invisible bell curve over their head representing their potential. Right now, if they just kind of go through life and go through the normal steps, they'll probably end on the middle of their bell curve of potential. if they really regress, I suppose they could be on the bottom end. But again, what we're trying to get across with this course, we have no expectations that we're going to radically change who someone is fundamentally. Instead, what we're trying to do is just get them to the top of their bell curve and give them the most potential that they could possibly have to launch themselves into future leadership positions. >> Well, that's a great way of looking at it. And I've had this discussion with a lot of people about, you know, are good leaders born or are they developed over time? and actually have a couple people in my life that are close friends near and dear to my heart. One is a a president of a large uh educational institution and has been for many many years. Another one is is very high up in uh departmental leadership for many many years. And both of them unbelievably talented leaders both of whom feel like leadership is born and not developed. And I've had this discussion with them and argued with them about it a little bit and pushed back. And one of the questions I I like to ask is even for people who believe that then I I'll ask them okay do you think that you're a better leader now or when you know when you were 25 or 30 >> it's so common that people can see their own growth. >> Yes. >> And for some reason they can be pessimistic about other people's growth. >> It's amazing right in universal oh yeah I'm I'm a better leader after being president of this university for 15 years or 10 years whatever it is. you've developed like even your own leadership has developed. They do. >> Yeah. And if and not if you can do it then why not others too. I agree and I do think we're all born with different sets of qualities and traits and attributes and part of this is not denying you know who we are but figuring out how we can use that for good. And >> maybe somebody is born with a little bit more uh ability than us in certain categories but that should not stifle our pursuit of growth. >> Absolutely. whether that's leadership or uh shooting free throws or any any other skill uh that that we think is worth pursuing. >> I've given up on free throws. [laughter] >> Sometimes the key is know when to quit. All right. So, as as we talk about being a leadership and you know can really be anybody and there it takes on many different forms in in your opinion what are the sort of essential components of leadership that people should be thinking about when they try to think where are the areas I want to improve? You know, if you look around, there's tons of resources on this. It seems to be one of the more popular things that people like to write about is the key components of leadership. A lot of them have kind of snazzy titles like the six C's or something like that. In my experience of reading through them, I've never found one that I thought was the holy grail or the be all end all of it. And I I think that you could probably draw from any of them. And one thing it probably speaks to is that uh of all the components and competencies of leadership, there's probably no one thing that is the most important. In fact, I think that probably what an institution or a business needs varies a lot, not only day by day, but certainly thematically over the weeks and years. And that's why, you know, we we both work here at Mayo Clinic and other institutions do this as well, but we have a rotational leadership model here. And I think one reason that's so powerful is that when you know Mayo Clinic, we put someone in usually into a slot for something like 5 to 8 years. That really allows an institution to look at where they are in that moment and say, "This is what we need right now." They might need a a communicator or someone that's good at drawing other people in or maybe a smart researcher. It doesn't matter. What matters is that in seven years, you'll probably diff need a different skill set. And if you compare that to other sometimes academic institutions, you know, again, I came from the University of Minnesota in general, if you're a chair of a department there, you're it's kind of like being a pope or a Supreme Court justice. You're there until you retire or want to leave. and they can be very powerful, effective leaders certainly, but I'm guessing in a lot of instances the skill sets that they first brought to that job might not be optimized for what that place is looking for something like 10 years down the road. And I think that highlights the fact that you as a leader are going to have certain things that you tend to uh be better at and ways you communicate and in sort of your own sort of personal style of leadership, but also it requires you to look at the situation and say, "Okay, this may be my style, but what does the situation necessitate from me?" And what it necessitates from you may be different when you start the job compared to when you end the job. And hopefully if you've done well, you've made some progress and the organization has changed and the group has changed and so it will need something different from you as that evolution occurs which happens automatically when when you have term limits. Um but you have to be much more intentional about it in in situations where you don't and that's why I think it's so important to be well-rounded. You know, if you just take communication for example, people have shown that there's no best communication style, that the really best communicators are able to flip their style a little bit based on the context and the people they're communicating to. My dad, for example, he was the chair uh chief of radiology up in Brainer, Minnesota, and he used to come home from meetings a lot and say, "It just they didn't get it." You know, I was trying to give them the logic of why we need to make this change and it wasn't hidden home. And it kind of goes to the fact that a really good communicator can when needed be able to speak to certain people with logic and reasoning and for other people speak to them through stories and emotion. Some people are really going to respond to short exchanges and other people might respond better to longer uh conversational styles. And so that's why going back to your point, it's important to be well-rounded because you're going to have to bring all these tools forward at some point in your own journey. >> You have to be adaptive and flexible. Okay. Which is not easy for us. And so a lot of us struggle. So in our second section, we're going to talk a little bit about why we sort of struggle to embody some of those uh characteristics. So can you tell me why don't why don't we start maybe your your experience is mostly working with younger or aspiring leaders and learners. Yeah. Um, so let's talk about maybe some of the roadblocks that the younger or aspiring leaders often encounter. >> Well, let's let's start with the aspiring leaders. You know, I would put a lot of people in our course in that category. The people that are taking our course are mid to upper level residents. A lot of them are chief residents, so they're in a a new leadership position, but I think they would still kind of call themselves aspiring leaders. There are many roadblocks. I do think the number one thing we see year after year is challenges with work life balance and certainly fears about losing what they have already with work life balance. So every day that we run a session of that course, we have a high ranking leader from throughout the nation, either medicine or business or politics or something like that, and they'll come forward and share their story and engage in a Q&A. Every single session, people ask about work life balance. So I think it it it shows a couple things. One, it shows that the younger generation are probably much have a a much healthier relationship with work life balance than uh we do and certainly the retiring generation has. And unfortunately, I think it shows that a lot of the high ranking leaders out that are out there are not exactly living or at least selling themselves on having a good work life balance. You know, we had the dean of a major medical institution come through and people asked him how he was able to fit in exercise and he said it's doable. You know, I I wake up at around 4:00 a.m. and I I swim laps and I our lake and then I do push-ups between meetings and I aim for a thousand a day. >> So, I don't know what work life balance is, but that's probably not the best example. >> It's a huge thing. We all struggle. We actually have a session coming up uh dedicated to work life balance and the concept of balance and integration and and all those sort of things too. But it's a massive struggle for us. >> It is. Yeah. >> And how about some of the more experienced uh leaders? What are some of the common things that they struggle with in their leadership journey? >> Well, again going back to just my own experience with this of inviting in these high ranking leaders, you can kind of see certain themes emerge after you speak to a certain number of them. One, I think you can see that they can fall into certain traps as they get further along. One trap that I've seen is that they can start thinking along the lines of it's my job to make decisions. We're going to do it my way. Now, in rare cases, I do think you truly can get a a cult of personality out there. But I do think even more frequently probably what you bump into is that over the course of someone's career they they do run into the the bureaucracy that infests most institutions. And so you know over time they have to live with the fact that decision-m in these institutions is messy and takes time and takes work. And so they they kind of uh run into shortcuts eventually. I would say the other things that we see um some of the more senior leaders that we have come through seem to have a little less self-awareness and they've shown that in studies that as um as you rise through the ranks your degree of self-awareness can go down probably because you're getting less direct feedback from your subordinates and then finally I think people can become overreiant on past success you know they've seen what brought them there worked and it's so hard for them to shake that set of skills and actions in the future and you know there are famous examples about this you know for example Kodak who even though they invented the the digital camera um just couldn't move into that new future of the digital space or Blackberry who kind of shrugged off the iPhone initially thinking that it was more of a a toy and they kind of focused on their business customers. So it can happen to institutions, it can happen to leaders but everyone can kind of get fixated on their their prior success and not moving past that. >> Mhm. And I think all those things you mentioned, if you juxtapose them, can actually be benefits uh for younger leaders who who maybe haven't had some of those uh things sort of drilled into their psyche or mentality yet. So some in some ways those things can be strengths. But right now we're talking about people who see themselves as leaders, either aspiring leaders or establishing leaders. But I think one of the issues is that we often just struggle to view ourselves as leaders period. So, why is it that we often struggle to see ourselves as actually being leaders? >> Well, some of it comes back to what we talked about before where it's it's so hard to shake what's been taught to us as what a leader looks and sounds like. But, you know, there are many other things out there that that that don't only affect aspiring and young leaders, they they affect everyone. You know, imposttor syndrome does not seem to go away. Every single CEO that has come through and talked to the course consistently says that when they first sit down in that new office in the new chair, they say like this is not me. Like why why is anyone letting me do this? And then it becomes normalized. They go through the motions. They all say once you just start working and start going at it, it can drift away and get better. But it's real and it can happen to anyone. And then I think, you know, people can fall into a kind of a perfectionist trap. Uh they think, "Okay, I want to do this. This is for me, but I'm not ready yet. I I don't know anything about finances yet. There's no way I could run a department before I really understand what a balance sheet is." And so, they let that hold them back. But what they're not realizing is that the really effective leaders out there don't jump into that position already knowing everything that they learn alongside their team. And then finally, and this is a much bigger topic, but there are clearly gender and cultural norms out there that teach certain people that leadership is not for them. We do try to break past that a little bit. You know, one of the points of this session where we bring in high-ranking leaders is so everyone in that course can hopefully see themselves in that position in the future. So, we do try to bring in people that look and sound different and hopefully they can kind of see themselves in those shoes at someday. >> That's a great list. So, and honestly, you know, struggling with issues with gender and cultural norms that tell people in their mind, you're you're not a leader or not having the official title or, you know, the the the logo or the badge often makes people think you're not the leader. Uh, imposttor syndrome, feeling like they're not ready, too afraid to fail, uh, don't feel empowered. Um, all all very good, very good examples that I think we could all probably relate to a little bit in different areas of our lives. And I think often time even if you are someone who has the title of leader in one area of your life, you may not see it in another area for some of these same reasons. So just because you you do well in one area doesn't mean you're going to do well in all areas of life. Or if you you know fail [clears throat] to you see yourself a leader here, you may not see yourself as a leader here. And so >> I think that it applies not only between individuals but also within individuals. Okay. So now I'd like to get to the third section and and in this one we try to talk about some practical strategies that people can take which I think is really challenging for such a big topic like leadership. So we'll try to break it down um into a few different sort of distinct things that people can stay organized and some steps and hopefully take home messages for them. So let me let me first just ask how do you teach leadership in general? Well, there's uh no one perfect way and around the country people are doing a lot of different things to try to develop leaders in their own institutions. I can tell you a little bit about the course that we're running here. Um we run a course for mid to upper level residents all throughout Mayo Clinic. So that's Mayo Clinic Minnesota, Arizona, and Florida. And we run this monthly for a full day over what we would call an academic year, which is September to May. And each session essentially looks the same. We do some small group exercises in which they're kind of discussing cases or difficulties in their own residency. We bring in about three different speakers on various content and those are some of the fundamentals that we covered before. And then again we bring in these high ranking leaders to come talk to the class and in general what we do is pretty formulaic for those. We'll discuss their bio together and then we'll bring them in and ask them just to share their story over the course of something like 20 minutes and then they engage in a Q&A with the class and then the more important part is is that after they leave then we kind of digest that person together and just talk about what things worked or what things didn't work how would you describe that leader and things like that. The key of it is first of all that they can see that there's no one way that leadership looks that it can look very different. Um and two ideally again they can kind of see themselves as being very human people that look I these are steps that I could take to get to that position at some point in the future. And then finally on the end the day we end with a capstone speech. So they'll give a little five minute TED talk style speech on their own and all they're trying to do is cement the ideas of where they came from and where they want to go in the future. >> I like that. So as I was summarizing that, you know, some of the elements that I pulled out of that is one you you kind of have to understand who you are and what your goals are and what leadership style role things that you're looking for. You have different structure uh to help them increase their knowledge which we talked about earlier. there's discussion and there's debate and there's interaction which we know helps solidify our learning uh and helps us understand these comp complex uh topics and then you actually have them you know lay out plans and they talk about what their next steps are going to be so there's a big emphasis on the action and then I like you have them give a little speech or TED talk at the end so then they they try to teach others as well so I think that you know we know the hierarchy of learning and that you learn a little bit when you when you read watch and listen But you learn more when you discuss and debate and then even more when you do and the most when you teach. So that's right. You're finding ways to incorporate all of those levels into this leadership journey. So I would tell the audience do the same thing. And yeah, maybe you're not um going to the Mayo Clinic resident leadership academy, but there are other ways out there that you can do those. You get the foundational knowledge by listening to this or watching this, reading other things. find ways you can come together with a group to discuss and debate and and uh and have that exchange of ideas and then talk about what you're going to do, what are the next steps, what's the action and then ultimately if you can teach others because I imagine yourself as a teacher have probably learned as much about leadership while you're teaching it. >> Yeah, >> absolutely. And like you said, that's where the knowledge can get really cemented >> as soon as you are describing it. And that's why that last keystone uh capstone speech is so important because it really cements some some of these ideas in their own mind and ideally can almost become a self-fulfilling prophecy for some people. >> Great. So we talked about how a lot of the work you do is focused on emerging leaders. We also talked about how some sometimes there's a detriment to being a um older more experienced leader that there's certain you know um biases that they may have. Um, are there benefits on the opposite end of the spectrum? Are there benefits to being young and naive and in inexperienced? And and I'm asking you this too because I think a lot of people will look at this and say, "I don't know where to start. I'm a beginner." But sometimes I think that can be a good thing. The most powerful thing a new person or a young person has by far is they've got fresh eyes on the situation. And it's a amazing tool. When you walk in new to a business or an institution, you can see the problems and the potential of that place so much clearer than someone that has been there 5, 10, 15, 20 years. The trouble is is it doesn't last long. And so you [laughter] have to remember that how you saw it when you first walked in and try to hold that for as long as you can. I just as an example. So when I interviewed um at the University of Minnesota where where I went for residency, I really loved that program and I felt like their interview day completely undersold the program. And so even as a transitional year resident, I went up to the chair and I said, 'Look, I just think that this could be improved. By the end of my residency, I had a budget of something like $30,000 a year. And I had meticulously laid out exactly how the tour would go, um made lunches and dinners for people, set up how people would be interviewed, things like that. And even then, for someone like me that had just obsessed about this topic for five years, I still remember in my last year there, one of the younger residents came up to me and said, you know, why aren't we doing this and this? And I said, that's just kind of the way we we do things around here. [laughter] And so even then, after 5 years, I had lost the fresh eyes. You get jaded quickly. You got to find tools about how to use how to keep it. And you got to challenge yourself to talk to the new people. ask them what the problems that they see are or find other ways to see this environment around yourself so you can view it always through a little bit of a fresh lens. >> That's great. With those fresh eyes, being a beginner can can be an advantage if you if you look at it the right way. As we talk about successful leaderships uh across different roles and ages and experience levels, are there certain kind of key characteristics that tie them together that that you see are just sort of universally true of of most good leaders? I can tell you what I've seen and I can tell you what I've heard. You know, we've had executive coaches come through several times through this course. They would say consistently the people that are really successful in their jobs are intensely set on self-improvement. It's people that can be fine with identifying a problem or a deficiency in their own skill set and be excited to say, "This is something that I want to build on. this is something that I've been told I'm not that great at. I want to improve on it. And then I think in my own experience when I just look around me uh at my own job, the people that seem to be really nailing it are the people that can really dedicate themselves to one task. >> And the these are people that are not just trying to ladder climb or do things for a certain reason. It's certainly not people that are going to look down at this thing that they've been given and say, "Ah, I'm I can do bigger things than this." It's the people that were told, "Look, this is what we're asking you to do." And they can say, "I'm going to make this my job." And really dedicate themselves to it >> and I'm going to nail it right now. >> Oh, those [clears throat] those are great. So if we think about these you know commonalities across leaders and that you know constantly striving for self-improvement ability to focus on one task and really nail you know what's at hand and and stay locked in. How can I one of the first steps in doing that and improving is knowing if I'm doing a good job or not. So how can I evaluate myself and know what areas of leadership I'm excelling in and which ones I probably am struggling in and need to improve. Boy, you know, I do think it's really hard. I think true critical self-awareness and self-nowledge is much harder than people think. People can really overestimate their ability to know themselves because I think it's so easy. You've been in this body for all these years just to think I know who this person is walking around. But what you actually have to do is find ways for either you are challenging your yourself in some way or you are finding other people that are going to give you real challenging feedback where you can take that and actually think on it and improve on it. Just as an example, you know, public speaking is no one's favorite. Um, and I think people kind of get into a pattern of how they're going to practice for public speaking, whether they're doing it in a mirror or in front of some puppets or something like that. But, you know, I'm working on my master's degree right now. And one of the things that we had to do, it was my least favorite exercise was we had to give a five minute speech on camera and then they would show the video of that in front of the class and we and with me in the class and then you would have to talk about what you did well or didn't do well and the same the rest of the class would jump in and and kind of talk about what they liked or didn't like. It's about as cringey as it sounds. But despite that, it was a way in which no one else had challenged me to actually look at myself speaking before and see the little ticks you give and see how you sound and see how you could have brought more energy to it and things like that. And and that's the kind of things that people actually have to do is find in all these components that we talked about for leadership, find ways to actually challenge your thinking and actually ask yourselves or ask other people to give you very direct and challenging feedback in those ways. Mhm. And I think part of that goes into developing the relationships with those other individuals >> so that they know you well enough to give you that feedback and also know that it's a safe place to give you the real feedback and you're not looking for just a disguised praise and that you really want to know, hey, give me the hard stuff. Tell me what I need to be working on. That's right. >> And and I think too that that ties into all the all the things that you mentioned, you know, really knowing yourself and intentionally setting out for for selfimprovement. So, if I'm a young aspiring leader who and let's say I'm, you know, going to going to take your course or maybe I'm considering I should whether or not I should take your course, but I I say, "Hey, this is really important to me. I really want to get better at this." Um, how how would you guide me or counsel me as I'm just getting started on my journey? What what do I do? How do I know if this is, you know, the direction I want to go and what steps do I need to be taking? Well, first of all, I would recommend you don't take on too much at once. You know, everything we've talked about, I think with leadership, one thing that can happen is it can sound so big and so abstract that first of all, people don't even know where to start. And then it sounds so daunting to try to improve in all these areas. Now, where you're going to start as a young or aspiring leader, it's probably going to depend exactly where you're at. you know, an aspiring person who's not in a position, they could pick anything. They could pick something they're really excited about in that moment or they could pick something that they really feel like that they have to improve on. Whereas a young leader that's been in a put into a position for a certain time, they can be a little more strategic, right? So, let's pretend that the position they're being put into requires no financial literacy. Well, I wouldn't focus on that at that point. But if it requires tons of communication skills, well, they should probably start honing their their abilities in communication before they start looking elsewhere and working on this other stuff that we've talked about. And then the other thing that I would add is no matter what steps they've taken, that person has to keep in mind that at no point are these skills mastered. Right? It's not like you can look back at communication, you say, "Okay, I've learned that now. I've got it. I can put that in my back pocket and focus on other things." This is a continual cycle and you have to lean into the idea that these are lifelong processes that you're going to slowly get better at over time. And so as soon as someone has worked on something well then self assess assess and start over and just keep going and keep building on that. >> That's that's tremendous. you you there was a lot that was a pretty rich answer in there and if I kind of put you know our last couple things we talked about together some key characteristics or things to be doing is that we need to be intensely set on self-improvement have to have the ability to focus on one task or sort of focus on where you're at and what you're doing at the moment you have to really know yourself and understand yourself and then also it sounds like a lot of what we need to be doing is not only knowing oursel but know our situation or the potential role or environment that we're in. And then see, okay, now that I know myself, my strengths and weaknesses, do I understand this team, group, organization, other individual, co-orker, sitting across the hall, child, family member, whatever, do I know where they're at and what's going on? And then how can I, you know, understand myself and use that to connect to them? So, you really kind of have to know uh both both parties. I love the thought of it being a a journey and not just a destination. It it sort of, you know, once you start, you never really finish. I think for a lot of people that can sound overwhelming or daunting like you mean I got to do this forever. Yeah. >> But I think if you put these things into practice they become habitual. They become normal and and the startup energy sometimes is really high to get going. But once you get some positive momentum, this just becomes normal and and and can become uh just a part of who you are and what you do. I also think that it's important for people to find a way that they enjoy that process and and don't just say and and I think there's a real tendency of a lot of people with eyes towards leadership is they say, "Well, I'll celebrate once I am the CEO." That's right. Or once I'm the president or once I'm the department chair or whatever that and I think that you're setting yourself up for a lot of misery along the way. And even if you do end up in that role, uh you you spend a lot of time getting there. You have to find ways of enjoying this process of self-improvement and development and and giving back to others along the way. >> Well, I I think that goes back to what you're saying is people can get in the mindset of, "Oh, you mean I'm not done? I have to improve over the course of a lifetime." I don't think it takes too much mental gymnastics to just flip that and say, "I can work on this for a long time." Because if you're really excited about it and you're engaged in this, it, as silly as it sounds, can be fun to get better at a lot of these concepts because you can start out >> so at least for me, bad in them and uncomfortable with them like public speaking [laughter] >> and then slowly public speaking doesn't have to sound so ownorous. It can actually be something I don't know if you can look forward to it, but it can be a little bit fun and it certainly can be fun to watch yourself getting better at it over time. >> Absolutely. And and there's nothing wrong with enjoying the journey, right? We we don't need to always delay our gratification. It's okay to have some fun now. >> And I think all these topics that we talk about in leadership, they're connected to every other domain in the human optimization project, too. So, if you see yourself improving your ability to communicate, it's going to make you a better leader. Yes. It's also going to improve your relationships. It's also going to improve your own personal growth. It's it's going to improve, you know, really every aspect of your life. So there are going to be these benefits in every other area of your life as well. This is not just about your job title. So I think people need to look at this as sort of a holistic improvement of themselves, not just a chasing after the next big thing or the next big title. >> I don't think there's a single leadership competency that would not help you elsewhere in your life. They are all almost universal in the sense that they can help you through both business, your home life, uh whether or not you're going to your kids' school and interacting there. It can help you with a lot of things, >> right? All right. One last question for you here before we start wrapping things up with our summaries. Do you have any quick sort of top tips that you'd give our audience to keep in mind as they think, "Yeah, maybe this is something I do want to intentionally set out to improve myself as a leader." any top tips or recommendations for them? >> I would give two. The first would be find a mentor and and find an advocate. And for the people listening that don't know the difference between those two, a mentor is someone that's you're going to have a close relationship with you. You're going to it's someone that can guide you along certain processes. You can have deep conversations with them, tell them how you're struggling, things like that. An advocate is similar, but it's actually someone that's going to build you up and push you forward. It's someone that's going to put your name out for certain speaking things or something like that and is is going to try to actually help you progress your career in some way. And I could tell you that uh nearly all of these leaders that we've had come through the course when we've asked them what we they think is important along their their own journey, they all lean toward th those two things. people that were either able to push them along or people that they could lean on as they were struggling certain times uh like a mentor or something like that and it was no one came in and said I can do this alone. Um, everyone said that they need to learn lean on other people at times. And then I think the other thing in terms of a top trick is what we already talked about a little bit, but if you are offered any position or a speaking opportunity or anything else at all, I would just recommend that you nail it to the best of your abilities because I think people can overestimate how many opportunities they're going to get in their lives for certain things. And I think they underestimate how much success begets success. If you're asked even to give a fiveminute talk somewhere, certainly there's someone in the audience that's going to say, "Oh, that was good. I liked their energy. I liked what they said. I'm going to invite them to another talk and that might turn into a position and that might turn into something else." And and that's the kind of things that can really make your career fly over time. >> I I've always said I think that excellence becomes a habit. >> Yes. Yeah. and and it's something it's it's easy to turn it up when it's something that you really love, it's fun for you, you know, you get a lot of personal joy and satisfaction out of sometimes a lot harder when those things are not true. But if you can do that, if you can learn to be excellent in those situations, then it's much easier to make excellence a habit. Like this is just how you do it. And so then when you do get in that role that you're really looking for, uh when when things really click and you sort of achieve whatever it is you're going for, then excellence becomes even easier then. So that's right. I agree. You have to practice it. And I would I'm going to have one more. You you you triggered me here to think about something when you said, you know, find a mentor and an advocate. We've got an upcoming session with Dr. Chad Rehall where we're going to talk about mentorship and advocacy who's fantastic about I'm looking forward to that one. But I would also add to your list to for everybody to be a mentor as well. And I think this is one of the issues that often times people we all need mentors. That's pretty clear and pretty obvious. But we don't realize that we all have something to give back as well. And you may think, wait, I'm at the bottom of the totem pole here. I'm just getting started. I'm an infant in my journey. But there's almost always somebody who would benefit from whatever wisdom you've gotten along the way or learn from the mistakes you've made, too. So, >> and certainly other people are not viewing you in that same light. >> Right. Right. And and honestly there and and you're you're doing that too. I mean, when you develop this curriculum, you know, you're clearly giving back. You you've become a mentor and an advocate to the people who take it, which is wonderful. And so your efforts are sort of being multiplied through them, but then there's also some benefit to you in doing that as well. I'm sure that that gives you some joy and meaning and purpose, too. So I think that's one other thing I would add uh to that list, which I think is great. Okay. So now let's let's summarize here. So [clears throat] we've gone through sort of our our three sections and answered our our big questions. I've taken a bunch of notes and I'm going to recap those real quick. So, and I ask you, you know, your definition of leadership, which I really like, was actually someone who can influence or motivate someone towards a shared goal. And what I love about that is it talks about influence, it talks about motivation, the goal is shared, but there's nothing in there about titles or seniority or experience or even skill really. I mean, there none of none of that. So, I think that's incredibly helpful. You talked about there's no specific qualifications uh to be a leader. Leadership can be developed over time. We all have different starting points, but that doesn't matter. We can all improve and and move forward. When we talked about the essential components, there are a lot of them, but one of the most important ones is being flexible and adaptable, recognizing that different situations and circumstances and teams need different things from you and that may change over time. So, we have to be thoughtful of that. there can be some potential traps for more experienced leaders that have been in their roles for a long time and that often times sometimes they fall into the trap of thinking my job is to make the decision so I'm going to do it we're going to do it my way um they may have a little self um awareness maybe they rely too much on past successes so that's something for the experienced leaders to look out for the inexperienced or the newbie leader all of those things oftentimes are the opposite and really take advantage of those fresh eyes uh that you have because that doesn't last for long so you need need to keep that. And then some of the reasons we struggle to see ourselves as leaders is maybe there may be gender or cultural norms that suggest we shouldn't be leaders or maybe it's we think we have to have the title before we can do it. So we have to work through that imposttor syndrome feel like we're not ready yet. We're too afraid to fail and we don't feel uh empowered. We talked about how to learn leadership skills and that you need to acquire the knowledge by by reading and listening and and watching, but then try to put that into practice through discussion and debate and then action and and changing your behaviors and ultimately getting to a spot where you can even uh teach it. And then lastly, we talked about some of the key things to do uh that key that leaders like to do. So, they're intensely set on self-improvement. They're able to focus on the task at hand. They really have a good understanding of who they are and they know theirelves. uh they don't take on too much at once and they pick one thing to improve on they think about uh what the role needs rather than what they want to want to give it and also recognize that as a journey not a destination and I love your top tips at the end get a mentor and and an advocate nail it wherever you are right now do the best you can make excellent a habit so that's my summary uh based off my notes now your chance to summarize here so I'm going to re ask you these three big questions and get your kind of rapid fire answers to each one so big question number on what makes someone a leader? >> A leader is someone that people follow. It's it's someone that can influence or motivate people towards a shared common goal. But what it's not is a title, an office or a position. And and so everyone in their daily lives does and can serve as a leader. >> Okay. Big question number two. Why do we often struggle to embody these qualities or struggle to see them in ourselves? Well, for a lot of reasons, but mostly because we are so ingrained to believe this age-old bias of what a leader is as someone that's alpha and charismatic and visionary and multi-talented. And so it can make it seem unfathomable to see our own leadership potential. >> Great. And then our third one, what practical steps can we take to become well-rounded, fully formed leaders? >> Start small. Start with one compensate. Ask yourself how you're doing in that area. challenge yourself, work on it, and then repeat. >> Love it. So, actually, you just set me up perfectly uh with that last answer. So, I always like to to end with a challenge or a call to action because I want to lay out something, you know, kind of sort of the first baby step that somebody can take to to get a win in this process. And I think leadership can be really challenging to do that. But a lot of what you talked about, you know, we need to know yourself. You got to focus on one task, pick one thing to try to improve. Those are a lot of the concepts that I pulled out. That's exactly what we're going to do. So I think people need to take a little bit of time and sit down and say okay what's one area of leadership where I want to don't say I want to become a better leader and that's okay but now let's add some specificity to that. So just pick one thing that you want to work on. You know we got a lot of different topics on leadership in the human opation project. Just pick one of those and just say okay how can I really nail this one? How can I get better at that? And figure out how can you read more about it listen to things about it. watch things about it and then take that next step and say all right who can I discuss this with and ask questions and debate a little bit and maybe get a mentor or become a mentor and then lastly how do I put it into action so that'll be our challenge uh for today so John thank you so much for joining us this was a a great session >> thanks for having me it was great >> so for our audience the title of today's session was building blocks of leadership how to find the leader inside you so this has been a great topic we we boiled it down into multiple steps hopefully I I think you'll find that uh very meaningful and impactful. And remember to live intentionally, consistently better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world and [music] never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you like this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at optimize mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram x and YouTube. This podcast is forformational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is forformational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.