Patients trust Mayo Clinic. They travel from across the country and across the world to see us. And I think when you are given that implicit trust, you want to rise to the occasion to provide really the world-class care that they are there to receive. There's a lot of reasons why Mayo is ranked number one by US News and World Report. The culture of innovation is really driven to really provide the absolute best patient care, to be moving in advancing what you do, to try and understand complexity of disease, whether it be radiology, pathology. Every phase of that is the very tip of the spear in terms of patient care. We have a long history of being at the forefront internationally in the advancement of multiple different imaging technologies. The first CT scans in North America were done in 1973 at Mayo. It was really the first time you could look inside a patient and make a diagnosis of the brain. 7T MRI allows us to see structures in the brain you couldn't see before. We also have molecular breast imaging, which is a first at Mayo. Compact 3T MRI. We have the first photon counting detector in North America. For more than 150 years, the culture of Mayo is really driving innovation and advancing patient care. The most exciting thing about having access to world class collaborators is that it allows you to push the limits of patient care to be the best possible in that moment. They have created these places within the Mayo campus where physicians can kind of bump into each other by chance. We were actually in the elevator. Early in 2015, me and Dr. Truty, bumped into each other. We needed some new way to figure out whether the chemotherapy we're giving is demonstrably effective. Traditional CT or MRI is very poorly predictive of a response in pancreas cancer. We were working on this PET/MRI method and look, what we can do is that we can not only give you some of those endpoints that you're looking for to decide whether or not these things should continue to be given to the patient, at the same time, we can also help you, risk optimize these patients. Using these new scans we can now tailor their therapy prior to surgery and have a much more predictive ability to say that this operation is going to be very effective long-term. Our goal is to give them back years. What I was expecting of coming here was to see a large facility that had every specialty that you could think of. And I definitely found it. Mayo experts are global leaders because they see a huge variety of cases. And so you're learning directly from people who are the best at what they do. I specialize in nursing and giving the sedation. When a patient comes in, I'm able to tell them exactly what to expect and be confident in what I'm telling them. Everybody's goal is to help the patients get through their day quickly and safely, caring for them and having empathy for them. When you can see that you're improving somebody's day, it just gives you that fuel to be able to do it for the next patient, and the patient after that. Mayo is fortunate to get the best technology that there is. My mission is take all the features to get better images, low radiation doses, faster exams to improve the whole patient experience. We have 29 medical physicists, and that allows us to specialize. From the moment we call the patient in the waiting room through to getting their results back, the focus is on high-quality, safe, and accurate care. We do deliver 2.3 million diagnostic studies and interventional procedures per year, and every one of those studies is a subspecialized study, meaning it's tailored for each patient's indication. Any study that's performed for a complex problem is already well known by the team, so they're used to seeing complex patients, and making these diagnoses. What one radiologist might see one time in their career, we see weekly at Mayo. With that, we're able to deliver diagnoses to patients that they can't get elsewhere.