Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. Habits are the building blocks of our daily lives, quietly shaping how we spend our time, approach our task, achieve or fail to achieve our goals. It's been estimated that nearly 50% of our actions are habits that we do without even thinking about them. So whether positive or negative, these habits play an outsized role in shaping our progress, joy, and success. Therefore, it's in our best interest to do all we can to intentionally and deliberately cultivate the right habits accordingly. The title of our session today is forming habits for success, creating productive consistency in everyday life. To help us work through this topic today, we have Griffin Jax. Griffin is a Major League Baseball pitcher and a graduate of the United States Air Force Academy. He's still active in the Air Force in the reserves as a captain. in 2021 when he made his major league debut. He was the first graduate of the Air Force Academy to ever play in Major League Baseball. While pitching in in the major leagues, he is also working on getting a graduate business degree. He's one of the most thoughtful, intentional, and deliberate human beings I know of. So, I think he's in an excellent position to help us tackle this topic today. Well, Griffin, welcome to the show. Really appreciate you coming on the human optimization project with us. Yeah, thanks for having me. So, the three big questions we're going to work through today, number one, what does it mean to form a habit and why is it so crucial for productivity and personal growth? The second big question, what are the main challenges people face when trying to develop good habits? And then the third, we'll try to get into some solutions. Our third question is, what practical strategies can help us create and sustain beneficial habits for long-term productivity? Sound fair to you? That sounds great. All right. So, let's start with this first one. What does it mean to form a habit? But before we do, I'd like for you to take a second to maybe just explain your job, your role as a professional baseball pitcher. Kind of what does your day-to-day look like? What are your responsibilities? How do you prepare for that? I think it'd be helpful for the audience to to have a good picture of that and kind of who you are to help frame the conversation. Sure. Um, so I'm a pitcher and more specifically I'm a relief pitcher. Um and my my more specific role is uh I kind of throw one of the two of the last innings of the game generally when we're winning. So um high leverage, you know, uh back into the bullpen guy. Um and sort of how I kind of view myself um within my job is I like to try to be as consistent as possible. And with that um comes a pretty, you know, specific work ethic and dedication to the sport and my routine. Um, I like to think that I get lost in my routine almost. It kind of helps me wipe the slate clean, good or bad, when I come to the ballpark. Um, you know, I have something pretty strict that I follow every single day. Not much changes. Um, so that good or bad, like I said, when I come to the ballpark, I put my my baseball clothes on. I know that I am now entering baseball mode. And at that point, it just becomes, you know, default mode at that point. it's just, you know, check the list off, go down the um that list um to get to the point where internally um and mentally I'm ready to go and pitch that night. Um so with that, there's a lot of habits for sure. Um and like I said, it just my job is to sort of create that routine and that structure to where I almost lose myself in that. So, um it just becomes I don't want to say monotonous because that kind of has a bad connotation. Um but it just becomes second nature. Yeah. Kind of automatic. And I think that it's helpful to to explain to the audience too, you know, the baseball season is 162 games stretched out over six months. If you add spring training in and hopefully some postseason action, you're looking at, you know, easily seven to eight months worth of baseball where you're playing every day. And for you during that, there's a chance you could pitch on any single one of those days. So, you have to be prepared and you don't know if you're going to go into the game or not until that time comes, but you have to prepare yourself every day as if you're going to do it. And I think and that's that's true every single day, you know, uh, Sunday through Saturday. So, I think that your role um there there is a a true benefit to being somebody who has those habits and can sustain them, uh, who can deal with the day in and day out and the repetitive nature of it and make it automatic. So I think that puts you in a perfect position to have this conversation with us today. So let's start with some definitions. So how do you define a habit and why do you think habits play such a central role in our daily lives? Um so kind of like what I was talking about a little bit earlier. I I kind of view a habit as something that we fall back on. um or we've fall um you know instructive situations just whatever our our second nature is what we've done over time what we've done consistently who we are um I think are just you know our internal habits that make us up as a person um and you know with how often we do those things and sometimes we do them without even being conscious of it like that's what makes us who we are that's what kind of defines our uh personality and our identity so um hopefully Those are good things that we've created uh over the course of time to help us out in our daily lives, whatever that may be. You know, for me it's obviously sports, but um there's also good habits um if you're into fitness and you're trying to create a more healthy lifestyle, there's good habits for you at any sort of profession you're doing, um good habits at home for your family. So, um it's just those those small things that might not even be like recognizable um that you're just doing daily in and out that um kind of, you know, shape who you are. And and I like that perspective and that this is not something that you do just to be able to perform at a high level on in professional baseball. I mean this this really sort of defines all aspects of different domains of your life. So your your general fitness, your physical health, your professional life, your happiness, your relationships, uh your job. So I think is really widely applicable not only to every person but to really every aspect of every person's life as well. So why do you believe that habits are especially critical for people who are looking to get better to either improve their productivity or improve their success? How do habits help people achieve that? Well, I think it just goes back to like, you know, what you do um at a at an unconscious level, like uh if if what you're striving for, what you're trying to do, you're trying to create that structure or that routine, those small habits to help propel you um to accomplish whatever goal that is. Um and to hopefully where you can just do it without even thinking about it. Um you know, so like for me, um I have small daily habits that help me get ready for my game. Um, and it's now that at where I am in my career, um, they just become second nature. You, like I said, I put my when I put my baseball clothes on after I change from my street clothes to my baseball clothes in my locker, that's almost like an internal cue for me to flip into baseball mode. And then at that point, it's just check one checklist after another. Um, going down um, the laundry list of things or small habits I got to do that day to get me ready to go and pitch that night. So, um, I just think it helps put me in the best situation to accomplish whatever goal I'm trying to. um in whatever environment that is and I think that it probably helps you you automate that process. So it eliminates the recurrent decision that you have to make you know so you don't have to say okay I I put my uniform on what do I do next now I have to make do I do this or do I do no you just know like that decision is already made so it it frees up that mental bandwidth y from not having to make that decision now you can use that to actually concentrate and think about okay what are these hitters going to be doing tonight and what's what's my approach how it's going to be different because there's a a part of your job that changes every day that's really where you want that cognitive uh load to to be is in the part that actually is changing and thinking about the things that you should be uh thinking about. For sure. And then like too like we're human. So like the less that I can struggle with that decision, the more automatic becomes, the less likely I am to deviate from that and go down um you know into my bad habits. So I just want it to become as automatic as possible to again yeah like a good point to help um keep my mental you know battery recharged and fresh. Uh but also I think like we're all naturally just going to uh fall down uh off the ladder, you know, per se uh into our bad habits if uh we put too much effort or too much decision time into it. Yeah. I think if we if we leave the door open for ourselves to make the decision Yeah. sometimes we'll make the wrong decision. That's right. So if you just close the door, you preddecide, you make the decision ahead of time, you know, you're going to do the right thing or the more beneficial thing, I think, which is really helpful. And I do think a lot of habit formation uh you know people will knock on it and say well it's boring you know it's it's not attractive it's not fun it's not exciting and there is some truth to that but I think making it automatic helps eliminate that. So you're not using whether or not this is exciting as the thing to make your decision right you're saying no this is just what I do so I just I just do it automatically. So the the boredom or the monotony uh that you'd use early earlier doesn't really become is not as much of a struggle or a problem. Has that been the case for you? Yeah, I mean uh I think earlier in my career it definitely was like I was struggling to find out who I was as a player and um like I said I I kind of view my identity now as like uh as one being one of the most consistent guys I can be day in and day out. So, um, again, it just goes back to those habits I've created, um, internally, um, and, um, externally that just puts me in that mode of, okay, you, for the most part, the team knows what they're going to get out of me that night. So, um, it just removes any of that negative external distraction. And we've all seen you do this with your baseball career, and you've continued to get better and accelerate, I think, as a result of it. In watching you develop these habits and these routines uh in baseball, has that transferred to other areas of your life and made it easier for you to see progress in other domains, whether it be your physical health or your relationships at home or other other things that you're, you know, business, uh, school, you know, other things that you're into. Has it helped you in those areas as well? For sure. I think I've definitely been more predisposed to um this this habit creation um for majority of my life. You know, I've been very um straightedged. I've really enjoyed and and thrived under um sort some sort of routine and structure. So, this I wouldn't say was super hard for me to kind of latch on to. Um and it for sure I think a lot of it came from a military background and just being at the Air Force Academy. But uh even before then in high school, I just I knew that I always kind of thrived under that um routine. So um it's definitely not just applicable to my baseball life. There's stuff that um I do at home that uh I I'm trying to be more conscious of because I I do find it a little bit more uh automatic uh at the at the stadium and in the locker room than I do at home. Uh and it's it's those are where my bad habits come out sometimes is at home. You know, I may I may pick up my phone in front of my kids um and I just don't want them to be around that. So, I have to cue it differently at home than I would um at the field. Yeah. Perfect. And we'll get into a little bit about the sort of the technical aspects of how you actually do that. So, I'm looking forward to hearing that. And it's also interesting and refreshing to hear that you've been doing this for such a long time because I think that one of the things people don't realize is that when when you start to stack habits and you accumulate good habits over time, the return on investment compounds and and you start to see accelerated benefits from that. early on it might be boring uh and you might be going through that period where you're thinking about delayed gratification but they all start to add up to each other and then the benefits of them compound o over time that's been my experience uh have you experienced that as well? Yeah, I think that's a really good way to put it. I mean it's so similar to investing. Um, and there's a really good book, um, I forget who it's by, but it's called Atomic Habits, and it talks about this, uh, principle, I think he calls it the plateau of latent potential. Um, which is essentially what you're saying that there's this there's this gap of time and it short, long, no one really knows what it's going to be for anything you're trying to um, achieve. Um and that gap um from when you start to when you achieve um that's usually what stops most people from finishing or achieving that goal um through that habit. But once people break through that plateau um that's when you see that that growth uh over time. And like I said, it's it's different from everybody. It's different between every goal. So you never really know. But it's that that daily compounding over time that helps you know achieve sort of anything. Mhm. Yeah. Atomic habits. It's by James Clear, which is phenomenal. And a lot of the principles that we'll talk about today are in that. So, I'd highly recommend that uh to our to our listeners and viewers. Let's let's transition into our second section here. We're going to talk a little bit about the challenges people face when trying to develop a good habit. So, what do you see as some of the most common misconceptions that people have about the time it takes to build a new habit? I just think that a lot of people get discouraged um when we're in such a uh instant gratification um society um that if it doesn't happen overnight then people are just not willing to continue the work. Um and uh I just it's it's hard to look at it that way. It's a little bit unfair because like most good things they it takes time um you know business-wise, athletic wise, uh fitness wise like it's just nothing really happens overnight. uh nothing worthwhile I guess. So um I would just I would say that's probably one of the biggest uh roadblocks in this you know habit formation is just uh just understand that it's going to be probably a lifelong battle. Um and that um those daily wins stacked over time just add up to something great at the end. You know, when I think about myself and and really others, I think that that that desire for instant gratification is huge. And I think that it can be a major deterrent for forming good habits. And actually, if we think about what most of the bad habits are that we pick up, whether it's, you know, too much time on our phone or social media or drinking, smoking, eating, you know, whatever. If you think about whatever bad habit you have in your life, usually your reward that you're seeking is some form of quick or instant gratification. But then if you if you stop and reflect on most of the good habits that you have in your life, those come with a form of delayed gratification. So in in a lot of ways, one of the biggest differentiators between good habits and bad habits is instant gratification you're seeking and the bad habits or delayed gratification you're you're looking for with the good habits. Yeah. Um and I think that you're exactly right that gratification is delayed which can make it challenging for people, but that does make it much more meaningful and impactful and and worthwhile as well. That's right. So I think the gratification is is a huge one. And I think that's a a common misconception that people have is either they think forming a habit is going to be quick or they think that they're going to get some instant uh benefit from it which is certainly not the case. Yeah. And what talk a little bit about uh accountability here because I think another misconception that people have is often that they have to do this alone or they're the first person to ever struggle with this thing. Um are there complete isolation which I don't think that's necessarily the case. what do you see as the role for either learning from others or having accountability? Um what's what's the role for other people in helping shape habits? Yeah, I I think it's it's it's a huge part of this of this lifelong process um is having that or I guess really multiple people in your life that um can help you get back on track. Let's say if you if you fall off. Um so I use this thing um it's called Habitshare. It's an app. Um, and in there I can track everything I want to do that day. Um, it's it can be small, um, goals, um, you know, daily goals, daily habits, or it can be, you know, big, macro, worldwide, um, year-long or even five, 10 year um, goal or habits in there. Um, and through that app, I can tag multiple people in there um, to where they can see my progress and they can see if I'm truly doing what I'm setting out to do. Um, so that's a that's a fun and good way to uh for me to stay on top of what I'm trying to accomplish. Um, you know, and then for aside from baseball, you know, let's let's talk maybe fitness. Um, if that's why people hire fitness trainers, right, or coaches, it's it's because um you don't want to let that other person down. Um, and going through any process really. So people um I forget the numbers, but um the saying that people are much less likely to um not show up for a workout if they know they're supposed to meet somebody there. Um um so that can be a small cue to help. You don't even need to pay for a trainer, but just to say you're going to meet your friend at 6:00 a.m. before work at the gym, like you don't want to let that person down um by not showing up. So, um, these are these are all things that could really help push, um, when, again, we fall into our normal human tendencies to fall off the wagon. Mhm. And I think even if you can't find that workout buddy, I think like with your your app where you're sharing your goals, even just telling somebody else that you're going to the gym tomorrow at at 6:00 a.m. creates another level of accountability for you and makes you more likely to do it and and carry through, which I think is great as well. you know, you you talked about the the the delay the latency period or the delayed um time that that people before they start to uh experience benefits. And I think that this is a a real problem for those of us that are trying to form habits because we view that process or that period of latency as miserable because we don't consider ourselves to be successful until after the habit is already established or after the goal has achieved. One of the ways I think we could come overcome some of that is to celebrate the small wins along the way and sort of have some satisfaction in the process. So maybe you haven't achieved the ultimate goal yet, but you have consistently done the steps that you need to do to put you on that pathway. Is that anything that is there a way that you use that in your life? uh have you found that helpful to kind of celebrate small wins along the way or or how do you find joy or satisfaction in the process of carrying out these habits on a daily basis? Yeah, I think that's a really good way to look at it. Um you know, for me personally, uh at the start of every spring training, start of every um uh season, I'm looking ultimately like to have a really good season and a healthy season and a productive season. Um and but to do that, I need to have a good month. Um and to have a good month, I need to have a good week. going to have a good week. I need to have a good day. So, um it's hard to not look at the big picture at the end of uh at the end of the day because again like we we want to just see that a good year for me means more money, right? Uh so, uh a lot that's that's a big focus. Um, but I do find pleasure and I do find um like a little um internal satisfaction when I know at the end of the day when I'm kind of reviewing my mental checklist of everything I did, if I did everything right, um I know that I'm setting myself up to have that good week and again that good week turns into a good month and that month turn into a good year. So, um, yes, I think it's important to have like that big, um, future thinking goal, but if you can internalize it into like what do I need to do today to set me up for that year or that five year or that 10 year period, like that's a really healthy and more um, achievable way to look at it. Let's talk a little bit about the concept of willpower. I I think a lot of people will say, well, it's easy for you to do this. You've got a lot of willpower. You know, just kind of comes automatic to you. I I don't have as much willpower. This is not for me. I'm not going to be able to do that. So, how do you see willpower impacting this? And I guess another way of asking that is people who struggle to form habits. Is it just because they don't have enough willpower to do it? Um, and yeah, willpower is definitely something that varies person to person. Um, but I think that's what you're going to need to do as an individual to figure out like what your identity is. And as soon as you um sort of define who you want to be and define your identity, it's easier to create those goals to that are going to align with that identity and be as consistent um with that um throughout the process. So um like I was talking about for me, I want to identify as somebody who um is very consistent day in and day out. I don't want to be um you know, we call them emotional roller coaster guys uh in baseball. that's if I have a good day, you're going to know because I'm loud, I'm happy, but if I have a bad day, you're never going to hear from me. So, that's one of the things I do not want to become. Um, and I've set out to define myself as that from the beginning of the year so that I know um my goals need to uh not, you know, help me fall down that path. So, um, I think once somebody, you know, falls or figures out who they're trying to be and then defines those goals to help them become who they're trying to be, it becomes a little bit easier. Maybe I actually think I I agree with that is brilliantly stated. I think that um, often times a lack of willpower or what's perceived as a lack of willpower actually has nothing to do with willpower. that that individual just hasn't defined who they are, what they want, what they value, and why they're trying to do this certain thing. And I think before you try to start the new habit, you got to spend some time asking yourselves those questions. You know, what what what am I how am I doing? What do I want? How am I going to get there? And in reality, you don't need willpower to ask yourself any of those questions. And I think that if you can have a good handle on the answers to those questions, then it requires a lot less willpower. If you if you see the purpose in what you're doing, y that lowers that resistance, you know, it lowers the barrier and it allows you to keep doing that thing much much easier, which I think can be helpful. Yeah. So every year I'll start with then I have this uh I have this piece of paper um that at at the start of the year I'll write down kind of my core values um what motivates me uh my principles um and then I'll write down some goals um and they can be anything from like what I want or what I'm hoping to achieve in a day a week a month five year 10 year that kind of thing uh and then so I know that throughout the year whenever I'm kind of in a rut or I need a little bit of a motivation, I'll go back to that sheet and kind of reflect on am have I been um controlling what I need to to that's going to align with this piece of paper and align with um hopefully uh what uh I have identified myself as. Um and I and it's hard because you know it's it's a time where you need to be truly honest with yourself. Um and you need to you don't want to um fluff it up or anything because it's supposed to be personal. You know, I'm not showing it off to anybody. is supposed to reflect who I am as a person, what I want to become. So, it's important to be honest because that's what's going to help um catapult you into, you know, creating those new habits. That that's great and that's something I think we should all be doing uh right regually. I think I think it's a great recommendation. Let's talk a little bit about timing before we get into the the last section. You know, there's often the sort of old adage that it takes 21 days to to form a new habit. Um what are your thoughts on that? Is that true? Is that an oversimplification? I think like, you know, bare bones is probably a pretty good uh estimation. I've heard different numbers. Um I've heard, you know, couple weeks. I've heard um hours, you know, all that stuff. Uh I just think the important thing is uh it's just doing it consistently and doing it daily. Um, and once you get on that routine of just um consistently um doing it and um feeling that gratification from from doing it, it that's it just becomes easier daily. Yeah. And it it's you know like dominoes once they get going it's hard to stop. I think that's great and that's really sort of how we should approach this is to just think about it on a on a daily basis. Are we making forward progress? I think often times if we say, "Oh, I got to have this figured out in, you know, routinized in my life by 21 days or 3 weeks, 6 weeks, whatever, or or I'm a failure." So, I think sometimes that can lead to us putting unnecessary pressure on ourselves. In reality, it probably depends. There are some habits that I think are pretty easy to form, you do pretty quickly. Some take a lot longer. I I know some in my life, I mean, it's taken me six months or a year before I feel like I've got a good steady routine that I want to keep following. And I think part of it probably depends too on kind of where you are on your habit forming journey. If you're somebody who's been passionate about it since high school or college, you're probably going to be a little bit better and it's going to be easier for you to pick things up. And if you're doing it in other areas of your life, it's easier to translate to to different domains. If you're new at this though, I would say be, you know, give yourself some grace um a little bit too and don't expect perfection. I think that that's often a common setback as well. Well, let's jump into the third section now where we'll actually talk about some some practical strategies that can hopefully help us create sustained beneficial habits. So, can you give and I know there's no one right way of doing this, but just your general thoughts on sort of a step-by-step process or framework for successfully building a new habit from scratch. Yeah, I so the tool I was talking about earlier, habit share, I think that's it's really helpful. Um, it's just a way for, you know, we're on our phones a lot and it's an app. Um, and I know it's, you know, you don't, a lot of people don't want another app, uh, that they have to focus on, but you can set reminders on it. You can have it buzz you whenever you want. Um, and then it's almost like a little game, you know, you see you, you go in there and check it off. And it, again, you have to be honest. You have to you have to um, answer it truthfully. Um, and um, for me, I kind of view it as a game where I if I do it, I get a green check mark. If I don't, I get an X. And I view it internally as like I get mad if I see a lot of X's. Um, but I know I'm human, so it's going to happen over time, especially, you know, we got we got kids. Um, there's just distractions everywhere. Um, but I think that, um, it may not work for everybody to view it like that, but for me especially, I just so competitive that with myself even that, uh, if I see a red X's, I know the next day I have to attack it, make sure that I don't see those, uh, for a while. So, um I think that's a really good tool. Um and then I I just think like starting small is a good way. Um um this is this has been a lifelong journey and it's going to continue being one. Um there's a there's a Navy Seal quote. Again, I can't remember who says it, but it's it's I think it goes like the road um the road to success is a never- ending one. Something like that. Mhm. Um, and I think I mean it's it's kind of like how I I view my profession, my life, everything because everything's a daily struggle. There's always going to be distractions. Um, but it's those daily wins that compound over time that um just help create that that path to uh success. Yeah, I I think it's great and I think that you're right. So, this is it's a journey, not a destination. You know, this is a pathway that we're on that we want to stay on. And to kind of mix in some of the things you talked about earlier, I think that it's important, you know, as you're starting a new habit, spend some time thinking about who you are, what you value, what gives you meaning, what gives you purpose, why you're wanting to do this new thing. You know, starting there, uh, as you mentioned earlier, I think can be immensely helpful. You mentioned starting small. I think that's huge. We often overestimate what we can accomplish in the short term and underestimate what we can do in the long term. So I I think start small, get stack up some small little wins and then build from that. I love what you're doing about sort of gamifying the process, you know, so you know, you're a competitive guy, you like to see check marks, hate to see the red X's. So you found a way to gify it and make it fun. And in reality, what you're doing is you're just sort of taking the part that could to some people be maybe boring and monotonous, and you found a way to make it fun, exciting, and you know, sort of play to your competitive drive a little bit. Um, which is great. So you've made it unique to you. So I would encourage our our audience to do the to do the same thing. Those those are great. Uh talk to me a little bit about the process of habit stacking. Um so this is a concept that's out there where it basically talks about tie in if there's a new habit that you want to do, tie that into your current routine or something you're already doing. Um and that might make it easier. You know, you talked about having cues earlier that you use that are helpful for you. Do you see any value in doing that? So, if I say, "Hey, I'm already good at doing, you know, these things, but I also want to do this. Well, let me just tack that into my already existing process." Have you found that to be helpful? For sure. Um, I think another good word is like a trigger maybe. Um, so you know, like once you accomplish a a habit that you're already pretty good at, you maybe that's what triggers the new habit that you're trying to form. So, um, again, this goes back to, uh, there's this there's this quote that we've all heard, um, from, uh, I think I think he was a naval two or three star at one of the commencement speeches at the, uh, Naval Academy. He was saying talks about, you know, making your bed every day. Yeah. Um, and it's a good way, that's a small small win, small habit that, um, could compound into larger uh, tougher habits for everybody. uh and it's just that small win that you know I think the numbers show like if you do that every morning then things start to domino after that and compound after each other. So um just find those I I would say find those few things that you already do successfully that you do automatically you don't even think about and um couple it with something that you're really trying to do. So for example, let's say uh you're trying to drink more water. Well, um you can you can set the habit, set the trigger to where um as soon as you wake up, you put something next to you. Um and you you know, let's say your first one is making the bed. So once you make the bed, the water's right there. You make the bed trigger. Okay, I got to drink some water. So that's already right there. So then, um I think that goes into a little bit of uh one of the things in atomic habits that James Clear talks about is you want to make it easy. Um, and so for the water example, you're making it easy by putting it right there. Um, there's no thought. You see it, you do it, and you just you you check it off. So, um, that can be um something that's uh uh pretty efficient at, you know, trying to attack that new habit. Mhm. And that concept of, you know, starting the day off by making your bed or or drinking the water or doing that easy thing, I think it's also helpful because if you do that, if you if you set something small, something very easy that you can accomplish and you do that first thing in the day, you have now been successful in your first task. Whereas, if you don't do that thing, y, you know, if you hit the snooze button and you roll back over to bed, you didn't get up when you wanted to get up, you have now failed at the first task of the day. And unfortunately, failure, even in a small thing, often gives you permission to lower your guard, lower your standards, and fail at the ne next task. You say, "Well, I've already I've already failed. I might as well just this day is ruined. I'll kind of let it go." Whereas, if you if you get have a success, even if it's something small, getting out of bed, drinking the water, making the bed. Now, you've said, "Okay, I'm I'm hot right now. I'm on a streak here. I'm I'm winning. I'm stacking up wins, and I'm going to keep doing So I think that it sort of either way either direction you go becomes sort of this self-perpetuating uh cycle either in the positive or the negative uh direction which I which I think is really good. So let's talk a little bit about um some of the things that people can do to keep themselves accountable. We talked a little bit about accountability earlier. You mentioned that you have an app that you use which I think is really helpful. Um you also have um uh you you'll communicate with other people. What are some tips that you would give to our folks out there about accountability? Uh even repeating some of the things that you talked about earlier. Yeah, I just think that that accountability is what keeps us on the right track. You know, we're all human. We all make mistakes. We always I don't want to say always, sorry, but uh a lot of us, me included, will fall into some bad habits and fall off the uh the you know, path that we've been having some good success with. So, those people um that we can count on um to help get us back on that um that right path is uh necessary. Um and no matter who you are on this process, wherever you are, you're you're going to find some times where you're going to need those people. Um so, it's just um those people you can trust. Um whether it's your spouse, your coach, your your best friend, anybody. I just think it's it's pretty important. Um but then I think like at the end of the day, like you need to hold yourself accountable. Um, and that's why, uh, you know, that's why I like that app so much, that Habitshare app, because it's really a, um, a competition versus myself. Um, and I have some pretty lofty goals. Um, and I know that those goals only going to be accomplished if I, um, stay on the right path and that that helps me uh, with that. So, um, I I think, you know, you can't go wrong with either of those. Uh, and it's just finding those people or, um, or things that help keep you there. Yeah. And I that you made a great point there that your accountability can be another person or it can be an app or it can be a reminder that you've written down or it can be a deal you've made with yourself. I'm not going to allow myself to do X until I've accomplished Y. Whatever. There's all sorts of forms out there. But I would say whatever it is, you got to figure out something that will not beat you up too much when you mess up because you're you're going to mess up but will also not let you off too easy uh as well. So you you sort of need that right blend of uh being firm and holding you accountable without uh beating you up too much. That's right. So let's talk a little bit about mistakes. So inevitably none of us are perfect. We're all going to fail at this uh from time to time. How do you handle it when you slip up or you you know fall out of a habit or you you make a mistake? Yeah, I I I saying a little bit about it um earlier. I I get a little uh u upset of myself. Uh but that's I think it just speaks to my competitiveness. So um I I I will take a little bit of time to reflect on like what allowed me to get to the place where I uh I failed or I fell off and I try to figure out why or how did I get there before um you know doing that that next thing on the list that I know I need to do to you know hopefully get right back on um on that path and feel that uh that win internally. So, it's um I found a a pretty good method of just it's just reflection. I have uh I also journal daily and it's just um I write down what I want to accomplish that day. Um and there's also like a 24-hour like reflection period in that journal. Um and you know I again I need to be honest with myself and and and and see um in the past 24 hours did I do what I set out to do? Um and did I accomplish it? And if I didn't, okay, what do I need to do today to make sure I didn't do that? and how am I going to do it? Um, so I don't make that same mistake again. So, I think writing it down is is another big tool for that as well. That's great. So, you just you're sort of constantly kind of optimizing and and tweaking what you do and and changing it to to help you get to that goal you need to. For sure. And regroup if if you mess up, hard on yourself, hold yourself accountable, but figure out, okay, what do I need to do differently next time to Yeah. I don't want to make the same mistake again. Right. Right. Great. Well, last question for you in this section. you you've kind of listed a number of different things that we can and should be doing, but I'm going to give you a chance to kind of list them out quickly. So, can you give me a list of sort of your top tips and tricks for people for forming new habits? Sort of a quick bullet bullet format. Yeah, sure. Um, I would say one, start small. Um, find some things that you do automatically already and just try to couple those with uh some things that you're trying to accomplish. Um, I think feeling that that internal win um and feeling that that success um from the beginning is is powerful and it helps uh helps us all stay motivated uh in the grand scheme of things. Uh another one I would say writing things down, putting them on your mirror, uh putting them on your phone as reminders, apps, um journaling, just when you when you're constantly seeing them and you're constantly writing them down, it's just it's pure motivation at that point. Um, and it's just a good way to write down what you're doing. If it's working, you're measuring it. If not, okay, you come back the next day and change it up a little bit. Um, so journaling, all that. Um, apps, those are good tools. And then um like we talked about having an accountability partner whether that be um a person um your spouse, best friend, coach, um parent um or just like having that inner competitiveness versus yourself I think are pretty powerful and will help you in the long run stay on top of things. Excellent list. All right, so let's jump into the summary. Now this has been a phenomenal discussion. I've learned a lot uh in talking with you. I want to take a just a minute here to kind of summarize my biggest um learning points or take take-home points. So, the things that I've learned mostly from this session are the the number of things that we do that are habitual and maybe that we're unconscious of is massive. Probably 50% of our actions and those have a tremendous impact on our outcomes uh good or bad. And so, I think it's very important for us to to pay attention to those habits. um most of the negative habits we do or the bad habits we do are centered around us seeking instant gratification whereas most of the good habits or positive habits are often us seeking longer term benefits or success or gratification so that's something that you can use to determine is this a good or bad habit think about uh the gratification that that you're looking for I do think that you have to base your habit in your own values meaning and purpose as as Griffin has explained to us and I also like start Start small. Um try to do small things. Stack up some small wins. Find a way uh to get some accountability. Reward yourself along the way that take joy in the process uh and not just in the end. And then ultimately you're going to mess up at some point. So figure out what you're going to do. Plan plan for those relapses. So like Griffin said, reflect on those. Okay, what am I going to do differently? How am I going to accomplish this the next time? So those are a lot of the big uh take-home points for me. And Griffin, I want to give you a chance to kind of summarize as well. I'll re ask you the three big questions uh that we went through. You can give your quick answers to those. So, our first one, what does it mean to form a habit and why is it so crucial for productivity and personal growth? Um yeah, real quick, forming a habit. I think it's just uh I think it's just identifying what you want to accomplish um and setting those those small goals to um attack daily uh to to achieve that um that habit or that that that long-term goal. And then um I think it's why I think it's important is because it's basically who we all are uh at a at a simple form. Um we're all trying to accomplish something in our lives. some I mean everybody's goals and and values are different so we're all on a different path but I think we're all um ultimately on a on the same road um which is never ending uh to just become the better version of ourselves. Great. And our second big question, what are the main challenges people face when they're trying to develop good habits? Uh just time uh time component. Um everybody, myself included, gets a little distracted um when things aren't necessarily happening overnight. So, um I think it's just important to realize and remember that um again this is this is a a lifelong battle and in some cases uh and that it's just you need to be patient with yourself uh through the process and um be forgiving because there's going to be times where uh you're you're going to be in a rut and and and you got to get back on on the horse. So, just uh be prepared. Good. And the last one, what practical strategies can help us create and sustain beneficial habits for the long term? Um yeah, uh that's where the accountability partners come in huge. Um I think just uh at the end of the day, um just being able to uh accurately and um honestly identifying who you are and what you want to accomplish uh and who you are at your at your core um will help clearly define those goals in a in a more um personal matter um that will be easier to tackle for each individual. Excellent. So now for our challenge or call to actions, you know, we always like to end with uh sort of a challenge that we want to issue to you to kind of help you get started in the process. And just like making your bed or drinking that first cup of water, we want to give you the first success in this process. So the thing I want you to do uh this time around is pick a habit either a new habit that you want to institute or something you've been struggling with uh for a little while. We all have those. Uh so spend some time reflecting. Think about what that habit is and then ask yourself why is it that you want to accomplish that and figure out if that habit is something that's consistent with your own purpose, meaning, and values. If not, you might be struggling because it's the wrong habit for you. If it is, if you really think that this is something that you need to be doing, then I would have I would suggest write it out and write it out in the smallest possible steps. So don't figure out how you can accomplish the entire task or the entire goal, but break it down into small pieces and say, "What is the one smallest step that I can take that'll that'll put me in that right direction?" And then and then how can I take that step and do it consistently and how can I get that first win? Then I'll know what's the second step and then the third step and keep going. And we talked a lot about accountability. So I would figure out how you can build in some accountability by that. whether that's either writing and journaling to yourself, using an app, finding a partner, but find some sor uh some form of accountability. And so share this goal that you have uh with someone or something else as well. So that that's our challenge uh for today. So that's it optimizers. There you have it. Griffin Jax just did an excellent job of taking us through today's session. Forming habits for success, creating productive consistency in every everyday life. So, I think this is a massive topic with a lot of value. Griffin, really appreciate you joining us today and sharing your experience, not only uh in your professional life as a baseball player, but also your your military uh career and your personal life as well. Yeah, for sure. Thanks for having me. Thanks a lot. And to our audience, thank you for listening. And as always, remember to live intentionally, consistently better, keep striving to be the best human you can be, and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you like this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at optimize mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is forformational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service or entity is forformational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.