Okay. So this is our transplant financial basics for dialysis social workers. We try to do this at least once a year for you guys. Okay. You should hang on  for me because my camera cut off. I don't know why. Okay. So let me introduce my colleagues real quick. Lakaya is down at the, at my bottom here and Jeanette Davenport is above. We are the Kidney Pancreas team here at Mayo Clinic. Right now, I did put a copy of the presentation out in the chat, so you should be able to get that. Please hold your questions until put your questions out in the chat and we'll address them at the end. Okay? You can either put them in the chat or the Q and A. We don't care which. Okay, So we're just going to get started here. All right. So we want to let you know that this process that we've developed here at Mayo Clinic has been going on for about seven or eight years. It was developed years ago. And then we refine it every single year based on our experiences and what our patient feedback is. And we really do work very hard here to prepare our patients for this journey and what lies ahead of them. So the learning objectives here are to understand why budgeting for transplant is critical to understand the basic types of insurance and how that impacts financial planning for the kidney transplant. And to understand some of the socioeconomic factors and barriers for our patients. And to understand the system that we have here at Mayo to help the patients with their goal setting and then through the process, And  our follow up and monitoring process. Okay, so why budget at all? What's the point? These patients have lifelong medication costs. They also have lifelong medical costs, insurance costs, and an ever changing insurance environment. They may have loss of income for both the patients and or the caregiver, and they can have relocation costs here at Mayo. We require that they relocate here if they live further away than an hour from our center. There are also some special issues with the kidney patients. You guys very well know that they get their benefits sooner, but they also lose their benefits sooner. So one year post transplant, their Social Security disability is reviewed and many people lose their disability, income at that time. Their Medicare usually terminates three years post transplant. If they're only eligible due to end stage renal disease, Then you know about the immuno bill that passed in 2020 that extends the Part B coverage. That is only good if there is no other option for coverage. There is a  CMS, Medicare coverage of Kidney Dialysis and kidney Transplant Booklet that's available through CMS. And section three covers the transplant coverage for Medicare. Now, AKF you guys are very familiar with this too. It ends after transplant. It usually ends at the end of the insurance calendar year. So if the patients transplanted in June and they're on Medicare and you're paying their part B premiums, that coverage is usually going to end at the end of December  If they are transplanted in the last quarter of the year. This was a change, I think two years ago. They can be extended for another year, but it's not guaranteed. We also have a dwindling and changing resource environment. Patient assistance programs come and go. They're funded one week, they're not funded the next week. So we're cautious of all of that. So I'm going to turn it over to Lakaya now, who's going to talk about some of the insurance basics. Okay, insurance basics, you have primary plans, that's the plan that pays out first. Secondary pays out, second, of course, and tertiary that pays out Third.  Supplemental or gap coverage. those are extra insurance that can be purchased to help pay services and out of pocket expenses that are not covered by primary or secondary insurance. Types of insurance. You have commercial plans, Marketplace Plans, Medicare, Medicaid, Long Term Care, and Critical Illness Plans. These are supplemental plans that can be purchased to offset some of those medical costs after a critical or catastrophic illness diagnosis. You get a lump sum payment or a monthly payment depending on the coverage. Commercial plans, private employer, Cobra, spouse's employer, parental coverage, retirement, or military. Those Tricare plans. Marketplace Plans, those can be found through Healthcare.gov You can get coverage if other coverage is lost or after a life changing event, this becomes inactive if a patient obtains Medicare. The rules are ever changing due to political environment and other factors with those plans. All right. The four parts of Medicare, A, which is hospital insurance, B is medical insurance, C is those Medicare Advantage Plans, which combines A,B and part D, and then D is prescription drug drug coverage. Medicare Advantage Plans, those include A, B and part D. The benefits of some of those plans, they usually have a lower premium. One card is covered for all services, and they may include some dental and vision. Some of those do include relocation benefits, which is really beneficial to patients who come to mail. Because remember, there is that 30 day relocation period for patients who are more than an hour away. Some of the limitations they can't purchase supplemental coverage, and they may have in and out of network plans. I do want to point out that Mayo has made some changes and there are some of those Medicare advantage plans that we do not accept. I do encourage you to always reach out to our transplant financial coordinators to see what plans we are accepting at the time before referring a patient. Medicaid, there's full community Medicaid .  QMB that pays for Medicare premiums, copays, and deductibles. SLMB and QI one that only pays Medicare Part B premiums. Also the medically needy share of cost and that becomes full Community Medicaid when the share of costs that out of pocket is met for the year. All right. Secondary insurance coverage. Secondary can be Medicare, it can be commercial, usually employer or pension plans, and Medicaid. It cannot be a marketplace plan. Secondary coverage pays after the primary coverage according to each plan's rules. coordination of benefits period. This explains how plans coordinate coverage for patients with Medicare. Which insurance plan has the primary payment responsibility, the extent to which the other plan will contribute? After the primary. For ESRD patients, there is a 30 month continuation of benefits period and then Medicare automatically becomes the Primary Supplemental or Gap Insurance. These help some costs that original Medicare does not coverage, such as Co payments, coinsurance, and deductibles. They can't be purchased if a patient has a Medicare advantage plans. They are usually much cheaper for patients who are over the age of 65. All right. And this is just a chart we included about Medicare gap. Um, standardized Plans, this is effective for January 2023, The Medicare part D donut hole. Most of our patients here we are seeing they no longer fall into the donut hole for their transplant needs. Those that do are usually already experiencing due to the insulin costs. We no longer budget a separate line item for the donut hole. Low income subsidy or extra help. This helps with Medicare Part D, the drug costs, and the Medicare D premium. This is automatic with full Medicaid, Qmb, Slim B, or QI one. It is not always 100%.  Next year there will be no partial. According to my understanding, it will all go to full Medicaid. These are Florida income limits for 2023, these change annually for the individual. This year it was $1,843 and for couples it was $2,485.  In 2022 new coding allowed for extra help to apply for Immunos. This has continued into 2023, except for the United Healthcare MAP plans, Always encourage your patients to apply for low income subsidy / extra help. It's a really simple application. Please encourage them or assist if you can. Okay. I'm going to come back on and talk about kind of the types of information that's given and and who's giving it, who's given what information. So here at Mayo, the transplant financial coordinators generally review the insurance and the patient's costs for the evaluation, appointments and testing, the hospitalization, the clinic follow up costs, and any relocation benefits that the patient has under their insurance, the transplant social workers concentrate on the medication costs, the relocation costs, any loss of income, caregiver or patient, and insurance premium cost.  At other centers This can vary a lot between the different transplant centers. At some centers of financial coordinators might provide all of this information at the social workers might be providing all of it. Some centers just tell you to go and talk to the insurance case manager to get your information about these costs. It varies greatly between centers. Jeanette's going to come on now and talk about how we develop a budget and fundraising goal. Our social work evaluation here at Mayo is pretty thorough. Usually takes about 90 min. In fact, we get pretty in depth of patients to assess for those psychosocial factors that we know impact transplant outcomes. Some of those things we're looking for include poor social support, financial issues, mental health issues, dysfunctional personality traits and disorders, poor adherence with medical or mental health follow up, alcohol, substance abuse and smoking, and inability or unwillingness to understand those risks and follow up that is required for transplant success. We're also going to review the patient's income, their expenses for the household, their insurance, and of course what resources they have available to them. So we're going to ask patients to provide what their monthly income is for the household. We're going to look at what their discretionary income might be. Of course, many patients are not aware offhand of what that discretionary If that's the case for them, we can help them to identify that number for them by reviewing all of the details of their monthly expenses and compare that to their income, of course, and help them calculate a figure for that. Also going to ask them about funds available to them through savings, checking accounts, things like that, okay? So they're available resources. We look at savings, investments 401k, 403b accounts. If a patient is planning to utilize funds from a retirement account such as a 401 K for their transplant related expenses, we always verify that they are in fact able to withdraw those funds and that they understand what those penalties, taxes or interests might be that they'd be responsible for. We also look at letters of support and any funds they may have already raised through something like a go fund me. Okay. So this is the chart that we create with our patients during our assessment. The patients who see us in person will take this home with them so that there is no mystery for them as far as what those expenses are going to be. Then if they do have a fundraising goal, it'll be detailed for them here. And where we got that figure from, patients who see us virtually will receive this through their patient portal. In this chart as you can see, whoops, there we go. On the left hand side of the screen, we're looking at all of those projected first year expenses. We're not looking here If you notice at any hospital bills or Dr. bills that patients may receive, of course, we know patients will receive those, but. Focusing in on all of those expenses that are critical to the success of the transplant. We're looking at immunosuppressant copays, preventative medication copays. Insurance premiums for those patients who are receiving that, AKF funding that Pat mentioned. Those patients are not accustomed to paying insurance premiums for themselves, so we want to prepare them to take that over for at least six months of coverage. We also look at relocation, lodging, and travel expenses for those patients that live more than an hour away from the Mayo Clinic. And we want to budget for any loss of income that a patient or their caregiver may experience as a result of transplant, particularly if that caregiver lives in the same household as the patient. The right hand side of that chart, you're going to see that we compare all of those expenses to the resources that a patient has reported, including the discretionary income, savings, retirement accounts. When we compare the bottom line of those two sides of the chart, that's where we come up with that fundraising goal. If the available resources is less than, of course, what those expenses are projected to be, Okay. So on this page, you'll see this is where we would detail for the patient what their fund raising goal number is, if they have one. We also let them know that they can still be listed with us here at Mayo for transplant with a fund raising goal. But they do get listed what we call status seven or inactive. Which means that they are not eligible for an organ offer or that living donor transplant surgery until the fundraising goal has been completed. And they provided documentation of that for the social work team. They do continue to accrue wait time. We ask that they start working on fund raising within 90 days of listing. And if they don't make progress by their annual update, there is a risk of being removed from the transplant list. Okay. So this is the immunosuppressant medications that we're looking at here. That was that first category that we looked at on the chart. So here we detail what some of those copays might be for these immunosuppressant medications depending on the patient's insurance coverage. So you can see the Met, various Medicare plans and the combination of how that coverage looks, if they do have a Mary Secondary or supplement, or if they have a Medicaid product, if they do have a commercial plan for their insurance, we always put to be determined in that category. We're not able to predict as easily what those copays might be. Because commercial plans vary so much, we do ask that all of our patients complete specialty pharmacy registration as a part of their transplant work up. They will register with one of the specialty pharmacies that we've identified for them when they call that pharmacy. To complete that process, the pharmacy is usually able to give these patients more of an idea of what their copays and their maximum out of pocket is likely to be.  Preventative medications. So these are the ones that patients are taking for a variable amount of time after transplant, usually within the first six months. Of course, those imunos are the ones they take forever. But with the preventative medications, again, you'll see here what the copays might be and definitely notice the difference between with extra help and without extra help because it is a pretty significant for a lot of patients that cost difference, again, with the commercial plans, that's to be determined when they complete their specialty pharmacy registration. Okay, this is a list we provide to our patients of those projected post transplant medications. The top half are those immunosuppressants. Those are the always and forever ones, of course. And the bottom half are those preventative medications that we were talking about. We provide this as a reference for them. This is the form that I was mentioning earlier as far as when they complete that specialty pharmacy registration process. They will complete this for us just over the phone with the representative from that Specialty Pharmacy. They're going to find out those monthly medication costs, whether or not they have low income subsidy and of course that maximum out of pocket, they let us know whether or not they're going to have difficulty paying for these medications and return this to us.  That AKF insurance premium assistance. Many of you are of course, very helpful with your patients in obtaining this grant. They have to have had the grant for at least three months prior to transplant to continue. If they did, then they can continue to receive that healthcare insurance premium assistance after transplant through the end of the insurance coverage year. If the transplant occurs in the last quarter of the year, AKF now considers funding for another year of those premiums. Patients do have to go into the AKF grants management system themselves and update their status as transplanted within the first three months. It's important that they do know how to access that account. And then when we're budgeting for patients who are receiving this assistance, we asked them to budget for at least six months Just because we never know for sure, of course, when that transplant may occur and when their AKF funding will end. Okay. So this chart gives you an idea of the total months of coverage that a patient will be, will be covered with those insurance premiums. With when they have AKF funding, depending on what month of the year they are transplanted in. So we give them a little breakdown of all that coverage that they could expect. Relocation expenses, we ask patients to budget for that relocation when of course they do live greater than an hour away from us, they'll be staying with us for that 30 days here in the Jacksonville area. We ask for that budget to be for lodging, food, and gas. And we estimate that at basically $100 per day. We know this is a low amount depending on where patients stay and what their expenses look like while they're here. But budget hotels, buying groceries and cooking their own meals can be helpful in impacting that budget for them. There are some resources to assist with hotel costs, but not all patients will qualify for this. Food and gas expenses, we estimate at about $500 for the 30 days. We know that patients can anticipate to be in the hospital for that average length of stay of about two to five days for kidney transplant. And they'll plan to be in our community for another three weeks after that. Other expenses that we look at in budgeting include those transportation costs. Particularly patients who are having to fly here to Jacksonville to get to us for transplant or if they're planning to rent a car while they're here. Also patients who are planning to hire a private duty caregiver as a part of their transplant recovery, we want to factor in those costs as well. Okay, so this is a summary of some different fund raising organizations. It's a nice little comparison for patients to look at some different options and kind of compare and contrast some of the different organizations that they could use to do that medical fundraising or a Go Fund Me account. So many patients are familiar with that Go Fund Me, but not the others necessarily. Okay. So I'm going to come back on now and just kind of walk you through the rest of our process here at Mayo. I know somebody put in the question and answer that the chat isn't working and I don't know why that is. I'm going to have to figure that out. We will get the presentation to all of you, even if we have to email it to all of you. So don't worry about that, okay? If a patient meets all criteria after they've met with the whole team and they're approved by all the disciplines, they're going to get through selection committee and they'll be approved. And they'll be listed as a status seven, which means that they can't get organ offers until their fundraising goal is met. Generally, they will not have living donors worked up. Sometimes we bend that rule a little bit if the fundraising goal is really low. The listing letters usually tell them too, that they have to make progress towards their goal within a year or their listing isn't going to be continued.  When our patients are approved for listing, we go ahead and we fill out this reminder list, and this is used to manage these patients. Every 90 days, one of our social worker assistants calls these patients on the list so that the reminder list gives a date and they're followed up with every 90 days. They let us know if the patient has any issues or questions and if they're not making progress. And then the social worker will call them to follow up with the patient. If they're not by the annual visit, we can request a 45 day letter warning them that they're going to be removed. Patients are required to send us documentation once they have their funds. They're required to send us in something that shows that.  When we receive their documentation, we notify the team. The RN coordinator then reviews the chart, sees if any other testing or appointments are, are needed, and then we will schedule those if they are needed. If they're not needed, they'll just bring them back to selection for a status change 7-1 which is active, and then they start getting organ offers. Our post patients are given a questionnaire to help us to continue this process every time we see them.  At their update appointment, which for us is usually every one to two years, depending on the patient, the fundraising goal is reviewed and revised at each appointment if there's a new fundraising goal, the team is notified and the patient is made status seven. If the patient's insurance or some situation has changed and they no longer need a goal, will notify the team that way too and they can be made status one. The reminder list is changed immediately after the patient is seen, so that the correct goal is communicated at all times to the patient. The final budget and the fund raising goal. Again, the transplant financial coordinators are providing deductible information, cost sharing or coinsurance info max, out of pocket information, and in and out of network benefits. And they're also telling them any donor benefits or donor costs that they could have.  To put it all together. with our way of providing information, the patient really needs to add any costs that the transplant financial coordinator is telling them to anything that we're telling them, okay, To come up with their total costs. So why is it that we don't give one number? I always think this and I always felt this and I think we always hear this. The reason is there's a different focus and there's just a different focus and who's providing the information and different timing for the bills for those things. Most hospitals, including Mayo, will work with patients on a payment plan for the hospital bills that they don't have to pay that hospital bill immediately. Patients can always ask for charity assistance from their hospitals if they're struggling to make payments. If you have patients that are struggling to make payments for old hospital bills, please tell them to reach out and talk to the billing office and that hospital to see if anything can be written off. Most states get funding for charity care, and we will write off some of those balances if they're asked. In our case, most pharmacies, hotels and grocery stores, will not, unfortunately, work with payment plans. They're not going to do that for our patients. So they have to have those, the resources available for that. Now, research, like we said, we've been doing this as a research project for a number of years. This is the post transplant follow up questionnaire that we give our patients. And it really asked them how well they felt that they were prepared for their expenses and if they were able to afford their medications and that kind of thing. And we also asked them if they're working and that kind of thing. We asked them how they reach their fundraising goal too. This is our internal review board research project that has been going on. The objective of this was to see how ready the patients felt like they were for this process. This has been going on again for seven or eight years and we are likely going to be publishing a paper on this whole process. Um, hopefully sometime in the future, 92% of our patients who fund raise and 92% of the patients who did not fund raise reported that they felt adequately prepared for the cost related to transplant. We think that's a pretty darn good number. I don't know a lot of other transplant centers, and I've worked at other transplant centers, who could really say that the patients felt that well prepared? I think we're pretty proud of that 63% of the fundraising patients were younger than 50 years old. So again, we're seeing those younger patients that really don't have the savings and the retirement funds and that kind thing that they can tap into. The number of patients in the study who were employed has decreased by about 11% from their initial evaluation to their four month follow up. They're not able to continue working a lot of times. When we started this process. and since then, because we update this every time we look at this, we looked at some studies about what was going on in the transplant world. In one study, 70% of the transplant programs reported having serious problems with their patients being able to afford their meds. 47% indicated that over 40% of their patients had difficulty affording their immunos. 67% reported deaths and graph losses attributable to the costs of post transplant meds. Employment and financial status have a strong association to graph and recipient survival. And low compliance is often associated with medication affordability and even the follow up care affordability.  And the immunos are vital but the cost is an issue even though the cost has declined pretty consistently. The literature also says that the transplant centers need to be providing their patients with enough information to make informed decisions about whether transplant is the right way for them to go. We need to be letting them know the financial consequences ongoing through their lives, for this process. We're expanding access to transplant care, but it's threatened by the high cost of the care, even though some of the costs continue to go down, like the medications. And we're getting higher risk recipients with more complex medication regimens. So the costs are going up for those patients. In conclusion, we do feel like financial preparation and budgeting is really critical for transplant.  Dialysis and  Transplant Social Workers have to understand the basics of insurance and how the insurance choices impact the financial planning for our patients. We've developed a system to assist our patients with setting financial goals and a pretty concrete way of doing that. We help them follow up on their progress and stay in touch with them. The research indicates the transplant center have to prepare their patients financially for transplant to avoid bad outcomes. Okay, so we're going to open it up to questions. And while you're doing questions, I'm going to leave this CEU certificate info up on the screen here. So Lakaya, do you want to throw out the questions? Yeah, there's a question that says, I'm confused about the relocation process. If a patient is working in another state, they will surely lose their job. Just need clarification. I can answer. With relocation. During our assessment, we discussed this with the patient. What are their plans for the relocation process? There's a 30 day recovery period. This is for Mayo Jacksonville. Each state, that Mayo listing is in they have their own requirements for relocation. Arizona has their specific requirements, so does Minnesota. For Jacksonville, it's 30 days. During our evaluation, we discuss with patients their plan for time off. Do they have short term disability? Long term disability. Will this be FMLA unpaid? We discussed all of this during our evaluation. Nine times out of ten patients always have a plan. They've already discussed it with their employer. If this is going to be a loss of income, we factor that into the fundraising goal for the patient. If they have appropriate resources they've already set aside to accommodate for that loss of income, they will suffer. So we haven't seen a big issue with this because most patients know there will be a recovery period from transplant. You can't get a surgery and go back home. So the next one I saw. Okay.  Will we be provided financial planners contact information to see what Medicare Advantage Plans are accepted? The financial coordinator. Okay. I'm going to put their number in the chat. 904-956-3745. And that should go to everybody, right? There's another. Okay. Yeah. Does this information apply to all Mayo clinics? I'm in Nevada, Our patients go to Mayo Arizona. I'll take this one. So there are some different relocation relocation requirements. Usually the medication costs are pretty standardized between the transplant centers. That's more a Medicare and, Medicaid, supplement kind of driven thing. So usually the medication costs are the same. I think Arizona requires four to six week relocation, but they would be able to best tell you that you can just reach out to one of the social workers there. I do think that they look for the AKF funding to be at least six months to 12 months. So it's pretty much the same. Can you talk more about how extra help helps with part B co-pays? Yeah. Hey, Laura. Lara. So we found this out literally, I think the middle of last year or the first quarter of last year, where all of a sudden our patients, we always, when patients had Medicare A and B, and just like SLMB Medicaid, they were not getting, we were budgeting for them to have their 20% copay for the Medicare Part B immuno for the balance of the immuno costs. We found out in that first quarter that SLMB that was coming with the extra help. and that the extra help was then applying to the 20% of their immuno costs, which is a beautiful thing. That was a new thing. We've seen that continuing this year with everybody except United Healthcare and with their Medicare advantage plans. And we are complaining to the states, to Medicare, we're complaining to United. We're not getting anywhere with that. But everybody else, we have not had a problem with any other insurance and getting that 20% covered when they have the extra help with the Medicare costs. With the prescription costs. That's been an unusual thing, but it's a good thing for our patients. It really helps save a lot of money. Right. I would like to know what is considered adequate insurance coverage for transplant. Some transplant centers want patients to have Medicare and Medicaid or Supplemental insurance plan. What is the standard insurance coverage for transplant? You know, I don't, we don't require that they have any specific insurance other than it has to be an insurance that we accept here. So Medicare is accepted here and some Medicare advantage plans. To get the initially to get to the initial eval, you do not have to have anything other than those, you know, either one or the other of those coverages when they meet with us, if they don't have the supplement and that kind of thing. we're going to talk about how much their medication costs are going to increase from that, how much their relocation is going to be, so they can come in here with just having Medicare A/B and D and get through our process. And they'll have a fundraising goal, but sometimes they can meet that and that's all they want. We don't have that here at Mayo. Some other centers may have it. Pat. Karen has her hand raised. I'm not sure how to unmute her. She's at the top. I'm telling you every time we used zoom, zoom change something, so Okay, Karen, you should be able to talk. I apologize. I didn't have my hand raised. I must have hit something. I'm looking at the Q and A, I apologize. Okay. All right. Okay. Let me see. I got a few more questions coming in. What about Kaiser? How did they work with Mayo? You know, Kaiser is working much more now, I think with Arizona and Rochester, than they're working with Jacksonville. They used to come here for the liver program and we're not getting as many of them now because the relocation costs are cheaper for them to go to Arizona. Arizona has pretty much high volumes, but Kaiser is fine too. Kaiser can come here right now though, I think most of them are going to Arizona. Pat, there are a few people who are having issues with the CEU link. Okay. What are they scanning the code or putting in The one of the persons said they scanned the code and use the bitly link and still having an issue. Okay, hang on. I'm going to try and like scan the code. Okay, so it's working for me. What I would suggest is maybe screenshot that and try it again. Once you're off the webinar, maybe it's just given you a problem because you're still on the webinar. All right. Can you provide a list of Medicare Advantage Plans and EGHP that are accepted? We cannot. You would have to reach out to the financial coordinators and I think they're now trying to keep a list on line somewhere. So reach out, use that phone number that I gave and reach out to them and just ask them if you can have a list of the current plans or a link to where they're keeping those. All right. How many patients with EMA emergency medical assistant are accepted for transplant on an annual basis at Mayo Clinic? Now, the number of patients accepted are limited. The interesting thing here at Mayo, Mayo is actually not a Florida Medicaid provider.  So for kidney, we don't take any patients who are Medicaid only. Those patients I think they are mostly heart patients that we do accept, might be some livers too. But there are no kidney patients that are accepted here, just Medicaid. All right. I have a patient in Kansas whose insurance requires a transplant Mayo clinic. Does the patient need to call to schedule a pre transplant evaluation? Will they receive all this information at that time? Okay. So many of you probably know that we have the contract with Walmart, so this is likely a Walmart patient or Sam's Club patient. What happens with them is you just go ahead and send the referral in. We will reach out to the insurance and let them know that we've received a referral. Once that happens, Health Scope gets involved in Health Scope actually makes all of the arrangements for them to come here. They work with our team to get all the flight arrangements, all the hotel arrangements. And we wish we had that with every patient. And who would have thought Walmart? No. Right. All right. You're asking for the financial coordinator's number again? Can you repeat it, Pat? Yes. It's 904-956-3745. Oh, when somebody put the link out there, I don't know if they were anonymous attendee, they must work here at Mayo, but we appreciate them. Thank you. Yes. Okay. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Can we receive the document via email? Yes. I think that's the Powerpoint. And I think what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go out and pull a list from the evaluations that you complete. And I'll send out or from the Zoom attendees. And I'll send it out you guys because it's good to have. It's like a nice little thing. So I will send it out to you guys either today or tomorrow. Okay. All right. Hello. I have a patient in Puerto Rico that shows interest in being evaluated there. What insurance is accepted for these patients? The same insurance that's everybody else. Yeah, so we have a lot of Puerto Rican patients here. We get a lot of patients from Puerto Rico. Send them, Just send the referral or contact the transplant financial coordinators to see if we accept whatever insurance they have. But we do generally accept their insurance. Yeah, we do.  Great presentation. Thank you. Good. We try to do this. We're going to actually try to put this out, I think on our Mayo Youtube channel so that you guys can get at it when you want to get at it/ We're going to see if that works. And if our higher ups think that that's okay to do. So we're going to try, we always have a lot of interest in this. There's like 150 of you on this presentation, so there's always a lot And I like this when I first came to Mayo, I thought this was a really good structure. We've tweaked it since then. But I think it really makes it easier for our staff to understand how the pieces fit together for the patients to understand it and for the dialysis social workers, I think it's really helpful. Okay. Any other questions? We've got like a few minutes left on. Can you give me the referral information please? Are they asking for the referral for the transplant? Yes. I can give you a phone number. You know, most of the dialysis centers just send it in through whatever their system is. But there's a fax number you can also call. Actually, wait a minute. Let me do you want to answer another question while I try to find that? There's not another one? Right now. That's great information. Great presentation. I learned so much. I'm interested in any future webexs you offer. Yeah, we are going to be offering some new ones. Let me talk about that for a minute. Whoever sent me that, who's asking for the referral information. When I send the email to you guys, I will send you the link. We have something called Care Link and I'll also get you the fax number to fax referrals to the phone number. Okay. So I will send those things too. If you guys are not in Care Link, we suggest getting that too and I'll send you a flyer for that. That is a new automated way to send us referrals and you can actually check on your patients that way, live up to date where they're at with our center. The other presentations we're going to be doing, I think the next one is going to be the end of July. That will also be for one CEU, from the Florida Board, which is usually accepted by all state boards. It's going to be on Living Donation and how to help our patients find living donors and what the process is, The one after that I think is going to be Helping Your Dialysis Patients get Through the Mayo Transplant Process. Then we'll probably have one more. I think the end of the year,  probably like an Ask the Team where you can just ask all of our team any questions that you've got. Maybe I missed it, but does Mayo transplant patients over 73 years old? And yes we do. We have patients in their '80s here that we've transplanted. We don't use an age cutoff. There's no age cutoff here. It's really your condition when you walk in the door here. So are you healthy? Because we have 80 year olds that come in that look like 50 year olds. We have 50 year olds that walk in that look like they're 80. So it really is on your physical condition and your comorbidities. We do not have an age cutoff at this center at this time. Do you do preemptive transplants? KDL, LDKT? We're starting to focus more on the preemptive patients. Our docs are going to be doing a presentation, I think in August, early August, they're going to be reaching out to nephrologists and some primary care docs I think in the Southeast to try to help them figure out when is the right time to send their preemptive patients to us. If you guys have doctors who would be interested in that, just shoot me an email to um, and let me know that. All right. Anonymous attendee says that is on August 3 for the preemptive webinar. Thank you. I think I know who our anonymous attendee is. I know Okay. Does our anonymous attendee actually have the referral information that would be helpful? Can you provide a list of exclusions and inclusions that we can use as a reference? I can send you in that email that I send you, I will send you the criteria. But what I would recommend to you is send everybody, if you're at a dialysis center, you really are supposed to be sending us everybody at this point and then just let us weed through. We have different layers of triage. There's an initial triage that will just anybody who's got too many co morbidities, they'll be removed from that at that initial triage state. But it doesn't hurt them to go through the process here. BMI is one for us. I think BMI is cutoff at 40. But I can send that criteria to list to you guys too Giving me a lot of homework here. Can New Jersey snowbirds list in Florida? Yes, they can. They do it all the time? Yeah. We actually have a lot of New York, New Jersey patients. Yes, we do. I joined in late. Is there anywhere or website where we can get this info? Pat is going to send out the Powerpoint so you can look at it there also, anyone knows Medicaid for kidney ESRD patients? Pat addressed earlier for transplant, kidney transplant, We don't accept Medicaid only patients at Mayo Clinic. What is the maximum BMI for consideration for transplant? I think it's 40. Oh, and there's the referral line. Our anonymous attendee send us some numbers. Thank you. Our anonymous attendee and the email address. Very good. All right. Oh, okay. Do you ever run into problems with insurance only paying for one evaluation? Do you share eval info with other transplant centers? We do. I don't think we run into problems and I don't do the insurance, so I don't know that that's an issue. But we do share information between the centers. The way this works is a lot of centers have Epic. There's something called care everywhere in Epic. We can see testing that's been done at Cleveland Clinic or like MUSC and places like that. Piedmont, I think we can see the testing and they can see ours and we do share that information. If we can't see it in the chart, patients can get it and get it to us. Okay. We really appreciate all of you attending this. It's really nice and it's good to hear from you guys. We like hearing from you.  Next time. I'll make sure that the chat is working okay? All right. If there's no other questions, everybody slip in anything out there. No. We're going to go ahead and cut this off. And if you have any problems with the CEUs or anything, reach out to us. Our emails are up here and they'll be in the presentation. So if you have any questions after this, don't feel bad. Go ahead and email us. It's not a problem. Okay, thank you very much, and thank you Lakaya and Janette. Thank you. Thanks. Bye everybody.