Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. All right, audience, raise your hand if you're busy, want to save money, and like things that taste good. That describes a lot of us and those are some of the most common reasons that many of us rely on processed foods. However, these foods can have a major impact on us in some ways that are obvious and other ways that are maybe not so obvious. Accordingly, the title for our session today is unwrapping the truth about processed foods impact on your health and how to overcome temptation. To help us work through this, we have Kate Zaraski, who's a registered dietician and nutritionist at Mayo Clinic. Kate, welcome to the Human Optimization Project. >> Thanks for having me, Dr. Camp. >> And not only is is Kate a clinical dietician and nutritionist, she's also the specialty editor for nutrition and healthy eating guide for mayoc clinic.org. It's fantastic website. I recommend you all check it out. She's also active in nutrition related curriculum and course development focusing on the areas of wellness nutrition and education related to weight management and practical applications of nutrition related lifestyle changes. Kate has been in clinical practice helping patients and athletes of all ages and ability levels at Mayo Clinic for 25 years. Kate, to get us started today, I want to outline our three big questions that we have to kind of organize the the discussion. So the first big question we have for you, what exactly are processed foods and why do they matter so much to our overall health? The second question, why do so many of us rely on processed foods despite the known downsides? And then lastly, we'll get into some solutions. And our third question is, what are the practical steps we should take right now to minimize processed foods in our diet? Does that lineup sound okay to you? >> That sounds great. >> All right. Well, we'll start with the first one and I think starting with definitions is always helpful to kind of set the stage. So, can you start by defining what the term processed food really means? >> Sure. So, when we think of a processed food, really it's a food that has been altered from its original state. Say the state that mother nature gave it to us in. And I think if we try to relate that to our food and our food supply, we quickly recognize like, wow, that that could be a lot of things. And it can look different for a lot of different foods. So very simply, it could be something that, you know, the shell taken off of of a nut where we think about some other things that we eat that have different colors and shapes and textures that would we would never find in nature. So there is this continuum of kind of what what can happen in processing. And there was a group out of Brazil that actually has made an attempt to classify processed foods. And within that they have four categories. The first category being unprocessed or minimally processed foods. And it goes all the way up to what they call ultrarocessed foods as category 4. And so in between as you can imagine things are maybe a combination or less processed um than say category 4. >> Okay. So let's talk about some of those ultrarocessed and highly processed foods. What what exactly is happening in that proc what defines the definition? What is happening to those foods? And specifically, I'd like to know what's being removed and and kind of what's being added and what are the implications of that. >> Right. And I think that's where our concerns come, you know, kind of start to come in and and why we're talking about this is and to your point, I think a lot of times we think about what's added and we get nervous about those words with, you know, that are really long and that we can't pronounce. But to your point, it's just as much what is not there, what's been taken away. What did mother nature put in there and then through the processing it was removed. So that's just it. We're missing out on nutrients. We're missing the fiber. We're missing the vitamins, the minerals, the antioxidants, and probably compounds that are in that of food originally that we haven't even discovered how good it is for our body just yet. And they're they're removed. And then to allow them to be shelf stable and safe. And I think this is, you know, when we think back to why do we even have processed foods? Processing food is really a it originated to make food safe, you know, to allow food to travel from its origin to us in our region of the world and allow us to consume it safely. And so it was maybe heat treated, had salt or sugar added to control bacterial or mold growth, you know. So, it's gone from its origins and safety to where we're at now with, "Wow, that's a really interesting shape, texture, color, and oh, it feels, you know, different in my mouth or, you know, whatever. I like that feeling, or I like that crunch, or that flavor and taste." And so, it's really evolved um in terms of what processing has done for our food supply. And the most common things that you see added to foods now are would it be sugar, chemicals, preservatives, salts? >> Yeah. So that's just it. So you think about originally might have been salt and sugar, but now we have so many different types of salts and sugars. And that's really those long words a lot of times that we're seeing on the back of the package. It's a lot of times it's a salty ingredient, a sugary ingredient. Um, but now there's also things that are added to enhance taste or to enhance texture. Um, to make it not crumble and fall apart, um, or maybe something to hold it together. And additionally, there are things that just make it more appealing. They add different colors. And because we know when we're presented with more interesting food choices and colors as consumers, we eat more. So, it's, you know, it's that appeal to us, that shape and color and crunch or smoothness. Those are all things that we attribute to I like this food for this reason or we might not think about that consciously, but we that's what's happening. >> And how common is this in our world today? And and is, you know, is this a pretty universal problem? Does this tend to be just an American problem? How how prevalent? You know, we think about the American food supply and and the westernized diet and and it's not but it's unfortunately it's not just us. You know, even in in countries in uh Asian countries, you know, they're seeing the influx of processed foods and I think the the statistics I saw were maybe up to 20% of their food supply. Um and in European countries, Australia, you know, they're seeing a higher influx, maybe 40 50% of their food supply. Here in the US, the number is is about uh you know anywhere between 40 or 70 depending on kind of the the data you look at. I was looking at it kind of thinking of it in a different way just as a a visualization. If you walk into a grocery store really the only unprocessed foods are the apples and oranges and things that are out on display. Um pretty much everything has been touched or modified. Um, hence our our advice of, you know, try to stick to that outer ring of the grocery store. You're still going to get some processed foods, but hopefully it's not as processed if you, you know, step down some of the aisles. Not all aisles are bad, but yeah, some of the aisles. >> And I like how you set that up and that foods kind of exist on a spectrum and that >> a lot of foods have some level of processing. You know, some somebody is picking it, washing it, shelling it, like doing something that that sort of counts. and but it's really it's probably those highly processed foods and ultrarocessed foods that we need to be on the lookout for. So I I want to give the audience some tips on what to look for to know if they're looking at something that is highly processed or ultrarocessed. I guess one of the obvious ways is if it's coming in a box or a plastic wrapper or or a package that that's probably one indication. Uh but I'm sure there are more sophisticated ways in terms of the nutrition facts, ingredients, what what do we need to look at? >> Yeah. Uh so I think first and foremost if you look at the nutrition facts that's an that's the indicator of what's in it nutritionally. So you can look at things like even just starting at the calories, you know, if if it's a higher calorie food, you know, and again by that's, you know, a little bit uh arbitrary, but snack foods if you're, you know, around that 150, 200 or higher mark if you're looking at a meal, you know, 500 calories or more. But really start by just looking at the calories and then make your way down the list. If you're making your way down that list, look at what the saturated fat is because often times again saturated fats um in the form of tropical oils uh have are more shelf stable. In our country, in the United States, they had to take out the trans fats out of foods. And so when they did that, they replace them with tropical oils and they're saturated. So we we do have a concern about that and our heart health. And then if we keep going down that list, let's looking at is there fiber? Is there any vitamins or minerals within that? And then as you keep going down the package, there'll be a list of ingredients. And again, as you're looking at those ingredients, are what are you what kind of ingredients are you seeing? Are you seeing whole food ingredients? That's what we're looking for. We're looking for it to say the the list of if it's, you know, a a meal, we want to see a list of a protein richch food, like we want to see chicken or we want to see beans or we want to see tomatoes or green beans or the vegetables that are in it. And then I think if we keep going down, knowing that the ingredient list is in weighted order. So what's in it most is going to be at the top by weight and what's in it least is going to be at the bottom. So yes, they might have some sprinkling in of things. I think of like breakfast cereals. All the vitamins and minerals are listed at the bottom of that cuz it's a powder that's sprinkled into breakfast cereals, but um or sprayed onto breakfast cereals. But uh that's not necessarily a bad thing. It's just how it's put in there and what it weighs. Um, but I think it's kind of that if you're seeing more sugary ingredients, salty ingredients, those tropical oils, um, or um, again, you know, just the overall ingredient list is really long. If you're seeing some of those things near the top or that list is just especially long, you're kind of why did it, you know, I could probably make this at home and just use all the real food ingredients. >> I like that. Sort of a good good approach. You know, look first, is it in a box or plastic container. Second, kind of look at the calories, nutrition facts, and then kind of work your way through the ingredients. I like that approach. Um, I think it's it's relatively intuitive for a lot of people on why these processed foods are maybe not the healthiest for us, but could you outline what are some of the maybe the more obvious detrimental impacts of processed foods and then walk us through some of the less obvious consequences of eating them? you know, first and foremost, I think if we're thinking about added sugars, added fats, the concern there is added calories that um may not be adding to our nutrition. They're there probably for texture, for shelf stability, um not necessarily providing nutrients to us, um and really probably upping that calorie count. So I think you know first and foremost I think it's just looking at how it impacts um our weight because we know just weight as a baseline um can lead to um other chronic diseases. So, you I think it's that overall umbrella of, you know, the the foods we eat, we we want them to be more nourishing and have those nourishing type ingredients um rather than things that are going to quickly just tally up calories. And then we have salt. Um and I think when we think of salt, you know, I think a lot of people think, oh, well, maybe it's not good for my blood pressure. Um and and yes that's true but I think you know just even thinking the broader sense if if when you think about your blood pressure your blood pressure affects so many things we might immediately think oh I you know stroke risk but you know blood pressure impacts all of our organs and so you know just thinking about your whole system um and so I think you know we can kind of look at that from you know just kind of I want my body to be healthy. But I think we can also get into just like the idea of like how I feel when I eat some of these things. You know, I think if you're not having if you're having more sugar and more fat and not a lot of fiber, you might put that into your digestive system and just really not feel good. Um, so you know, kind of the long-term and the short term, but kind of how they interplay is, you know, again, you're probably not doing your digestive system any favors by putting things in it that um don't move real well because, you know, then we can say, okay, now we'll go back to the long term. What is that doing to my bacteria that live in my in my gut? Um, it's probably having an impact on them, too. and and we're learning more and more about the role of our gut bacteria. Some people call it the gut microbiome and what it and its role in our overall health. And it really, you know, it's kind of pointing toward um yeah, it it probably impacts inflammation and how your food's absorbed and how you, you know, different systems in your body work. And so it is worth paying attention to. >> And I think those are great. I like how you kind of laid that out with some of the acute changes, you know, with with weight, energy, mood, and how you feel and then some of the chronic things that can happen. And another thing I think I would add too is it sort of changes our pallet and our desire as well. And so you sort of get used to that and you want to recreate it and you do it again. And so it it also can sort of lead you down this trail or this slippery slope and and many of us are a long way down that already and need to come back which which can make it hard. So I think that's another important factor to consider. You earlier you mentioned that um processing food has its origins in food safety. What are some of the reasons that they are still so common place now? I I think it probably goes a little beyond food safety which you which you alluded to. So why why is this so common and why is it such an issue for us? You know, first and foremost, I think if it's it's taste. And I think if you ask a lot of people, why do I eat that particular food? They're going to say because it tastes good. Another very common answer we get is it's convenient. You know, I I can walk to the vending machine and grab it. I can just open the bag and it's there. There's no preparation involved. And so taste and convenience are major drivers in the food that we eat. Those are probably the biggest reasons. But then beyond that, I think there there is this idea of if I like the taste and it kind of and the moment kind of is like, wow, that's great. We we kind of want to hang on to that. But I think after two or three bites, we realize that's that's gone. we're kind of back into our TV show or we're back into whatever we were doing, you know, distracted eating. So, it's this idea of we will tend to go back to something we think is going to make us happy. And I think that's in itself maybe another topic or issue, but it's just the idea of kind of how we balance these things in the end is is really is really important. >> Well, it's a great point and it's and it's hard to argue that point. I don't think you can tell people that they're incorrect in that, right? and that yeah, a lot of these foods do taste really good and uh these foods are more convenient. >> So, how do you um start to counsel people to think beyond those two variables knowing that those two variables are critically important uh for us and and I guess as a part of convenience also they're they're more oftenimes more affordable. So, you sort of have this yeah it tastes good, yeah, it's more convenient and yes, it's more affordable. Um, those are very legitimate arguments as to why you why people do eat processed food. How do you help folks get beyond those very legitimate reasons for doing it? >> Yeah. And so I think it's it is kind of stepping back and saying, well, do you recognize that how you're eating is impacting how you feel? you know, your digestive health, how you're sleeping, just your overall energy level, and generally if you're not feeling good and you can then start looking at the reasons why, it might be what we're eating and drinking. So the idea of okay, so if we want to change what we're eating and drinking, you know, recognizing that it's 2025 and we're all busy people that we're not necessarily not going to use processed foods, it's maybe what processed foods and how we do it. And so it might be that we choose foods that maybe are less processed and then we add or complement them with foods that are much more nutritious. >> Thinking I'll I'll give you an example. So it might be that there's a lot of families and that have pizza. It's the most popular food in America. So if your family says, you know, I want pizza. Okay. Well, how are we going to do pizza? You know, you could make a homemade pizza. You might order a pizza in. You might get a frozen pizza. Again, probably different variations of how much processing is going on there in that food. But let's just say pizza. You get it? It's really how much pizza are we eating and what's complimenting it. So, if we can cut back our pizza by one or two slices, but add a bag of salad, open up a bag of salad, open up a can of pineapple, slice up an apple, open up a bag of baby carrots, add that to the meal. What we've done essentially is by decreasing the amount of pizza, we've decreased the amount of salt, we've decreased the amount of saturated fat and any other things that might be in there that may not be beneficial to our health and calories. We've cut back on the calories. So again, just that overall taking care of my body, >> using those things to get people to connect to their larger goal. Like I I think yes, saving time is a goal. Saving money is a goal. Being convenient is a goal. Eating things that taste good is a goal. But overall, if you ask most people, they would say, you know what, I'm not as healthy as I want to be. I don't have the level of energy as I want. I I don't feel as good. My body hurts. You know, like we have all these other things. And I think getting people to see that a lot of those things are influenced by the food you eat. So yes, you may have those smaller goals of the, you know, time, convenience, taste, and um affordable, but is it meeting your larger goals of being healthy and being the most successful person you could be and feeling good and having the energy and and not being aching and uh in in pain all the time? I I think applying to some of those could be helpful. And then and then sort of taking that step-wise approach like like you meant, maybe you don't have to eliminate pizza all together, but start small and add add in something healthy. Yeah. And if Dr. Camp, if I could just add something, the idea of affordability when we think of of that, you know, now days, I think if if someone went to buy a a bag of, you know, snack chips or, you know, something, you know, a what we would put into that ultrarocessed snack foods, we went to buy that. It's probably going to cost us $3 or $4 to buy that bag of snack food. Equally, it would probably cost us about $3 to buy a bag of apples or oranges if they're in season. And so, we think about that from a, you know, an affordability. We're spending the same amount of money. But really, when you look at the quantity of food, the quality of food, and then even just price, you know, kind of price per unit weight. the that bag of apples or oranges is really heavy and compared to that, you know, bag of snack food. And so it's that in itself, you know, there's so many things that we could probably say, yeah, spending our money on the the bag of apples or the bag of oranges so many benefits. >> I I think too, I love that you talk about, you know, the weight difference between those two. And then if you if you look at the nutritional difference, if you think about >> how how much uh you know, vitamins, mineral, fiber, you know, protein, like the good things you're getting per dollar spent, it becomes very clear what the better option is. And you're not going to get that in a in a bag of potato chips like you would something healthy. >> You know, one of the things I've always wondered is >> does processed food affect us differently based on our age? and mainly thinking about how to handle these conversations for people with kids and we think oh they're a kid they can eat anything they'll feel fine you know they'll they'll bounce but it doesn't matter you can give them whatever >> um whereas with adults you know we eat it often times we feel it a little bit more so all of these things we've talked about so far are they equally important in children or is it different >> I would agree I think they're equally as important in children and and you someone might even argue more so because they're still developing right they're a whole system and everything is still developing. So the the the their nutrient needs, you know, you could argue are that much more important. I think where, you know, the idea of where we we are kind of fooled into thinking they're getting away with it is the fact that they are growing and so their caloric needs are so high compared to us as adults. So they're they're growing and that in itself is such a demand on on their bodies and hopefully they're outside playing or they're moving and they're doing and again they they just have that activity level. Um, so yeah, I think even think, oh yeah, they're getting away with it. Like they're not having any health issues related to their to their intake of processed foods, but it's probably more about again just if we could look inside and knowing that as adults we can relate to if I eat better, I feel better. you know, the same for kids. They're probably going to have, you know, their how they perform in school, how they do in their sports and activities, you know, how they sleep. All of those things are going to be impacted just like they are for us. So, >> and I think too, if you also just take a step back and look at how we're doing as a society. For the adults, you would say we're gaining weight, we're we're stressed, we're we're out of energy, you know, we're not as healthy, we're we're going in a bad direction. If you look at the children, same thing's happening. So it would be one thing if we said none of our children were obese. They're all super active. They're not having any learning pro, you know, but there are some issues there that I think need to be sorted out too. So I I do think we owe it to our children uh to to treat them the same way and in the same manner. And I also think too it's important to start these habits early. It it's going to be so much easier for them if they learn this, you know, from a young age as opposed if they've been doing it uh the wrong way for 40 years and then they have to unlearn, you know, 40 years of uh challenging behavior. >> Yeah. And I think you know along that point as well is just you know I think it is normal for us to celebrate with food. You know that's just part of our society many societies. Food is a part of our celebrations and very much a fabric in within our our lives. So we're not going to take that out but I think it's sometimes it can be our only celebration or our only reward or our entertainment. And there's so many other things that we can reward or ways of rewarding, ways of entertaining, ways of spending time together that can be very meaningful other than saying, you know, let's eat, whatever it is. >> Yeah. Very good. >> Yeah. >> Well, I want to wade into some controversial waters here, uh, if I can for a minute. So I I think overall we can say we we probably have too much processed food in our in our society or culture. We'd be we'd be better without it. My next question is whose fault is it? And I have some thoughts on this, but I would love to hear your thoughts because is is this a consumer problem? Uh that's the fault of the individual consumers or is this the you know big food companies that are out there designing this stuff to get us addicted and uh trying to make us unhealthy? Um, I'll give my thoughts, but I'm I'm curious to hear your your take on that first. >> Okay. I'm gonna walk a bit of a tight rope. Um, and so when I'm when I'm talking to to people about, you know, how do we eat better? One of my common statements is, you know, grocery stores and food manufacturers know we're busy. They know our time is in a crunch, so they know we're looking for convenience. And and again, as human beings, we eat for taste and we eat for convenience. So that matchup is one this to say, okay, we're kind of in a setup where we're as consumers, we're looking for what's quick and tastes good and who's delivering it. um may or may not be interested in, you know, ultimately nutrition. Maybe they are, you know, so I can't make that assumption because some I think food companies put out very good food and and others, you know, maybe that's not their whole line. But I think that it's it's probably the system, you know, from consumer to food manufacturer. there's probably needs to be a change in our system, but quite frankly, if we don't buy it, they're probably not going to make it. >> Yeah, I I agree. You know, there is this notion or, you know, school of thought out there that, you know, people think, oh, these grocery store CEOs or company CEOs are diabolical and they're trying to get us addicted and they're trying to make us unhealthy. And I don't know, I for me personally, I don't necessarily see it that way. I see, you know, these are these are folks that are running businesses and companies who want to be successful just like any other company or business that wants to be successful and I don't see any harm in that. I do I do agree with you that I think that there are certain uh grocery store chains, certain restaurants, certain food companies that do place a high emphasis on nutrition as as opposed to others. uh and we we kind of have an idea of who those are, but ultimately I think that they're just trying to be successful and they know the things that sell and they they know what we want and what we're asking for and what we buy. And so they they're giving us the products that we're going to going to pay for. And I think that they have, as they have always done, will respond to demand and respond to markets. And all of a sudden, if if you know, we woke up tomorrow and everybody hated sugar and they they loved um they hated added sugar and they loved apples and nobody was buying added sugar and everybody started buying apples, we would see things change, you know, we we would see uh grocery stores would change, food companies would change, restaurants would change. So, I I agree with it's it's a little bit of both. But in the end, I don't know that it really matters other than I would say to individuals. You know, if you have this thought of this is not my fault. I don't have any agency in this because these companies have designed this system that I can't possibly overcome. I think that can be an unhealthy approach to it because then there's there's a lot of hopelessness in that. Um, and I do think that yes, it is challenging. Yes, society has been designed in such a way that does make it harder than it should be. But I still think there is hope and I still think we have agency and we we should still say, "Yep, this is this difficult. This is a hard problem." But I still have the ability to make some forward progress if I if I take the right steps. >> Yes, I completely agree. And I think, you know, as as we talk today, I think, you know, we can we can definitely give people some ideas about let's do it that progress. Yeah. >> All right. So let's do let's transition sort of into our third section here where we're going to talk about the steps people should take. And my first question actually is before we talk about the actual steps is you know one I hear commonly is how can I tell if I have too much processed food in my diet and I hear that a little a lot and for me when I hear people ask that it's that question in of itself is almost an oversimplification of the problem in in my opinion and I don't think it's this thing where it's either yes you have too much or no you do not like a yes no dichomous thing. I think it we we all sort of exist along a spectrum. >> You know, on one end there's the if you ate nothing but ultrarocessed food with a lot of salt and sugar and no nutritional value. You know, that's one end of the spectrum. On the other end, there's the folks that are only eating 100% nonprocessed whole foods. And I know a few of those, but there's not many of those. And so, you know, 99.9% of us live somewhere between those two ends of the spectrum. And I almost view it as we shouldn't be saying I'm eating too much or I'm fine like a yes no thing. We should say all right how can I continue to make forward progress and move in a direction that helps me accomplish the goals that I want in terms of being healthy having you know high levels of energy and achieving what I want to as a human being. That that's sort of how I have always looked at this issue. Does that seem reasonable uh to you or how do you approach that? I absolutely think it's reasonable and and quite frankly I think it's realistic and I think that's what really in when we're trying to assess where we're at and changes we want for ourselves to improve our health and just how we feel because that's really what it comes down to is I just want to feel better and if that's the case you know that you know that's your first inventory right is how I feel and if you're saying I want to feel better or I want to feel Then take inventory of what you're eating. You know, get a sense of, you know, what am I really eating? Am I do I have any fruits and vegetables in my diet? And if so, how many? And, you know, what are my meals? What what do they look like? Um, and do they have whole and wholesome foods or are they on the other end of the spectrum? And and I think that's just it. So if they're on, you know, the more processed end of the spectrum, you know, just look at that food and say, how could I change that? And it might be that we don't absolutely say it's we're never going to eat it again. It's just maybe how do I change how that impacts me? Do I eat it less frequently? Do I have a smaller portion of it? Um or do I take that food and add other things to it? complement things next to it that again move my health to a spectrum how I feel to a spectrum of you know along that spectrum that's it's better for me and and because it's all it's right it's perspective >> so if people are going to get started they take inventory and they say okay I'm I'm doing not so good or I'm okay regardless I want to get better what are like the key areas you would suggest they start to target in terms of what foods to look for and what foods to try to reduce in their diet >> yeah I what they're snacking on. And I don't want to say easy, it's never easy, but you know, that might be a place to start. You know, what do you like during the day? And and for a lot of people, a lot of people struggle in the evening. What's happening in the evening time after dinner um when we're especially tired um and our decision- making is more challenged, you know, you know, look at is there a time of the day that I'm struggling and is there a particular food that I'm struggling with? That might be your inventory questions. And then to say, okay, is it a particular food? Is it a particular time? What can I do differently with that food at that time? You know, for a time thing, it might be, well, you know, it's 9:00 and maybe I shouldn't walk back into the kitchen. Maybe I should start my bedtime routine. Um whereas you know if it's a food thing it's it might be again frequency amount and then to say you know really could I add something wholesome could I add a fruit could I add a vegetable could I add you know some uh you know a protein richch food like a slice of cheese or a cheese stick or you know a yogurt or you know something like that could I add some type of food like that in that is going to give me more nutrition um and feel more sustainable because I think that's part of this too is If we are snacking on things that don't necessarily have a lot of nutrition, they don't have the fiber, the protein, you know, the vitamins, the minerals, we do we don't ever feel kind of fully restored. And so if we start adding in those foods with more nutrients in them, our body is going to just feel more satisfied. It's going to it's going to get the things it needs. And just to kind of to help folks sort of sort through, you know, what are some of the most common processed foods that you see people eating that you would suggest they get out? So, the most common ultrarocessed foods maybe that people use as snacks that they should target. What are some examples? >> You know, probably the variety of like fried snack foods, you know, and then those can come in a variety of shapes and forms and colors, right? Um, so it's hard to say like a potato chip, but it's really it's could be any fried cornbased or potato-based or whatever it is based product that's shaped a certain way and fried and then it's seasoned with a lot of different things. I'll say that would that would be or dessert like dessert foods or um you know >> candy type things. Yeah, candy type things, packaged desserts again that come in a variety of shapes and colors and um and are going to have a lot of things, you know, added to them for for texture and flavor and those types of things. Um cuz again, we're probably looking for something crunchy, something sweet, something to give us energy, and we can get that from wholesome foods. you know, we can get a crunchy vegetable, we can get a crunchy nut, we can get a sweet piece of fruit, we, you know, we can re, if that's what we're looking for, we can replace those taste and texture things. Um, or we can complement those taste and texture things. So again, maybe it's a smaller amount of that food that's ultrarocessed and you ease the process by adding something else. So it's like you cuz our stomach and our eyes and kind of the again system of how you know if I just serve some someone up a smaller portion they're going to look at it and be like well that's a smaller portion that does not make me happy. >> So I'm on to your games Kate. Yeah. Yeah. My behind us. Yeah. >> So often times if you put more food in front of somebody again this is our way. So, if I if I present you with your, you know, typical snack in a smaller portion, but then I put some sliced apples or some sliced strawberries or, you know, something along or some something else alongside of it, you're going to be like, "Oh, colorful volume looks good, sweet, like those things." The acceptance of the process of the change is probably going to be better, >> right? And and I think one of the things too is it's helpful to not keep these foods in your house if you don't want to eat them, not purchase them at the grocery store. >> Um those are some areas that we could all probably improve on to to a certain degree. What about when you're dining out and you know you're with friends and you go out to eat. Any any tips for folks navigating those situations? Yeah, ultimately if you could eat out less, I think the more you put yourself in control of your food, better. Um, but it is, you know, like you said, there's a social component and social being social is part of our overall wellness. And so, we will we'll go out to with to to dinner with our friends and and have a nice time. Um, but then I think again, it's it's looking for wholesome foods. You know, can you get a lean piece of protein richch food? like if you know if it's a a lean piece of meat or is it a rice and bean based dish or can I find a vegetable? Can I get a vegetable soup? Can I get a salad? Can I get a side of broccoli? Um maybe they have a fruit salad. You know, I think it's looking perusing the menu and looking for some of those more wholesome foods. And I think, you know, the idea of sauces and condiments and the things we add for flavor and texture, those things, that's where we're going to see some of that ultrarocessing kind of creep into our our meal. >> Good. And I think one of the things that always helps me too is preddeciding, you know, before you go out to eat. Sometimes if you're undecided and then you look at the menu, uh that's not when your discipline's at its highest level, too. So often times preddeciding that that you're going to you know eat a certain thing before you go that can be uh another helpful tip as well. So >> speaking as tips as as we start to to come to the end here I would love to hear kind of what are your top tips that you would give to somebody maybe four or five tips someone who's new to this or starting on their journey to eliminate processed foods that'll set them up for success. >> Yeah. So, if I could play off what you just said, having that plan before going to drostanolone and putting yourself in that immediate situation, you know, often if we have a plan, we don't necessarily have to rely on our willpower. And, you know, we can grit our teeth and we can rely on that willpower for probably a certain amount of time and then it we it may slip and we will slip and we're going to feel really bad about it and we're going to think we failed and we're just going to go back to our old ways. I think having a plan that feels realistic and doable and knowing that we're not perfect human beings just allows us to kind of approach this like it's a process. And I think that's what is maybe helpful to think, you know, a lot of us say, "Well, I'm never going to eat that again." I don't know that that works really for most people. It wouldn't work for me. Um, I think it's the idea of I need to be again realistic and practical and say, well, if I'm going to do it, I need a plan for it. So, uh, I'm going to say, you know what, on Friday night, I'm going to allow myself to have, you know, if it's a dish of ice cream or go out for ice cream or have whatever that food is, and just make that allowance. So, that plan um, so you have an approach that feels comfortable to you. And again knowing that as we go through, you know, if it's something that you're having with more frequency and you're making this change that you might try it, it might not work. And again, you're going to think you failed. No, the system you tried didn't work. It's just like an experiment. You might have to take a different route and figure out, okay, maybe I just need to do this a different way. So allow again, be forgiving. Allow yourself to be creative and think of other solutions. just don't think I failed. Um, and then I think it's really looking at, you know, what can I do? Think about simple ads. You know, don't overthink this like, oh, I have to spend an hour now. You know, I have to I have to chop everything and cook everything from scratch every night. You know, where am I going to find an hour, an hour and a half? You don't have to. You know, I think it's the idea of it's considered processed, but take the frozen vegetables out of the freezer and put them in the microwave and add them to your dish. Or if you're um you know, maybe you're getting something that is, you know, has a little more processing. It's it might it might be like a an example could be like a they make rice mixes um that have a seasoning packet. And again, there's processing that's going on there. And we might say, "Well, what's in that seasoning packet?" But well, okay, let's just say that's what's going to happen for dinner. To that rice, you can add a can of beans. You can add a can of tomatoes. You can add a frozen bag of mixed vegetables. You can get this meal to your table in a half hour or less. Um, and you yes, you used processed ingredients, but your your your approach was a whole lot less processed. And what you've essentially done is you any of that salt or whatever those things were in that seasoning packet, you've diluted it. You've diluted the effect because you've added a potassium from your um your tomatoes. You've added protein and fiber and magnesium from your beans. You've added all this nutrition. So, the overall impact and effect is completely different. >> That's great. That's a fantastic list. I'm kind of writing, you know, as we go here. here. So, if I could summarize what you what you said so far, h have a plan, which I think helps. You know, sort of preddecide, but but also allow some flexibility for yourself knowing that you may not nail it the first time and and just keep iterating and sort of anticipate that you're going to fail at some point and don't beat yourself up uh but keep keep going. Also like the the concept you you talked about thinking about adding nutritional value. So, this is not just about taking away things. It's it's also about adding things uh in in their place. And I think if you do that, it makes the exchange seem easier. So rather than giving something up, you're really just uh exchanging. And and then I also like the the thought of keeping it simple. You don't you don't have to overthink this. Keep it easy. And it doesn't mean you have to go from um eating a lot of highly processed foods to being purely whole food, nonprocessed. It is a process. And it's okay if there are some things that are minimally processed. Just try to reduce the amount of of processed uh food that you're eating. >> Yes. Yes. Nice summary, Dr. camp. >> Great. Well, well, thank you. So, you know, I've been taking notes as as we go. Uh, I've learned a lot in in chatting with you. So, I'm going to kind of recap some of the big take-home points for me. Um, first, we we defined what processed food really is. And, and I like how you talked about the different categories of process, and we really should think about these things on a spectrum with ultra highly processed on one end and then kind of minimally processed on the others. And speaking of that spectrum, our goal is is really to try to move more towards the minimally processed and away from the ultra process. It's not just a clear either or yes or no. You know, everything's processed or nothing's processed. So, sort of living along that spectrum. We also talked about how processing of food has its origins in food safety, uh, which is still a big component of it, but but now a lot of it is all about taste and convenience. And even though those things are good goals and valuable goals and they're appealing to us, they're not always consistent with our larger goals of feeling good, having energy, not being tired, growing appropriately uh for children and really kind of being our best selves. So I think sometimes when we're we're trying to make the decision on what to do, we need to think about our larger goals and how those often might supersede our our smaller goals. And you also called me out on the part about um processed foods being more affordable and that you're exactly right and that certain unprocessed foods if you do it well uh don't necessarily have to be so expensive. So there are ways to do this um on a budget and and I think we no matter where we are in our journey there there are things in here that we can all um approve on. So I'll give you a chance to summarize here. You know we started the session with the three big questions. So, I'd like to ask those back to you to to get your uh your summary answer. So, our first question, what exactly are processed foods and why do they matter so much to our overall health? >> Sure. So, you know, processed foods are any food that has been altered, but it's really to the degree that it's been altered where we really see its impact on our health. Minimally processed foods, nuts out of the shell, great. But as we move along that spectrum and we move to removing more nutrients and adding additives, uh, preservatives, things that are enhancing flavor, texture, shelf life, they're probably not in our best interest in terms of our health. >> And why do so many of us rely on processed foods despite the known downsides, >> right? We're all busy. And so, um, when we think about our time, the demands on our time, wanting to have tasty, convenient foods, um, and doing it within our family budget, you know, really those it can be tempting to kind of fall into, you know, some of what's offered at grocery stores or even, you know, at, you know, drive-thrus or other restaurants. But I think it's coming back to the idea that there are minimally processed foods that are very nutritious and you can very quickly kind of assemble those things. You don't necessarily have to be a gourmet chef. You can be an assembler and put them together for a very nutritious meal. Might not look like fanciness, but it is still good and nutritious. >> And then what are some practical steps we can take now to minimize processed foods in our diet? First and foremost, what can I add? Can I add a fruit? Can I add a vegetable? Can I add a nutritious food that can offset the frequency or the amount of the ultrarocessed foods that I am having that's a that's I think a great approach if that works for you. Um, but I think that's just it. How you know if that doesn't work for you, think of a another way that might some people are just saying it's not coming into the house and if that works for them, it works for them. But if you try that and it doesn't work, know that there are other ways. So it need not be all or nothing and it need not be figured out tomorrow. Be patient with yourself and give yourself some time. >> Great. Well, we always like to wrap up with a sort of a challenge or a call to action uh for the audience to kind of help get them started in the process of getting better and and thinking, you know, as we went through that third section, a couple ideas came to mind for me. Um the two things I'm going to So, you've got two options out there, um optimizers, uh for this session. So, one would be for snacking at home. So, both of these are going to play off the idea of having a plan and sort of pre-deciding. So, predecide what your snack is going to be. Um, be before that that hunger or craving hits you. No. So, have something available. And Kate listed a lot of great options. Uh, have something available that you think, "Okay, next time I'm hungry, this is what I'm going to go to for my snack." And then the second challenge is next time you go out to eat, preddecide as well. Uh, before you even go to drostanolone, if you're somebody who struggles, you know, when you get to drostanolone, before you go, look at the menu online when it's less tempting. you can't see all the pictures and you don't have the smells around you and you're not seeing the food going to everybody else's table. Choose what you're going to eat when you get to drostanolone. Don't even look at the menu. Just order it. Uh preddecide that that takes the stress and makes a lot easier. So, those are a couple of different options that that you can do for your challenge to kind of get you started in this process. So, well, there we have it. Kate Zaraski just did a phenomenal job walking us through this difficult topic, unwrapping the truth about processed foods, impact on your health, and how to overcome the temptation. something we all struggle with. I think we would all um all have room for improvement. So Kate, thank you so much for offering up your wisdom and tips and tricks for how we can all get better in this area. >> Well, thanks for having me, Dr. Camp. It was a pleasure. >> Great. And to our audience, thank you for joining us. As always, remember to live intentionally, consistently, better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be, and never stop optimizing. Thank you for tuning in to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you enjoyed this session, please subscribe and leave a review so others can find us. If you know anyone else that would benefit from this discussion, please share this episode to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. That's all for today, but we want to hear from you. Email us at optimize mayo.edu edu to let us know how you're progressing in your own human optimization journey and tell us what topics you want to hear about in the future for more helpful tips and content. Be sure to follow us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is forformational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is forformational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.