Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. We are social animals. We live in a society that requires us to effectively live amongst and interact with other humans regularly. And if we can navigate those interactions well, we tend to be more successful. A large part of living amongst others is feeling like we belong amongst others. This feeling of belonging sits at the root of our purpose and allows us to fulfill our mission. So why is it so many of us struggle to feel like we belong where we are? and how do we improve that? In order to get a better handle on this, the title of our session today is the importance of belonging. Why we all need to be accepted, valued, and connected. Our expert guest is Shawn Eller. Shawn serves as the vice chair of human resources at Mayo Clinic where he leads the people and development efforts. Before stepping into his current HR leadership role, Shawn's career journey at Mayo Clinic spends several pivotal positions, including nurse administrator, leader of nursing informatics, and the first senior administrator for nursing transformation. His work in belonging has also intersected with professional and leadership development, employee well-being, and the Mayo Clinic program in professionalism and values. Across all these areas, Shawn continues to center people at the heart of innovation, fostering spaces where every individual is seen, heard, and supported to reach their highest potential. The three big questions we're going to work through with Shawn today include our first one, what exactly is belonging and why is it so important? The second big question, why do we struggle to feel like we belong and to ensure that others know that they belong? And then lastly, what daily habits can we take to create an atmosphere of genuine belonging at work and at home? Well, Sean, thank you so much for joining us today on the Human Optimization Project podcast. Really, really fortunate to have you here. >> Thanks. Yeah, very appreciative, Chris, uh, for the opportunity to be here. Uh, love what you're doing on the podcast and and very grateful for the opportunity to participate. >> Okay, thanks. Well, let's dive in here. So, we're going to get into our first section where we're going to really spend some time defining what belonging is and why it's important. So, I just want to start with that. As somebody who's dedicated so much of their life to this concept, when you hear the word belonging, what does that actually mean to you? >> Yeah, it's a it's a great question and there are many definitions of belonging that exist out there. But the first thing that resonates with me when I think about belonging and what it means is the recognition that it is a fundamental human need. So we as humans are societal and so having a sense of belonging is core. I think that when I think about belonging, it really is this state of being seen, heard, valued, supported that allows us to experience purpose, fulfillment, and personal growth in spaces. Lots of ways that we can think about what belonging means. And there's a lot of different models as we think about it in a personal and organizational context. But I think fundamentally it's it's it's recognized as as a human need. And what it allows us to achieve when we're in states of belonging, which is is is higher uh ability for us to uh perform and and feel connected to the spaces we're in. >> And you spoke on that from multiple different perspectives, too. You talked about a little bit as as an individual, but also as a part of a group and also sort of societal as well. So we'll get into those kind of different layers of belonging in different categories or um perspectives as we move through this. So >> in order for genuine belonging to occur, what are some of the key components that have to be in place within a given culture or environment? >> Yeah. So, as I mentioned, there's a few models that are out there, but one of the ones that I've resonated with the most is one that was introduced by Deote in their human capital report in 2020, and they broke belonging down into three sort of dimensions. Um, comfort, connection, and contribution. So, comfort isn't about just having like a comfortable chair to sit in or or a nice place to live, but it really is about authenticity. Are we able to bring our full selves into the spaces and into the the people that we interact with? Are we spending energy on masking ourselves or having to put um hide pieces of who we are as individuals? So that's one component for for genuine and true belonging to exist. The second in connection is essentially community, the relationships that we develop. And I think those two can be very closely related in the sense that we these are authentic relationships. So are we able to create true connections with people? Um and they can look different as I as we talked about before the context can change what a personal sense of belonging might be in our individual relationships. That connection might be deeper than what we would expect to see in in a work environment. But I think again authenticity and and and knowing that they are are true relationships that aren't just at the surface level is is important for genuine belonging to occur. And the third in contribution isn't just about being recognized. It's not that is a component of it, but it's also recognizing why your contributions matter. So it goes back to purpose. Do we understand what our role is in the context of belonging? again whether that's a personal relationship our the the community connections that we have or in a work environment I think that is something that is is critical and sometimes can be the most at risk um it's easy some to lose that sense of of purpose and understanding of how your contributions matter and as we talk about it in the work context especially now with modern types of work sometimes it's not always easy to know how your role is contributing to the organizational strategy. And so I think a big opportunity for us to recognize in that third component there, how do we recognize people for what they do, but how do we also continue to connect them back to their purpose and why their contributions matter? >> I like that. And I think all three of those components probably link to one another and there's a lot of synergy there. I can imagine, you know, you you in order to feel comfortable and authentic, one, you kind of have to know who you are a as a person and what what you value and what you're looking for. And then you have to number two do the connection with the other people around you who are hopefully like-minded and and their values and purpose. And then hopefully your contributions are the things that do align with that. So you you can see that all three of those things uh will will connect and have a positive synergistic relationship with one another. Absolutely. I think in in this uh as we think about this in in terms of genuine or true belonging um one of the the things that strikes me is the the early definitions of belonging came as it was introduced by Maslo and his hierarchy of needs. And so this is back from the 40s. Um, and just even in terms of recognizing the relative newness of us understanding belonging and its importance in in organizational contexts and and how it allows us as as humans to perform. I mean, some of the first randomized control trials around belonging didn't didn't show up until the 2000s and and really expanded in the 2010s. So, I think there's something in recognizing that there is some newness here. it's an emerging element for us that that if if we don't fully understand it, if we're still exploring it, I think that's to be expected certainly as we think about the scientific evidence that's around it. But one of the things that that is impactful for me as I think about the history of how belonging has developed to some of our modernday understandings of it. Um we really thought of Masle's hierarchy as a linear thing at one point, right? And and it still holds true that certain foundational elements of physiologic needs and safety and security need to be in place for us to achieve higher order thinking. But um love and belonging would have existed lower than things like self-actualization, self-acceptance. And I think now we we have a better understanding of how that might be dynamically connected and the fact that self-acceptance and self-actualization is very closely related to or could be related to belonging. Um one of my favorite quotes about belonging comes from Bnee Brown who is known to everyone but from her book uh Braving the Wilderness and and she says true belonging doesn't require us to change who we are. It requires us to be who we are. And I think that again is a it's it's a variation on how we may have thought about this before because in order for us to really know who we are, we have to go through those steps of self-actualization which shows the feedback loop from um if we think about this from Maslo's original hierarchy from the top of that pyramid self-actualization back to belonging. And again that is maybe the variation between surface level belonging and genuine belonging as you asked initially here in the question. >> It's really good and I think that it aligns with so so many of the things for us as humans. We are complicated and we're complex and we are nuanced creatures and our progress is rarely linear. You know, we we like to we we try we do the best we can to try to simplify these big concepts and try to give the step-by-step plan on how to get better at it. But in reality, most of these things take few steps forward. Try to figure it out. Oh, you made a mistake or you learned something new or you had a setback. Okay, that's a step back. Now, let's take a few more forward. And so there is a little bit of a circular or iterative nature to to so much of this that we do. And figuring out who we are and determining our own um uh authenticity and developing that self-actualization I think is absolutely part of that process. >> Well and I think to your point the linear pieces still sometimes serve us right. So when we see people struggling in belonging um we might first think about are there risks to their physiologic needs or their safety and security. it might help us to understand how they're responding to the situation, right? That there's some foundational component they're struggling with that is preventing them from getting to some of those higher order aspects. So, while things aren't linear, as you rightly said, sometimes being able to describe it in a linear fashion helps us as we think through how might we address a situation or how might we improve a situation where it feels like belonging is really lacking, at least in terms of the context of this conversation. >> Okay. Let's jump into some common misconceptions here. I know one of an easy one that I'll throw is I think oftenimes people think that belonging is something that really just applies to the workplace and and you kind of already mentioned uh how it's not just about work uh that it's really in all as aspects of our lives. What are some other common misconceptions you see around the concept of belonging? >> Yeah. Well, I've I've addressed a few of them maybe too in the sense of like the linear nature of it. Like I I think sometimes people feel like belonging is like a destination. Like we've achieved it. I now have it and I will always have a sense of belonging in this space. And and I don't think that that's true. I mean we're always filtering through new context. Um things can change in our personal lives, things can change in the work environment. So it is dynamic. And I think as we grow and move through different levels of self-acceptance and self-actualizations, our own self-identity can change, which changes again our relation to an environment, to a group, to individuals. And so I think that's something that can be kind of a misconception that it it it often feels like we're trying to achieve this. Once we've achieved it, then we're there. But it is an ongoing journey for us to to maintain belonging throughout the course of our lives throughout the course of of changes that could occur in the various places that we are. I would say another is you know sometimes there's this belief that in order to belong somewhere you have to not belong in another place. I think that is a misconception in the sense that I I don't know that everyone belongs in every environment, but I think everyone could belong. And so again, I think the potential is sort of the variation that I would introduce as as a misconception just to challenge that thought process. And in going back to that concept of self-acceptance and self-actualization and that Bnee Brown quote, I think it depends a little bit on who we are and what we bring into the situations, what belonging looks like to us. Um, and and knowing too that, you know, the the model of the three C's, comfort, connection, contribution, um, those are just models. Uh, belonging is a very personal experience. So what it looks like for me versus you or another person um it can be different. The level of connection that a person needs can be different. And so I think there's another misconception is that belonging isn't the same for everyone. What someone needs to feel a sense of belonging. Um how they feel connected and as though they belong to people and environments, it can be quite different. And so I think we always have to be cautious that we aren't um sort of establishing a an expectation that may not be what the the person is looking for. So it it's both something to recognize and also why this can become quite complex, right? It doesn't look the same for every individual. Um, and we have to be careful that we don't overgeneralize with models and understandings that we have to to place the expectation that that's what it's going to look like for everyone. >> Yeah. >> I think we also have to be careful to say too this this is how you have to do it. This is how you have to go about belonging and because it really is sort of up to the individual. And I think probably one of the key determinants around that is intentionality and sort of determine, you know, set your intention on what you uh are looking for and what amount of connection you need and what what type of contribution you want to make. Another one I I wonder about too in terms of misconceptions is that I think that a lot of people see this as sort of an abstract concept um that's a little bit nebulous and and kind of touchyfey and but I I I can't really describe it. But you've done research in this area. You're talking about prospective randomized control trials. And so so tell me a little bit about that. How much science do we have behind it? >> As I mentioned, I think it's emerging. A fair amount of the research has really happened in more of the academic spaces. Um, and I think that part of the reason that I would consider the science that we have to still be emerging is just in the fact that we don't see it applied to all different contexts. Um, I think that, you know, as new models emerge, as we come to new understanding, it sort of requires us to challenge our our our understandings of what belonging could look like. But there is a it I think enough compelling evidence to tell us that it is more than just a um abstract concept. Um, we have models that allow us to break down the dimensions and components of belonging to understand how we would construct or design spaces for it. And there's compelling evidence for the outcomes that it can produce. Um, in some of those randomized control trials that I mentioned, there's higher academic success uh even higher health outcomes from a work context. There's compelling evidence to show that in spaces where there are higher um there's a higher sense of belonging that we see improved retention and recruitment and in some of those even as much as 50% reduced turnover. Um we see reduced absenteeism, increased productivity. Again, one of the studies showed 50% 56% increased productivity, which again is unique that that has to be uh designed for the context because how we measure productivity is going to be quite different based on the area. Um and then even things like net promoter score which is you know what our team members are saying about us generally in terms of would they recommend a place either as you know a a patient from that context of belonging or from an employee I mean huge gains there like 160%. And so I think there is compelling evidence to say this is not an abstract concept that there is a scientific basis and yet I think there's still more to do in that space so that we understand it more deeply and can wrestle with sort of the personal components of this. individualized nature of it in relation to spaces particularly like organizations, workplaces, communities where where there may not be um there there is some shared values and purpose that requires us to convene um with with some shared understandings which changes again that sort of context. >> Yeah. So it sounds like it's emerging science, but overall at least in the professional setting, it's pointing towards >> improved productivity, improved satisfaction and retention, improved health outcomes, and then employees and maybe uh consumers or customers are overall happier. So I I don't think it's a huge leap to extrapolate that if we also have belonging in our personal lives that there's going to be positive benefits that probably align with those. So that's fantastic. >> Yeah. So, let's let's slide into our second section here. We're going to talk a little bit about why we struggle with this, why why this is difficult for some of us. >> So, uh I guess not to make it too negative, but how pervasive is the issue of not belonging? >> Yeah, I I think it is probably pretty pervasive today. One of the things I'll I'll mention kind of in connection to thinking about the science is we we don't have great national or you know um beyond national legacy event we just don't have great benchmarks. So it's a little bit difficult for us to say you know with consistency um how pervasive that is. But I I think that we we see a a higher experience of social isol isolation that's occurring which indicates to us that people are struggling to find spaces of belonging. Um humans like to categorize things. Um it's something that helped to protect us from threats in in prior parts of our evolution. And so I think as a as a result of that um it often can create a a sense of not belonging if we aren't included in whatever categorization it is. So I would say it is it is a fairly pervasive thing and yet I think part of the solution to that is um in that questioning of what does it mean to belong in a space and and why what are the the shared values that we would bring that could connect us to a space. So kind of challenging ourselves to say what could we bring into the space that might help us to connect better. But belonging is birectional, right? It is and probably multi-directional really. It isn't something that you know if we think about it from a workplace setting or even a community perspective. It's not the responsibility directly of the workplace to ensure that someone belongs. It's a shared responsibility. The person also has to come in with a commitment. Um but what I think it is in those spaces particularly for workplaces is it's an opportunity. So responsibility maybe not. Uh we could still have some success without high proportions of a sense of belonging. Um but I think there's ample evidence that would support that when we have it that there's uh greater outcomes that can be achieved. So I think an opportunity there. >> Yeah, that makes sense. And and I do think that we are seeing our world headed towards increasing you know social isolation for a lot of people and at least if we describe social isolation in terms of a lack of genuine authentic relationship and genuine community I think now we're maybe electronically more connected than we've ever been. But if we look at our genuine meaningful human interactions those are definitely on the decline >> which I think would support uh what what you're saying. >> Agree. So I I think you know you mentioned it being a shared responsibility between the individual and the group and I love that concept. I think all of these things we got to look at in a birectional uh way. >> Can you tell us what some of the consequences are of not belonging and maybe let's talk about it both for the individual consequences for the individual and consequences for the overall group. >> Yeah absolutely. I think starting from the individual level, I mean I think it is much harder to um maintain purpose to feel a connection with colleagues which might in turn it sort of is that initial sense of not belonging maybe initial isolation be getting further isolation right it it it creates a division that sometimes I believe it's not um insurmountable but it can have the perception that it is. Um so I think for the individual it also can generate a sense of burnout in a lot of environments. Um when you feel like you're not connected to the the environment to the people around you and in many cases as we talked about with the concept of contribution being a core component of belonging you may not be connected to the purpose of what you're doing. that is it's a situation where we commonly see burnout um being introduced. So I think there's there's a a huge impact to the individual and for the group you know um as we even think about the positives of belonging the converse is true. So we will have likely higher turnover. So we're spending time onboarding new people and again that could be from a community team perspective certainly from an organizational perspective we know that there is a high cost there. we can see higher uh lower rates of productivity. Um so people aren't producing as much as they spend their energy trying to find ways to interact in an environment that they feel like they don't belong in. Their energy is not directed toward producing the outcomes that we've made a shared commitment to as a team. And then ultimately for the group um leaning back again on concepts that we know like net promoter scores, we're unlikely to recruit or or attract people into these spaces because generally what people are saying about it isn't positive. Um and so we're missing again I think the opportunity there. So I really think that um it there are probably spaces where there are not high sense of belonging and yet you know there is the ability to produce outcomes. I think that what is missing is the potential right because I think the potential could be greater if we create these spaces. So it feels to me more than a nice to have. It's an imperative if we really are trying to challenge ourselves to be um to achieve our our highest potential. And you see those um the detriment to the individual is pretty substantial. The detriment to the group also substantial. >> Yeah. >> And you could develop pretty easily develop a pretty negative feedback loop for those two things too. Right. So, so the things that are detrimental to the individual are then going to make them less of a contributor to the group which hurts the group. The things detrimental to the group are going to make uh are going to negatively impact the individual. And so you can see both of these things having a negative feedback loop and getting worse. And >> that makes me think too if we flip that, okay, maybe if we make some progress here and the individual does a little better on this and that's beneficial to the group and if the group does better better to the indivi individual and you can get a positive feedback loop uh at play potentially. >> Yeah, it's like a win-win in that case, right? I mean the individual uh probably has a higher sense of purpose. they feel more connected uh and and the group is achieving higher outcomes together. Um and again if we flip the converse I mean I think that's where the the potential really exists to say it's not that we can't function we can have teamwork without a sense of belonging but the ability of the team the potential of the team increases when there is genuine belonging in place. How do we compare and contrast this this concept of belonging with also telling people, hey, you have to run your own race. You you got to be your own person. Uh don't give in to peer pressure. I I have four kids at home. We have this conversation commonly and you don't have to do what the what the herd is doing and you know, stand out above the crowd. So, how do we balance that sort of do your own thing individualistic culture with this need to belong? >> Yeah. Well, I think again this is where true belonging isn't just about agreement, right? It's not just about um agreeing to get along or developing some sort of group consensus. It it really is about being able to authentically express your perspective. um be being able to create genuine relationships where the the people that you are working with are helping to drive you toward your highest purpose and your highest potential. And I think that a part a portion of this that that is impactful is psychological safety. So psychological safety and belonging are not synonymous, but psychological safety is an important part of belonging. If we don't have it, if people don't feel like they can speak up, then it's unlikely that it's very genuine. We're losing authenticity, both from the the the perspective of the individual potentially being able to represent themselves, but also from the community or the connection component of this here. So I think in in spaces where we're able to achieve true belonging, I think there's a balance of that there where the the individual can come forward with their own needs authentically represent them and it doesn't have to be at the detriment of the group. But this is again is where I think the context matters a little bit. In some cases, when we're talking organizationally, we have to balance our own individual needs and desires with that of the group. And that can be different when we're talking about um interpersonal belonging from a family environment or from friendships. So, it's a great question, but I think that if we if we really achieve belonging, we're not asking people to sacrifice their own personal needs for the greater part of the group. We're rather asking them to be authentic and honest about what those are and finding ways again in this birectionality or multidirectionality to to consider them in the shared commitment that we have as a group, the shared purpose that we have as a group. >> Great. So you you know you're saying that it is important to sort of stay authentic to your individual self but to do that in an environment that's going to be you know supportive of that. And I would say you [snorts] what we're also talking about is belonging is not the opposite end of that spectrum where it's complete sort of brainwash group think only one way of doing it no room for diversity of opinions or perspectives. That's not what we're talking about with belonging either. In fact, you ideally you want a sense of shared purpose but ideally you would like diverse perspectives, backgrounds, approaches on how you can go about that and achieve it. You actually don't always want to drive 100% consensus and group think and everybody doing exactly the same thing in the same ways. >> Yeah, agree. And I think that, you know, in that we we generally achieve better outcomes because we've challenged ourselves to understand why we're committed to what we're committed to, why we believe uh what we believe as as a group. Um but yeah, it is it is sort of in opposition of group think. um you know consensus is is an important part of this but consensus isn't always you know about um our need for concession um in in many ways it's about coming to shared understandings as a group so I think it's how we get to that consensus that is critical if it's if it's in an environment where we can challenge ourselves where we can authentically represent different perspectives we're likely to get to a better place that is something we can sustainably commit to. Otherwise, we risk where this becomes sort of performative in nature and um people aren't aren't deeply committed to to what we what we're trying to achieve as as a group. >> Okay. So, so far we've defined belonging. We've talked about the key elements. We covered some common misconceptions. We talked about some of the benefits of belonging for the individual and the group and some of the potential downsides. >> We also [snorts] kind of clarified it with this, you know, independent run your own race versus group think sort of thing. >> Yeah. >> So, it's it's pretty clear kind of what it is [clears throat] and I think it's pretty clear why it's important. Now, the next question is how do we do it? And so, in our third section here, we're going to talk about the daily habits that we need to take to create an atmosphere of belonging both at work and home. So if we do a better job as as we do before we do this I want to ask the question if we do a better job of belonging >> what problems would I be solving in my life if I did a better job of that? >> Uh well I think again we have to sort of consider this from the multitude of contexts. I mean I think from the the individual perspective if we find places of belonging if we if we achieve this I think again it takes a lot of energy to exist in a place that you don't authentically feel like you belong. So you're redirecting your energy to more productive um applications. So, uh I think also it's it's uh heavily connected to um as we think about that sort of feedback loop of belonging, self-actualization in places like this, you're likely continuing to understand yourself better, continuing to self-actualize, uh becoming a more fully realized individual. Um it's a more enjoyable experience to be in places where we feel like we belong. And so I think again not using our energy to try to motivate ourselves to get to a place to do something but that's more organic. So I think from the individual perspective tons of opportunity. Um I think from the the group perspective as we've you know kind of have alluded to already there's you know higher productivity. So we're going to achieve higher team outcomes. we're likely to draw people in people, you know, both through that net promoter score concept, but also from people seeing what can be achieved as a group. People want to align with that and and be a part of it. So, I think there's a multitude of things that that we stand to achieve when we have a higher sense of belonging. Um, and and we're again, I think it it really is about that energy and where we're directing it. Um because it takes energy to to be in spaces where we feel like we don't belong. >> Well, and we all feel pretty limited in the energy. Uh it's definitely a finite resource. So our our time, attention, and energy is challenging. And so I think >> anything we can do to save some of that is is worth pursuing. So all right, let's talk about how we can how we can do it. So why don't we talk about it first? Um from maybe the perspective of a leader or a group or an organization, what are some things that any sort of team, organization, family, whatever, uh whatever body of people, what are some steps they can do to ensure that the team members belong? >> Yeah, it's a great question. Again, uh the one of the frameworks that I like is the three C's. So that comfort, connection, and contribution. So I think finding a a framework that makes sense based on the the context of your organization is impactful and it allows us then to apply gap analysis and other things that would allow us to identify where we may be falling short in that. So I think there's sort of looking structurally at our organizations and whether we're empowering spaces of belonging. I think from a leadership perspective, listen, it's it's a it's a fairly simple response, but important. Um, as as we've talked through in the conversation here, as much as there are frameworks and evidence that allow us to define belonging, it is still a personal experience. And so what our team members need could be different. It doesn't mean that the leader has to account to a number of different variations, but I think listening to people allows them to feel seen, heard, key components of of uh genuine belonging, and also allows us to think about how we might change the context and understanding of what belonging means to our team by seeing them authentically for who they are. and little things, right? Like learning about the individuals, checking on them daytoday, showing a genuine interest in caring. Um, thinking about recognition, but also realignment of purpose. As a leader, we we we are often called to be the inspiration for our teams. And so realigning them back to why does our work matter? How does it matter in the organizational context? uh what are we trying to achieve that helps keep that team shared purpose alive? So I think just a few things there, but again I going back to the to to a framework allows us to really apply and say are we are we structurally creating an empowered environment of belonging and and as I think about this from the context of Mayo Clinic I mean we have leveraged it through our primary value the needs of the patient come first. That's the shared commitment at least at the highest level organization perspective that we're filtering that sense of belonging to. It's the thing that we are all committed to together >> and through that then are we creating places where people can feel authentically connected, valued and respected. So I think that alignment back to our shared purpose um and vision is is critical for leaders to keep in context as well. >> Okay, [clears throat] that's a great list. And so and I like keeping around the framework of the comfort uh connection and contribution and then you gave us a lot of great steps there. Now, basically the same question, but for individuals and I think, you know, most of the folks out there listening are are kind of probably wearing multiple hats in their lives. Sometimes they're the leader, sometimes they're in charge, sometimes they're not. Um, but we need to understand both perspectives. So, what as an individual, what steps can I take to either find where I belong or do a better job of belonging where I am currently? I >> I think the first answer is engage, right? If we are finding ourselves as isolated um find ways that we might be able to reconnect and engage. I think as an individual too this is birectional. It is a shared um there is some shared accountability here. I think we have to question and and challenge ourselves to the things that that we're feeling and experiencing to see what we are contributing. What are we bringing to the table? um if we feel as though people aren't hearing our perspectives that our contributions aren't being valued um are we helping to um are are we are we in turn doing some of that to others as well? Are we trying to align where our contributions matter to the overall team goals? I think that a part of what individuals can do as well, and this is I know like a million-dollar statement, but is in this self-actualization, like understanding how they're filtering their experiences and and how they relate to their authentic values, what they are committed to. I think that allows us to come into these situations more fully realized to understand why we have the response that we do. And I would say in in going back to kind of the original statement I made around engaging, I think being authentic in that and um hopefully that there's some trust in the environment. I think that when trust doesn't exist, hope can precede it. So maintaining hope that by putting yourself out there that you will receive um a a positive reception or at least a reception that allows you to authentically represent your experiences. And then I think when those things can't occur, um I think questioning if the environments and the the people that we're struggling to feel a sense of belonging with really if if we're able to align to the shared values or if we feel like they're represented. I think that honesty is just so critical in this and it comes from both the leadership side as well as the individual. But um I I I think when that doesn't exist, that's when we see people struggling in situations um for far longer than than maybe they should and it creates a a cascade of unintended consequences. I think that's wonderful and I like that at the end where you sort of question the environment and I almost look at that as that's sort of the shared um responsibility or approach that the individual could take and say okay I I got to one I got to question myself and understand what's important to me like what are my values what's my purpose why am I here what am I trying to do >> I have to understand that on one hand and then on the other hand I have to understand the the values purpose and mission of the team or the organization or the workplace. And I think often times a lot of it boils down to just either not understanding ourselves or not understanding our organization. And so it may actually not it may not be misalignment, it may just be a misunderstanding we're looking for or they're looking for as well. >> Yeah. And I think that's where the the honesty and you know authenticity comes into play here, right? like challenging that and questioning that and being open to to having the conversation might allow us to get to a better understanding. Maybe as you said, the alignment is there and we're sort of misunderstanding uh each other. I I will say that, you know, as a general call to action or thought that all of us should have as leaders, as individuals, um you Chris, you may know Sister Tyranny Truman, who used to be uh our our Mayo Clinic values council coordinator, but I've heard her speak in a number of settings, and one thing she often says that resonates with me is we are all becoming, no matter what age we are at, we are all becoming who we will or could be. And I think why that's important in a sense of belonging is we have to be able to create beyond even safe spaces, brave spaces for ourselves to reckon with the experiences that we have, with the group experiences that we're having that challenge us on how we can get better. I think the biggest detriment to making progress in belonging probably anything is is is not actually um acknowledging that there is still opportunity. And I don't think that that if if we can if we can accept that we are all becoming if that we are all still on the journey to who we are going to be or could be the potential of who we could be. I think that creates a lot of space for that not to feel like a failure or like some sort of um negative implication in terms of of what we're doing and how we're performing, but rather it it keeps us open to the curiosity of what could be. So, I would just, you know, I don't know if it will resonate with all of your listeners, but I think that becoming for me always keeps me open to the possibility and it's a way to sort of challenge um am I getting limited in my thought processes or could I think from a more potential perspective without assigning a positive or a negative to it, but rather just being curious about what we could achieve. Well, and that gets back to the point you made in the very first section about how we as humans are very nuanced and we're we're complex and we're not always linear. It's not always A then B, then C, then D. And sometimes it's a bit recursive and that's okay. The the whole part is that we're we're actively participating in the process and we're doing it with some level of intentionality with some sort of direction or goal in mind. And then we got to give ourselves some grace uh when we mess it up because we're going to mess it up and we're going to keep learning and uh but that that's the the joy of the process, >> right? >> Excellent. Well, Sean, thank you so much uh for this discussion. It's been really really enlightening. I'd like to take a minute here. I'm going to summarize just by recovering uh or running through my notes real quick and then I'll have you summarize by answering our three big questions once again. So, you know, for me started with with your definition of belonging, which is a state of feeling seen, heard, valued, and supported in order to let you grow as a person and become your best self. And then you mentioned the big key elements uh to this are the three C's, comfort, connection, and contribution. Comfort being being comfortable in kind of who you are and authentic with yourself. Connection being having a a true community with authentic relationships with others. And then contribution is making forward progress and understanding what our role is and how it's contributing to the whole. We went through a lot of common misconceptions around belonging and that a lot of people think that it's linear but it's actually quite dynamic and that we are nuance and it's not something that's just at work. This is also in our our home lives as well. Uh this is not just a nebulous kind of abstract concept that there actually is evolving research in this space. Uh, also I love the concept that it's not about choosing sides or picking a team. Just because you belong in one space doesn't mean you do not belong in another. So this is not an exclusive uh type thing. And it's not the same to all of us. We all have different definitions and needs of belonging. So this is not a one-sizefits-all approach. And we have the ability to determine that for ourselves as long as we're intentional. And the research is showing at least in the uh academic and professional spaces increased academic success, increased productivity, people are happier, higher retention, lower turnover, and increased health benefits when we feel like we belong, which is great. >> I like your your framework of how it's a shared responsibility between the individual and the team uh or the organization. you you talked a lot about some of the problems that we're solving and if we are able to feel like we belong. Probably one of the greatest benefits is that it will allow us to redirect our energy because it's exhausting living in a world where you feel like you don't belong. And so that uh the big energy save, but we're also going to reach our potential better. We're going to have higher productivity and be more enjoyable. And then you also gave [clears throat] us a great series of steps for a team or an organization to look at to improve belonging. and then also some steps for us as an individual uh to take in that third section. So that was that's my summary. Now I'm going to give it give you a chance to summarize here. So I'll re ask you the three big questions. You can give us sort of your rapidfire answers to each of these. So big question number one, what exactly is belonging and why is it so important? >> Well, first belonging is a fundamental human need and when we experience belonging, we feel seen, heard, valued, and supported. It's important to us because it allows us to achieve our highest potential. When we aren't directing our energy to trying to fit into spaces that we feel like we don't belong, we redirect that energy to being able to achieve higher outcomes. So I think it is that foundational human need and how it increases our potential when we find true belonging. >> Excellent. Our second question, why do we struggle to feel like we belong and to ensure that others know that they belong? >> Yeah, again I think it goes back to this human need to categorize things. That's a big part of this. Um there are places where we may not align with the values uh of that group and I think that's okay as well. Um I I do believe though that while everyone may not belong everywhere, there is the potential that they could belong. But again, we it comes back to one of the the core components of belonging, which is authenticity. We also have to be honest if we do align with the values and the perspectives of the places that we're trying to uh achieve belonging in. And if not, it's a it's an impetus for us to seek places where we do find that shared purpose and alignment. >> And then our third one, what daily habits can we take to create an atmosphere of genuine belonging at work and at home? >> I think first listen to people, hear them for their authentic experiences. be curious about what are the sort of shared values and and the shared um purpose that aligns you to people and then find ways to acknowledge that in authentic ways. Create relationships. Recognize people for their contributions. Continually consider how you are realigning yourself to the purpose and what you're contributing. And above all else in that, I think being honest with yourself and with others is critical to genuine belonging. >> Great. So now for the call to action. I always like to end this by by giving a challenge to our listeners. Uh hopefully it it emphasizes our focus on actually changing behavior and doing things and moving moving stuff forward. So our challenge I'm going to I'm going to use the the model the three C's model that you gave us uh Talon. So, what I want our listeners to do, get out a sheet of paper and write out the three C's. Number one, comfort. Give yourself some space. Number two, connection. And then number three, contribution. And then go through each of those. So, in comfort, you need to think about authenticity. And do you feel comfortable being your authentic self? And and probably in order to determine that, you need to figure out what is my authentic self and what do I value? What what is my purpose? What is what is my values and and my vision and mission? So think through that a little bit and ask yourself what would it take for me to feel that comfort and do I feel it or not. Second connection this this is about having meaningful relationships with others uh in the group and ask yourself if you have those and if so highlight where it's going really well for you and then highlight where it's not and then see if you can make some improvement. And then last one contribution. So do you feel like you're making progress towards the shared goal or the purpose uh that you find meaning in and that others do as well. So that's that's going to be our action item for you today to start wrestling with this concept of belonging. And remember what you write down on your sheet of paper is going to look different from everybody else's and that's okay. That's the purpose. That's the whole point of the thing is that you have to define uh what belonging looks like and feels like uh for you and there's value in those different definitions. John, thank you so much for uh joining us and and teaching us about this. >> Yeah, thank you Chris. Appreciate it. >> All right. So to our audience, our title today was the importance of belonging. Why we all need to be accepted, valued, and connected. Thank you so much for tuning in. To our listeners, remember to live intentionally, consistently better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you like this episode, [music] hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at optimize mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram x and YouTube. This podcast is forformational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is forformational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.