The core of what we do here is the needs of the patient come first. So the patient is the center of their own journey. >> Dermatitis is a really broad term for general irritation and inflammation of the skin. When patients come to Mayo Clinic, they should expect us to listen to their whole story about when their dermatitis started, what's made it better, what's made it worse, what aspects can we really target to make them feel better. We really allow them to guide our treatment. It is important when we are seeing a patient with dermatitis considering that many of these patients are prone to have asthma to have conjunctivitis in addition to respiratory involvement. That's why we need a multidisciplinary care. We are equipped with a team with expertise in every single area that patient needs and also great diagnostic tools. I'm very proud to say that we have an extensive patch test center that has datadriven specific patch testing for the contact allergens that are specific to the patients particular medical circumstance. For pediatric patients, you'll meet with an expert who's a pediatric dermatologist. We also work with pediatric allergists who work on sensitivities and other diseases that tend to overlap with attopic dermatitis and they serve as our partners in that adventure together to help the patient receive whole person care. >> So it's almost like a complete package when they come to visit us we can take care of not only the problem that they are here for but also everything else that influences that problem in the first place. The multid-disciplinary approach to managing dermatitis gets us to engage all the experts who are taking care of this condition to get to a faster diagnosis, a correct diagnosis and come up with a plan of care that they can implement at the time of the visit. These are instructions that the home providers can easily implement as well. >> Because we have such an array of treatment modalities, we can really select the one that is most appropriate for the patient, fits in with their lifestyle. And with our pharmacist on board, she can really help make sure that you understand all of the side effects, what to expect, how long it will take for you to see results. >> In order for a medicine to work, a patient has to take it in the way that it was prescribed. So, you have to work with a patient to create a regimen that is tolerable for them and their lifestyle. And the only way that you can do that is by listening to the patient. I think about success in terms of getting patients back to things they like to do. Allowing them that freedom to participate in their life how they want to is success to me. What I hope that a patient feels is that things are different here and they feel if they come to Mayo Clinic that it's a different story and that we're going to provide an individualized treatment that meets your lifestyle and helps you achieve your goals.