Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. In our world of constant stimulation and distraction, the ability to focus deeply is becoming a lost art. Although it may be more challenging to focus these days, this doesn't mean that it's less important. In fact, being able to focus on the task at hand is one of the most critical skills needed for success. If you can master your ability to focus, it can be an absolute game changer for you in our modern society that struggles so much with this. Accordingly, the title of our session today is "The Power of Focus, How to Lock In in an Increasingly Distracted World." Our expert guest today is Maneesh Goyal, the Chief Operating Officer of Mayo Clinic Platform. He's responsible for refining and executing a platform's strategic and operational plans, recruiting executive and expert talent, and developing the systems, processes, and infrastructure needed to support the platform ecosystem. He has a very diverse professional background spanning finance, investing, operations, product development, venture capitalism, and engineering. He's previously served as a chief solutions officer and chief corporate development officer at WellTalk, a managing director at Miramar Venture Partners, a prominent early-stage investment firm specializing in technology information. Mr. Goyal holds a bachelor's degree in biomedical engineering from Warchester Polytechnic Institute, master's degree in electrical engineering, and an MBA. He's accomplished a lot in a lot of different places, and one of his superpowers for being so successful and productive is his ability to maintain precise focus over long periods of time. So, Maneesh, thank you so much for joining us today. We really look forward to having this discussion with you. Thank you for having me. This is going to be fun. So, to keep us organized, we like to structure our discussion around three big questions that we're going to answer really over the course of the next 40 minutes. Our first big question today is, "What is focus and why is it so important for our productivity and joy?" The second big question is, "Why do we all seem to struggle to focus in today's world?" And then the last big question, we'll start to get into some solutions with this one. What concrete steps can we take to improve our focus in our world of constant interruption? Does that sound like a fair plan? Oh, yeah. All right, let's dive in. So, we'll start in our first section here where we're kind of going to define things. So, I'd like to first just start by defining focus. So, how do you define focus and what are the key elements to it? So, I think to me, focus is really about being present. It's where you have turned off, you know, as we think about our mental space, there are constant tugs in every direction with, you know, we all play very, very different roles in our lives. We are parents, we're children, we're, you know, siblings, we're employees, we're volunteers, and all those occupy mental, you know, space in our head. And it's not like you can go from work mode to parent mode rapidly. Those things are always present, even though they're muted. So, to me, flow is about really elevating what role you're playing, what you're trying to accomplish at that moment, and reducing the noise from all of your other roles. To me, that's actually focus. And I do think in our world today, we're getting more and more of those external things that are clamoring for our attention and stealing our focus. So, one of the elements that you mentioned in there was we have to intentionally kind of decide what it is we're looking at and paying attention to, which I think can be incredibly challenging, you know, trying to sift through what we should actually be focusing on because so much of it is external. So, we'll get into that a little bit as well. I also want to talk about some of the benefits of focus. I think much of this is obvious to our listeners. And obviously, if you can focus, you're going to get your work done faster. And that's kind of clear, and everybody understands that. But there are a lot more benefits to focus just beyond getting the work done quickly. What are some other key benefits that we need to be aware of? First of all, if you want to get better at something, you do need to put concentrated energy focus. I do think that there's a secondary aspect that we don't often talk about, right? So, when we accomplish something that we have a certain level of dedication to, the output requires less out of us. And I think it creates less stress. And the perfect example of that is trying to do five things at the same time. We talk about that as multitasking. The sum total of the energy of those five things being done at the same time produces an elevated stress. And so, your satisfaction out of accomplishing those five things, if you did them at the same time versus doing them independently, is going to be, the stress level is going to be higher. So, the total cost on you as a person is going to be higher. I think we forget about that fact and we think, "Oh, wow, I accomplished five things at the same time." But we carry that weight coming out of it rather than really going from one activity, completing it to a certain point. And that to me is something that, again, I think as a society, we've sort of lost touch with. Yeah, I do think that high price we pay for doing multiple, trying to do multiple things at once is immense. And we look at increasing rates of stress and decreasing joy and more burnout. And I certainly think that contributes to it a lot. And I also think that that added stress you're talking about, not only will it reduce our performance, but I think it kind of stifles our creativity as well. So, our ability to do big thinking and sort of get outside of the box and really innovate and get creative, I think is also hampered when we're not focusing, we're trying to balance multiple things and we have increased levels of stress. Yeah, and I think it's interesting in many ways, society is clamorizing doing multiple things. So, I don't know if you've read into what companies like the companies that Elon Musk runs, so a hyper successful person. And it's interesting society's move towards clamorizing these kinds of people versus 30, 40, 50 years ago, I think the focus in our energy was a little different. And if you look at this person, he's, he has an immense amount of respect, but he runs, he's a CEO of multiple companies. And you start to see that being mimicked in some way in a smaller way. When you step back and say, well, okay, maybe he can accomplish that, maybe he's that end of one kind of person, or all not cut the same way. And I think you also have to think about focus and your ability to manage either multitasking or the level of focus based on what you're capable of. And I think part of this is also, we have a different place in that spectrum that we can, that we all sit. And we all assume that we can do more because we all aspire to do, you know, we have these, you know, models of archetypes that we model ourselves after. And then that's also something that, you know, is a constant pressure beyond the normal tactical things like your cell phones or TV, etc. It is interesting, we often look at these others that we think are doing such a good job of this and doing what we think is multitasking. And from the outset, they can look incredibly successful and impressive. But oftentimes when you ask them, they're exhausted. And Elon Musk is a great example, you know, he'll tell you, and he said many, many times that he is exhausted, and he's had to stop doing things just out of pure sheer exhaustion. And so I think sometimes we don't understand the price that's being paid for that. And we have to be really careful not to look to others to define success for us, but to be intentional in defining success for ourselves. And until we do that, I don't think we can really determine intentionally what we're going to focus on either. So I think that those things go hand in hand. And I really like what you're saying. So one of the other related concepts to focus is this concept of flow. So Mihai, Chick sent me hi is, you know, talked a lot about that and written about that. And we have another session coming out on the human optimization projects can be dedicated specifically to flow. But I think it's at least worth mentioning here, because they are somewhat related to the concepts of flow and focus. So how do you see those two as being the same or different? Flow to me is where you almost enter the state where all those noise factors that I described earlier reduce. So if you're if you're old enough to remember what equalizers are, right, if you're an audio file, you know, equalizer for these little knobs, you can turn up the bass, turn up the treble. So to me, focus is about turning down those frequencies that you don't necessarily want to hear, maybe you just want to hear the bass, but reduce everything else. I think focus is a necessary step towards flow. And I think once you get into the habit of actually getting to focus, you start to get into this flow state. And I'll give you a couple of personal examples. And I mentioned this because it changes over time, right, our environments changing, our own skills are changing. I used to get the state of flow where I was a runner, I was a long distance runner and still like long distance running. But when I was running, I would tune out, I would basically be focused on one foot at a time, my gaze would be five or seven or eight feet in front of me. And that's it, I would I would not really be paying attention to anything else. I don't get lost, I would literally get lost in sometimes and just keep running. I found over time, for whatever reason, that the noise was coming back into my running, right, where I can no longer tune it out. So I tried music, right, you know, tried, I couldn't escape it. So I transitioned to other activities. And I did this because I think part of flow is to reset your brain is to relax your brain, and to give you time to rest in an in a non sleeping state. And what I found was an actually interesting two activities that are unrelated, that I find a state of flow, golf. So if you've ever played golf, you have to be in that moment, you have to have a process. Golf is very disciplined. It's if you play it, which is same set of steps you complete, and you're kind of do this mental checklist. And you forget about everything else. The second activity is rock climbing, my daughter and I go rock climbing. And you cannot be thinking about, you know, that stressful meeting that you had at work that day, you have to be focused on the next, you know, the next hold. And that to me is starting to get into being present being focused, but also being in a state of flow, where you're now one with an activity where everything else just disappears. And I can tell you that once you complete those things, whether you hit a shot, good or bad, or you do a climb, you have this immediate sense of positive endorphins that come with flow that, you know, I wish on everybody. That's great, Manish. I mean, we ran through your list of professional accomplishments earlier. I didn't realize that you were such an athlete to it's unbelievable all the things you're up to. But I think those are phenomenal analogies. And I agree completely. I do think flow, those activities tend to be ones that naturally draw you in, hook you in, it sort of becomes automatic and you slide into it. You lose sense of time. Focus, I often think of something that has to be it's a little bit less automatic. Unfortunately, sometimes it requires some intentional effort. Sometimes it's challenging or difficult. It may not be as fun or joyful as as flow, if you don't do it well. So I do think definitely related, but separate from one another. I love the sports analogies that you did. One of the other questions I have is around timing of focus. And so most of us can focus for a little bit. So our problem is not necessarily that we can't focus at all. It's just that we have a hard time focusing long enough. So is there a certain ideal time cycle or length of time that we should be aiming for when we're trying to focus? It's a really good question. And I frankly have struggled with that for most of my life. And it's an honest assessment of the fact that one of my I'd say superpowers. So everybody's got a superpower. One of the things I learned from former board member, colleague of mine, was that each of us has a superpower. And that is either your creative finance deals, surgery, special kind of surgery, whatever it is, that's your superpower. And you build yourself around that. So that's a part of you. And it can be anything. I found my superpowers to be able to take lots of complex ideas and distill them down into the salient, simplified way of articulating and creating a strategy around that. And so my brain tends to work in a lot of randomized ways. And so it takes a lot of energy for me to focus. As I get older, as the number of activities and different roles that I mentioned get more complex, like teenage kids, it becomes harder. And so what I found is that I need all distractions to stop. And I can do this for about one to two hours at specific times of the day, is typically at very early morning time, like two, three in the morning when the world is mostly asleep in the United States, at least. It's dark, it's quiet. And I have the most amount of focused activity at that point in time. But that's what it takes for me. Some people can tune everything out. And but you have to figure it out yourself from a timing standpoint, and how much you're willing to give to get that maximum time. I do this with, and my exchange is a little bit less sleep on certain days. So I think it is a very personal question that you're asking. And you have to figure out how much what the trade offs are that you're willing to make in your life. What a great answer. So it really varies within individuals. And it also varies across individuals. So no two people are the same. And honestly, even within the same person, at some point in your life, your ability to do it might be greater than it is at other points. And so I think that's great. I think with all things we talk about here on the human optimization project, though, it's one of those where you probably need to start small, and sort of start making some small progress and start stacking wins. So I would say for people that are new on this journey, let's keep low expectations. And we're going to ease into this process. So move into our second section here and talk about why it's such a struggle for us. So overall, as a society, do you feel like we're getting better or worse at focusing? I think we're getting, well, certainly, I think it's getting worse. You know, if you go back 40 years ago, if you're old enough to be going back 40 years, you're gonna remember, you know, your distractions for your family, your friends, that phone that was attached permanently to the wall that you had to share with everybody in your household, and a TV that was shared amongst everybody in your household and very limited set of choices. And you fast forward, we are always connected, we're in the precipice of actually having always on connectivity right into our brain. And so the problem is, is that we haven't evolved to create those filters, those gateways that protect our time. And so distractions like those pings that we get from our cell phone or Insta or, you know, Facebook or email or Teams, there's an endless number of things and it's constantly increasing. There was this great cover in Time Magazine, I want to say, about 15 years ago, and it had YouTube, right? YouTube had just become sort of a mainstream concept. And they had the YouTube TV logo, but they had inside of it, it's a U. And basically, their premise was that you're the center of this, you have infinite choice, you're the star, right? And that our infinite choice architecture has a cost, it's allowing us to have mass customization of our things, but that means someone's got to curate that. And unfortunately, we are the only ones that can curate our time. And I think that it's just getting more and more complicated. If you look at the last 18 months, the mainstreamization of our generative AI projects with chat TPT, instead of going to and memorizing something, now you are, oh, what is that fact? Let me, or what is that concept? Let me go check it. That mental shift is enough of a distraction for you to go out of a conversation or out of a thought into something completely different. So I'll just say, I think technology plays a complicated role. Our work styles play a complicated role because now we're very dispersed as a society versus coming into a single building and having that organizational flow. And I think our family dynamics are very different too. If you look at how people spend their times, you'll see these if you do a search, people spent a majority of their time, 60, 70% of their time with family. And today, it's primarily on self. It's not the perfect self, but it is self. And then next is work and such. So I think the level of distraction has gotten to a point that if we don't start really doing an active job of curating our time, we have a hard time focusing on anything. Very well said. I think all of those things you mentioned, the dances in technology, how our work culture has changed, there's obviously a lot of clear benefit to that and some tremendous wonderful things that have come out of it. But it is a double-edged sword without question. And things are designed to take as much of our time as possible. Everything is designed in that way. So we have to be very thoughtful and intentional now more than ever to take ownership of our time and take agency in what we give our attention to and what we try to focus on. So if we don't do a good job of that, can you take me through what are some of the downsides of not being able to focus? Well, I mean, I think you covered off on some of those earlier, right? Your joy goes out the window. No matter what you're doing, if you're transitioning from activity to activity, there are switching costs. We have all had a day where there are enough meetings on our calendar that are unrelated and you're going from meeting to meeting. You have that moment where you're wrapping up a meeting with a train of thought, right? It's maybe a 30-minute meeting, so you get into the flow of that meeting or that you're focused on that meeting and choose those words specifically. And then you're done. And you have to process that conversation, make a mental note, write it down, whatever it is. And then you've got to warm up to that. Those transitions had such immense workload to our brains that you lose joy out of that because those switching tasks is really hard. Second, it does become much more taxing because on those days, I guarantee anyone that's had those kinds of days, you feel that much more exhausted by the end of the day. And I think the question is, those warm up and warm down times require their wasted time, right? So it's sort of like I have a teenage daughter every now and then at 7 or 8 p.m. she'll be like, "Oh, can we make some cookies?" So great. What do you need to make cookies? You need to put all the ingredients together. You need to make the dough, you need to warm up the oven. And at some point, my wife is like, "Well, we're not going to do this all the time because it takes effort. You've got to clean the kitchen." So we just pre-made the dough. So you broke up that activity, you made the dough, froze it. And so when she's interested in fresh cookies, you can take the dough out, drop them on the cookie sheet and you're done. That breaking up allows you to be thoughtful about how you spend your time. And use that analogy and say, those transition steps, if you can start to remove them and spread them out and focus specific activities at specific times, I think we become a little better. Well, I think those analogies are good. And you talk about coming in and out of meetings and scheduling time to do fun things, baking cookies and all of that. And really, a lot of that comes down to being intentional and thoughtful with our time, scheduling things so that we have enough time to focus, we have enough time to do the task at hand. I wonder though, if some people have a sense of guilt about doing that, or maybe feel that they're not allowed to or they're not worthy of saying, okay, I'm gonna have this 30 minute meeting, but then I'm gonna block off 15 minutes for myself afterwards to put all my thoughts together and collect it so that I can move on. So what are your thoughts on that? Should we be feeling guilty about taking dedicated time to focus on activities? No, it's a really good point. I would say your only commodity in life is time. When you stop and think about it, your intelligence, your looks, your personality are all secondary to the time you're willing to give because we all have limited time on the planet. And so the question is, how do we choose to spend that time? And I think the question around, should we feel guilty is again, a function of the fact that you have a limited amount of time on this planet. And you can choose, instead of the first 15 or so years, you have limited control because you're being shepherded by your parents. The last X number of years, God willing, are going to be easier, but there are going to be challenges on those. And so there's a period of your life where you have control and you have ability for most of us. And so the way I would answer this is that if you have a certain set of goals, then you have to figure out how to spend your time. One of the best pieces of advice I got early on in my career was if you think about the total number of minutes and seconds, if you look at that and you say, okay, I want to spend a third of my time resting and resetting. I want to spend a third of my time with my family and friends, and I want to spend a third of my time working. I'm just making that up. So then you start to break that up and say, okay, of that third of my time in work, for instance, I know I have to dedicate this much time to actually doing work, this much time to meetings. If we actually look at your calendar and say, is that really happening? My guess is most of us would not see that it's actually happening. So, and I want to again answer your question and say, should you feel guilty? No, because if you're trying to accomplish something that you're tasked to do, I think you have to be very deliberate as to how you spend your time. And that changes with role, right? As you get into a managerial, a supervisory role, you're going to have more time dedicated to managing people or assist if you're a frontline employee or colleague. And as you get further into executive role, I think your efforts change, but you still have to carve out time to focus on yourself, but also on what you need to get accomplished. So, deliberate management of your time. It's interesting, I've got a 17 year old son, and I said, I can't impart on you values because those are already ingrained in you, good and bad. I can't impart on you intelligence. You've got what you've got. What I can teach you is time management, because most people don't learn that until later on in life. And I think, because society will always make you feel guilty. I said, your friend will always say, come on out, go play tennis, or your boss will be like, oh, you know, can you stay an hour longer? You have to make those boundaries and decide on when you give and take, but you can't feel guilty because society will always take. Well, I think it can be really challenging for us too, because all of the things you just mentioned that are competing for our time and interest and focus are good things. So, going out with your friends or playing tennis or finishing that project at work or mentoring somebody who knocks on your door with a question or answering this important email, that's part of the challenge to me is say, I look at all the things I'm doing, for the most part, they're all really good things and they're valuable and I think they're meaningful and I hope they're helping to make the world a better place in some small way. But at the same token, you just cannot do all of them and so I think that we have guilt about not doing this thing that's good, but we don't realize that we're not doing this thing that's good because we're choosing to do the other thing that is also good. And so, in a lot of ways, if all of the things that you're looking at and are competing for your interest are good, then it's relatively neutral and you should be able to decide without feeling guilty about it. Now, if you're choosing a bad thing over a good thing, then that's a little bit of a different story, but that's one thing I would encourage people to think about is to say, okay, yes, there's somebody knocking on my door or something, some opportunity here that I wish I could do that I'm having to say no to and that's a good opportunity. But if I'm saying no to that because I'm choosing to focus on another or different good opportunity, there's no reason for guilt there. You're just going to choose the thing that better aligns with your meaning and values and gives you purpose. So now, let's talk a little bit about how we actually do that. I want to transition into our third section and hopefully we can start offering up some solutions for people. So first, I want to ask, do you think you mentioned that time management is a skill that you can learn. Do you think focus specifically is a skill that can be learned? I think it is. I think focus, deliberate and meaningful attachment to what you're doing, they're all skilled. So we go to school and we learn math and we learn medicine, we learn business, whatever it is, part of what is also hopefully being learned, and I don't think we overtly call it out, which is a shame, is how to get focus. How do you actually focus on an activity? I think everything from elementary school all the way to graduate education, professional education, could actually be, we could introduce that as a concept because it is a constant challenge in society. You have to figure out how to adapt and practice that. Some people do that through meditation or yoga. Those are sort of extreme versions and don't apply to everybody. I think that if you're going to get good at anything, if you're going to become an expert, that you need to do 10,000 hours to become an expert. Okay, well, you can do those 10,000 hours putzing around on that activity or you can actually be focused on it. The point of that is that you need to actually have enough repetitions. You need to create those routes in the road. That only happens if you are committed to something. These concepts, the words that we're using, commitment, deliverateness, those are necessary in order for you to develop focus. I think once you get really good at it, you can get into a focus setting and almost get to the flow state very quickly. Those transition steps become shorter, but you have to spend a lot of time. To your point earlier, you got to start small and you just have to practice a little bit every day. Perfect. We're going to outline those steps for people or give some examples, but before we do, there's two things I want to mention. One is that I think it's tempting for people to look at this and say focus is really challenging or almost impossible, so I'm not going to do it. I would actually say that the fact that it is really hard or challenging is actually one of the reasons you should do it because we live in a world where it is very difficult for people to do it. If you can be one of the individuals that does focus and can get deep work done, it's going to be a major separator for you from the rest of the world. It can be a tremendous benefit. That's one point I want to make. The second point I want to make, we talk about 10,000 hours for expert performance. We don't expect anybody to become an expert overnight. Part of this is if the worse you are at it, the smaller the thing you need to do to actually start to see some marginal improvement. Even with baby steps, and you start to do this just a little bit, you'll start to reap some of the biggest benefits when you're early on in that learning curve. Those are two pieces of encouragement I want to give to the audience as we transition and start talking about different tricks and techniques. Now that we know that the value of focus is immense and we know that it's a trainable skill and it's something people can get better at and they should get better at, what are some suggestions you would give people as they start out? When they say, "All right, what do I actually need to do to lock in and focus?" There are some things that are simple that we almost forget about. I can feel my stress level in a latent background. Going up, when I just look at my desk, we all have a desk that we spend time on. You look on that and what happens with all of us is that it starts to pile up with random things. One of the simplest things you can do is to clean your environment, your visual field, because every single thing has a message that it's trying to deliver to you. It is trying to steal some percentage of your time. Remember, time is the only commodity. By removing those things, you remove those distractions. It's sort of like driving down a freeway. If you didn't have all those signs and you were driving through the woods, your stress level is a lot lower. You drive through busy cities and there's signs and billboards and they're distracting. You're forced or ingrained to read them. Clean up your visual field is probably the simplest thing you can do. Keep it clean. It's not a one dumb thing. It will naturally pile up. You've got to just put something on your calendar and say, "Clean my visual field." I'm going to put a plug. We actually have an upcoming episode that's literally all about optimizing your surroundings for productivity. I've dug into this. The data on that is unbelievable. It is shocking to me. I'll tell our listeners, "Do it. It sounds simple, but do it. A messy desk is like a sloppy physical to-do list. You don't want it." I love that. Start by cleaning your desk in your area. That's a great one. What are some other simple steps? Yeah. I think you alluded to it earlier. Put enough breaks in your calendar. One of the things I do is throughout the day, I just have 30-minute holds. They're considered a mental relief valve, but it's also a moment to do something that we normally would if we were in an on-premise environment. I do a lot of remote work, so some of these are tuned to remote work. That 15, 20, 30-minute block allows you to take a moment, walk outside for a second, and slow your brain down. Slow the activities down. There's also a lot of literature out there that being outside, looking at nature as this immense amount of freeing and creative creativity-inducing activity in your brain. When you come back, you come back almost not just supercharged, but almost have new connections in your brain. I try to put blocks on my calendar to do that. Sometimes those get taken with meetings, but by doing that, if you hold on to those blocks for 70-80% of the time, it allows you a moment of whatever it is you want to fill that time with. I think it's really important. You really, to your point earlier, you can't feel guilty because we're still human. We're productivity engines because society will want us to be productivity engines. Your kids will want something out of you. Your spouse as well as something out of you. Your employer is going to want something out of you, but you have to have those self-moments for self-care. That's something you can easily automate. You can just make a rule for yourself that if somebody wants a 20-minute meeting, I'm going to find a 30-minute slot where I'm available, 20 minutes for meeting, 10 minutes to decompress. Or if it's a 30-minute meeting, I'm going to add 15 minutes every time. I need a 45-minute block available to schedule a 30-minute meeting. You can make that automatic. That's a great suggestion. I also love the time outside and the time in nature. I actually put that as a separate item on my list too, because I think that's immensely helpful as well. One of the other things that we learned during COVID was in an increasingly Zoom or Teams-filled world, it is easy to just put your meetings right up against the half-hour-hour mark. What we realized is that most meetings are 30 minutes because of the fact that our planet rotates around its axis. It's arbitrary at the end of the day. What we did is just started and said off of my calendar, all my meetings started at 5 after. So X35, X05. So they're either 25 minutes long or 55 minutes long. We can accomplish what we need to accomplish in 25 minutes versus 30 minutes every time. But by starting at 5 minutes after, what those 5 minutes at the top of the hour allow you to do is to do those transitions, go through your emails and get things that need to be responded to quickly. And then when you jump into the meeting, you're focused for the 25 minutes. You're not popping or replying to emails or messages. And that small change has increased joy in our collective teams immensely that it's sort of been now something that's been permitting across the organization. But I would just say, think about that, especially if you tend to be in a lot of online meetings. Very good. Very good. We got a couple minutes left. Any other tips or steps that you would recommend people to take to improve their focus? Again, reemphasize, I think you just have to recognize that this is a multiple marathon. And you're not going to solve this and become a focus guru overnight. That's not the intentions to make those incremental changes over time. And you have to find what works for you. Right. I threw out some ideas that I've fine tuned, but that was after a lot of failed learning. And so tinkering, learning, listening and reading are all and sort of implementing with the notion that 90% of these things are going to fail for you. But those 10% things that you do implement are going to, I think will be life changing is the right way to approach this. Good. So set a low expectation, a low bar, make some forward progress. And I think I would also add to that, take joy in that progress. Don't wait until you figured out how to sit down and focus for eight hours consecutively before you celebrate. You should really, any forward progress you make is worth celebrating on that too. So I think, you know, start small and enjoy those small wins and really allow yourself to celebrate those. I think it'd be immensely helpful. And then when you start to enjoy that progress, that just motivates you to do more and you keep going the next step. And this is a thing too, that I think is a journey and not a destination. We're never going to get to the point where we just say, I am the ultimate focus champion. I have nothing else to work on in my life. You know, it's an ongoing process that we have to live out day after day. So we should view it as a process rather than just the destination. Well, Maneesh, this has been great talking with you today. I really appreciate you taking the time and letting us lean on all of your expertise. I'd like to take a quick minute to summarize things. So I've been taking notes as we were talking and I kind of want to run through some of the highlights on my notes of things I learned from you. So initially we talked about defining focus as being present in that moment and choosing what you pay your attention to and blocking out all of the other things. And I think some key components that you pulled out is that it needs to be voluntary. So something that you choose to do, it should be sustained for a period of time and that time can be small to start, but eventually will get bigger and you want to very intentionally allocate your attention to it. So it's something that's not haphazard that it's done very intentionally. There are a lot of reasons to focus. So getting your work done faster is one that's obvious, but we also talked about that's really how we improve and how we grow. Tasks get easier when we focus on them. You're less stressed. You can be more creative. You have more joy, less burnout. So the reasons for doing it, I think are pretty immense. I also liked how you talked about this really needs to be an individualized thing. So each person is different and even within that same person, the morning version of you is probably different than the evening version of you. And the 20 year old version is different than the 60 year old version. So be really honest with yourself about who you are, where you are in life, where you are during the day as well. I think all of those things can help. You mentioned that the only commodity we have in life is time. So time management is at the key of this. And then you gave us a great list of different things that people can be doing to start taking some first steps in that. And I'll mention those again at the end. So that's kind of my summary. I'd like to flip it to you, give you a chance to summarize. So we answered these three big questions quite nicely, I think, over the last 45 minutes or so. But now I'm gonna give you a chance to give kind of rapid fire answers here. So the first big question, what is focus and why is it so important for our productivity and joy? Yeah, I think that's it is that focus is you optimizing both productivity and joy. So those two things don't have to be at odds with each other. It's actually, we're focused and flow are a point where those things are optimized in and of itself. Second big question, why do we all seem to struggle to focus in today's world? Yeah, I think it's the numerous roles that we play, the multitude of things that are pulling and tugging for our time, and our ever connectedness of society, whether it's our cell phones in our pockets or in our hands all of our times, or, you know, almost an always on work environment, those are all things that tug at us. And our third one, what concrete steps can we take to improve our focus in our world of constant interruption? Yeah, I think you have to start small. Like if you're going to learn to paint, you're not going to paint a masterpiece overnight. But if you practice ever so small every day over years and months and, you know, decades, you can paint the Mona Lisa. Now you might not be as good as DaVinci. You'll be a lot better than you were previously. Yeah. Well, and I like to always end this with a call to action. So, you know, we want our listeners to learn a lot, but more importantly, we want them to start putting these things into practice in their life and actually start reaping the benefits. So for today's call to action, I'm actually going to give a menu of options for people to choose from. So after listening to this content, I want you to in our third section, Maneesh gave us several examples, I'm going to add a couple more on here. So I want you to pick one of these things and then go do it, try to do it for at least a week. Only pick one. Don't try to do two of these. Just pick one thing off the list. So the first one is going to be clean your desk or work area. Keep it clean for a week. See how that impacts you. The second is start blocking time on your calendar. So add in that time, that focus time that you need before meeting, after meeting, or totally separate, whatever you want. Add in some focus time. Third option, spend some time in nature. And I would say do this without any media around you. So leave your phone at home. Try to go no music, no screens, no nothing, just you and nature, and you can start small. And then the last two I'm going to give you. One is sit down and read a book, a real book without putting it down, without answering a text message or picking up your phone. Try to see if you can do that for 30 minutes and see how challenging that is. And also an even easier one, maybe you can start here, sit down and watch a movie without stopping. Don't change the channel. Don't get up. Don't look at your phone. Check the news. Don't research things. Actually just pay attention and watch the movie. So some of those things are going to be super easy, low-hanging fruit, but you'd be surprised at how many of those can be really difficult. So pick one of those items. Try it over the course of the next week. See how it goes. Once you master that, then add in another one and then keep growing for there. So to our audience, thank you so much for joining us. Our topic today was the power of focus, how to lock in, in an increasingly distracted world. Maneesh Goyal was our expert to join us today. Maneesh, thank you so much for joining us. We really appreciated having you on today. Thank you for having me. This is a fun topic. Good. And to all our listeners and viewers, thank you again for joining us. Remember to live intentionally, consistently, better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you liked this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at: optimize@mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. Resiliency is a term that we hear commonly in the world today, and for good reason. Data shows us that being more resilient can decrease your stress, improve productivity, decrease burnout, enhance our relationships, and even reduce mortality in some situations. However, when we're in the thick of struggling through life's challenges, someone just telling us to be more resilient may feel a bit more like they're gaslighting us rather than actually inspiring us. So how do we become our most resilient selves when many of us feel like we're already being pushed to the edge? That's what we hope to answer for you in today's session titled, Improving Your Resiliency, How to Thrive When Life Gets Messy. To help us with this topic, our expert today is Dr. Anjali Bhagra. Anjali, welcome to the Human Optimization Project. Thanks for having me. Really excited about this topic. I know you're an expert in this area. You got a lot of experience to share, so we're very honored to have you today. Dr. Bhagra is a medical director of Enterprise Automation and the Office of Belonging at Mayo Clinic. She's a consultant within general internal medicine. Her prior roles include being vice chair of faculty development, educational chair of integrative medicine. Her research focuses on enhancing individual and organizational resilience, and she's authored over 80 publications to date. She's the co-founder and co-director of the Mayo Clinic Conference on Resilience and Leadership titled GRIT, which stands for growth, resilience, inspiration, tenacity in medicine. Dr. Baghra, thank you so much for joining us. We're excited to have you, and I'd like to outline for the audience the three big questions that we're going to tackle with you today. Okay? So in our first section, our big question we're going to focus on is, what exactly is resiliency, and why does it matter so much for health, happiness, and performance? And then the second big question, why do so many of us struggle to be resilient, and how does that impact us personally and professionally? And then in our third section, we'll try to get into some solutions, and our big question there is, what steps can we take to become our most resilient selves? Does that sound fair to you? Sounds amazing. All right, let's dive in. So in our first section, we're going to talk a little bit about what resiliency actually is and why it matters. So can we start just by defining resilience? So as a resiliency expert, I want to hear, how do you define the term resilience? Yes, let's kick off with some baseline understanding. So there is a scientific definition of resiliency, which is our ability to adapt or bounce back when faced with adversity. It's got a lot of different, I would say, constituents, which includes things like physical resilience, emotional resilience, mental resilience, and spiritual resilience. And I think this is something that doesn't come out explicitly when we just look at the scientific model of resilience. But my personal definition of resilience is really silent energy. It's your quiet force. It's your resolve. It's your intention. So it really is, you know it when you see it. And the best way for me to wrap my head and arms around that at a personal level is thinking of individuals when I think of resiliency. And to my mind, resiliency is when I think about my mom. Resiliency is when I think about my kids. So our younger son is going to be a D1 athlete playing tennis. And when I think of, you know, what is resiliency, I think of him. You know, I think of people like Nelson Mandela. I think about people like Mother Teresa. Who do you think of? This is a great, great question. I love that approach too, because you're tying this to some really big names in history who have made a tremendous impact, but then also some regular day people that are very personal in our lives. And I feel similar about it. And to maybe add one more layer, I think about resiliency as this sort of fluid ability to adapt. So it sort of evolves and changes. And so for me, I think about those people that have been able to navigate circumstances that maybe weren't predicted or unforeseen. So if you think about what we all had to do during the COVID pandemic, for example, you know, our leaders had a lot that they had to navigate, but we also did it at a personal level too. Our lives were upended and changed. And so, I mean, I think about everybody who dealt with those things too, like changing the way that they lived, the way they interacted with people. So you can think about people across the full spectrum, from the incredibly famous historical figures to the people in our own family and that we work with every day. Completely. I do want to add to that, Liz. You know, I had the opportunity and the honor of participating in a pilgrimage where a group of us from Mayo Clinic really traveled back to our roots in Assisi in Italy. And throughout that trip and our discussions and lighthearted moments, you know, the sense of pride and a deeper understanding of, you know, what resiliency meant and what's so foundational to our organization and to healthcare in general. But, you know, this was a deeply personal experience, really trying to be in those times with St. Francis and the sisters and, you know, how they really dealt with extreme adversity with very little resource, but a ton of resolve and a ton of determination and coming together to really help humankind. For me, like that was a very deep personal experience of resiliency and that's so foundational to who we are today. Good. And I love you. You should look for it everywhere. Yeah. And I think it transcends people. So it can happen to anybody no matter their role or where they are in life. And it also sort of transcends time. You know, so this is not a new phenomenon. We've given it more attention recently, but we can see examples of people being resilient throughout the history of time. So I think it really transcends all people and kind of all time. Correct. And I think the other piece is sometimes we box resiliency too much because we tend to think about it at a very individual level. And we miss the opportunity then to see the power of collective resilience, like resilient organizations, like who is, you know, standing the test of time with the value set that they are committed to. And I think that's a really important idea, especially on this podcast. You know, we are you're the optimizer. And it doesn't happen with a single person standing by themselves, but it often becomes much more tangible, achievable, realizable and have a real impact when we come together. So there is a lot of power in collective resilience. I know we're going to talk about this in depth, but it's very important for us to have a broader understanding of resilience and really getting to the core of human experience versus just like scientific definition. And so speaking of that, I want to know where you think resilience comes from. Is it something that we are born with or is it something that we develop over time? Yeah, that's such a great question. So at the individual level, you know, there is some contribution of genetics. Let's just kick off with that because we know, you know, as we work with patients with depression, anxiety or some other mood conditions, there is a genetic predisposition to, you know, how we experience the world around us. Having said that, I think there is a big contribution of upbringing, you know, just who we are as a person, our personality types. So there is, I would say that that contributes to it. But that would be probably like half of the equation. What's really exciting is that it's very much a learnable, dynamic attribute, human attribute. It's not a fixed trait that you're either born with it or not. And if you're not, you're doomed. And if you are, then, you know, you've arrived. That's not how it works out. I think it is also important to recognize that there is some role of these things in the background. But there is a lot in our own control. Okay. So if we say something that we can control and we can take agency over it, my next question is, why should we? So what are the benefits of being a more resilient person? Yeah, so there's a scientific answer to that. And you highlighted that in your introductory comments. And that's all right. Like when we look at what helps, for example, patients with cancer, right? There have been a lot of studies. And this brings me back to work done by Dean Ornish, who really studied telomeres. And for our listeners' benefits, telomeres are at the ends of our chromosomes. And that's what keeps our genetic material intact. So it's kind of like if the shoelaces were like our chromosomes, the caps on our shoelaces are like the telomeres. And his work really highlighted the importance of having a very disciplined routine to building resilience and showing a direct correlation with lengthier telomeres at the genetic level. And that's one of the measures of senescence and aging. I think we know anecdotally those of us who experience the impact of our resilience on our day-to-day life, like it impacts our mood, it impacts our productivity, it impacts our overall fulfillment, it impacts our relationships. It also impacts physical health. But with stuff like what Dean Ornish has done, we know it impacts our genetic material. We know it impacts our immune resilience. We know it impacts the level of inflammation in our body. So I think there is a very macro and micro level impact of resilience, not just on how we feel, what we perceive from our environment, but also physical health, immune health, metabolic health, as well as just our productivity as humans, our ability to have an optimal, the most optimal impact. And there are so few things in the world that actually can impact us so substantially in so many different domains. I mean, if you think about it, sleep, exercise, good nutrition are probably on that list. Resiliency, gratitude. And these are things that I think we often overlook, yet they're probably the most powerful and can have the biggest impact and sort of the most bang for our buck if we're trying to improve ourselves. It's not many things that you make this one change in your life and it'll have such widespread and outreaching impacts, not only how you feel, but also now down to the genetic level, which I didn't even realize that's incredibly powerful. What are some of the most common myths or misunderstandings that you hear about resiliency? Yeah, so as we kicked off in our introductory comments, I think resilience means different things to different people. But in terms of myths, some of the most common myths that I've kind of seen over my life, a decade and a half, is things like, well, resilient people are very stoic. They are the toughies and you're going to see them unphased. That's not how it works out. Oftentimes, resilient people are vulnerable. They are very authentic with their emotions and they are very expressive. And this could be a sad emotion or a happy emotion. So I find that to be a very common myth. The second is, of course, tied into what you and I were discussing earlier, like you're either born with it or you're not. I think there is not good understanding of the fact that we own this, we control this. This is a choice and we need to be intentional around it. I would say some of the other ones include things like, if I'm resilient, I can do it all by myself and I don't need others. And that is very interesting because oftentimes, we were sharing examples of who we think are resilient people in our lives earlier on. And I would say every single person that's on my list is somebody who leans on people and opens, that widens their aperture and really cultivate a sense of community versus individualism. So I think that's a very interesting myth around who is resilient versus not. The other piece I would say is resilience is not about speed. Another myth is, if I can bounce back from an adversity very quickly, then I'm resilient. If I don't, then I'm not. I think that's a flawed mindset as well. This is not about speed, but it's about sustenance and how sustainably and reliably do we come out of adversity with a developmental mindset versus, "I'm going to solve this problem in the next five minutes and hence I'm very resilient." So I think what I'm really trying to say is there's no shortcuts. Speed is not resilience, but credibility is resilience. Consistency is resilience. Intentionality is resilience and deep commitment is resilient. I would say those would be the top sort of myths that I think I see here and am demystifying with my patients, colleagues, and learners a lot. And it's fascinating because I've had like learners come to me and say, "Well, Dr. Baghra, I thought I was very resilient, but it took me six months to get over a loss of a, I don't know, like a loved one or my pet." Or I was like, "Resilience is not about speed." There's not a time limit on it. The fact that you're actively thinking about it, the fact that you have a proactive plan, and the fact that you're committed to grow from an experience is what it's all about. Great. So let's transition into our second section here and we'll talk a little bit about why so many of us struggle with this. I think the benefits are clear and they're obvious, even more widespread than I realized, yet we still oftentimes really struggle with it. So let me ask you first, if we're going to talk about kind of why we struggle and this is something we want to improve on, I wonder, is there a way to objectively measure resilience? So is there a way I can tell I am being resilient or I'm not, or this person is or is not resilient? Yeah. So there is scientific ways of measuring resilience. This is something I routinely do in my practice when I see patients for these consults. They tend to fill out a few questionnaires. So we can measure resilience with validated scales. Some of these include the Connor Davidson scale, which is actually a very lengthy scale. It has upward of 25 like questions that we ask individuals and then we come up with, you know, where they fit into a mild, moderate range. But there are shorter versions of those validated instruments. One of which we commonly use in our practice is the brief resilience scale of the BRS, which is a modified Connor Davidson scale. But then there are other validated instruments that can be used and go hand in hand with these. And some examples would be the perceived stress scale or the PSS. Because I think both of these go hand in hand. And these scales, I would say, are very similar to other scales routinely used within the realm of behavioral health and mental health, such as the PHQ-9 or the generalized anxiety disorder or the GAT scale. So these are very similar in essence and the methodology of development to some of those scales. And I think for us, of course, it's really important that we have an objective way because we, you know, I see patients for this and I want to have a good, tangible way of seeing whether we are really moving them in the right direction. There are anecdotal and day to day ways that people can gauge their resiliency. And you don't need complex scales to really measure your resilience on a day to day level. So I love doing something called a resilience audit. And maybe you and I should do that live for our listeners' benefit. Absolutely. And the way we would do something like a resilience audit is very simple. It's kind of like a 60 seconds activity and we close our eyes. We take deep breaths and maybe let's walk through it. Let's do it. All right. Perfect. So we have our eyes closed. We're going to take a big deep breath in and out. And the first thing we're going to think about is our physical resilience. Did we get a good night sleep yesterday night? And are we hurting anywhere? Are we feeling our body? And we could think on a scale of zero to five. Where are we with our physical resilience right now? You don't have to share it with me, Chris. Just make a note of it. The second domain would be our emotional resilience. How are we feeling right now? Are we feeling like baseline happy, baseline sad? What is our predominant emotion right now? And are we in tune with it? Are we acknowledging it? Are we accepting it? And is it fluctuating? And then finally, we're going to think about our spiritual resilience. Is what I'm doing right now really aligned with my higher meaning, values, and purpose? Do I feel a sense of meaning and purpose in what I'm doing in the short term? And is that aligned with my long term? And then let's take a big deep breath. And out. And let's open our eyes. All right. I know that was quick and brief. No, it's helpful. Should I tell you kind of-- Yeah, go ahead. I haven't done that before. And it was helpful. So I'll tell you what I was thinking. You can kind of let us know if I'm on the right track or not. So when you ask about the physical thing, how I'm feeling physically and tired, and on a scale of one to five, I would put it at a three right now. And I think-- and so I hadn't thought about it, but I tried to think, well, I covered a game last night. So I got home very late. So I went to bed probably three hours later than I normally do. So I'm sleep deprived. I also incorporated deadlifts back into my workouts three days ago. So I'm still feeling that a little bit, my low back and my hamstrings, which I haven't paid much attention about it, but it is good to draw attention to that. So I hadn't thought about those things, but that's definitely affecting how I feel on the emotional component. Five. And this is-- I'm very happy, satisfied. I love doing this. I'm super passionate about doing this. So it'd be hard for me to imagine being in a better spot there. And then on the spiritual part, I rated it a four. Because I think that this, for me, does connect with my meaning, purpose, and values. But it feels like something that I'm still striving to want to continue to get better at and still have a lot of areas to grow in. So those are some of the things that came to mind for me. Is that sort of the right thing to be thinking about, or what else am I missing there? Absolutely. So first of all, one size does not fit all. There is no right or wrong. This is like a suggestion. This is like a format that we could use. I really think of ourselves as a bucket full of water with holds. That's really how we all function. So what's going to happen is, over time, we need to keep filling our buckets. But if we don't know what element to focus on, we're kind of shooting in the dark. Every single time I do this personally, or with a patient, or with a big group, or with my kids and family, I'm yet to hear somebody who came out and said, hey, I'm like 5, 5, 5, like everywhere. I'm replete. The fact is that this is work in progress. So this isn't a destination. It's a journey. And I think that in itself is very liberating. Because things like how we are measuring things, well, I could feel something. My brief resilience score could be something very different today versus next week. So it's something that we all need to understand contextually. And know that there's always opportunity. Well, I think just taking a minute to pause and do that assessment is so powerful. Because there's a real tendency for all of us to just ignore, sort of suppress, just kind of, oh, I got that ache. I'm just going to ignore it and keep plowing through. And so I think that oftentimes that is a maybe sometimes helpful strategy for us. With that problem we're dealing with, or the emotional distress, or the psychological distress, we just say, I'm just going to bury that down right now. And I'm going to keep grinding away. And some people may think that that is resilience. Sometimes I think that strategy might work short term, but can have some long-term consequences. So can you tell us maybe how that is similar to or different from resilience? So basically just taking the problem you're having, burying it or ignoring it temporarily. So I like to think about that in two domains. So imagine throwing a bouncy ball on the wall with your, you know, as much strength as you have, and then thinking that it's not going to come back. Because you just threw it away, right? Like it is going to come back to you much stronger with more force and momentum. So starting with that, I would say, I like to think about things as things within my zone of control and things within my zone of action. If I'm overstressing over things that are not in my zone of control, but I get stressed about, you know, I know that over time, if that keeps growing, I'm going to get to a point where I, you know, I'm going to be highly unproductive. So one of the things that I like to do is move as many things as possible from to my zone of action. And if I cannot do that, I put things in a parking lot. So there is a difference in this strategy versus I am, I'm not just going to think about the stressors. You're intentionally dealing with them, right? Yes. Rather than ignoring them. Correct. You're organizing them. You're organizing it, you know, because it's true that sometimes we do need to, because we can't solve for everything and we don't need to. We are not the ones who should be solving for everything. But sometimes because of lack of clarity, what we tend to do is that I'm going to bounce this stress away from me and just hope that it disappears. It just comes back stronger. But if we've thought about it in a creative way with a logic, like can I act on it? Can I not act on it? And if I can't, even if I don't control it, I'm going to accept it that it's there. I'm going to acknowledge it, but I'm going to put it in the parking lot. Maybe someday I will be able to, not right now. And I maybe I need to partner with someone. So I think there is an essential difference between just, you know, pretending it's not there versus acknowledging it and putting it in the right bucket. So I want to highlight this to our audience. You've taken a concept that I think to a lot of people sounds somewhat nebulous or arbitrary or soft, this concept of resilience. And it's kind of difficult to define, but you've told us that there are multiple validated scientific questionnaires and assessment tools that you can use to objectively measure it, that you can approve it, improve it over time. And then you've also just sort of taken us through like a very straightforward algorithmic kind of approach that you can use to improve it. So I think that this is a much more real concrete, tangible thing than a lot of people realize. So we'll talk a lot more about those tips and techniques and steps that people need to be taking in our third section, which I'm very excited to get to. One of the questions I have for our audience out there, are there certain types of people or personalities or careers that are more likely to struggle with resiliency? Yeah, I want to actually flip that question a little bit. There are professions and careers that demand people to be individuals to be more resilient. And since we are in healthcare, I would say we are in a profession that in itself, by the design of taking care of the sick and the ailing and really doing it in a team-spaced approach in the most optimal way, utilizing resources that are often scarce. Imagine what is the kind of human trait that is needed for us to be able to do this effectively. I think when we look at criteria for med school admissions or training, I would say there is heavy emphasis on who is that person who can thrive and be a meaningful contributor in this profession. So I like to flip this question because it's not that in certain careers we struggle with resiliency, but I think it's the other way around. For certain jobs, roles, careers, we absolutely need this to be a strong component of who we are. Because without resilience, I think it would be very hard to have longevity in these careers. The other, I would say, is elementary education. Teachers. I know we both have kids and I have had tremendous gratitude for our teachers and certainly us serving as medical educators. I see the level of resilience and this next level of resilience I need to cultivate to be able to be an effective educator. Think about our first responders, our frontline workers, airline crew. Think about Captain Sully when he landed on the Hudson, the emergency landing. I mean, we absolutely, so those are situations where I think this is a key ingredient for us to be effective, impactful, and meaningful contributors in the professions that we choose. So earlier we said it sort of transcends kind of all people, all times, and it's really kind of all careers and all situations as well. So I think it seems to be a very universal concept. The other thing I'm hearing you talk about is that this seems like it requires an appropriate mindset, so a correct mental position, but also some actions that you need to take. So it is sort of a combination of those two. So I'd like to keep that in mind as we move into our third section. And our question here is what steps can we take to become our most resilient self? So I want to ask, and I think we've kind of already answered this, but just to reiterate, is resiliency trainable and is that true for anyone? So the short answer, absolutely. Yes, resiliency is a dynamic process, and we are gifted with something called neuroplasticity, which means that our brains are forever changing and evolving. And when we talk about resiliency, stress management, a lot of these things are really working around the neuroscience and understanding how we can do this in a dynamic way. I would say the key ingredient of a successful resiliency plan is intention. This is something that needs to be prioritized. This isn't something that's going to happen by the way. There are phases to this, right? Like when you're becoming much more aware of the importance of this, and when we are beginning to have a more proactive, objective plan, and it's the first time I'm going to integrate a resiliency practice, it's going to feel a little more work, right? But over time, with the benefits that you see, I think we really, I see a lot of transition of my patients, my colleagues, me myself having undergone this journey, which is ongoing. It really becomes, it comes to a point where we become unconsciously competent. So starting from unconsciously incompetent, and then winding up to unconsciously competent. So it's a journey. Anybody can do this. There are ways to do this, first being intention. And I think this really involves, it's a very multidisciplinary plan. It involves being aware and also working on our behaviors, actions, and thoughts. So it's kind of like a bat, the B-A-T of building resiliency, our behaviors, actions, and thoughts. Great. And you describe this as a journey, which, and I love that language and that metaphor, because I think there's a tendency for people to say, "I am resilient, yes or no." Either I am or I am not. And in reality, I think that's the wrong question. It's, would I benefit from being more resilient? And the answer is almost always yes. And if done the right way, more resiliency is really only going to help me and continue to have those benefits. So I think we should be asking ourselves, what are the steps I can take to become more resilient? Not, do I need it or not? Yes, we all do, and we need to do it. So now if we know, okay, it can be measured, it can be improved, the benefits are huge, and I want to try to become more resilient. Now I'm motivated. So tell me, what's the step-by-step guide? How do I do it? Yes. So like I said, the first is intention. So a commitment that I am committed to this and I'm going to do it. And I'm going to break it down. The way I look at it is I'm a big believer in simplification. So from a strategy standpoint, for those of us who have busy lives, the three-step strategy is prioritize, simplify, delegate. We need to create some brain space and oftentimes we are all human doings versus human beings. I love that. So we really have to focus on getting to the place of human being. And once we've done that, the next comes the tactics. So what are some things I can do to really become the best resilient version of myself continuously? First and foremost, I think at the core is emotional awareness and the ability to regulate. The second, I would say alignment with MVP, meaning value of purpose, something that we did in our resiliency audit. And the third and something that I find probably the most important thing is connections. And I could probably walk through my personal practice and something that I've shared with patients over the last decade and I have, and it's rooted in mindfulness. People have different ways of doing it. We are a very active family. I do everything on a tennis court. I don't need to sign up for a yoga studio or buy gear to really practice any of this. So with my emotional regulation, the two key emotions that I always try to focus on is gratitude and acceptance. Gratitude is something that comes easier than acceptance. So for those of you who are beginning on this journey, it is, I would say it's a very exciting thing. Imagine there can be so many degrees of gratitude. The most, I would say, evident way in which we do it is saying thank you to people around us. But deepening that level of gratitude by thinking about people that you haven't thought about. So my kindergarten teacher is often in my thoughts. So gratitude is a very strong foundational emotion that allows people in general to become more resilient. And then, of course, acceptance is something that we all struggle with depending on the situation. But the key here is to not give up. The second is a practice of alignment with our meaning, values, and purpose. In our professions, that's something not very difficult to do. Every single time I'm in the room with a patient, it's an instant sort of "I'm so thankful" and "I'm so grateful" that I get to do what I do. There are days where I'm lagging behind and catching up on my notes and I have fifty different messages and thanks to technology and transformation those elements are getting better, but it is not that hard to lose sight of why we are doing what we are doing when we face challenges. So always coming back, I think, is helpful. And then finally, connectivity and social connections If there is one big message that our listeners want to take from this: Don't do it alone. It's not fun when you do it alone. It's not sustainable when you do it alone. And it doesn't give you as much benefit if you do it alone. So leaning on others, creating connections, is extremely important. One practice that I have with my family, and I would encourage you to do that tonight, is when you get back home, and this is something that like twenty years ago when I got back home my first instinct was, "why are there dirty shoes in the mudroom?" "Why is the kitchen sink overflowing with dirty dishes?" and "Pick up your laundry," it's this correctional mode. You know, "what's wrong around me? Let's fix it" attitude. Versus now it's I have my loved ones around me, it's almost like "treat your loved ones like your pets treat you." Like, "how does your dog welcome you when you get back home?" Do we do the same to our loved ones? Meaningful connection, connection without judgement, and celebrating our connections is a key way of building resilience. That's wonderful, and the part about the connection goes back to one of the common misconceptions that you mentioned earlier, where a lot of people think in resiliency that means you have to go it alone. And it's actually quite the opposite and I would tell people a lot of times just because you can do it alone doesn't mean you should. "Can" and "should" are very different words. I "can" survive on two hours of sleep for the next day, "should" I? No! I'm going to be much better if I have 7-8 hours of sleep. And so, just because you "can" doesn't mean you "should." And sometimes I think we we take this "I did it all by myself" as this badge of honor, when in reality, I think true leaders and people who understand getting the most out of their intention efforts know how to make the most and obtain synergy by working with the people around them, which I think can be immensely helpful. Absolutely. And if I could just add to that, I think this, I'm going to do this alone, can be a very like, I'm the only one who does this right kind of a mindset as well. So letting others do things is infinitely more difficult than doing it yourself. So those of us who have struggled with it or continue to struggle with it, that's a challenge to you. Allow people to do it and then celebrate them because there isn't like just one good way of doing anything. Great. So to recap that, I like that you said sort of the first stage is setting the intention and in doing that you have to prioritize, simplify and delegate. And then second, talking about the tactics, emotional awareness and regulation being the first alignment with your meaning purpose of values and then connections being the third. There was a lot of great concepts in here and just for our audience, so you know, we're actually going to have dedicated sessions in the human optimization project to all of these topics, meaning, purpose, values, gratitude, acceptance, connections, emotional regulation, emotional awareness. So if you're interested, be on the lookout, there's going to be more of those coming. So as people start on this journey and they're trying to improve their resiliency, they're not going to get it perfect. One of us are, we're all going to mess up and have times when we fail. I often think it's helpful to think about that a little bit ahead of time. So if you know that that's going to happen, you can anticipate it and then you're not so devastated when you mess up. What are some common pitfalls that people can fall into or common barriers that they may face on their journey to become a more resilient person? Yeah, the one that jumps out immediately and something that I discuss with my patients proactively is don't make goals, make habits. You know, that's a huge pitfall because I sit down with a lot of patients and I hear things like, well, if I can achieve one, two and three in life, then I'm going to be happy and it will be a testament to my resilience that I was able to complete task one, two and three. I think that's backward. I think that's broken. So my biggest thing is make habits as you embark on this journey and wherever you are on your journey and it's possible you are the most resilient person on a team, but all of us can get better. So that'll be my first and foremost. The second is this isn't about like a societal metric that will be incentivized. This is you. This is deeply personal. The else can come in and give you a certificate of completion and so enjoy it as a, you know, it's a journey. It's not a destination because it's work in progress. It looks different on different days. And so have fun with it. If it starts feeling like work, so there's a difference between being intentional and being overtly disciplined around it. And I favor intentionality versus, oh, you know, we heard this podcast and they gave us three things to do and I'm going to stick to this. So these are suggestions. And you may have a better way to do it. The most important thing that I see in people who benefit from daily practices is the key ingredients, which is intention, which is commitment, which is awareness. And which is like, you know, I'm not giving up and I'm going to celebrate. So don't postpone your joy. This should not feel like work. This should be fun, something we look forward to, something that we can, you know, derive immediate and long-term benefits from. I'm so glad you said that because I think another common misconception on resiliency is that people think that it basically just means enduring pain and suffering. And I think that sometimes that might be the case. You may be in a situation that is terrible and there is pain and suffering and that's okay if that's what that event calls for in your life. But I think your journey to being a more resilient self doesn't mean you have to beat yourself up with self-flagellation and just crazy discipline and be miserable. And that it should be a process that you set up to enjoy. And I love what you said about prioritizing the habits over the goals. And one of the problems with goals is that they force us to delay our joy or gratification. We're not happy until we achieve that goal. And in reality, we don't always achieve that goal. So we may never be happy. So if we can form the habits and systems that push us towards that goal, then we can have process satisfaction. And we can enjoy the small steps and celebrate the little milestones along the way, which I think is huge. And that's critical for us for sustaining ourselves and maintaining our own well-being and insanity in this crazy busy world that we live in. Couldn't agree more. And if I could just paraphrase what you said. So instead of looking at resilience as bouncing back with adversity, I challenge that. And my view on this is bouncing forward with joy. And there's a fundamental difference, right? Like one is reactive, the other is proactive and developmental. Very well said. Extremely wise word. This has been a phenomenal session. I love it. I've taken a lot of notes as I like to do. So I'd like to take a minute and just kind of summarize for the audience and myself kind of the biggest take-home points for me. So first, I thought it was really interesting how we talked about resiliency really impacts every domain of human performance. It affects our joy, our well-being, our happiness, our physical function, reduces burnout, so many different areas. It even changes us at a genetic level. It increases our lifespan. I mean, it's huge. So I think that that's critical for us to call out. I think also this is not about us doing it alone. Just because you can doesn't mean you should. And in fact, finding community or connection is going to be one of the key ingredients in being successful in this. Interesting to see that resilience is something that is real. It can be objectively measured. It can be objectively improved. Requires both an appropriate mindset and physical action. The idea you have with the resiliency audit, I thought, was perfect, where we kind of assess what we're at physically, emotionally, and spiritually. And then ultimately, the key to everything here is sort of setting the intention and deciding what you want to do and how you're going to do it. So this has been a wonderful session for me. Can I make a comment? Please. That almost sounded like an AI note taker. That was fabulous. Oh my God. Good. Well, I could use it. It's me trying to unscramble my doctor handwriting here, which is not very good. But good. Glad it came through. So we gave you a chance to kind of answer our three big questions for us over the last 40 minutes or so. I'd like to give you a chance to give us the rapid fire answer. So our first big question, what exactly is resiliency and why does it matter so much for health, happiness, and performance? So resiliency is bound forward with joy. It matters because you don't want to postpone your joy. So do not postpone your joy. All right. I'm supposed to be done taking notes, but I'm still taking notes as we go. Our second one, why do so many of us struggle to be resilient and how does that hurt us personally and professionally? We struggle to be resilient because of three big reasons. First is cultural, because we are expected to be successful when we are stoic. And if we are not, then we need to face consequence. The second is societal. Societal success is often measured by productivity versus recovery. And I think that's a big reason why we struggle with it. And the final is a human level, a neuroscientific reason, because we are all wired to pay attention to threats versus opportunities. And it's a design which we should be thankful for because we do survive very well because of that, but it comes with a trade off. And we're not as good as we should be about distinguishing between threats and opportunities in our world today. Well, thank you so much. This has been an excellent discussion. We really appreciate sharing your wisdom with us. We always like to end the session with a challenge or a call to action that we give to our audience. So to the audience, our session today is titled "Improving Resiliency, How to Thrive When Life Gets Messy." So here's our challenge to help you take the first step in that process. You saw us do a quick 60-second resilient audit in this session today. So we want you to do the same thing. So take 60 seconds, pause, close your eyes, take a deep breath, and assess where you're at physically, emotionally, and spiritually. And for the spiritual component, that may be challenging for some people, but try to tie that back to your meaning, purpose, and values. And if you can do that, I think that will help you. So see where you're at in those three areas, and that will probably give you a good idea of where you need to start on your resiliency journey. And then also remember, as you try to develop a plan, Anjali laid out an excellent plan for us in our third section. You start with your intentions and then focus on what you prioritize, simplify, and delegate, and then look into the tactics. So emotional awareness and regulation, alignment with your meaning, values, and purpose, and then finally, social connections. Thank you so much for joining us today on the Human Optimization Project. Thank you so much for having me. It was such a great discussion. And congratulations and kudos to you. Such an important topic that you're tackling with so many different viewpoints. And I can't wait to listen to all the other episodes. Great. There's plenty more coming, and we're going to cover a lot of the topics that we touched on today. So for our audience, be sure to tune in. So that's a wrap on this session, Improving Your Resiliency, How to Thrive When Life Gets Messy. And life is messy. Accept it. Lean into it. Thrive in it. Thanks for joining us. Remember to live intentionally, consistently better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you liked this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at: optimize@mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.