Mild cognitive impairment represents a transitional state between the cognitive changes of normal aging and the very earliest signs of dementia such as Alzheimer's disease. And we think that we can capture people at this stage usually with some forgetfulness beyond what they ought to have for their stage in life. So beyond what they ought to have for their age and their education. That represents maybe the ver very earliest stages of what might become Alzheimer's disease. In the Mayo Clinic study of aging, we're looking at a random sample of 2,000 elderly people in Rochester, Minnesota. These individuals are aged 70 to 89 years of age and none of them has dementia at the start of the study. So either they're normal or they might have memory impairment such as mild cognitive impairment. And we're following all these subjects longitudinally. This particular study reports the incidence or the number of new cases of people who started out in the study as normal and now have progressed to mild cognitive impairment and the rates that we have found are considerably higher than we had anticipated prior to doing the study. So these results indicate that over 5% of normal people may actually transition into mild cognitive impairment on an annual basis. And if we extrapolate that now to the baby boomers who are aging into the period of risk, we're talking about a significant number of individuals who may become cognitively impaired in the very near future. Consequently, if we don't find a cure or a treatment or something that will delay the onset of Alzheimer's disease, we're going to be overwhelmed by the burden of these individuals becoming demented in the very near future. We anticipated that perhaps 1 to 2% of individuals each year would transition from normal aging to mild cognitive impairment. In fact, the rates are 2 to three times higher than we anticipated. It may in part be due to the fact that we're picking this up now at the earlier stages at the mild cognitive impairment stage rather than waiting for full Alzheimer's disease to develop. So it's possible that by detecting it earlier hopefully we will be able to do something as drugs are developed to intervene at an earlier stage. The Alzheimer's disease program at the male clinic is quite large. It involves all three sites. The male clinic in Minnesota, the male clinic in Florida, and the male clinic in Arizona, all three sites are aggressively addressing the increasing risk of individuals developing Alzheimer's disease in the future. So we're working on animal models of the disease, genetic predictions, biomarkers such as blood tests, and also exploring several therapies that may be useful in treating the disease, hopefully preventing the disease even before the damages. Now, the Mayo Clinic study of aging is sponsored by the National Institute on Aging. It's designed to give us an idea of how much cognitive impairment is out in a typical community and how these individuals progress over time. So, we're studying 2,000 randomly sampled non-demented people in Rochester, Minnesota, and we're following them on an annual basis. This study is going to allow us to develop a prediction model for those individuals who might age successfully, those who will age more typically, meaning develop a little bit of forgetfulness but not progressing to dementia, and will also give us a picture of those developing mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease in the future. Hopefully, we're going to be able to use this prediction formula then to design therapies to intervene at different points in the disease process. The opportunity of the Mayo Clinic to perform unique research in aging and dementia is due to the fact that Mayo provides most of the medical care for the individuals who live in Rochester, Minnesota and Mstead County. That's a fairly unique situation in this country since most medical institutions are surrounded by multiple care providers. But because of our situation here of being a large medical institution in a relatively small town, we have virtual capture on the health care of almost everybody who lives in our surrounding area.