Hello and thank you for joining us today for this video, I'm here with Crystal and she'll be answering a few questions about her role and experience at Mayo. So Crystal, could you please introduce yourself? Yes. Thank you, Lisa. Hello everyone. My name is Crystal Blanco. I am the Senior Recruiter supporting the Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology and Mayo Collaborative Services. As a senior recruiter, my main duties include partnering with senior leadership to magnify our recruitment plan for the year and then our ongoing efforts to attract and retain the best talent for their departments. I do mentor and collaborate with a team of five recruiters to ensure we have a good pulse check on our recruitment activity, as well as new initiatives to roll out and implement for my departments. Lastly, I do work and partner very closely with our sourcing specialist team and marketing team to revisit our media campaign efforts and also well, our new ways to enhance our candidate pool. Thank you. What made you choose Mayo Clinic as an employer? Yes, definitely. So one of the main reasons I did choose Mayo Clinic as an employer was the sense of belonging. From day one, I was treated with kindness, respect as an equal. From my interview day selection process and my colleagues both within HR and operations, the core of what we do is investing in finding the right talent to those that directly impact our patients. And any patient will have an interaction with my core customer group I support. And that is the best feeling for me. And I could see that when I started my interview process, a Mayo Clinic and made me realize that I did want to be part of that great organization. That's really lovely to hear. What is your favorite part of your job Daily work. My favorite part about my daily work involves the creativity. Looking outside of the box to improve our recruitment efforts and ensuring we have the right talent for our departments within the Department of Laboratory Medicine as well as Mayo Collaborative Services. Another fun part of my role involves being part of the DLMPMCS, Equity Inclusion and Diversity Committee, spearheading our efforts to maintain and always enhance our equitable interview practices. Not only for both our leaders but our candidates and the candidate experience. How does the work that you do make a difference for patients? When we have the right staff and we have a healthy workforce volume per patient capita, it will impact positively our patients to get their results they need faster and in an accurate manner. Recruitment does impact employee satisfaction and that translates to either positive or negative burn dial states in our staff when we recruit well and partner strategically with those leaders we support, we will be able to serve the patient needs better which is one Mayo clinic breathes and also promises with our customers and our patients. It's very interesting to hear about how recruitment factors into patient care for our last question compared to other jobs you've had. How does Mayo Clinic compare Mayo Clinic truly stands out amongst other roles I've had. I feel I have a seat at the table, valued and heard. And most importantly, my opinions are taken into account to better our workforce, which always has a domino impact and a streamlined process for our patients. Thank you so much for participating and sharing your experiences with our audience. You're so welcome, Lisa. The pleasure was so mine.