Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. Improving strength and gaining muscle is critical for our overall health and function, and our strength and muscle mass are two of the greatest predictors of longevity. For these reasons, everyone is wondering, "How do I get stronger and gain muscle in the most efficient and practical and reliable ways?" Whether you're brand new to strength training, or you're a muscle-bound weightlifting maniac, this episode is for you. We're going to cut through the hype and misinformation to give you some practical tips and knowledge so you can become your strongest self. Our session is titled, "How to Build Muscle and Get Stronger." What Everyone Needs to Know and Do. Our expert guest here to help us with this is a good friend of mine, Eric Cressey. Eric is the president and co-founder of Cressey Sports Performance with facilities in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida and Hudson, Massachusetts. Eric has worked with clients from youth sports to the professional and Olympic ranks, but is best known for his extensive work with baseball players. More than 100 professional players train at CSP each offseason. He also serves as the New York Yankees director of player health and performance, overseeing strength and conditioning and nutrition for the organization. Eric has authored over 1,000 articles, published six books, and co-created seven video resources that have been sold in over 60 countries around the world. Eric has lectured in six countries and more than 25 US states, and his research has been published in the journal of strength and conditioning research. Eric publishes a free blog and newsletter at his website, ericcressey.com, and he's the host of the Elite Baseball podcast. He has a wealth of experience and we're looking forward to sitting down with him today. Well, Eric, thank you so much for joining us today. We really appreciate you taking the time out to help us sort through this. Well, thanks for having me. It's an honor and I'm excited to chat. All right. So to keep us organized, we're going to break this down into three sections, and we have a themed question for each one of those sections. So the big question for our first section is going to be what is meant by strength training and why is it so important for us? And then in the second section, we'll talk a little bit about why this is hard. So why do so many of us struggle to work out regularly and gain muscle? And then in the last one, we're hoping you'll give us some answers and solutions here. And the big question there is what are the core practices that everyone should incorporate to build muscle and get stronger? So I know that's a lot, but I think you're up for it. You ready? All right. So we'll dive into this first section. We're just going to talk about some definitions and what strength training actually is and why it's important. So as a professional who does this at a high level for a lot of people, how do you personally define strength? So I think strength very simply is the ability to produce force, at its absolute foundational definition. I think the tricky thing about it is force is very skill specific. So if I decide I want to become a professional arm wrestler, I get really good at one thing. But if I want to go play, I want to be an Olympic wrestler. I have to be strong in a lot of different positions. And there's a lot of research on balance and proprioception that shows that it's really skill specific. So I think it's really hard just to say one person is strong because strong is always going to be relative to the context that they're engaged in. You might see someone who's really strong as a hiker, but not strong as a hockey player. So you just have to appreciate what the training goal is and then define it from there. And that really applies to athletes as well as regular people. So obviously, a baseball player is going to train differently than a football player. And even within a sport, quarterback is going to train differently than a linebacker and et cetera. I think it's also true for us as regular human beings. So are you somebody who's maybe you're not a professional athlete, but are you trying to run Ironmans or do Ironman triathlons? Or are you somebody who's just playing pickup basketball with your friends or trying to not injure your shoulder while playing golf? So you got to figure out what your own profile and goals are going to be, which I think is important. One of the things I think that can often get confusing is this concept of muscle mass versus strength. I know the two are correlated, but they're not exactly the same thing. So can you help clarify those terms for us? Yeah, so for sure. I think the first thing I would say is like when we talk about strength training, right? Yeah, we're producing force. Strength can be resistance against like a classic barbell or dumbbell, right? It could be kettlebells, but it could also be body weight resistance. It could be bands. It could be a number of different ways to actually challenge your muscular system and really your, your tendons, your ligaments, all those different things work together to produce force, right? Your fascial system, which is a probably a whole other podcast for another time, but you know, big picture, what we're trying to do is we're trying to drive two pathways to making people stronger. And the one I think everybody knows about is that all things considered a bigger muscle is a stronger muscle, right? So if we go and we do a bunch of exercise that new to us, that's new to us, everyone knows that feeling, you know, the next morning or, you know, 24 to 36 hours later where you're very sore, right? And what that is, is it's just microscopic tears. It's trauma to the muscles, you know, that they've been exposed to with that new initiative. And so what really happens is when that happens, you create this big inflammatory response, all these satellite cells are recruited to the area and they, they basically rebuild that tissue stronger than it previously was, right? So all that makes perfect sense. And you know, how big that muscle gets is dependent on nutrition and sleep and genetics and all these factors. But what a lot of people lose sight of is that really it's neural adaptation. So it's the ability for your, your brain, your spinal cord, your peripheral nerves to kind of communicate with muscles to teach them how to fire. So the way that I always actually describe this to people is if you take a brand new beginning exerciser, so take a, a 14 year old kid who's never stepped foot in a weight room and let's say you have them do a dumbbell bench press with 15 pounds in each hand, right? And they're wobbling all over the place. Their feet are getting squirrely. They bang out six or seven reps and on the eighth rep, they just absolutely staple to the bench. It doesn't go anywhere. You know, you help it back up on them and then they go and they bang out two or three more reps. It makes no sense, right? That doesn't happen in advanced lifters who are very, very kind of neurally efficient. They're good at recruiting those fibers. And what that's called, it's called asynchronous recruitment, where they basically kind of turn on and turn off these slow twitch muscle fibers that we kind of hear about in the media. What happens over the course of time with training, we get more efficient at recruiting the, the big muscle fibers, the really, really strong ones to do these hard jobs. We still get those low key kind of slow twitch fibers. And then at the same time, we actually learned to turn off the opposing muscles. So if I'm trying to do a biceps curl, my triceps has to relax and take place. So there's all these, these neurological things that are taking place as we're trying to get stronger. So a bigger muscle is stronger, but also one that's more finely tuned is, and where that's really important for the people that are listening to this is when you take a beginning exercise or someone who's never done anything, the research shows you can get strong on as little as 40% of your one rep max. So if you're someone that, you know, you want to hop right under a barbell and squat really heavy, and you could squat, say 150 pounds, like you can really use 60 pounds on that barbell and you can go through picture perfect technique. And meanwhile, your body's just learning to sync everything up. So you're actually getting stronger, even if the muscles themselves aren't getting big. And that's why it's so important to train correctly as a beginner. You don't want to just like load up like crazy and, you know, develop really bad habits. You want to just use enough resistance to create that adaptation. So this is not just about making your muscles bigger, but it's also teaching them how to function appropriately. And I would think for most of us that are doing this for lifestyle applications that I want to be able to, you know, go on a hike with my kids, or I want to be able to help a buddy move the couch without getting injured, or I want to play a pickup game of basketball, that using the muscles in the right way is going to be just as critical as the size of those muscles. Huge, that efficiency that you're developing protects you when you slip on the ice in a cold Minnesota winter, right? It's the same thing that helps you hold a fidgeting grandkid when you're in your, you know, your 80s and you just want to take care of someone who's squirmy at an amusement park. Like all those things just make you more prepared for the life can throw at you. Great. And you highlighted this a little bit earlier, that there are some other factors that influence how we gain strength, you know. So if you and I both went in and we did the exact same workout with the exact same weight, and we followed it for a long period of time, your body's going to respond a little bit differently than mine does. And we'll get slightly different results because there's multiple factors at play here that determine how we gain strength and how we gain muscle. So you mentioned a few of them earlier with diet and sleep. What are, maybe you can go into a little more detail about those and some other factors that influence our body's ability to gain muscle beyond just the weight we're lifting itself. Yeah, for sure. I think, you know, the first thing, it's hard to overlook genetics. Like certain people are more wired to put on muscle mass quickly. You know, obviously I think those differences become less profound as we age, right? If you take two 70 year olds that both start a training program at the same time, you're not going to see this wide range of responses. But if you take two 22 year olds and put them on the same program, they may respond very, very differently just from a pure genetic profile. But certainly adequate nutrition is really important. I think with beginning exercises, there's not this huge need to create this massive caloric surplus to put on muscle mass. But if we have someone that's been, you know, lifting weights for three or four years and they want to add muscle mass, they may need to push the envelope in terms of just how many calories they're getting in. You know, after that first couple of years, it's hard to lose fat and gain muscle at the same times. You kind of have to pick one and prioritize certain things at time. Sleep is a, it's a great equalizer across all aspects of life from, you know, cognition to chronic disease risk, but it impacts how well you perform, certainly how well you recover from whatever exercise intervention you have in place. And, you know, sleep is kind of when we, we grow those muscles, right? That's when all the nutritional interventions, you know, kind of do their work. And then the last thing is, is certainly the training stimulus, right? If, you know, if I go into the weight room, I do like this comprehensive full body, you know, program, and then, you know, Dr. Camp goes in and he just goes on this squat specialization program. Like he's probably going to be buying a lot of new pairs of pants because he doesn't fit his quads into his, his pant leg anymore. So certainly like there are times when something may be more prioritized than others. We do a lot in the rehabilitation realm. If a limb has been immobilized and we need to recoup muscle mass after a surgery, but I think those are kind of the big four, sleep, genetics, nutrition, and then the actual training program. Excellent. It's interesting, you know, sleep and nutrition, it really, it doesn't matter what topic we're talking about here on the human optimization project. When we talk about resiliency and improving your joy and managing emotions or exercise and like lifting weights and getting stronger, sleep and nutrition always come up as major factors and major contributors. And so if people out there are looking to get the most bang for their butt, work on, work on those two things. So sleep, nutrition, exercise affects, affects everything. Now there, there are different types of strength training in different areas and fields of competition. I think it'd be helpful if we took a moment just to kind of clarify some of the differences between some of these. So I'm thinking about things like bodybuilding versus powerlifting versus general strength training. I think it'd be helpful to highlight that. So, so the audience has a clear idea of what we are talking about and what we're not talking about. Yeah, for sure. So general strength training, as the name implies, it kind of encompasses all of those, right? Whether you're a power lifter, an Olympic lifter, a bodybuilder, all those would kind of fall underneath this categorization of, I'm using some kind of either external implement or my, my own body weight to produce force in the hopes of getting stronger and or bigger, right? I think bodybuilding, you know, as a, an actual approach speaks a little bit more to it's, it's generally higher volume. The idea is to grow muscles. You know, there's this symmetry component to it. There's all those different things. You know, there's less of a quest for brute strength. It's more about the aesthetic component and, you know, building muscular size. Powerlifting is actually kind of a poor nomenclature. There's nothing really particularly powerful about powerlifting, but what it speaks to is the squad, the bench press and the deadlift, three competitive lifts, try to get as brutally strong as you can on those three and then compete in certain weight classes. The Olympic lifting is, you know, somewhat similar in that, you know, you're competing for certain lifts, the cleaning jerk and the snatch or the two lifts. That's what you see on TV and the Olympics. And then, you know, general strength training can also be what you or I do to, you know, support our daily lifestyle, whether it's playing recreational tennis or just being good dads or, you know, whatever it is that we need to do. So there's all different derivatives, but underneath strength training, you really kind of have to consider what the goal is for different people. And I like how you broke it down earlier where you talked about, you know, there's sort of the two pathways. One is making muscles bigger. Making them bigger does make them stronger, but then there's also sort of talking about how you use them functionally. And I think each of those different practices or domains will weigh those two things differently. But I think for us and the purpose of our conversation going forward, when we're talking about general strength training, just to get better at life, we're really going to be talking about both. We want to get stronger, and we want to use those muscles in a more practical, efficient and effective way. I have a good friend who spoke about, he said, it was a Dan John quote, he said, "In your 20s, you Olympic lift. In your 30s, you power lift. In your 40s, you body build. In your 50s, you do whatever doesn't hurt." So what you have to appreciate is all those are kind of, they're kind of selling out for the dream, right? They generally a little bit more aggressive. These are some of the folks who've got the dinged up cartilage that come into you and want to know what they can do from a sports medicine standpoint to kind of keep living the dream. So we can still have an amazing quality of life without selling out to extremes with some of these things. And you're talking to a guy who competed in power lifting. So I speak the language, but nowadays it's much more about how it supports my quality of life. Yeah, that's a great call out there. You know, in my orthopedic surgery practice, I talk to people all day, every day about saying, "Well, wait a minute, you know, this such and such a sport or this type of lifting or, you know, power lifting or body, but it's been my life, you know, what am I going to do?" It's like, well, you're going to change your goals. You got to change your focus. And part of it is just figuring out how can I keep playing the game as long as possible. So speaking of playing the game as long as possible, you know, I mentioned earlier on that having increased strength and muscle mass improves longevity and health span for people. Obviously, it makes you stronger. What are some of the other benefits of gaining muscle and being strong that people may not be aware of? This is an analogy I use with everybody from teenage athletes to senior citizens. You know, I had this conversation with my mom. Strength is like a glass. Okay, the bigger you make the glass, the more fluid you can put in it. And what are the fluid? It's the other qualities, right? So it's the foundation to the pyramid. So strength, you got to have force before you can develop force quickly, which is power, right? That's how you, you know, in your late 70s, prevent a hip fracture when you fall, right? The ability to self correct really quickly. It's also what you would do as a foundation for joint stability, right? So if you're a really like hypermobile person who loves participating in yoga and you've got chronic back pain, this might just be enough good stiffness to keep you from, you know, getting to debilitating back pain. You know, so it's certainly the foundation for strength endurance, which might make you, you know, a better marathon or a better hiker or just someone that can keep up with your grandkids all day. So certainly there's a ton of improved function for which strength is the foundation. And once you've been at it long enough, you can train all those different qualities. You can throw med balls. Like if you care, you can do sprints and kettlebell swings and all these things that happen faster. But I think also what's, what's really powerful is there's some, some pretty pronounced immune benefits, you know, there's improvements to endocrine function, whether it's the acute hormonal release that takes place after some of these sessions in terms of testosterone and growth hormone, or even just that we, we get, you know, greater receptor content in our muscles so that those, those hormones actually work more profound, you know, for, for folks who may be managing blood sugar, you know, other metabolic challenges, you know, certainly there's that side of things. You know, I know for me, I'm a much more pleasant person to be around when I exercise, but lifting has a, maybe a little bit of a more special place in my heart, because it's a good place to blossom steam and things like that. So I think you get so much in terms of reduced stress and anxiety, but on top of just the normal physiological benefits that I mean, it's just, it's just close to the fountain of youth, as you can, you can imagine. And the nice thing about it is it's, it's largely free, right? It's, this isn't an expensive drug that you have to pay a fortune for. It's, it's amazing that sleep and, and exercise have such profound benefits, but they're actually really, really affordable. That's a phenomenal list. And I think you hit on a lot of things, some of which were physical, a lot of which are mental or psychological, some of which are in energy-based health-based. So a pretty wide range of benefits. We're going to shift into our second section where we sort of talk about why we struggle with this. I think most of the audience is saying, well, I know why I struggle. This is easy. You can skip this section. You know, I think this, it's, it's pretty easy to gloss over this, but if we don't sort of understand why we're not doing a good job, it's harder for us to correct it. So we'll take a minute or two just, just to go through this. Overall, how do you think we're doing as a population when it comes to having appropriate strength? Are we, most of us adequately strong or do we tend to be undermuscled as a society? I'd say we fall short. You know, the, the one that always is eyeopening for me is if you board a plane, how many people can actually put their luggage in the overhead carry-on. It's, it's always very eyeopening for me how many people struggle with that. And I think it's actually kind of a good indicator of kind of population-wide, what we're, we're probably working with. I actually, I remember we were talking about, you know, kind of covering this. I went and I looked and there was actually a CDC study that came out back in 2020. And it said that about 24% of U.S. adults actually met the, the guidelines that were put out in 2018. And those guidelines were 150 to 300 minutes a week of aerobic exercise and two days a week of some kind of muscle strengthening activity. So you're talking about a, you know, a quarter of Americans meet those thresholds. Like to be honest, 300 minutes a week of aerobic exercise is a lot. You know, I don't know many people that have five hours to just like, you know, sit on a bike and do all that. So I think that's probably a little bit bold, but the twice a week strength training to me is not at all, you know, unreasonable. It was interesting. There was another study in 18 that said that 27% of young Americans are too overweight to meet physical military requirements. So when you kind of put those two together, you could actually, you know, say that the number is probably substantially below 24%. So I have my concerns, you know, especially as you know, the population ages, but what I think masks those challenges is, you know, to some of the stuff we talked about earlier, the longevity community, the biohacking, everybody's really excited about it. So I think the, the top 20% are probably more fit than they've ever been. And the bottom 20% certainly hasn't changed. And we're trying to impact the, probably the 60% in the middle to do things a little bit differently. That's very well said. And I agree with you, you know, the, the plain luggage analogy is a great one. Cause I think as you start to lose strength, you stop doing things, whether people realize it or not. And then when you stop doing things, bad things happen otherwise. So we have to find ways to continue to be active and move and try not to let our, our bodies hold us back. So let me ask you a common thing that I hear out there is people will say, well, I don't want to lift weights because I don't want to get too bulky. What are your, which I usually find very interesting comment. What are your thoughts on that? There would be a lot more bulky people walking around if it was easy to get bulky. And this is coming from a guy like I competed in weight class sports for a really long time. So I meticulously had him in, it took a lot of really crazy training weights and nutrition, all that to bump up a weight class. So I would just say for most people, it's not a concern, particularly if we're talking about this, this twice a week frequency, this is what we do with our athletes in season to just maintain what they have. So they give most people are, you know, working out like this twice a week and they're not eating a crazy caloric surplus. It won't happen more often. And not what happens is people see body re composition. They drop 15 pounds of body fat. Maybe they put on eight to 10 pounds of muscle mass, but they look completely different. Their clothes fit dramatically different, particularly if they're folks who have just done kind of aerobic work for an extended period of time, you will see people who actually gain weight, but look leaner just because they've kind of re proportion themselves, so to speak with, with adding a little bit of muscle mass. And I agree with you. I think your risk of becoming too bulky is almost zero. And if something happens, if for some reason you do put on too much muscle mass, unfortunately, it's quite easy to get rid of it. So it'll go away pretty quickly. So it's unlikely to be a problem for you, but if it is, it's very easily correctable. So you've been doing this for a long time with a lot of folks of all different ages and ability levels. What are some of the most common mistakes you see people make when trying to get stronger? Yeah, I think, you know, there's, there's two ends of the spectrum and, you know, I hate to generalize, but it's, they tend to be male, female mistakes. You know, having been in like college weight rooms where we've coached male athletes and female athletes, you spend your entire career holding male athletes back because they want to put too much weight on the bar, lift too heavy early on and just develop bad habits. At the under the spectrum, traditionally what happens on the female side is, you know, you have to tell them, put a two and a half pound plate on add weight to create that adaptation. So I think it's either, you know, pushing too heavy or, or not going heavy enough to create the adaptation. I'd say as an extension of that, we are seeing more of a trend in the fitness community to do a lot of high level performance testing early on, you know, someone goes in for their first day at a facility and they're, Hey, let's do a one rep max deadlift. And that person, you know, hurts a disc and they're never the same, right? It's something that becomes a repeat injury for the next five, 10 years. So I always talk really importantly about how it should be steady linear progression. I have twin daughters who are 10 and one of them is like a very dedicated gymnast. So a lot of her gymnastics friends are coming in or other or sisters, softball friends are coming in. So we're actually training a lot of 10 and 11 year old females that are just getting into it. And it's so easy to get strong with them. But the biggest thing is like, even if I know we can push them, like, you know, add two to four kilograms a week. And over the course of a year, you'll be a different person. So it's, it's way more about just creating these steady linear progressions. Slow, slow and steady. And you mentioned, you know, the person that comes in tries to do the one rep max right, right off the bat and could potentially get injured. Are there any other dangers of weight training that people need to be aware of? Very specific populations, right? If you do a, you know, a rotator cuff repair on somebody and he goes right back to the gym and is slang, like you can create some problems there. Like if you had a detached retina that was repaired, you know, not too long ago, like a lot of pressure like that. So think people that for whatever reason have some significant contraindication in terms of like high blood pressure or something like that, like certainly check with your doctor and make sure you're in a good place. But my experience has been over the course of my career is just intelligent training done well, especially with a qualified professional. Like we can find a way to get a training effect for absolutely anybody. And what I'm hearing you say, we'll talk about this in the third section, but I'm hearing you say now that it's really going to be slow, intentional, consistent, steady progress is what we're going for. This is not flashy, you know, super hot and, you know, just coming out of the gun, you know, guns blazing sort of approach to things, right? And sometimes it can feel boring. That's boring to people. They don't want that. They want the instant fix, which I think can be a concern. So how do you counsel the athletes that you see come in wanting the quick gains? They want to take the shortcuts. How do you counsel them through that? So the first thing I'll say is you, what we're not trying to do is just get likes on Instagram by doing weird things, right? I'd actually much rather have an athlete that has a bunch of like six out of 10 training sessions over the course of three years versus the guy that went viral his first week and then missed six months with a back injury. So what I often talk about is that the training itself doesn't have to be crazy novel. What we need to do is we need to create a novel experience, right? Motivating music, cool training partners, people that will bust your chops if you know, show like that. And pure objective data that shows, Hey, this is working. Let's reaffirm this. And what helps for me too is, you know, our facility, if a 14 year old kid comes in here to start working out and he's convinced he has the right way in his mind, I can walk across the room and grab a big leader and say, this is a guy that did it right for the last 10 years. And he's throwing 95 miles an hour and healthy in the big league. So like having those, those poster boys, so to speak of success are really important. So that's why it's always good to be in a good community. It's hard to work out on your own at home. Like, um, I understand that's the hand that some people have been dealt just from a, you know, schedule complexity standpoint, but that's where having just that novel training environment, it's very motivating. I think can really make a difference for people. So you can find ways to make it fun and fancy and flashy without doing things that are dangerous with, with the weights. Okay, great. So now let's jump into this third section. This is really where I want to spend the most of the time, because we're going to try to come up with some core practices or principles that everyone should really incorporate. So I feel like there's so much information out there that it's really challenging to make sense, all of it. And everybody seems to have the answer. It's either low weight, high reps, heavyweight, low reps, go until failure, but not too far. You'll get hurt. Uh, don't do total body lifts. I isolate each group. No, you should be doing total body lifts and you need to hit each muscle once a week, no, three times per week. You got to rest 30 seconds after set, two minutes after a set. And it's all over the place. So how do you counsel people in the sea of misinformation? Maybe we just start there. How do you counsel people to sift through that? Yeah, there's a lot there. So it's tricky to even almost know where to start. What I'll tell you is I think, you know, for a long time, the training community has been probably most heavily influenced by the bodybuilding community for better or worse, right? They, they, they've made some great nutritional, uh, you know, kind of recommendations that have helped people over the years. And they certainly, you know, they made people enthusiastic about training. I think for the average person who's strapped for time and is looking for something that provides a lot of training economy, meaning they, they can get great results in a limited amount of time. Most of those people are going to do well with full body workouts, right? So instead of having like a back and biceps day and a chest and triceps day, train full body, you know, three days a week on non-consecutive days. So maybe it's Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday. I think those setups for the, the typical person that's listening to this podcast are going to be great, right? And you're going to work on not just these single joint movements, but a lot of compound exercises, meaning things like deadlifts and squats and lunges and rows and various presses. They're involving multiple joints with each, you know, uh, you know, movement. What's also nice about this is after you get past this initial stage, these are also the, the, the patterns that you can load a little bit more, right? And when you load a little bit more, you involve more joints, there's probably a greater endocrine response, right? The, the benefits tend to be more far reaching, right? You complete muscle glycogen a lot more. You're, you're stimulating, you know, a greater physiological response. But I think just as importantly to what we talked about earlier is the functional carryover to the real world is better, right? I'm doing a bunch of biceps curls. Like it's great if you want bigger biceps, by all means tacking on the end of your workout. If you're like that, it's probably not the thing that's going to really deliver these, these huge benefits from a functional capacity standpoint when you're in your eighties and you want to stay active. So I always talk more about like trying to put yourself in positions that athletes would get into, you know, like things that they might have done in their sports and we need to make them successful with those. Perfect. So why don't we do this? We'll start really simple and then we'll kind of build up the complexity here. So maybe not, not that this is what, how we want to approach it, but let's say just pick a muscle, any, any muscle on the body. And if I want that muscle to get stronger, so let's just talk about individually and then we'll, we'll go into how you can actually build that into a practical routine and total body lifts and all that coming up. But let's just say, just pick a muscle on the body. And I say, I want to get that, that muscle stronger. Roughly, how many times does, do I need to lift that muscle a week? How many sets should I be doing? How hard should those sets be doing? What are my rep goals? Like basic, just for a single, single muscle over the course of a week. Yeah, for sure. What I would tell you is first off, you know, excessive volume is not necessarily more advantageous, right? Don't think you need, you know, eight sets of 10 or anything like that. You know, there's research that shows as little as one set can make a difference, but you are going to see discernible bets, benefits from doing a little bit more. So I would say two to three sets, three times a week makes a huge difference. You can still make progress with two. You know, in terms of actual rep schemes, there's probably not a whole lot of benefit for the overwhelming majority of the population, you know, outside of like, you know, college football players that are competitive power lifters who want to squat 600 pounds. Most people probably are fine with sets of five to 12. You know, I mean, maybe early on there's, they're on the higher end. And as you get more and more experienced, you could do some sets that, that are a little bit lower, obviously heavier weight with lower reps, but also we'll do, you know, lighter weight for sets of five, because we want it to be technically really, really good early on with our, our athletes. So it could go in a lot of different directions. And one other thing you asked about was like, is it important to train to failure? I think you can leave a couple of reps in the tank, right? So let's say you, you do a set of eight, maybe pick a weight that you feel like you could have done 10 or 11 times. So you, you stop short of technical failure. And we do that because we don't want to, you know, create negative, you know, behaviors, negative, or I should say negative technique modifications where, you know, somebody slips into bad patterns that could potentially hurt them because again, bad positions do get magnified when you put load on them. So you just want to be mindful of always ingraining good techniques when you do this. Okay. That's extremely helpful actually. So I started off the section with all of these different questions about, you know, misinformation and things that seem contradictory. Ultimately, I would say in certain scenarios, really all of that information might be true. And I think that people need to recognize you don't have to answer all of those questions. Those are all just different tools to put in the toolbox. Maybe there's a time in your life where you'll want to change it up and do it that way. But what you just gave us there is sort of the basic core components that somebody needs to make a muscle stronger. So you said roughly three sets, two times a week. So, so roughly six sets over the course of the week, each set somewhere in the five to 12 rep range. And each of those sets should be challenging where those last few are difficult, but you can still finish them. So you're not going all the way to failure. Maybe you have you stop one to two reps shy of failure. So I think if people can, is that fair, a fair summary? And then probably the only other thing we didn't talk about that was probably, it's probably the most important acute program variable is exercise selection. Pick exercise that don't hurt, right? Like I generally prefer, you know, free weights, cables, things that require you to balance, to move in space, things like that versus just doing machines, particularly for only working out twice a week. So, you know, make sure that, that these are pain-free things that, that challenge you to be at least a little bit athletic. And then just remember that these modifications, these, these recommendations, the longer you've been out at the more they need to be adjusted, right? Like Tuesday of the week might not be enough to continue gaining strength, you know, after a couple of years of working out, but you may have gotten the benefits that you need to go support your tennis career or, you know, your aerobic fitness, you know, components or all that stuff. So just understand that these are always moving targets based on what your goals are. Okay. So that's great. So we have a good foundation that people understand, okay, this is about how much I should work a muscle in order to see some gains. Now let's put that into kind of some practical terms of how they can actually do that. So I heard you say that it's probably best to, to lift on a muscle group more than one time a week, if you can. So divide that up over two to three sessions over the course of the week. So let's say we'll ignore the cardio component for now. We're going to ignore mobility and stretching and balance. Those are all important. They should be a part of any exercise routine. We've talked about that previously on here and we're going to have future sessions dedicated to just cardio, VO2 max, balance, proprioception, etc. So we're going to assume everybody is doing some of that. Let's talk about just the strength training part. And let me, let me say I've got a total, I can do three strength training sessions a week, 30 minutes. I've got an hour, actually I'll just say I have an hour and a half total in a week that I can dedicate to my strength training. First question is, is that going to be enough for me to see some improvement? And then second, how would you split that up for me? Hour and a half over a week? Yeah, I think you have probably two options, right? You could try two 45 minute sessions or three 30 minute sessions, right? Okay. Three 30 minutes are probably easy for the folks that just walk down to their home gym in the basement and bang it out there. The two 45s are probably more appropriate for someone that has to, you know, travel somewhere to do their workouts or something to that effect. Or, you know, like you talked about these may be paired with something else. Maybe they're also doing some cardiovascular activity. Maybe it comes after a sport practice where they, you know, play two sets of tennis and go in and do a little bit of strength training afterwards. So there's different ways to approach it. I'm probably breaking it up, you know, if possible into the three sessions, I kind of, I like the idea of frequent exposures. If I have access to them, I think that goes a really long way, particularly because to what you just referred to, they usually have to go through a pretty thorough warmup before they start this, right? So I'm going to get some, you know, some mobility benefits on the front end. So I always start with a good dynamic warmup, get your body temperature up, expose yourself to some new ranges of motion. But for me, how I might structure a session like that, we're probably going to start off with some kind of comprehensive exercise, like a squat or a hinge, right? So maybe it's a kettlebell sumo deadlift, or it's a trap bar deadlift, or it's a, you know, a front squat, or something to that effect, depending on the person I have in front of me. And let me just clarify through for the listener by hinge, you're talking about a hip hinge movement, which is going to involve both legs, back, core, so you're going to be hitting multiple things when you do this. And some common examples of hinge type movements that you just mentioned, the deadlifts, squats, being some of the more common. Okay, good. Put force into the ground, which is how we ourselves how we change direction to all those things. And you know, with something like that, I could I could pair that very easily with an upper body push, right? It's not a competing superset where, you know, I might not do a barbell bench press, but maybe I do a standing cable press, or I do a push up variation or something to that effect. Because those things pair really well together, I go back and forth three sets on each. And it makes the most of my time instead of me just standing around, you know, looking at an Instagram between sets, right? So that will do a lot of supersets where it might be a one, a two, you go back and forth between the two, finish that pairing and then move on to the next one. So for a second one, maybe we do some kind of a pull like a, like a one arm cable row, or a chin up or a lat pull down or something to that effect. And I'd pair that up with some kind of a single leg exercise, a split squat, a lunge, a step up, again, something that's not necessarily competing. And I could do that a lot of different ways. I could do with a barbell, I could do with a kettlebell, you know, I could do with a dumbbells, there's a lot of different ways to kind of program something like that. And again, single leg exercise, right? Your hips, your knees, your ankles are all working, your core control is, you know, kind of under attack from that exercise because you're trying to not tip over. So there's a lot of variables there as well. And we've handled both our push in our pole and our upper body. You know, and I generally like for a last pairing, if we were doing three, I might do some kind of a core control exercise, maybe that's like a stability ball rollout, or some kind of like a chop or a lift on the cable to teach people how to rotate. And then we have the options, like we could do, you know, some kind of like a posterior chain exercise, like a hip thrust or a, you know, some kind of like glider leg curl, if we wanted to work on our, you know, our button or hamstrings a little bit more. Or maybe it's someone who's got a history of shoulder pain, and we mix in a little, you know, external rotation work just to strengthen their rotator cuff. So you always have options to add some tract and like, you know, if you find you're at 25 minutes and you want to mix in some biceps, triceps stuff, by all means have at it. But I think you should always remember it's like, it's kind of like, uh, it's like setting up a meal. You have your meat and potatoes, you know, your vegetables that fills up the plate. You know, if you have time left over for dessert, that is what it is. But you always want to start and build around some of these multi-joint exercises. Good. So, and would you do similar sessions? So let's say we're going to make that, you know, our first 30 minute session of the day. Are you saying we would do all that in 30 minutes? And then will we do the same thing on the other, other two days? Yeah. If you really think about it, especially because you're pairing back and forth, right? So we just outlined, call it six exercises, three sets each. You know, if we, if we took a minute to execute each one of them, that's 18 minutes, right? There's going to be just the, the set up, the grab a drink of water, move around. But the nice thing about doing super sets is while one area is resting, another area is work. So, you know, it'll also give you some aerobic benefits. Your heart rate is going to stay elevated, but not having to interfere with your techniques. So you should be able to work through all those. And then, you know, you have variety, right? So if you did like a deadlift variation on Monday and you were going to do a session on, on Wednesday, maybe you do your, your squat variation first. And if you did a split squat, maybe you do a reverse lunge instead. So, you know, this, this concept of variation without change, these, these are the things that help us over the course of time where, you know, we, we understand the patterns, but we get just enough variety that it probably gives us better carry over to what we encounter in the real world. So it's just, just enough to keep it, you know, novel and fresh. So it's not super boring either. Perfect. So just to kind of summarize that as a baseline for people to start, you know, we said you get roughly 30 minutes, three times a week. So it's an hour and a half, take time to warm up. But then in, in doing that, do super sets where you're actually doing two, two different workouts that work different parts of your body. So you do the first set of one, and then the first set of the other one, second set of the first one, and then second set of the, of the second one, go for three sets and then you switch it up. And if you do that three times, you're going to get six lifts in and get a good total body workout in 20 to 30 minutes. And then that can be repeated three times a week, or you can do slight variations on each and then build in a little time at the end for, for some of the fun stuff or other things that you want to focus on it and work on. Problem with having some redundancy, especially early on, it's like anything else when you wrote a bike, right? You didn't ride a bike Monday, go play tennis Tuesday, play volleyball Wednesday. Like you rode that bike several times a week to kind of grant it. Strength training is kind of the same. So if you need to stick with the same exercises for the first month or so, like that's how you're rewiring those patterns, brain, spinal cord, peripheral nerves, recruiting those muscles. So there is something to start out getting good at a block of, you know, six or eight exercises and then gradually expanding your, your horizons a little bit. So it's okay to be a little bit redundant early on. Yeah. And these exercises you're talking about too, where I'm doing these hinge things with a squat or a deadlift or some sort of single leg thing, you're working multiple muscle groups too. So that's going to work on some of that neuro pattern patterning that you mentioned earlier on. And that's going to make that strength more practical for my life and more functional rather than if I'm just working on a single muscle group in isolation, trying to make it bigger. So this allows you to work not only on the muscle mass, but also sort of the neuro patterning that will make that muscle more functional for you. Yeah, absolutely. And you know, like you can always find examples of how it matters for different, right? You're a surgeon, you know, surgeons have lots of neck pain and lots of shoulder pain. Why? Because they get put in terrible positions, but you're probably in a very different position for a shoulder surgery than you are for an elbow surgery. Then you are for a knee surgery. You have to, you have to have variety in your life. So I think it's important for us to build it into our training. And, you know, you know, it's a, it's a little bit of a leap of faith to assume that it's always going to carry over because life throws predictable, unpredictable moments on us. But I think if we can have a very comprehensive, kind of a rich, proprioceptive environment in our training, it does give us a better chance, a better fighting chance of surviving life here. Okay. And you talked about the value and having some repetitiveness in this and doing some of the same exercises different times in the week, because your body starts to learn that patterning. I want to ask you how long. So two questions about how long. My first question is how long before I start seeing some benefits and changes. And then my second how long question is how long before I need to switch up my routine and change it? Yeah, I would say the first thing is the strength will come around very quickly early on. You know, just you're getting better at recruiting certain muscles and you're getting better at practicing extras. No different if you were learning how to serve in tennis, it's going to be better with each successive lesson. I think the muscle mass comes a little bit later and it's going to, it's going to be dependent a lot more on, you know, if you're a 17 year old kid, you're going to put muscle mass on really quickly. When you go to the gym, it's going to be four, eight weeks, you're going to start to notice it. It might take a little bit longer if you're someone that's, you know, into your sixties and, you know, just getting going with it. So just be patient with it, but always hang your hat on it. The strength is improving and I'm moving better. The muscle mass portion will take care of itself. If I'm eating right, sleeping, all that stuff with respect to how long to stay on a program, there is a personal preference to it. I would say at our facilities, we redesign thing every four weeks. We don't overhaul the entire program, but we change probably 80 or 90% of it. Just more out of just variety and keeping things fun and giving them exposure so they can, they have a few weeks to see the improvements in strength and, you know, feel the benefits of doing certain things. And then we kind of shuffle it up just before it gets stale. We don't want to get to that point. We want to head it off early on in trading program. You might run the same program for 10 or 12 weeks, just because you're going to get so much better out over that time. And then you change it up. And the nice thing about it is you can, like we said, do variation without change. Maybe, you know, you're doing a dumbbell goblet split squat, and then you just do it with your arms at your side, or you do it with a barbell on your back or a barbell on your front squat grip. There's all these different ways you can add different implements just to give you a little novelty to, to keep you engaged. Great. And you mentioned too, that you, you tend to change it up more for your seasoned weight lifters and strength trainers rather early on. It's probably best to stick with it for a little, maybe that 10 to 12 weeks early on. Then once you establish that foundation, then, then you may be able to change it up a little bit more frequently. Most important thing is showing up. I mean, that's true of everything in life, but I would rather have you do the same workout program for 15 years without changing than not showing up. Because even if you're not like broadening your function class, you're still going to get bone density benefits. You're still going to preserve muscle mass. You're still going to get a lot of benefits, going to improve your blood sugar, all these different things. So just keep showing up, even if it, you know, it's stuff that maybe you're comfortable with, and you're not really getting outside of your, your normal horizons with it. Great. One last question for you. We're going to have a dedicated session coming up on protein, dietary protein, and how much people should be eating. A lot of different schools of thought on this. Obviously this is going to be a little bit different if you're a bodybuilder or, you know, somebody who's doing that, but for the average person out there who's just trying to get stronger and live a long healthy life, how much dietary protein do you generally recommend for them in a day? Yeah, I think a safe rule of thumb for athletes is a pound per pound of body weight, or excuse me, a gram per pound of body weight. So in other words, if you're a 165 pound athlete, 165 grams is probably a good thing to shoot for. I say that because I know a lot of athletes come short on this, you know, and so something where we overshoot, there is research that shows that, that athletes do need more and that resistance training does increase. If you look at the, you know, the recommended daily allowance, it's well below that. I talk a lot about this concept of protein prejudice, you know, like I think we fail to realize how many really favorable things it does as a high thermic effect of food. You're, you're less likely to get overweight eating extra protein than you are consuming more fat and more carbohydrates. So I tend to err on the side of caution and recommend a little bit higher knowing that we don't really have any concrete evidence to suggest that too much protein is a problem. That said, do you need to eat 800 grams of protein a day? No, that's not productive. You're, you're better off getting, you know, a good balance of protein carbs and fat to support rebuilding, but energy levels and stuff. So I think for most athletes, if you're at a gram per pound, you're in a good spot. That said, sedentary populations, those outside that realm can, can certainly get away with considerably less than that. But again, I'm more about optimization than I am about just minimization. Perfect. And we may not all be athletes, but hopefully we're aspiring to be athletes at heart at least, and we're moving in that direction too. So I think generally, for the most part, a lot of us are underdoing it on the protein, but the more active you are, the stronger you are, the more you need probably up to that max, not more than one gram per pound of body weight, but approaching that as you get more active in lifting more. Or is there an important consideration there too? Like, you know, is it coming from, you know, from complete protein sources or anything? Are you not like, so there's a lot of variables to it. It's something you should have a conversation with a good dietitian about and I'm sure they can, they can help you work through it. Great. So this has been an excellent discussion, Eric, and I appreciate you taking us through all of this and letting us learn from you. I've been taking notes as we've been talking. So I'd like to summarize my notes here at the end, at least what I've picked up from you. So first you define strength as really the ability to produce force. It's often skill specific. So we have to think about how we want to apply it in our life in order for it to really be meaningful. You talked about two pathways that we have to consider. One, a bigger muscle is generally stronger, which is important. But in addition to that, we need to optimize sort of the neurologic patterning and how those muscles fire and teach it how to be functional and synchronize and work with all of our others. We talked about the factors that impact our ability to gain muscle and strength with the big four being our genetics, our nutrition, our sleep, and the training stimulus, which is what we focused on for the last time. The benefits of getting stronger are pretty vast. So increased longevity, improved force and power production, improved balance and stability, decreased pain and injury, increased endurance, improving your metabolism, improving your immune system and health, increasing your energy, and also helping with mood, depression, anxiety, and stress. Unfortunately, only about 24% of U.S. adults get the general recommended guidelines for exercise. So we fall short on this. We need to do a better job. Some common mistakes, oftentimes, not always, but men often try to do too much and they have bad habits, poor form. Females often not enough. So make sure that you're pushing yourself appropriately. And then another common mistake is that we don't do a consistent steady progression. We try to do this in big leaps and bounds when in reality it's intentional, consistent effort that does it. If you want to increase the strength of a single muscle, you probably need to hit it for at least three sets per week that are five to 12 reps per set. And those reps should be challenging. Not that you go to the point of failure, but you go to the point where you could only maybe do one or two more before you stop. You gave us a great construct of how we could approach this. So three 30-minute sessions a week in those doing multiple different compound lifts, which is really helpful. It definitely okay to do these total body lifts and compound lifts. They're more efficient for you and they'll help with that neuro-patterning. So go back and check through that section to get all the details on that. So that's my summary, which is incredibly helpful to me. So you've made me think about several things in a different way. Now I'm going to give you a chance to summarize by re-answering our three big questions. So you've done it over the last 45 minutes, but here's the chance to give kind of the rapid fire answer. So Eric, what is meant by strength training and why is it so important for us? It's any initiative that we use to try to develop the ability to produce more force. And strength is foundational to a wide variety of activities from stability to power to muscular endurance. And those are the things that allow us to safely attack what life throws at us. Great. Our second big question, why do so many of us struggle to work out regularly and gain muscle? Strength training can be hard. You know, it requires progressive overload. You've got to keep showing up over an extended period of time and you have to be a little bit stronger, you know, each time that you show up to the gym. So there it's great. There's an objective component to it, but it also is more challenging than just doing aerobic exercise where it's just show up and meet a heart rate for a period. And our third one, what are the core practices that everyone should incorporate to build muscle and get stronger? I think two to three days a week in terms of frequency, two to three sets per exercise, you know, six to eight exercises per session, take it a couple of reps short of technical failure in the five to 12 rep range and good things will happen. Excellent. So we always like to end these with a challenge or a call to action. And you laid out a nice plan, honestly, I mean, you gave us something that we can focus on for the next 12 weeks or three months. So there's a ton of action that should come out of this session for our listeners. But before you conquer the 12 week plan, I want to start at the very beginning. So I want our listeners to think about how, you know, we talked earlier on Eric told us that strength training, when you make the muscles bigger to make them stronger, but you're also working on your neural patterning to improve the communication of the muscles and balance them so that you can then do the functional things that you want to do in your life. So before you sort of design your strength training program and decide what you are going to work on, you need to figure out why you're doing it. What are your goals in life? You're not just going to adopt the workout program of some bodybuilder. If you're not a bodybuilder, think about what your life is and think about what your goals are. Are you trying to play pick up pickleball with your friends? Are you trying to keep up with your kids and throw them batting practice or are you trying to compete in triathlons? Whatever it is, figure that out first and then use that to inform your strength training program. And I would encourage you, that's step one. Step two, sit down and write it out and then try to find at least an hour to an hour and a half a week that you can dedicate to strength training. So that's our summary. So Eric, this has been a great discussion. The title of our session was how to build muscle and get stronger, what everyone needs to know and do. And I want to emphasize that word do. Having this knowledge is good, but if you don't go out and actually do it, it doesn't really help you. So I would encourage, hopefully you're inspired by this and you'll get out there and put some of this into action. Eric, thank you so much for joining us today. We really appreciate having you. Hopefully this is fun. Great questions and I enjoyed being here. Good. And to our audience, remember to live intentionally, consistently better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you like this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us know someone who might benefit share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at optimize at mayo.edu and be sure to look for us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.