Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be, so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. In our hyper-paced and active world, we're constantly bombarded by external noise, signals, and messaging. Unfortunately, these external stimuli often distract us from listening to our own internal cues and signals. In fact, many of us intentionally try to block out how we feel physically and just ignore what our bodies are telling us. Well, what if some of those signals we're blocking out are actually important for improving our performance? How can we use them for good? To answer these questions, our session today is titled "Increase Your Somatic Intelligence, How to Listen to Your Body to Improve Performance." Our expert guest here to teach us about this is Dr. Lisa Hardesty. Lisa is an author, speaker, board-certified clinical health psychologist, assistant professor, and consultant in psychiatry and psychology at Mayo Clinic. She's a nationally-certified executive coach with expertise and passion for adapting new technologies, building change agility, and optimizing individual and organizational performance. Dr. Hardesty has served in many leadership roles with active involvement in developing programs, coaching, speaking, building curricula, facilitating groups, and training leaders across the Mayo Clinic enterprise. Lisa, thank you so much for joining us here today. Really appreciate you taking the time. Yeah, absolutely. I'm excited about your entire project, Chris. Oh, good. Thank you. Thank you. Well, I think this piece fits in really nicely to all of the stuff we talk about. We try to keep it organized. We're going to have three big sections. Each one kind of has a themed question. So our first section, the big question is going to be, "What is somatic intelligence and why do we need to get better at it?" Our second one, "Why is it so hard to listen to our physical bodies and respond appropriately?" And then the third one, we'll try to have you give us some answers and tell us how to do this well. And the third big one is, "Can you give us a step-by-step approach to maximizing our somatic intelligence to improve peace and performance?" All right. Sound fair? Yes, I think we can do all of that. For the challenge? Yes. All right. So we'll start by defining it. And I think this is a term that a lot of people probably aren't familiar with. So I'd like to know, as an expert in the field, how do you define somatic intelligence? And I don't know, maybe there's a scientific definition or maybe a practical definition for the audience. Sure. I think I did a Google search just to see what came up. And right there are thousands of iterations. And so most people are familiar with IQ or intelligence. IQ, intelligent quotient, is a measurement of cognitive intelligence. So how do people problem-solve? And I think we'll talk about that a little bit. So this is really what it sounds like, which is your body's intelligence and something that you can measure, perhaps not quite as standardized as you can measure IQ, but something you can grow, something you can get better at and become much more aware and responsive to those internal bodily symptoms, if you will. Qs, I was playing around a little bit with good old chat GBT. And what it came up with was a quote, which I love, and I'm going to read it, but it was, "Your body whispers the wisdom your mind often overlooks." I've been using that everywhere. I love it. I know. I really like that tagline. It's that internal wisdom that we have lost sight of. Oh, great. Well, I like the different components that you laid out there, that it's our body's intelligence. And sometimes I think when we talk about these things, they sound like soft skills. They don't sound real. They sound a little bit abstract, these concepts. But you're telling me that it's something that actually can be measured and can be improved, which to me sounds like science. And it's helpful for me to contextualize that for people too, because this is a real thing that we can measure, that we can improve. So we'll talk about how we do this. So you mentioned it's sort of your body's signals or your body's cues. What exactly are we talking about there? You know, I think what has, what I can talk about what it's not and what it is. Okay. And if you ask, I think we could do a nice survey and say, "When's the last time that you really noticed you were hungry or ate because of those internal sensations of hunger?" What I'm seeing and what I see in my practice, I see it with the folks that interact with in daily life, is that we've learned to ignore those signals and we really are, we react to them, but they're screaming. And so really good intelligence, if you will, where you dive deep into that somatic world, you would have much more recognition of those body signs. I was thinking, I just actually had a patient, I specialize right now in bariatric or medical weight loss. And I had a patient the other day that had bariatric surgery. Well, bariatric surgery expectations are, "Hey, you know what? I'm not hungry. You look at me, I'm, you know, weight's falling off of me," which isn't true. That's another topic. But she said, "I'm just hungry all the time. I thought that would get better." And a lot of times with the actual bypass surgery, that does get better. So we started to explore it for her. What does hunger mean? What does hunger mean? And the more she dove into it, she started to give me an emotional. It meant fear, guilt, anxiety. So then with the somatic component, it was, where do you feel that in your body? What's that about? And it's a real stillness or silence that you understand what's there. And so it was taking it down to that more kind of emotional level. She's caring for some children and feels guilt out of this, you know, without sharing patient confidentiality. Underneath that was all kinds of things, were all kinds of things inside internally. When she found those, she was able to make the switch and start to really understand what hunger was, differentiating that from everything below the surface with what she thought was hunger. So to make sure I understand, you know, hunger is a great example. We've all felt it. We know what that's like. There are physical components to that. But there are also emotional components. And are you saying like the emotional components and layers to that, is that separate from somatic intelligence or is it still falling into the same umbrella? So she was developing a somatic practice. We were doing that together, really going internal. So building somatic intelligence, if you will, what happened, which might help explain and answer your question, is she sat back in her chair and she said, "It's all completely gone. I'm not hungry and I don't feel that right now at the moment." So we eat a lot, not because we're hungry, we eat a lot almost more than 50% of the time because it's time someone put something in front of us. So it's really important to get to that level of sensory awareness. So does that help? It does. So it is part of this process and we'll talk about how you do it a little bit later, but it's part of it kind of sifting through and understanding what are the physical signals versus the emotional signals versus the cognitive signals. Is that fair to say? Well said. Okay. So you mentioned earlier, we talked about IQ measures, cognitive intelligence. So let's differentiate sort of cognitive intelligence versus somatic intelligence. How are those different for each other? So some of it I think we've already addressed or brought up is just cognitive intelligence, problem solving, reasoning. You're pretty aware of it, our thinking, how we're actually thinking through something, critical thinking, etc. Somatic intelligence is that wisdom of body, wisdom of our sensory experiences. What's going on? What's going on with you right now with your stomach? What's going on right now? Any muscle tightness? Is there anything going on? We might notice like, "Oh, my neck hurts, you know, rub it and oh my gosh, I'm having these shoulder." But what's that about? What's that about? So it's really listening and going below that surface. So when we get into the solution, I'm hoping where we're heading with this is we're going to talk about somatic intelligence is not just understanding those physical stimuli and are recognizing the physical stimuli. It's about understanding where they're coming from and what we should do about them. Where it lies and responding appropriately. Perfect. All right. So now we talked about cognitive intelligence. Now let's flip it to emotional intelligence. We talk about a lot of different intelligences on this project. So somatic intelligence versus emotional intelligence. What are the differences? So in the same way, cognitive intelligence, somatic intelligence are linked, emotional intelligence. And it's hard, you know, sometimes it's like separating hair, right? You know, going to split this hair, but they are linked. And so emotional intelligence, I actually listened to one of your great podcasts with one of the experts here, Marianne Jenny, and emotional intelligence. She did such a great job describing that self-awareness. Now I can self-manage. I have an interpersonal skill set and I'm managing my stress. I'm aware of my emotional health. So emotions, if you think about feelings, that really is that emotional intelligence. The somatic intelligence is are the sensations of that. So what is anger for you and what is anger for me? A great example, I saw this a lot in therapy, is that anger is an easier emotion to feel than loneliness, sadness, abandonment, rejection. So people get very upset with their relative or their friend. What's underneath that surface might be very different emotionally. Well, what's underneath that? What does that feel like? Where's that line in your body? And people will often put their hand to their chest. I've been reading, we call it the three brains. We have our head, we have our heart, we have our stomach, lots of nerve endings, lots of information coming from that, but we're ignoring that information. We only know when it's in our head and I know I'm mad and I'm going to not like that person and be against them. It's very simple that way. So to give an example, if I'm feeling incredibly angry and I'm fired up, like the cognitive piece is me thinking about what just happened and interpreting the information in front of me and understanding some complex situation. The emotion is the anger that I'm feeling, but the somatic portion of that is probably going to be I've got an increased heart rate, increased body temperature. I'm feeling a little sweaty. I'm feeling a little anxious. I'm moving. Maybe I got a knot in my stomach. All of those pieces, the physical, the sensory part is the somatic intelligence. Yeah. So it's becoming clear to me that this is something that is different than emotional intelligence and cognitive intelligence, but all three of them are linked to make us who we are as humans. Very well said. And we probably need to optimize all three of them to be our best selves. Yes. Okay. Yeah. There's the performance piece. Yes. So tell me what are some of the downsides to having a low somatic intelligence? Well, this is such a passion of mine. I'm not going to speak on it for 30 minutes, right? I'm going to, I could, so I'll have to take some breaths here. The downsides are that we miss very important information. So I'm just taking you back to your example, which was a great example. So I'm angry. I feel this. I would want to know much more if I'm working within the, with my psychology hat on what's between anger and those physiological symptoms. What's there? So what's that emotion? So what is happening? And I see this a lot in our society. There's a lot of, we are taking so many shortcuts. Information comes in fast and furious. You mentioned that at the beginning of this episode. And so how do we actually sort through? And we are facing more ambiguity, uncertainty than we ever have as humans. We're not great at this. So we're going to take a shortcut. So how does this play out? So let's say in the workplace, I'm here at Mayo Clinic. I've been here for 27 years, right? Congratulations. Thank you. And someone comes around the corner that I like and trust. Let's say it's you. Oh, hi, Chris. And you say, have you met Sally? She's so hard to work with. I, it's really tough. And I think, well, I like and trust you. Sally must be bad because you told me that I'm not spending any more time in my mind. I'm not going internally understanding my own regulation. I'm not wondering about my emotional health with this. I think, yep, that's correct. She must be bad. Now I'm going to act in such a way. So that's a cognitive, emotional, sensory shortcut, and not good for us. I think it also helps explain the divisiveness that we see when we talk about politics. It's very easy for me to say us them. It's easy for me to not like someone easier for me to like, like someone not like me because that's harder. And confirmation bias is easier. It's a shortcut. It's one of our cognitive shortcuts. So we think less critically. We think less deeply. We don't allow boredom. We don't allow our minds to rest. I say this a lot in my sessions. I say it a lot in my trainings. And that is that, you know, the brain rests while it works and it works while it rests. We're not letting it rest. So we are not capitalizing on our intuition, our subconsciousness, which is often linked to intuition. We're leaving us on the table, our authentic self. We're leaving our really solid thinking. And we're also more tired because we're not listening to those bodily cues and responding to them early on. It's an emergency. It's like, I'm now running to the restroom. I'm so hungry. I'm grabbing this quick food item because it's just easier. We're much more reactive than proactive. That's a good, simple way to see that. Wonderful. So what are some of the benefits? I imagine it's going to be the flip or the reverse of all of those things. Yeah. You know, we hear a lot in society. I think we talk about this at Mayo Clinic, meaning in work. Where's my meaning? And we're very much at value, foundationally, our values drive us here at Mayo Clinic. And so we're also not listening to our values. We're not listening to what gives me meaning and purpose. And so I'm in a job that perhaps doesn't fit me, or I'm not asking for it, or I'm not looking for something, or I'm in a relationship that isn't serving me well. So it has a lot of implications when not done well. And you can see the slippery slope. And as you said earlier, the emotional intelligence, the cognitive intelligence, that somatic intelligence, they go together. Okay. And so now let's talk about why this is hard for us. I feel like this is a struggle for a lot of people. In your opinion, how are we doing in this overall? Are we generally relatively high somatic intelligence or relatively low as a society? The bulk of society, probably not so great. I love to see mindfulness making a reappearance, which definitely helps us tap into it's a practice, a way of being that helps us tap into it. I don't know if I want to give us a grade as a society, I think we're like at a sea. And I wonder if we really listened in and use that emotional intelligence, use that somatic intelligence, would we be as divisive? I don't think so. I don't think so. Well, and why is it so challenging for us? And I know we talked about hyperpace, busy world, a lot of external stimuli, that's probably a lot of it, but I'm sure there's other pieces to it. So why is this such a struggle for us? I do think that is, you know, certainly as adults, but even as kids. So on my way up here to this studio, I came out of the restroom and there is a little boy, he might have been four or five. And he's standing on the staircase. And there's a woman who he doesn't know playing the piano. And he's singing Twinkle Twinkle Little Star. It was beautiful. I stood and listened and you know, just thought, oh, just with the bandit, right? He's just singing. Now, would you do that? Let's go down there. She's going to play the piano, you know, your whole self, right? So, so conditioned, vulnerable, pretty vulnerable. And and why it was beautiful. It was magical. There was there were people stopping and looking and his mom was beaming with pride and videoing him. So we stop just being that vulnerable self. We cover up. We learn to not listen, you know, in I mean, I remember seventh grade looking around wondering what I should do and how I should act and not not coming from a place of solid confidence, but instead trying to fit in and blend in. So we lose that ability to go inward. We lose that ability. We also spend a lot of time building cognitive intelligence, not as much time with emotional intelligence, although I do happy to see that coming out almost zero time in our somatic intelligence. I think that's fair. I think a lot of people recognize the cognitive intelligence. We know that it's measured. We're starting to understand that on emotional intelligence. But you're right. I think we're sort of ground zero for the somatic intelligence. And I do think you also mentioned we're a little insecure or, you know, self-aware. And I think that that limits us a little bit. And sometimes maybe we don't want for the emotional intelligence and the somatic intelligence, we don't want to pause to reflect on how we feel because we're afraid of what we're going to discover. And then we're afraid of the action that we're going to have to take to try to correct that. So sometimes we think ignoring it is the best route. It's functional. Right. And there is a short term benefits like, oh, we bury that down. I don't have to deal with it right now. I'll wait. And unfortunately, that comes up later, bigger each time. And so long term, that's not the best strategy in the world. And I think if we do that over and over again, chronic stress levels will continue to arise. So how does chronic stress relate to somatic intelligence? And if I'm someone who's struggling with chronic stress, do I have to fix that first before I can work on my somatic intelligence? Or is it the other way around? Chicken or the egg? I think in some ways you just did a nice job of describing that, that it can build up if I'm not managing it. Again, they're in the same house. They're married, somatic intelligence with that more sensory internal where things lie for us, so to speak. Stress has physiological, psychological, emotional, mental aspects. So stress has that sensory, physiological component that really ties into primarily into the somatic aspects. So, you know, being I spent about 10 years in my practice in the past, I specialized in trauma. And as you just said, very well, people become really good at pushing it down. They become really good. They become so good, they're dissociated from self. There's a disconnection. So I'm operating in the world completely disconnected from self. And now my performance, maybe my relationships are affected, and I'm too afraid. I've built up too many levels of that. And that can happen from early trauma. That can also happen from a lot of stress. Maybe it's just easier for me to avoid disconnect. So that feeds into your hyper-connected. So guess what I'm going to do? I'm going to watch Netflix. I'm going to listen to books and podcasts and talk to people and call people and never be still. And the brain rests while it works. It works while it rests. I'm not allowing that to really come into the surface about what's this telling me? What's really happening here? What's my intuition? Where did that go? Yeah, very well said. And I like how you phrase that. And I do think chicken and egg with the chronic stress and somatic intelligence, which can be a little bit confusing. You think you're spinning wheels. But also, if you work on either of them, the other one is probably going to improve. So if you take some steps and manage your chronic stress, your somatic intelligence will probably improve, and vice versa. And vice versa. So it can be a positive synergy or a negative synergy you choose. Yes. A sort of thing. All right. What are some other common misconceptions that you find? Because I'm sure there's a lot of confusion about this. What are the most common things people get confused about around the topic of somatic intelligence? Well, I think even for myself, understanding, I treated somatic disorders for a while, right? Someone comes in and they have a headache. It's actually how I obtained my job. There was a tornado in 1998 in St. Peter, Minnesota, and wiped out a big part of the city. And people are coming into the primary care clinic with headaches, stomach aches. And they said, we need a psychologist here. And that's how I ended up working. And then Mayo Clinic ended up purchasing us, the clinics. So the misconceptions are that, I mean, really, if you specialize and you spend a lot of time reading, I mean, when's the last time someone said, "Hey, how's your somatic intelligence?" Never. Yeah. Right? Yeah. And I'm finding it, it's a pretty hot topic. People really want to know more about it. So even for myself, understanding somatic disorders, really now diving in. And I think again, another maybe misconception is we have to fix it. So if I have this sensation of discomfort, I feel grief. I just, you know, my kids are all grown and flown now. And oh my gosh, I try so hard not to cry when they leave because I should be over it by now. It's been four years that they've all been gone. And just the other day, you know, I felt it. So you feel it. And I think the misconception is I have to fix that. I have to do something about that. And really, it's okay. It's okay. And maybe that is a downside of having more somatic intelligence is you really do feel more. There is more feeling, but that's the beauty of life. That's the depth and breadth. And so you don't have to fix it either. Those sensations can be there and that's okay. You know, that actually, it parallels nicely with emotional intelligence. You know, we recently had an episode with Dr. Chrissy Homehater, where we talked about emotional intelligence and self-management. And part of that is understanding what you're feeling emotionally, accepting it, and then deciding to act. But sometimes the right decision on the action is to not act. It doesn't mean you always have to do something. Something you just have to say, all right, I recognize that feeling. That's what this is. I'm going to accept that and we'll move on. That's okay. I don't have to do something necessarily about it. Just by naming it, that is the action oftentimes. So I think that can be encouraging for people when they think, "Oh, don't give me another thing I've got to do. I've had it up to here." Sometimes actually, the thing is just say, "All right, now acknowledge, this is what it is. I can relax. That's something I don't have to do. I don't have to act on that, which can be really helpful." So tell me though, what is the danger in not paying attention to what's going on, what I'm feeling physically? Why can't I just ignore it and bury it deep down? It seems to be effective at times. Why is that not a good long-term strategy? So if I'm well defended, those defense mechanisms break down. If I'm covering, I really can only make it so far in my growth development. It's the body's wisdom. So for instance, let's say I want to make a change in my life. I'm deciding that I maybe I want a different... Maybe I want to stop yelling. Maybe I'm a yeller. You don't strike me as a yeller, but we'll go for that. When I do, they write it down because they say, "Oh, she's not okay." So if I want to stop yelling at home and I work on it cognitively, so I think, "Okay, I'm going to have some cognitive skills, some cognitive override skills, and I'm going to understand the emotions perhaps. What's driving this? Is it tension? Is it fear? Is it my own being short on time?" That's often a trigger for people to yell or feel more irritable. I can change those things, but there's a change that happens there when I go deeper, when I understand and make those connections, I change for good. I'm not just masking it and gritting my teeth and saying, "Get in the car, kids!" But I've really changed it. I truly have gone and made that. For the long term. For the long term. I'm not as dysregulated. It takes a lot for me to feel now, to feel dysregulated. Okay. Now, take me to the flip side of that. Is it possible to overdo this? Can somebody become so hyper aware of how they feel that they actually overdo it, pay too much attention to it to the point that those feelings can then become paralyzing or hold you back? It is a great question. I'm not sure we can overdo this in our society today with all the external pressures coming our way. I think if I'm aware of everything like, "Oh, my toe just did this and I feel like I have to do something," or I feel it's a signal for danger, then I might say, "Oh, is that... Do I have a blood clot in my leg? I should look into that." It can lead to anxiety if I'm labeling it, I'm trying to put it into a bucket versus a recognition. I think doing this on your own is harder. We're going to talk about some practices to get us closer, but you may need someone who is a professional to help walk you through it a little bit, or at least someone who understands it. Because I do think we can become hyper aware, and that maybe is where some of the somatic disorders can live, because every signal is a signal that something must be done or something's wrong versus just, "This is it. This is..." So in that case, you're almost saying that being aware, it's hard to overdo the awareness, but you have to make sure that your response to that is appropriately balanced, and that you can't overdo it with the response, and panic, and anxiety, and excessive worry for something that's not necessarily there. So being aware, not necessarily the problem, but you need to make sure you have an appropriately measured response to that. All right, so now you're going to tell us how to do that. So let's get into this third section, where we're going to start with some actionable step-by-step things. I think this is going to be challenging, so I'm really interested to hear what you have to say. So first of all, before we talk about how to do it, I want to ask, what are some key things we can look for to know if we should be trying to improve our somatic intelligence? So how can I tell I'm doing a bad job of this? So I would say if you are feeling stressed, anxious, irritable, you know, some of those symptoms, if you will, people say you're just not yourself, anxiety and depression are definitely signs that things are going haywire, ADHD, we get a lot of, I have ADHD, well, you know, do you? Let's come in and really talk about that. So when it impairs your functioning is when it's definitely time to say, okay, I'm not at my best, I'm not performing well, I don't feel great, I, you know, I'm not sleeping, noticing, I think, those things. Yeah, I have a good example that just happened. So my son lives in Montana, and we were visiting him and he was so excited. And he said, hey, we're going to float down the river. And you know, he just cannot wait to show us all the places he's been floating. And I said, no, absolutely not. That is not like me. If you know me, I'm a risk taker and water is my spirit animal. So I think I caught him off guard too. And he knew this situation. But I was in a, you know, decades before with some friends, we were tubing down a river, my friend actually got hung up on a branch, literally drowned, her son was able to get to her picked her up. I mean, she was gone, he he brought her to the side of the river and and brought her back. And I could tell you, I just I just had goosebumps. I mean, I can tell you where I stood, what happened. So I have good cognitive awareness of this. So I'm in my head. This is what I'm saying to myself, your son really wants to take you on the river. It's okay. This is a different situation. I'm decades older. He's done this. People do this here. So I have the kind of I'm aware of my emotions, it's fear, anxiety. I mean, I just even have the chills right now. I know the connection. So I had to go internally, where was this in my body? And I really have a lot of tanglement in my chest. And I was breathing into that. And that's what I did is really was breathing into that and spent time in the somatic components of it for me. And that loosened it up. I didn't go because we missed the day. But I have been untangling it so that in the future, I can do that. So I, again, it's those levels. And then how do we get to that place? Oh, what a great example. As you're saying this, I'm thinking back and I recognize there are times when, you know, and I talked to my wife, Erica, and I say, you know, I'm tired. And I don't know why I haven't, like, I've been getting enough sleep. Or I'm just not hungry. I should be having eaten for 12 hours, but I'm not or I'm too hungry. I just finished dinner. And I'm still hungry. So sometimes I noticed that these like physical sensations are just off, they're either a little higher than they should be or a little bit lower than they should be. It's like, I just can't focus or I can't get it together. And I think I'm recognizing now that's exactly what you're talking about. It's like my internal system is off, up or down. And it's telling me something. And so that's what I've got to tune into. And honestly, I don't think I've done a good job of that. And my tendency is to bury it, keep moving, and stay in the head. The problem with that is, then that thing comes right back up again, it's gonna keep coming up until I address it and do this. So you've been doing this for a long time and helped a lot of people. Are people generally successful at improving? If they dedicate themselves to this, can we get better at it? Absolutely. And in my walls of treating, you know, a patient, I've seen remarkable things. One of the treatments that I did in the past was EMDR, which is eye movement desensitization reprocessing. And as a part of that, that you have the person talk to you in different ways, it's very structured as a structured treatment about the trauma itself. And then there's you pause. So you do eye movements, it actually is eye movements that accompany the treatment. You pause and you ask what came up for you then. And if you spend time with that person and have them fizzy a lot, and they'll point, they'll be, they'll say, I don't know, I'm afraid, and they'll be pointing at their ear, their eye or the back of their head. And tell me, I see, you know, your hand pointed the back of your head. What was that? Well, that's where that what, you know, it's interesting how it comes together. And sometimes I don't want to oversell it, but I've watched it even in a session. And that last session that I had that I talked about earlier with my patient with Hungary, I'm hungry all the time, I'm hungry. She had a huge transformation when she was able to internally understand physiologically and physically where that was inside of her. And we stopped using words. It was like, where's that at? What's that about? What's that about then? And she just went, Oh my gosh, that's what this is. And so, yes. So we can get better. We can get better. So how do we do it? And I think this is a tough thing to explain, but you told us, you know, it is a real thing. It is measurable. It is trainable, or improvable. Now, can you kind of tell us what are the steps that we need to take to get better at it? So in the absence of a large transformation of our society, I think we have some individual practices. And the reason I say that, I say that somewhat with humor, but you know, we don't want a victim shame here, right? I mean, some of this is a product of what we are being exposed to all the time. So just like any muscle, we have to take a practice and it does take a practice. If there is early trauma or trauma that you've been disconnecting from dissociating, I would get some help with that. I wouldn't want anyone. And in fact, when I do some of these sessions, I'm cautious with that about what we do and what I'm asking, so that we don't have even close your eyes. I'll have people look up if that's not comfortable, closing your eyes just because we don't know what has been there for them. So a practice where you could start would be to find honestly two minutes because we probably aren't so great at just the stillness. Yeah, got to start small. And I wouldn't have you do it in your bedroom or somewhere where you sleep because we want to practice this without conking out. And to be able to just sit with what's going on in my body now. What am I noticing? It's to some extent a body scan, which a body scan is an actual technique. That is one way though to really start to get in touch with. And the other piece of that might be when I'm hungry, where do I feel that in my stomach? When I'm lonely, where do I feel that in my body? When I'm tired, what's that about for me? So I'm really just like a detective that's looking around at this new place and trying to identify what some of this might look like, feel like, and don't feel compelled to describe it either. I think when I was going through, I went through a six month certification in this in the last few years and I kept trying to, I wanted to label it. I wanted to give it a cognitive word. And so we just did colors or pointing. And that was helpful for me because I stopped. I'm a very visual person, so I wanted to visualize that was helpful to really just, you know, it's in my chest or my heart. And again, kind of those three brains, oftentimes it's somewhere, but it could be, oh my gosh, my thighs are actually tightening. I didn't realize that that happens when I get anxious. You know, maybe I'm getting ready for a fight or flight, so I'm getting ready to run. So it's a quiet place where you can have minimal distractions to no distractions, settling in and experiencing and acquainting yourself and getting good at that. So what is intuition? Maybe that's a good definition too, to add in. Intuition is truly your subconscious picking up on things. So it's an active process that you, it's perhaps below the surface. So if you've ever had that where you say, ah, I knew it, something confirms some feeling that you had and you think either someone says something or something happens. You say, I knew it. I knew that was going to happen or I knew that person was this. And what that's intuition, but that is your subconscious picking things up. So by listening and getting good at really connecting with that part of us that's below the surface. Now think about how hard that is to do, right? I'm asking you to pay attention to something you're not aware of, but that's how that's more advanced practice where we become even more aware of what that intuition, what's rising within me, what's this telling me? So first get good at understanding body, body sensations, perhaps some breathing, slowing things down. I love like the word regulation and dysregulation. So 10 is completely dysregulated. Ah, zero is regulated. I'm just calm and find where some of that is for you. So am I in eight right now? Is that what's happening here? So all of those practices, mindfulness is another great practice, even movements. So Tai Chi, other yoga, things like that can help us. I think yoga is a great way to tap into that somatic aspects of us. You know, as you're talking through this, I'm recognizing ideally we need to tap into our somatic intelligence when we're in the middle of a problem, a crisis, a stressor or whatever. Yes. In reality though, those of us that are new are probably not going to do it at that time because we're overwhelmed and we're not conditioned or ready for it. Yes. So probably a better spot rather than saying, well, I'm going to wait until I fly off the handle next time. Then I'll get my act together and do it. It's probably better to proactively say I'm going to set a timer and do this for two minutes, or I'm going to incorporate if I'm already somebody who meditates or who prays or who does yoga or who sits in the sauna or whatever, you know, find a time with something you're already doing. You say, I'm going to take a moment and just say, all right, to take the body scan. I like that you said that. You know, what am I feeling? Where am I feeling it? Which I think is excellent. And I like, you know, we talk about doing things small and in baby steps. I think that probably is, you know, step number one is just saying, all right, what and where am I feeling? And then physically. And then I think the next layers probably get a lot more challenging. And at some point, you need to say, okay, how does this connect with my emotions and my cognitive state? And then lastly, say, what am I going to actually do about it, if anything, right? Is that kind of a fair way to approach it and process it? Yeah, yeah, I think that's a nice way to lay that out. Okay. But but I would also say, too, you don't always have to do something sometimes just the act of recognizing it. That's all you need. And that sort of just having the awareness might be the solution for you. So, oh, I see where that's coming from. That's not a threat. I can ignore that. Yes. And now we come back to regulation. Yeah, quickly. Yes. Yeah. Because our temptation isn't when we feel that we go something's wrong. You know, we fix it. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Which then hypes us up even more. And we sort of spiral out of out of control, commonly. So sometimes it may be just, oh, I see what that is. That's not a real threat. Yeah, I'm not that hungry. I just ate a huge dinner. I'm okay. I can move on. I can refocus. And truly, I'm not just distracting myself. So that was a good example. Yes. And your part too, but you know, you preface that with thinking about unaddressed trauma as well, too, that that's something that can't be ignored. But I do imagine that thinking about your somatic intelligence and the physical signals is something that would help you deal with that unaddressed trauma. Is that fair to say? Not only fair to say, I think the way that we truly put that away, because so much of our early trauma or even late trauma, it's stored without words. It's stored without consciousness. So if I don't repair those things in that more sensory somatic component, I'm not tapping into some things that are there. So in that way, the somatic intelligence is linked to the unaddressed trauma similar to how it's linked to the chronic stress. We talked a little chicken and egg thing going on there, you kind of need to work on both, and both will help in positive synergy if you allow it to be. Okay. How do I measure my progress in this? Like what what could I look for to tell that maybe I am getting better at it? So even your watch, if you wear a watch or any kind of a device, your heart rate may get a little bit lower, that regulation, I'm a little bit more regulated. And I used to work with type 2 diabetics. It's actually what I did some research on for my dissertation. And folks were not so great at recognizing their fluctuations in blood sugar. So using a monitor to really say, you know, get a continuous blood glucose monitor and oh, I feel this and tying that in. That's still a hard one. That maybe is not a great example because your blood sugar regulation can be hard to detect at times. So a device that might measure heart math is a company that has all kinds of great biofeedback devices that people can have. And I have some things I use when I work in my practice. And there certainly is a feeling, a feeling of regulation where things don't tip you over as much. And I think there's a more intentional prioritization of your day, of who you're spending time with, of where my time and attention is going. My attention, your attention, our attention, it's the biggest traded commodity out there right now. More than corn and more than gold. Our attention is a hot commodity. And so I'm choosing where my attention goes. So I might notice that I'm a little bit more happy. I might have a psychologically rich life. I might feel more fulfilled. So I can feel it. Hopefully you would have others outside say, huh, you seem more peaceful, more calm, or wow, you made a change in your job. You stood up for yourself with that person. Wow, I really noticed that. So there are some external signs. Yeah. And I would imagine too, in addition to those external signs that others might notice that as you tap into this somatic intelligence, you're paying more attention to your body, you'll probably start to feel that change as well. It's right. But my body is not going in a different direction than where I want it to as frequently as it used to be. Are those odd stomach pains I had before a game or performance aren't there as much and you start to see some of those things? Yes. We're still things are happening all the time for us, but it makes more sense now. And it's probably not as painful. My pain is better or yes, I can fix things a little bit quicker. Okay. Well, greatly. Thanks for unpacking this with us. This has been excellent. I'm taking a lot of notes here as we go. And this is something too, that I wasn't as familiar with when we first started. But as you're talking, I'm recognizing, I need to be familiar with it because it's definitely something I need to focus on. So I'll recap my notes here. So you define somatic intelligence as basically your body's intelligence and sort of those internal cues and feelings that you get. It can be measured. It can be improved. It is different from emotional intelligence and cognitive intelligence. So they're different, but they're all linked. So separate but related. And often they correlate with one another. We talked about some of the downsides of having a low somatic intelligence. I mean, you often have confusion. You want to take shortcuts. You don't understand what's going on or how you feel can cause divisiveness, increased fatigue, decreased performance, a lot of things that we don't want here on the human optimization project. We talked about a lot of reasons why we're so bad at it. A lot of those are due to the external world and the world that we live in, which is difficult to control, but maybe we can change our response to it. But some of it is due to us to being self-conscious or insecure, maybe too busy and having time scarcity. And unfortunately, we're very good at ignoring this and dissociating from ourselves. And so we talked about reasons why we need to improve, and that was a pretty lengthy list. And I think you gave us a great example of how to improve. And step one, address any unaddressed trauma, and your past is probably a good way to do it. But then you mentioned having a two-minute somatic check-in or doing a body scan and just sitting and thinking, "All right, what do I feel right now? Where do I feel it? What's going on?" And then as you process that, think about how does that relate to your emotions and your cognition, and then eventually decide why that's happening and what you're going to do about it, if anything. But oftentimes, you don't have to do that. And you can either do that as an intentional practice or you can tie it to something else. You're already doing meditation, prayer, yoga, all great examples, or you're morning commute to work or whatever. Okay, fantastic. Now I'll give you a chance to summarize. I'm going to re-ask you these three big questions that we had. So first one, what is somatic intelligence and why do we need to get better at it? Again, that body's wisdom, attunement to our body, the sensations, those things that lie underneath the surface. Great. Our second big question, why is it so hard for us to listen to our physical bodies and respond appropriately? I don't think it's encouraged or taught very often, and we become adults who just become quite reactionary. Lots of hyperconnectivity, influx of information coming at us. And I think just maybe lack of knowledge and lack of encouragement, even in reinforcement, of focusing on that. And then our third, can you give us a step-by-step approach to maximizing our somatic intelligence to improve our peace and performance? Yes. So that starting out with some basic practices, the way that I often conceptualize making changes are first, I'm going to make some changes. I'm going to try some things. I'm just really practicing. Then I might build some habits. These habits become a little bit more long lasting. They fit me in my lifestyle. Now I become me. This incorporates into my identity and who I am. If you know me, you will say that person does these things. And like anything, if you do it enough, you do it intentionally, you do it consistently, it becomes habitual, it becomes automatic. Correct. Then you start seeing the payoff and the benefits of it with less work. So this has been a great discussion, and you've really changed the way that I think about this, to be honest with you. And now I'm sort of thinking about people as we have our cognitive intelligence, our emotional intelligence, and our somatic intelligence. And unless we really try to work to optimize, all three of those will never be our best self. And they're all sort of connected and you've given us some great strategies on how to do that. So thank you so much. Absolutely. All right. So now for the challenge, we always like to end with some action and what people are actually going to do about it. And you made this very easy for me. You mentioned the two minute somatic check-in or the body scan. So we're going to have people start there. So just carve out two minutes at some point during the day, not in the bedroom, where you could fall asleep, sit somewhere quiet, no distraction, and just take two minutes and say, "What am I feeling right now, physically?" And you don't even have to solve the problem. Just take the time to do it. That's the first step. And then once you get good at that, and feel free to incorporate it into your habit, do it while you're brushing your teeth or doing yoga or sitting in the steam room or whatever, pray or meditation time, try to do it consistently, make it a part of your routine, and then eventually build up to where you're saying, "Okay, now how can I process that? How can I link it to my emotion, my cognition, and what can I do about it?" Excellent. Thank you, Lisa. Absolutely. Thank you for the opportunity. All right. And to our audience, remember to live intentionally, consistently, better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be so you can give your gift back to the world and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you liked this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at: optimize@mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic. Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be, so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp.