Alcoholic hepatitis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in this country and is uh um in some studies the leading cause of liver related mortality in this country and also a major cause of liver related mortality throughout the world. Um unfortunately the treatment options for alcoholic hepatitis are not optimal and uh um beyond conservative therapy which means nutritional support and uh taking the best care we can of the patient um uh with routine uh approaches. There aren't specific medications that are routinely used by um all all physicians to treat patients with alcoholic hepatitis. And this is unfortunate because as I said is a major cause of death. And so um one of the approaches that we looked at was a um therapy called a tenercept. And why a tencept is used for a number of other diseases um that we think are mediated through a similar process as alcoholic hepatitis except in other organs in the body. And uh so that was really the premise for our study and it was based on a vast amount of um information available in animal models as well as a pre uh as well as a pilot study we did here at Mayo Clinic uh to see if the drug may be effective for patients. And uh based on all of that information, we were optimistic that why we may have a new therapy for alcoholic hepatitis. Well, I think this study is important for several reasons. One is it has um given us a definitive answer um not just for this drug but for this class of agents which are uh agents that neutralize um the the a cytoine called tumor necrosis factor and have demonstrated that these agents uh are not going to be the um treatment that's going to be effective for this disease. And that's very important because um these types of studies and this hypothesis uh that this might be an effective target has been ongoing for 20 years. And so this should uh definitively put an end to that direction so that investigators can focus on new directions and new approaches. Uh there's a number of other potential targets um that I think now will get more attention based on excluding this one. Um I think it's particularly interesting also from a pathophysiology point of view. Uh even though this uh um the molecule that we blocked which is tumor necrosis factor uh does a number of bad things, it also is apparent from our study that this molecule does a number of good things too. And the fact that it was blocked in our patients uh in in patients with alcoholic hepatitis and that this ended up with adverse consequences and not an improvement in survival suggests that um like many molecules this one is complex and is doing beneficial things as well as uh harmful things. And so in this case blocking that molecule is not not going to be the way to go. As you know, alcohol has a very rich history uh that links with mankind all the way back since the stone ages in fact. And that's the first time where we have documentation that uh humans uh consumed alcohol was from the um evidence that uh the cavemen actually um uh consumed fermented fruits and obtained a alcoholic um type response to that. Um and since that time uh alcohol again is intertwined uh um inextricably with with mankind and many of our greatest uh uh individuals throughout mankind have in fact died from alcoholic liver disease uh such as uh many um famous uh military people, many musicians uh many artists and so uh um since then uh and now moreover Over the past few hundred years, um uh we've begun to realize that um abstinence for everybody is not going to happen. Alcohol is too linked to our culture in in many many cultures. And so that is why um with that in mind, we've recognized also that there's potential beneficial effects of low amounts of alcohol as well. And so really the key is to try to understand why people drink in excess and um what we can do to help people who drink in excess in terms of uh um not just uh treatments to prevent the addiction but also treatments to prevent the injury that occurs from these responses. Um uh despite all of these interventions as I mentioned alcoholic liver disease continues to be a major driver of morbidity and mortality in many liver transplant centers. is the leading cause of liver transplantation and uh in many countries throughout the world um especially in Scotland um in that area uh alcohol um related liver disease is actually increasing in prevalence um in our country uh alcoholic liver disease continues to rival with hepatitis C and non-alcoholic fatty liver is the most uh important drivers of liver related mortality ality. I think it's uh interesting uh in terms of the terms of moderate alcohol consumption means very different things to many different people. And um most of the data would show that um for men uh drinking up to um two perhaps three drinks a day is a safe range. Perhaps one drink a day may even be beneficial. For women that range decreases. Um and in fact women are more predisposed to develop alcoholic liver disease for a given level of alcohol consumption compared to men. So for women the relative risk for developing alcoholic related liver disease increases even with two drinks per day. And so it's a a lower threshold for women. Um that is a genetic factor you can say and the genetics of the disease are also expanded uh in the sense that certain uh um uh people have a greater genetic predisposition to develop alcoholic liver disease than others. We don't understand what is the alcohol gene right now but it's very clear that some people can drink very heavy and never develop liver related problems while other people uh can drink in a more um moderate to heavy range and develop problems. Most uh people would say that um to develop alcoholic liver disease in men, most commonly people would be consuming um more than 40 grams of alcohol a day. And that can translate into uh perhaps four drinks a day. But again, it really depends uh at a personal level how you mix your drinks. And some people uh make their martini with the equivalent of three drinks in it. And so uh um that's why the term moderate alcohol consumption can really uh vary from person to person. I think the important thing is that um uh to be sure that your alcohol consumption is not in excess and really with the lack of good pharmacologic therapies we have uh you have to be your own doctor and um avoid the problems and it's similar to many other health related problems is that uh avoidance and prevention is um much more effective than treatment later because um uh the treatments are not always effective. I think that an important point for patients is that uh if you uh develop jaundice or yellowess, people notice your eyes are getting yellow, anything like that. That's probably uh one of the simplest um uh ways that a patient can know if they're starting to get into problems with alcohol consumption. uh they often know also from the people around them if people are suggesting that they're worried about their alcohol consumption or if they're drinking in the morning or if they're feeling uh guilt associated with their drinking. Um uh people have suggested that they should cut down on their alcohol consumption. These are all signs and symptoms of excess alcohol consumption. And then uh the development of the yellowess in the skin or in the eyes is a good sign that um that alcohol consumption may be starting to really affect your liver in a serious adverse way. We are uh taking a many different approaches here in our research program. We have a very active and a large program in this area and this spans the um areas from epidemiology of alcoholic liver disease trying to understand better what are the trends in alcohol consumption uh and what are going to be the future trends and how those link with development of liver disease. Um we also have individuals uh who are interested in the links between alcoholic liver disease and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and whether alcohol um in small amounts even may make other types of uh liver disease worse. Um we are also interested in various mathematical and prognostic models to help uh physicians to diagnose alcoholic liver disease from other types of liver disease and also to help predict um how severe someone's alcoholic liver disease is using simple laboratory based uh pathways. And then lastly in terms of treatment uh we are evaluating newer therapies as well. Some of the directions that we're interested in are uh linking to um the role of uh bacterial products from the gut and how those may uh contribute to um development of alcohol-related liver disease since alcohol affects so many different parts of the body. Um there's a very close interaction between the gut and the liver. Uh another area is uh relating to uh insulin resistance and alcoholic liver disease and whether therapies there may be helpful. And then we're also interested in potential protective pathways that can be um um improved by um therapies so that way your body can protect you uh from the damages of alcohol. I think the important point as I said is that it's very important for individuals to try to uh um keep their alcohol consumption in in uh moderation or um avoiding excess alcohol consumption on a regular basis. And uh uh despite our attempts to keep finding better therapies, uh prevention is really uh the cornerstone to attack this disease.