Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. Confidence is something that lives on a spectrum, and we can all find ourselves at different points on that spectrum on any given day. Sometimes we can be overconfident, and at other times we may be woefully underconfident. So how do we get this right? How do we learn to become appropriately confident? And how would that impact our lives if we were able to live that way more consistently? To help us answer those questions, our session today is titled, "How to be your most confident self without overdoing it or underdoing it." Our expert guest is Cathy Winter. Cathy is the president of Premier Sports Psychology. She has over 25 years of leadership experience and is passionate about helping individuals understand and find to their unique style in order to bring out the best performance in themselves and their teams. Cathy has coached and developed leaders at all levels, from C-suite executives to frontline leaders and individual contributors in Fortune 100, Fortune 500, and global organizations. The three big questions that we have for Cathy today are, number one, what is confidence and why is it so important? Number two, why do we all struggle to be confident? And then finally, we're going to have her give us some solutions with our third big question, what practical steps can we take to be more confident in our everyday lives? Cathy, thank you so much for joining us here today. We're really appreciative of you for taking the time and letting us learn from your wisdom. Thank you for having me. And I've really been enjoying listening and watching some of the podcasts that have been out and I feel really honored to be amongst those people. Good. Well, the inspiration for me behind a lot of these topics, I know you and I have talked about this a lot, but I'm really excited about diving into this one on confidence with you today. I think this one is very challenging for a lot of us and so many of us live at different ends of the spectrum here, but I think we all sort of struggle with it in some capacity. So I think this will be helpful for the audience. So let's jump into this first section. And for you as an expert in the field who's been doing this for a long time, how do you personally define confidence? You know, at its simplest version, confidence is really a person's belief and mindset that they can handle anything that is put in front of them. That is at its simplest. There's so many places to go with it, so many deeper, you know, root things about whether you have it or you don't and how other people view your confidence. But that's really it is, you know, do I feel like I can handle what's in front of me? And it is not about I think I can handle it perfectly every time. It's that if it's not going to be perfect, I think I can fix it. And it's not about if I'm confident, that means I'm confident in every situation that ever existed. If we're personal, you know, out hiking, that sort of thing, it is something that comes and goes. And so when we are in that moment of confidence or that season or in general having confidence, I think I can handle this. And in that definition, there's actually a fair bit of subjectivity, which I think can be challenging for people because you're saying it's a person's belief and mindset that they can handle what's in front of them. So I think each of us has different things in front of us. And we also have different criteria to decide whether or not I think I can handle this in different belief systems. So I imagine a lot of the challenge and confusion we all have around confidence is that it is somewhat subjective and kind of individualized to the person. Is that fair to say? Yes, very fair to say. It's not only subjective, but the layer here that to add is most people, the subjectiveness of their rating comes from what they view the outside as thinking about them. And so it is if other people think I'm doing well, I must be doing well. If other people have confidence that I know what I'm doing, I have confidence that I know what I'm doing. And so there's a bit of a which came first, the chicken or the egg, in what gives a person confidence dependent on what's around them, what they're receiving as inputs. And some people take less from the external and take more from their internal state of mind and some take more from the external. And that affects their confidence sort of more in an up and down way, depending on what's around them. Perfect. And we'll get back into this too. When we get into that third section, we start talking about solutions on how we improve in this area. I imagine a lot of those concepts are going to come back up because it's probably multiple different avenues to work on and improve this. So let's talk about some of the benefits of being appropriately confident. Well, for one thing, when we are appropriately confident, it's we are engaging with the external world, whether it's with people that we're meeting with or leading or taking leadership from or just our families, when we are engaging appropriately in our confidence, we are getting feedback that feels good. And so when we show up properly confident, people respond in a positive way and it continues on. And so there's a sense of groundedness when you feel confident. Now when we other other things are when we feel confident and we show it, we take risks. And these can be really healthy risks. We may be willing to speak up more on something we believe in. We may be willing to push back against something that somebody else says we may be willing to apply for a job that we might not have if we didn't have the confidence. We may be willing to learn a new skill. And so what it does for us is confidence breeds confidence in many ways. And that breeding of confidence is not only breeding it within ourselves, but probably breeding it in others around us too. So the benefits are not just for the individual, but probably also to the group or whoever it is that's surrounding them. Yeah, that's right. I mean, how others view us as confident is a whole nother chapter because we can have people who are highly confident properly, but it doesn't show maybe because they are quiet. And then we can have people that are lacking confidence but are really extroverted and speak up a lot and then it gets taken as confidence. So we started that off by saying the benefits of being appropriately confident. I want to know generally as a society, how appropriately confident are we? Are we generally doing well at that or do we tend to be a little overconfident or do we tend to be a little underconfident or are we hitting the nail on the head? Yeah, right now there is some interesting research that I came across that is about the societal confidence crisis. And actually Gallup has just this year in 2025 put out some research that there is a 20, it's a 20 plus percent decline, I think 24 in confidence, institutional confidence is what they're calling it. And so it is society's confidence in systems like the educational system, our government system, healthcare systems, and including the companies that many people work for as a system. And so there's this crisis happening and from where I stand working especially with leaders and teams, the tie-in that I see is because that is changing, confidence is going down in the bigger picture and then we're all facing these other external factors, technology, AI as we all talk about, how much is changing the world. And all these economic tightnings and financial issues that organizations are seeing. And so what it's left us with is standing there saying, "So where do I fit and what am I calibrating whether or not I should be feeling confident on?" And so part of it is I used to know I'm stepping here and then I'm stepping here and I trust what I'm stepping on. And now it is a little bit like, "Wait, do I step here? And if I do, will I fall?" Because the trust has gone down. And so because of something we said earlier, which is we do tend to take the feedback and that affects our confidence, the feedback is different than it used to be. And so one thing though that is really great about human behavior is that we still have the ability to determine how we set our mindsets up about how we're going to go out into all of this. Yeah. So I imagine that overall decrease in institutional confidence or in society or systems as a whole probably then trickles down to make us less confident in smaller groups and teams, other individuals and maybe even then ourselves. There's probably a trickle down effect of that because if we don't have that foundation of institutions and systems that we're confident to stand on, it sort of affects every level. Yes. And I want to enter in another factor that we see a lot of when working with teams is I hate to even bring up since COVID because I feel like we've been using that over and over. But in the past four years, what we have seen is people's sensitivities have gone way up, sensitivity. And so this takes the form of, do I say something because I don't want to offend somebody and people are just more reserved and holding back more. And what that also does is it just produces less engagement in the system. And it really is an interesting, the people I think that come out the most confident, properly confident in these scenarios where feedback has gotten more indirect or there hasn't been as much feedback. And it's hard to know, hard to read, well, what does somebody really think about that? Because everyone's just more guarded. The people that have risen to the top are the ones who, what we say is they own it. They own it and they treat people with respect. And when you have that combination, it does feel confidence, right? Otherwise if you own it and just, I don't care what other people think, I'm going to push my opinion, you get a certain kind of feedback that doesn't breed confidence. And if you hold back and say, I'm just going to be reserved and I'm not going to share what I think, cause I might offend somebody, it gives you a certain kind of feeling like that person doesn't really have any opinions. And so there's a lot of factors here between the confidence crisis we talked about and the sensitivity that people are feeling they need to have. And so again, confidence is, I think we're all needing to redefine our own confidence. And in some ways I've been thinking about a new sort of a new definition with all this, which is knowing, being comfortable with knowing how not to know, right? Because we're stepping and we don't know who's going to be offended and all this. And you know what? I think I can get through it. I might make a mistake, but I'll try again. And if I feel that sense of security in myself and ability, then that's a new redefined way. Oh, what a great perspective. You know, I haven't thought about that connection with sensitivity and confidence before, but you could see how those two would have a synergistic effect on one another in the positive direction or negative direction, which is great. And I like that new definition of confidence you're talking about because in some ways it forces us to kind of look at the world and try to be confident in the things we can know, but also accept the ones that we can't change or that we can't know as well, which is a great perspective. So let's talk a little bit about some of the dangers that might lie at either end of the spectrum of confidence. So what are some of the dangers that might be in place for somebody who is under confident or not confident enough? Then we'll talk about some of the dangers of being over or excessively confident. Yeah, well, I'll start by saying that whether it is under confident or over confident, one thing that the dangers are in common is not being the risk of not being able to achieve the potential of a person. And so if I break that down, when you are under confident, how do you not potentially not achieve your potential? Because you're not trying. You're not putting yourself out there. You're not learning. You're not growing because you're afraid of failure or you're afraid that you won't be perfect. Right. I mean, that's wild and under confidence. And I think we can all see how you would miss opportunities there. If you are over confident, that oftentimes comes with being closed to new ways of doing things because you are so confident in what you see, how you think something should go out there, you tune everything else out and say, this is what we're doing. I'm confident in it. And again, being closed, you might get it right some of the time, but there's going to be a lot of situations, especially now, given this landscape we've talked about where things are changing. If there's no way we can all know what's going to work in this world where there's just so much shifting around us. And so that is another danger is being closed minded and then missing the opportunity to win in a different way that may be even necessary. And I think with our world changing faster than it ever has, that is going to be one of the biggest qualities that we need to be successful is the ability to adapt and be willing to try new things and do that. So being overconfident may close us off to that. Yeah. Excellent. And both of those can lead to us not achieving our overall potential. I mean, one of the things that I have been seeing a lot with leaders is a frustration, a growing frustration with their organizations. And I mean, the organization is just all the people in it that the leaders are like, we can see the need to turn the corner and change the way we do business here. How come nobody's turning the corner? And then they get frustrated and then they just yell it louder, right, in their frustration. And you kind of get it, right? Like what else do you do? We're going, we're almost around the corner. But what we hear from the masses is we hear you, but we're afraid to step. And so then it becomes, again, how do we teach people how to generate their own confidence? And that's something that is what this is all about. Otherwise, there's going to be a huge mismatch between different members of a team, leaders and those they're leading and even people within the team if they're not appropriately confident. Okay. So I mean, it's pretty clear that we are struggling with this a fair bit and in different directions. Some may be overconfident, some underconfident and some may be both, but in different areas of their lives. So I want to talk a little bit about why we struggle with confidence. So can you give us some examples of people not being appropriately confident? Yeah. So I think a lot of it comes down to being willing to look inward first and be honest and vulnerable with ourselves and clear on, you know what, I'm willing to admit that this, while this is, these are the things that I do well, these are the things that I don't. And there's a protective shell that is just so common where we just don't want to go there. It's almost like if you say it to yourself, you're saying it out loud and then it's seen everywhere on a stage kind of thing. And what happens is when we are not able to let that come to fruition, the self-awareness piece, we start to compensate and we say like, "I kind of don't think that I'm very good at these skills and I mean, I haven't really given anybody a chance to tell me if I'm good or not because I don't let the topic come up. And so I just got to make sure that I look like I'm good at the skill." And then we start to put so much energy into compensating and, you know, it's called performative, right, is what we call it, that it sort of takes over and we're not really able to then become open to feedback, open to... And then if you dial it all the way back to our original definition, which is the belief that we can handle anything that's in front of us, we really don't have it at that point because we're saying, "I've got to pretend or I have to do these other things to make sure that in case this weakness comes out, I'm covering it." And that's really sort of what you described there. That really gets at the root of imposter syndrome too. If we're talking about we're compensating and this is sort of a performative behavior that we're doing because we think this is what others want us to do. I think that's ultimately kind of the root of imposter syndrome. For me, I think as a society, we are struggling now and we don't know ourselves nearly as well as we should. And if we don't understand what our own values are and our own vision for ourself and our own purpose and our own mission, it makes it really difficult for us to interpret the rest of the world. And the rest of the world is getting more complicated. And so the rest of the world is getting challenging to interpret on its own. And if you couple that with the fact that we don't know who we are and then we're living in a world that we don't understand is constantly evolving, that really sets us up for a disaster. And I think maybe improving our understanding of who we are and our confidence may help us with that. Yeah. It's actually bringing me back to a leader that I worked with, this is like five years ago probably, and he was in charge of a division of a sales organization. And it was a global organization. So he had lots of peers that did the same thing. And he came in new to this organization as a sales leader. And quickly within the first year, his team, his sales team came up to the top five of 25, let's say, regions. And when he was interviewed, we'll say, by his bosses, they're always, of course, looking about who's going to be the next VP, that sort of thing. They could not get to him saying what he does that helps his team win. And now this comes back to self-awareness. So then I end up spending some time with him. And we just want to understand what are your skills? We want to be able to make a profile of success from what it is that you do to help your team become so successful. And he was not the type to look inward. And despite his success even, got as far as saying, I am a good communicator, and I get along well with people. And so we'd say, OK, what is it? How do we teach other leaders what you're talking about? And there was a self-awareness thing. He didn't want to go there. And what ended up happening is, second year came around, his team was still performing. But when they had an opening for a VP, what I heard was that they said, we don't know if this leader got his team there because of luck or because of skill. And we have no way to find out because as much as we try to make a profile from his leadership, we only have what we see. And we can't get him to articulate it. So he didn't get it. And actually, eventually, wasn't much longer. Another year or two, he left the organization because he was operating on, I guess, instinct and it was working. And he also had a good team. And then it became difficult to be repeated. Yeah. And if we don't understand ourselves, it's going to be very challenging for others to understand us as well. That's right. And I think that both of those things will undermine confidence. Our lack of self-awareness and then the lack of other people knowing what we can and can't do and what we stand for and what we value. And so then there's confusion everywhere within ourselves. And then outside of ourselves is confusion. And then that'll really rattle and shake our confidence as well. So what are some other common barriers that people experience in trying to become more appropriately confident? So I think lack of self-awareness, as you just highlighted, is a huge one. What are some other potential barriers? Something that we've been noticing is that with this general sort of lessening of direct feedback based on people being more sensitive and being worried about hurting feelings and things like that, there's a lot of people walking around wondering, how am I performing? And if you think about it, in school, at least you have grades. You may not have studied hard and got a good grade and all the things, but you have grades that indicate how you're performing. And then you go, oh, I should be confident. And we get to the work world and there are certain industries, you have performance indicators, salespeople have numbers, things like that. But for the most part, there are not enough indicators. And so then what happens? We rely on feedback that we get from other people. In the absence of direct feedback, we rely on signals. Right. We look around, well, that person didn't look at me while I was talking and shoot, I must not be very convincing right now. And so a barrier right now really is a lack of feedback. And if we know, let's say we're in an environment that we can control where we know, you know what, there just isn't enough data to show like salespeople have. Well, then we should create some mechanism for ourselves where go ask for feedback, for one thing. Now, asking doesn't necessarily mean you'll get it, but you certainly won't get it if you don't ask. Yeah, you need to be curious. You have to be curious and probe. And the people who are most likely to get the feedback that is going to be helpful to build their confidence, and this is positive feedback too, are the ones who probe into what they get as a response. So I might ask you like, hey, how do you think I'm doing on my presenting? And you'll say, Kathy, you're doing fabulous. And then I could walk away. But I will still be wondering what is the performance indicator there. And so then the probing might be, well, so tell me what specifically, you know, I should keep doing and then tell me, you know, is there any other feedback about like, if I could do it better, what would it be? And then keep probing beyond that. Right. So that and it takes some willingness to let it come in. Yeah. Well, when you do that, when you ask me that question in that direct way, it tells me that you are curious and it tells me that you're confident and you've opened the door for me to walk through to give you the feedback. And I can imagine then when I do that, if I do it well, you'll use that information to become more confident, which will then allow you to ask for even better feedback next time around. And it becomes this sort of positive flywheel in positive loop where you can see it also works in the opposite direction. So if you don't understand yourself and you don't have the self-awareness, you're probably less likely to ask for the feedback. So you're going to be relying on signals, which you can't interpret because you don't even understand yourself, much less the person giving you the signals and they don't understand you either. And so that is going to diminish your confidence, which also makes you less likely to ask for the feedback. I mean, the feedback is so critical. And I think for all of us, we should re... I hope everybody recognizes that we can play a part in building up other people's confidence by being direct, showing them that we're giving them feedback because we care and want them to succeed. Or even if it's not about feedback, just building people up and encouraging them when they do well and things like that. It's a system that feeds off of each other. And if I want to be more confident, maybe I should start with some things like self-awareness and asking for feedback, but also taking my turn to build up other people's confidence. Yes. We had a session on servant leadership where we talked about that exactly, in that when you serve those that you're leading or that you're interacting with, it's helpful to them, but then that is positive synergistically for yourself. And so you really get that positive synergy flowing. And I think it's the same thing here, is that if the other individual is not confident to ask you for feedback, if you go to them and you ask for feedback, now you're opening the door and you allow them to give it to you, you're going to help improve their confidence in addition to yours as well. So I think oftentimes serving others in that way can help you in return and help the other person as well, which might be the thing that that person needs if they're really struggling because they don't know themselves and they're relying on signals and maybe they need somebody else to step in and do that for them. Yeah, that's right. Good. Let's talk to the perfectionist that are out there. You know, a lot of people talk about perfectionism and a lot of people wear it as a badge of honor. And I think that perfectionism can be really valuable in a lot of ways, but I also think that it can have, it's a little bit of a double-edged sword in that it sort of comes with this high level of confidence, but sometimes maybe a lack of vulnerability. So can you talk to us a little bit about your experience in working with self-labeled perfectionist, the pros and cons of that? Yeah, you know, there's two types of perfectionists that we see, I mean, in my mind, how I bucket it. There's perfectionists who want to get it right because they maybe were trained in professions and in education, very technical, where there's a right answer and a wrong answer. And then it just, they kind of put that on everything. Okay. There's that kind of perfectionist. And then there's the perfectionist who says, "I want it to be the best work that anybody's ever done." Right? Like that kind, like, "I need to be the one that sets the standard." Okay, so there's two different kinds. As far as, what we've been seeing really is that in this world where there's more and more uncertainty that we've called on right now and things are changing at a really, really fast speed, the perfectionists are really starting to stand out. And in some ways we need them because we can't all just be like, "Okay, let's step on unshaky ground and we'll all do it together." You need the rocks, right? And the perfectionists are valuable. However, they do, I mean, there is a time right now that they've probably never experienced anything like it, which is the pace of change and the ask to change is incredibly high. And so perfectionists are, I think the rate of burnout that we're seeing, first thing you sometimes say is like, "Well, what kind of rules and standards and details do they care about?" And if you hear, "Well, they care about all those things." Yeah, you can imagine. It's exhausting. Right? Especially when let's say there is a number of them in a group and the rest of the group and the world that the group lives in is swirling around everybody trying to make sense and they're like, "No, people, come back, come back," that kind of thing. And it is hard. So perfectionism is really obviously one of the enemies of confidence because if you're thinking about where you get your confidence from, perfectionism almost never has an end, it's achievement based. It's like I never got there. It could have been more, but then somebody told me I had to stop because I ran out of time and it could have been better and then we drop our confidence a little bit. So perfectionism can be a powerful motivator to drive you forward, but in a lot of ways can make you kind of fragile. And that those folks tend not to do well with uncertainty or failure, which will lead to a fixed mindset. Yeah, and I want to again come back to emphasizing we need perfectionism in some areas, right? I don't think I want my surgeon to be far from being a perfectionist, that type of thing. But in general, it's like how do you apply that perfectionism in different types of scenarios? Yes, so it can be a valuable tool. Yes. Use it intentionally. Right. Quick thoughts on the humble brag. We see this everywhere. We do this everywhere, all of us. And I think oftentimes there's definitely a confidence issue going on, or at least a relationship between the humble brag and that individual's confidence. So I think, I also think that this is just my opinion and what I've observed, the humble brags have increased and it's because of the indirectness having increased because of people feeling more sensitive. And this is one of those things where I think we're all finding ourselves trying to read between the lines, was that a humble brag? Was it somebody fishing for more compliments? Was it somebody who's feeling insecure or oversecure? This is a society that I'm finding leaders and people are living in is just, if we could do a pattern interrupt and brag confidently, I think that would actually be better than the humble brag where we're all trying to figure out. So what was the intention behind that? Testing the waters, yeah. A lot of uncertainty behind it. And you're right, maybe that is the humble brag. To get back to your previous point about reading signals, oftentimes maybe that humble brag is us putting something out there looking for certain signals to affirm what we're doing and saying, "This is a soft way for me to get the feedback I'm looking for for somebody to say, "Hey, good job, you're doing the right thing." That's a great point. Because I lack the confidence to just ask for it directly, ask for that feedback directly. So I'm trying to subversively get that feedback. Get that feedback. Or the signal that I'm looking for. That's a really good point, yeah. Or maybe even I'm actually looking to get the positive feedback. So I'm going to tell you something good because I only want to hear the positive feedback. Right, right. If you have negative feedback for me, I'm not interested in it. That might be the big issue. Okay, so now let's transition into our third section. This one's going to be the most challenging. And this is the one where you're going to tell us how to become perfectly confident. Okay? Should be simple, right? Very simple. So, first of all, before we do that, how can we determine if we're doing a reasonable job of being appropriately confident? Gosh, that's a good question. Well, there's two ways. There's your internal reflection and then there's feedback from the outside. Not to beat a dead horse, so to speak. So for example, I was telling you before we got started that I do a lot of speaking. And yesterday I was standing in front of an audience, an unfamiliar audience of 200 people and speaking. And you know what? I went in feeling pretty confident. I do this regularly. I know this topic and I told myself, "All right, what do you want them to get out of it when you're done? Do you understand that topic?" Yep. Okay, go. Then I come in here and I'm only speaking to one person and on a topic that I know. And all morning I was like, "This might be an imposter syndrome moment, right? This might be." And so first I want to say that we should never expect that we're either always confident or always ill confident. So it's okay to have moments and that's normal. If you're always confident, you should probably look inward. And so what do we do? There's an acronym, I don't know if this has come up in your podcast, but we talk about at Premier, WIN. What's important now? And it's a way to take the voices, the thoughts, the feedback you've received, the feedback you're wondering if is out there, your insecurity, your perfectionism, and just say, "What is important right now?" And so when I was driving here, I was like, "Well, I could focus on what I think Dr. Camp is really hoping I'll be perfect at," which is what was happening. Or I could focus on, "Okay, what's important now?" Well, what's important now is that we help the audience to hear a perspective on something that I see everywhere, which is confidence. And so I am going to think about what is my perspective on confidence. And then when I sit down, I'll jot down some notes and it's about blocking out the noise and that's hard. It's hard, right? And so the best thing we can do, somebody, one of my mentors told me once, "If you find yourself getting all these voices and you can't just take a moment and refocus." There was no magic. It was literally like, just catch yourself and then in this case, say, "What's important now?" and focus on it. And if it happens five times in the next five minutes, refocus what's important now. That's great. We have talked about some of those concepts before and recently we talked about helpful versus unhelpful thinking, which I think is along those same lines too. And we often think about positive versus negative thinking and we want to hold on to the positive thoughts and get rid of the negative thoughts, but sometimes the positive ones may be not helpful and actually the negative ones can be helpful. So reframing how we think about things to say, "What is helpful? What is unhelpful?" I think is another way of looking at that. But I love the "when, what's important now?" I think it's great. Not what might happen if I'm not perfect. But what is the horrible thing that happened last time I did this? Those are the things that tend to fuel our lack of confidence. In your experience as a teacher, leader, and coach for people that are trying to improve their confidence, have you seen people that actually get better at this, that actually improve? Yes, absolutely. One thing sometimes is... Well, first of all, we haven't talked about social media, I don't think. And its impact on confidence, particularly amongst the younger generations, including young adults. And so it becomes that we calibrate how confident we think we should be based on looking at other people's best moments. When that person presented, "Look at all the likes they got on their LinkedIn page," or "Look at all the views they got on their Instagram Reel." So I think that is something to consider that we have all sort of started to become affected by is simply getting stuck paying attention to other people's successes. So one thing that I have seen is where people, and this is people of all walks of life, when they take breaks from social media. It could be a week, a month, longer. They almost always come back and report that they have more clarity on what's important to them. They feel more confident really in who they are and what they know about themselves. And so that is... I have seen dramatic increase in that impact on confidence. I do think social media is one thing that has led us to exactly what you said. We see others' depiction of success, which is usually not actually even the real success they are having. It's the way they wanted to portray it to the rest of the world. And then we take and we think, "Oh, that looks nice," or "That is successful. It's getting attention. I'm going to adopt that definition of success for myself." So somebody else's false definition, "I'm going to now adopt for myself." Which gets back to what you talked about earlier in that we don't really even understand our self, so others don't understand who we are. And now we're adopting somebody else's definition of success. So nothing really belongs to us. And your original definition in confidence was a person's belief in mindset that they can handle what's in front of them. It's a person's belief. And so that is rooted in knowing yourself and who you are. And all of these things have us focused on other people's definitions that we're trying to adopt, which aren't true to us as individuals. Yeah. And you were asking about examples. Another example that I've seen in coaching people is really getting the chaos of, "Who am I? Who am I supposed to be? How does somebody else want me to be? Am I a failure or a success?" Sort of trying to push that aside and saying, "What matters to me?" And do I care if I'm not good at baking a pie? Maybe I do if I'm a pastry chef, but maybe I don't if I have an incredible skill and gift in being a TV newscaster. I'm just pulling this out. But I think this social media in particular, I think it sort of leads us to believe that we have to be good at a lot of things and we have our showing, no matter what we're doing, has to be this happy, confident, perfect version of ourselves. And so when we take the time to really dissect what's most important to me now, what am I working on? What do I do well? And what do I care about? That actually fuels our inner confidence because it's letting go of what other people think. And getting really clear on what we're about. And if we can bottle that, that's the hard part. If we can bottle it and take it with us everywhere we go, and this is getting almost into purpose and values and things like that, it's a confidence feeder. Okay, so now that you've given us some examples and we know this is something that can be improved, you've seen people get better at it, we've talked a lot about some different ways that you can do it. I'd like to kind of take all of that and sort of consolidate it into a kind of a plan or a list for people of things they can look at in their lives to try to improve on. So can you give us some high yield focus areas for people that they should be thinking about and looking into if they want to improve their confidence? Yeah. So I would break that down. I'll break that down into internal facing and sort of the outside type of factors. So the first one I'd say from an internal facing standpoint is try to help yourself to be okay with not knowing answers, not knowing how to do things. And the corollary that is to tell yourself, I have plenty of examples where I have practiced something, tried something out of my comfort zone and gotten better at it and gotten to the place I wanted to be at it, maybe even beyond that. And so be okay and that takes vulnerability. Sometimes we think of vulnerability as, "Oh, I'll cry in front of people and tell them my deepest darkest secrets." I mean, that is vulnerability too. But this is the kind of vulnerability that directly feeds confidence, which is being willing to say, "I don't have to be perfect at everything and I don't even have to be perfect at anything. Really, I just have to do the best I can, work on it and I will improve." And coming back to the definition, I have the confidence that I can tackle what's in front of me without having to have it be perfect. I get a good result. I think that's great. And you're sort of like recapitulating to a lot of concepts of having a growth mindset there as well. And I think a lot of what you're talking about too is rooted in the self-awareness. You talked about that a lot today. And I think within that self-awareness, in order to get there, we need to know our own values, our own vision, our own purpose for ourselves and our own meaning and kind of what we're striving for. So I think that's something else that people can look at as well. Yeah. Yep. The taking moments to understand, I mean, moments should be long moments, to understand what's important to us. And if you really want to do some deeper work that can be quite freeing is why are these things important to us? And what do I want? You could be 20 years old and say, "What do I want my legacy to be in 10 years?" And then in 20 years, and then in 30, what's important to me and why? And there's something very freeing about that. And it's related to the external source piece, which is when we are engaging with feedback to tell us how confident we should be. We should keep in mind that, one, people are usually putting forth their best version of themselves only, not regular life in social media, something we all know, but we sometimes need to remind ourselves. And number two, this idea of servant leadership that you mentioned earlier is we can contribute to the confidence levels of people around us by giving them direct feedback, in love, by asking for feedback, by modeling that it's okay and actually quite helpful and productive, and by being aware that not everything you see and hear around you is relevant to how well you are doing at something. That's the win. Ask what's important now. I love it. Okay, that's an excellent list. I've written that down and I got it broken up into the internal factors and external factors. So I'd like to take a minute just to kind of summarize my notes. I've been taking notes as we've been talking. So I'm going to start from the top. So you define confidence as a person's belief and mindset that they can handle what's in front of them. And so we talked about how that's a little bit of a subjective definition, which can make it challenging for people, but I think it's helpful. So it's kind of up to you to decide what's important, what's your definition of I'm able to handle this, and then don't be a harsh judge on yourself. So I think it's really can be confusing, but it's also kind of empowering to know, hey, you're in control of this. Like you potentially have the ability to do this so you can do it. We talked about some of the benefits of confidence being that you get better feedback. People will respond to you better. They'll understand you better. You're better grounded. You're more likely to take appropriate, healthy, calculated risk and not the bad ones. And then it also breeds confidence in others. So you're going to make other people around you better. We talked about why we struggle with confidence. You gave us some sobering statistics around our decrease in confidence institutionally in our systems and big processes and big programs. And sometimes that large institutional confidence that's lacking leads to confidence in smaller teams and others and individuals. We talked about the link of sensitivity with confidence as well. We talked about a lot of the barriers being lack of self-awareness, not getting feedback, some confusion. We rely on signals instead of real information. And then finally at the end, we talked about some different steps for how you can get better. I like how you broke that down. So you gave sort of the internal reflection piece and the list you gave was number one, be okay not knowing certain things. Number two, be vulnerable. Number three, really understand your own values, purpose, mission, and reasons in life. Number four, own your own definition of success, create it for yourself and then determine what is important for you as the last one. And then the external factors for us to look at, seek feedback, seek it constantly, seek it aggressively because that will create that positive loop for you. And then don't just adopt other people's definition of success. So don't look for others. Maybe use it to inspire you, but don't just inherit it without asking questions. Be of service to others because oftentimes serving them can help improve your confidence. Give others feedback and then win. So think about what's important now. That's my summary. Now I'm going to give you a chance to summarize too. So you've answered our big three questions incredibly over the course of this discussion, but now I'll give you the chance for the rapid fire answers here. So what is confidence and why is it so important? Coming back to a simple definition, confidence is the self-belief that we can tackle what's coming in front of us. And I think the new age or the today version of it that we referenced is having comfort in not knowing how something might go, but the belief then that we can handle it, even if we've never handled it before. And it's inevitable. We're going to not know at times. And there'll be things that we don't understand in front of us. Why do we struggle to be confident? When we put our self-worth on an external view, feedback from others, how we think others think we're doing, how we see other people doing things well, that really tends to affect a lot of our own view of ourselves. And so as we've mentioned, there's a lot of factors out in the world right now, social media, this institutional confidence crisis mode that we're in, according to Gallup. And it is we have to really work harder than ever to stay grounded with what is true to us, what matters to us, and how we can work on not only just naming to ourselves maybe what we're good at, what we're not good at, and then practicing the things that we want to get better at. And that feels confidence. Perfect. And you answered our third question there as well. So this has been a great session, Cathy. I learned a lot. You've sort of changed my perspective in a lot of ways on confidence and how I thought about it previously. So this was incredibly helpful for me. So the title of our session today was how to be your most confident self without overdoing it or underdoing it. Cathy, thank you so much for joining us. Thank you for having me. And our audience knows we always like to end this with a challenge or a call to action. So for our audience today, the challenge is going to be to go back in that third section. Cathy gave us two lists of things that we can do. One is focused on internal factors. One's focused on external factors. So look at those two lists again, and I want you to pick one thing and go do that this week. Just pick whatever thing you think will be the easiest for you to accomplish, and that'll help you do the first thing in this process towards getting better. So as always, thank you for tuning in. We really appreciate you. And remember to live intentionally, consistently better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you like this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. If feedback or a topic idea, email us at optimize at mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.