Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be, so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. If you interact with others, then you influence others. Whether you like it or not, we all influence the people around us. Hopefully, this is more commonly in a positive way, but if you aren't thoughtful and intentional, that may not always be the case. Knowing that you're going to have an impact on the people around you, you might as well invest the time to figure out how to influence them positively. This is obviously true for leaders, but it really applies to all of us in all relationships, no matter our position or situation. Accordingly, the title of our session today is "The Art and Science of Positive Influence." Practical steps for inspiring yourself and others. Our expert here to help us with this discussion is Roshy Didehban, the Chief Administrative Officer of Mayo Clinic in Arizona. Roshy initially joined Mayo Clinic in 2002 as an administrative fellow. She spent time in Arizona and Minnesota, serving in key leadership roles across operations, patient cares, and strategic initiatives. Currently, she serves on several regional and national boards. Roshy is also an assistant professor at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and a fellow of the American College of Healthcare Executives. She holds degrees from the University of Illinois and Johns Hopkins University. Outside of work, Roshi is passionate about travel and has visited more than 50 countries. So she brings a very diverse perspective from a very diverse network of people that she's been influencing over her lifetime. Well, Roshy, welcome to the Human Optimization Project, and thank you so much for joining us. Thank you, Chris. It's a pleasure to be here. So we're going to have the discussion broken up into three sections, and I kind of have one big question to outline each of those. So in our first section, the big question that we're going to answer, what exactly is positive influence and why does it matter? In the second section, the big question is, why is it so hard for us to positively inspire ourselves and others? And then in the third section, we'll try to move into some solutions. Our big question there is, what practical steps can we take to positively influence others so that they can be their best selves? You ready for that? I am ready. Should be straightforward. Thank you. All right. All right. So let's do it. Lots to cover. First section here, we're going to talk about kind of what positive influence is and why does it matter. So let's just start with the word influence. What does that word mean to you? So when I start to think about the word influence, I often start with what it's not, because I think it's helpful to say what is influence not. And it's not about control. It's definitely not about the title you have. It's not about hierarchy. It's not about forcing a certain outcome that you may want. Authority may get compliance, but it doesn't actually earn commitment. And so it is important as we think about influence, I think, to start with what it's not. To me, what it is is that ability to shape thought, shape behavior, and shape direction. And it's not through pressure. It's through trust, through inspiration, through credibility. And it's when we have a shared mission and a common purpose. I think that's when you see influence the best. And I also think it's about inspiring curiosity. And it's about how you as an individual come to the table with curiosity. And when you do that, I think it leads to great things. It leads to a growth mindset. And I think it allows teams to be innovative and think differently when you can do that. And so the way I look at it, I guess, is at its core is that influence is that space between what you say and what people you work with or live with or play with, what they feel. And it's creating that feeling of togetherness and alignment. That was an incredibly rich definition. And there's so many layers to that. I love it. So you talk a little bit about what it wasn't. And then also, not only did you talk about influence, but also some of the motivation behind it, the mindset behind it, and your ability to understand and relate to others. So I'm hearing some flavors of emotional intelligence coming out in there. Yes, which I know you love. I know you love emotional intelligence. We've got a lot to unpack here. This is fantastic. Okay, so we're talking about positive influence. And you kind of went through what influence is not, which was sort of some of the more negative connotation things. It's not control or title or hierarchy. We're talking more about the positive side. So can you tell us a little bit more about how positive influence differs from negative influence and maybe give us some of the key elements to positive influence? So as we think about positive influence, I would say first and foremost, it's rooted in this intention. What is the intention that you're bringing to the table? Hopefully, it's about lifting others up in a way that is beneficial not just for them, but it's beneficial for the team, it's beneficial for the organization. And interestingly, just yesterday, here in Rochester, I bumped into a colleague I hadn't seen in several years. And in the course of us just reconnecting with one another, we got on this topic about what upholds an organization's historic values in the face of dramatic external change and internal transformation. And I think the answer she gave was incredibly telling. And so I thought, this is a great opportunity to share this. What she shared was that when leaders are more focused on the success of others, and the success of the organization over their own needs and desires, that's what drives alignment to values and to mission. But it ultimately also creates joy in the whole. And she really believed that that positive influence starts with that intention that it's not about me, it's about others. And it is about building trust and transparency and alignment. I mentioned it earlier, it shouldn't be about coercion or deception. But the other thing I'll say is that I think sometimes we think that positive influence can only feel good. You should always feel good about it. And I think if we're really honest with ourselves, positive influence is not always easy. It's not always comfortable. Because we also want to serve other leaders that we work with. We want to serve our colleagues. And that means sometimes we have to be a little bit uncomfortable. And our positive influence may be giving feedback. It may be challenging the status quo. It may be finding a different solution. And that that can also be positive influence, even when it's uncomfortable. But I know you've thought a lot about this space. I'm curious, where do you see the opposite of that? And where have you experienced the opposite of that when it's negative influence? Oh, a lot of places. You talked about how, I like that comment about how positive influence doesn't necessarily mean that it always feels good. It may not be warm and fuzzy in the moment. I think oftentimes that gets down to the concept of instant versus delayed gratification, right? And ultimately, positive influence, you're generally taking a slightly longer term approach and a longer term outlook. And you may say, all right, this may hurt a little bit right now, but it's for the greater good of you and the team and others. So where I've seen that go wrong in my own life is I think two main examples I can think of is one, either the person who's trying to influence others is doing it with their self in mind. So they may disguise it as, hey, I'm doing you this favor or I want to help you. But ultimately, that person is sort of the hidden taker. They come across as maybe they're giving, but in reality, ultimately, you realize that they're sort of driving their own agenda. Then that feels like manipulation and coercion, ultimately. So I think that that's one area that I see it go wrong. And then I'm going to flip it and sort of say the opposite of that. Because you can have somebody who is desiring that positive emotion or joy and is unwilling to give you the hard influence that you need right now. There's medicine that you need to take that you don't want to take it. And so they're not going to give it to you because they don't want you to be uncomfortable. So they're going to go soft on you or easy on you because that feels good now. But it's going to sell you short long term. So those are two areas where I feel like I see it go wrong very commonly with people who are relatively well intentioned and maybe don't even realize it. Well, and I think we see some of that. I think we see a lot of it in leadership today where there is this discomfort with giving tough feedback, with giving the constructive or creating that bit of discomfort, even though you know it serves someone else. And I do think it's critically important as we're all growing and learning. And I'm one of those people who believes we're never fully formed individuals. We should always be in a growth mindset. But it's finding those individuals who care enough about you to take the risk to make you uncomfortable. And I do think it's incumbent upon all of us to find those people in our lives who will just pull us aside and say, "I don't think you're doing that quite right. And here's how I would do it differently or here's what you should think about." We can't always expect that individuals will do that for us. We sometimes have to go out and seek it. So if we can talk about that a little bit and be a little personal and vulnerable here, can you give me some examples of people in your life who have done that for you? Yeah, so I have been incredibly blessed to have just worked with incredible leaders throughout my career. What I've learned over time is that every single person you interact with is a teacher. And some of those teachers teach you who you want to be and others teach you who you do not want to be. And you have to have the discernment. But whether you realize it or not, every interaction, there's a teachable moment in there. And so part of it is paying attention. I will say that I grew up in a family that was very focused on always getting the A, always checking the box. My parents, like if I got an A-, they were like, "Where's the A?" If I got an A, they were like, "Where's the plus?" And so I came into the workplace starting my career feeling like I always had to check the box. I always had to win. And I went through the first part of my career in that way. And someone once gave me the feedback that you always get it done, Roshi, but you have to get it done without leaving bodies in your wake. And so that, just so you know, I mean, that's where I started. So I took that feedback and I modified the way I led. But a key pivot point for me was I moved into a role supporting emergency medicine in Arizona. And my physician partner in that role, on our first interview, he said, "Would you rather have five wins and zero losses or six wins and four losses?" And I said, "I'd rather have five wins and zero losses." And he said, "That's the wrong answer." And through the time, the several years that we got to work together, he really pushed me on seeing beyond perfection and being willing to take more risks, being willing to fail. He and I would get into really good discussions, sometimes arguments, because I didn't like failing. But through that effort and through his mentorship and willingness to see a different route, I think I'm a better leader today because I don't always go after the win. I go after the learning opportunity. And I think it allows me to see opportunities where others don't always see opportunities. And I bet some of those conversations you had with that individual were not always positive feeling in the moment, right? No. But now, in hindsight, you can look back and think, "Wow, what a massively positive influence they've had." And he's still an incredible friend. And when he and I connect, you know, he always has a bit more advice for me or another book I should read or something else I should be thinking about. And so finding those people in your life is very important. I love it. And I like what you said about really everyone in your life can be a teacher. And I think that way as well. And so, you know, I look back and really everybody I've interacted with in a meaningful way, there's something I have learned from them. And it can be very different. Like I look at my own parents, my dad, you know, is unbelievably hardworking. And his entire life is just... And he's quite a bit older than me, but we still even get together now for doing something manually. He just works me into the ground. Like even when I think I'm in pretty good shape. What does he do when he's working you to the ground? So like anything, it doesn't matter. Like he's 25, 30 years older than me, but still, when we get together, like if we're doing a house project or yard work or anything like that, and I grew up working with him, so he taught me that, which is something that I took away. My mom, very different, like just kind, loving, open, accepting to everybody too, which is something else that I learned from you, like totally different thing. And so everybody I feel like that has been in my life, I've been able to take something like that away from. And you get to pick and choose these pieces that you take away from people, then put them inside yourself and kind of build the person that you want to be. And also figure out how it feels authentic for you and how it fits in with the rest of your personality. We're talking about influencing others and oftentimes people think that this is something that's designated for CEOs and CAOs and people who have titles. I'm not so sure that's the case. What are your thoughts? Well, I think you're absolutely right. That's not the case. The short answer is that every single person has the ability to be a strong influencer and it's not about title. It's not about hierarchy. I think every member of a team has an impact on the culture, on the mindset, on the performance of colleagues, on their own performance. And I do think that when you go through your career or your workplace or your home place, I think what you recognize is sometimes the most quiet people who don't say very much that when they do speak up, they bring incredible impact. And so oftentimes I think people think that you have to be gregarious or super outgoing or you have to have a certain title. But the fact is in order to build a successful culture, every single person around that table has the ability to influence the work environment or the home environment that they want to be in. And it really isn't just for CEOs or just for leaders. It's for everybody. So it's regardless of your position, regardless of your personality type. And I think to drive that home, if you, anybody who has young children at home, you can think, right, there's a pretty big hierarchy between the parent and the child. Yet I think all parents would agree that that child has a major influence on the life of the parent, right? And that's the same thing in all of our relationships. So it doesn't really matter what the structure is, the hierarchy. Anytime there's more than one person gathered, there's influence happening in all directions. In all directions. I actually spoke just recently to two colleagues who have kids going off to college. One of them, their kid had already left for college, one was coming, and they were talking about how much the home environment shifted when you just take one person out. And I think what it shares is the magic that we each play in creating that environment and that it's not the same environment if any one of those people shifts. That then you have to like reset, okay, what does this now mean? But there is a magic there. So much of that influence too, I think is unspoken and maybe unintentional too, which can be positive or negative, depending. So we'll talk about how you can intentionally make that better and make that positive. So let's slide into our second section here where we're going to talk about why this is challenging for us. So I think that we all are very susceptible to influence and this is why our parents always got onto us about peer pressure when we were younger and why we shouldn't do it. Why are we so easily influenced? And it seems like sometimes we can be more susceptible or reactive to negative influence than positive influence. Yeah, so I guess I think about three things related to this. The first is human nature and it's that we all want to feel that sense of belonging. We all want to fit in. We want to feel that sense of connection to those individuals we're with and we want to feel safe and accepted. And I think that can lead to either that positive or that negative pressure is when there's that drive to belong. But I also think that at the same time we fear vulnerability. And the most incredible moments of authenticity come when you're vulnerable. And that ability to know that your vulnerability actually inspires others and that without that authenticity, there's really no inspiration. There is something so connected to me with being vulnerable, being authentic and inspiring others. And how do you create that emotional connection? But we fear that vulnerability. A lot of people try to avoid ever being vulnerable or ever sharing what's going on with them. And I think not being willing to do that I think also creates that challenge in our ability to deliver the right level of influence. And I think when you're not willing to be vulnerable and say you don't agree with something, or you're not willing to be vulnerable and say why you don't think something aligns with values, I think that's when you risk what happens in an entire group. And then the third thing I think about is the environment that we live in every day. And I think environment is incredibly important. As I think about, and I'll use Mayo Clinic as an example, we take our environment very seriously. When you look throughout our facilities, and one of the examples I think of is when I first joined Mayo Clinic, I noticed that senior administrators were stopping and picking trash up in the hallways. Because they care so much about what our organization looks like and what that expresses to our patients, how it inspires trust in our teams, how it guides our actions. I also think about how we dress professionally, which is unusual in healthcare to see that happen. And I also think about how we integrate art and music and nature. And I think those are the types of things that are incredibly important as you think about creating environments where you're not susceptible to negative influence. It's when you create that environment where everyone wants to belong to a shared culture and set of values. It's when your environment is set up in such a way that you can be successful. Those are the moments where you get the benefit of driving positive influence and you are protective against that negative influence. We're much more likely to be open to influence when we say, "Hey, these people look like me or act like me or sound like me." And which vulnerability does. You don't want to look at somebody else who you think is perfect and then you think, "Oh, well, that's not me. I'm not like it." Or when the environment or the space is like me or a place that I feel welcome and open in. So let's talk about the flip side of that. You talked about a lot of the behaviors and habits that can help set us up for positive influence. What are some habits or behaviors that can sort of kill our influence on other people? Yeah. So the thing that I would say here, when I think about how you kill influence, the best way I can describe it is when you create dissonance. And what I mean by that is when your words and your actions do not align. When you don't follow through on your commitments, when you shift or change expectations without notice or without explaining why you're doing that, you are going to destroy influence because you're creating an environment of distrust. And that consistency of behavior over time that my actions follow my words, you know what to expect from me is something that creates that foundation of being able to influence well. And so I do think that while leadership can be incredibly rewarding, it's also very challenging. And one of the greatest compliments I receive is when someone says, "I knew exactly the questions you were going to ask." Because that tells me I'm being consistent. My team knows what to expect from me. They know the leadership values that I expect. And they want to live those leadership values and that culture and really connect with our purpose. And so to me, it's the dissonance that totally destroys influence. I think that consistency is key. I've talked with a few key leaders and we've talked about building cultures and environments where people feel like they can thrive and understand what's going on. In those atmospheres, it's very common that you feel like you can finish the sentence of the person who's saying, "Here's our mission. Here's what we believe." It's like, "Oh yeah, I know what they're going to say." And that consistency then allows you to buy in and you build trust and then you're going to be open to what that person has to say. But I do wonder, what else have you seen that you think has destroyed influence or destroyed the culture of a team? I think one of the key things is actually not clearly defining what the culture is. And I think culture is something that always exists. It's in every place, every building, every organization, every team, every household, every family, every friend group has it. But only a small percentage of the time do we intentionally define what it is. So I think if we don't define it, it just sort of develops on its own. That can be positive or it can be negative, but it's a little bit nebulous. And so I think that's one of the things that can really make this challenging is that people don't know what to expect. There isn't a bar to rise to or there isn't a standard that we're trying to achieve. And I think when you do that, everybody's confused and nobody knows who's rowing the boat in which direction. And then it's really hard to be vulnerable. And it's really hard to connect with others and it's really hard to influence anybody. So I think that that's a major misstep that a lot of folks make in thinking, well, this whole cultural concept, that's just for big organizations. Like, no, that's actually for you and it's for your family and it's for your household. You like have to define what that's going to be. And then if you establish that as sort of some sort of standard, like if I say, you know, this is our household, this is our family, this is what we believe in, this is how we want our children to behave. Okay, now they recognize this is what I need to aspire to. And then they know when I'm talking to the kids like, oh yeah, dad's telling us this because he believes X, Y, Z, or this is what we're supposed to be doing. So then it makes it much easier to influence people because they understand the pathway that we're on or we're trying to get back onto. So I think that intentionally defining the culture and intentionally defining the direction you're going is immensely helpful in doing this. And then you sort of set the North Star out in front of people and they can kind of go on their own and then you can kind of nudge them along when they start to get off course. So I think that can be really helpful as well. I also think though it's really hard, sometimes it's hard to define culture. I think sometimes shared values can be relatively easy to define, but the culture, i.e. the behaviors that align with those values can be really hard to define sometimes and can also have different definitions to different people. So your point about how you kind of nudge individuals so that you're getting that alignment of values but also the behaviors which is creating that culture aligned, I think that can be hard to clearly define, but it's those nudges that I agree with you help get it there. So since we're talking about relating to others and understanding others and nudging others, I'm going to bring up the concept of emotional intelligence here, which we talk about a lot on here. We kind of define it in several big categories of self-awareness, self-management, social awareness, social management. How do you see this concept of influencing others line up with emotional intelligence? So I think if you don't have good emotional intelligence, you cannot effectively influence. The way I think about this is, to me, starts with really understanding where I am as an individual every day. I think if you're not aware of how you're coming across, what your tone is like, what your timing is like, where your emotional state is, it can make it really difficult to effectively influence others. I will be honest and say that I really struggled with this in my career. So early on in my career, when I was overwhelmed or under pressure, I wasn't handling my stress well and it came out on the individuals I was working with. One of the things I really had to learn, and luckily I had mentors who helped me with this, is that I needed to figure out for me, what does it take for me to show up every day at work being my best self? I had to figure that out and for me, I'll just speak for myself, for me it's getting enough sleep is critically important. For me it's my morning Americano. I actually had a colleague once see me in the morning and I didn't have an Americano in my hand and they were like, "Uh oh, it's going to be a bad day." So even my colleagues know. It means that I only do a certain number of hours of meetings back to back because I need time for a break in reflection. For me it also means traveling the world. I make time every year to go to a new country I haven't been to because I've found that those moments of awe and wonder in seeing a new place or interacting with a new culture is something that really grounds me. But I think those things are different for every person. So I think it starts with figuring out what is that for me? What does it take that I need to do on a daily or weekly or yearly basis that ensures that I can show up as my best self and not just at work but for my family, for my friends, for the people who count on me? So I think if you can do that as a starting point, the next thing I would say is figure out who are your trusted colleagues. We spoke about this earlier is figure out the people that you can walk into their office, close the door, cross your arms and be like, "Guess what just happened?" And really have that honest, safe conversation because those support systems matter because those are trusted colleagues who are going to help you process, they're going to help you reset, they're going to help you get back to a point of calm. I think making sure that you have that cabinet of individuals who you can go to and they can come to you when they're having those moments I think is really key. But I also know, Chris, you've thought a lot about emotional intelligence more than I have. So I am curious what you think about emotional intelligence and influence. I love everything you said. I agree 100%. I do think you have to know yourself. You have to put your own oxygen mask on first. You can't fill somebody else's cup up if your cup is empty. So I agree with those two points. I think you have to start there. And then I also think to layer on the other components is you do have to understand others. You talked about at the very beginning that this is not about pushing your own agenda forward. This is about figuring out what the other person's goals are, values, how they get meaning and how they get purpose in their life. And if you do this really well, you understand those things about that individual. And you say, OK. And then this group or organization or team or family or whatever we are, here are our goals and values and our purpose and our meaning. Let's find where those two connect. So how can I connect the two and get them aligned so that I can influence this person to help themselves and then that'll make them better but then also help the group at the same time. And if you don't have the ability to understand others, you'll never be able to do that. And then it becomes something that you're just trying to do sort of haphazard. You have a lot of false starts. And honestly, that's exhausting. It's exhausting for the person you're trying to influence. And it's exhausting for you. Everybody loses. So as you do this, you become more aware of yourself. You become more aware of the other person. You become more aware with the team or the company needs. It actually gets a lot easier and it's more efficient. So make further progress with less effort or energy. And the way the world's going, we need to do that majorly. That is such a critical point about knowing other people and investing that time. A mentor early on in my career called it building social capital. And it's really understanding the individuals you work with, what helps them tick, what are their values, what's important to them. I do think it helps teams mesh more effectively when you spend the time to do that. Absolutely. And as a part of that process, sometimes I have found in trying to get to know other people and what their goals are and what they're driving towards, sometimes they don't understand. And we're all that way, right? We always don't have a clear vision of where we're headed. So I've often found in those conversations, I've realized, oh, you're saying that this is the pathway you want to be on. But actually all your behaviors are heading down another path. Are you sure you want to go in the direction you're going? And then having some of those conversations, they'll say, oh, you know what? Actually, no, that's not-- I thought that's what I was supposed to say. But in reality, that's not really the life I want. I want to be doing this. And then you can actually help steer them over and get them in alignment with their values and meaning. And that's incredibly rewarding. That is such an important point. One of the questions I often ask individuals is, what are the things you love to do and what are the things you avoid? And I think oftentimes individuals want to be on a certain path. But when you really ask them what they love to do, like what fills their cup, you realize you may think that that's the right next step in your career, but you're probably not going to be happy there. So let's talk about what are those other things that you could be doing that is more of what you love to do? Because I do think that is, to me, the perfect environment is when you can marry the needs of an organization with what brings joy to individuals. And if you can find those roles that do both, I think that's when you have incredible power. And you have to do that with their best interest in mind, right? Absolutely. Because it might be in my interest to have you do X. But if I start talking to you and I figure it out, you actually prefer and are better at Y? Okay, maybe that's a loss for me short term. That might sting a little bit. But ultimately, if we can shift you over and get you on a path to go do the thing you want, that's better for you. And it's better for me too, because now we're not beating our head against the wall trying to get you to do something you don't want to do or not good at too. So it can be incredibly helpful for both the person being influenced and the influencer. I completely agree. You're absolutely right. All right, let's jump into our third section now, where you're going to tell us how to do this effectively. All right, this is a challenge. But first I want to know, you've sort of shared in your journey how you've changed and you've evolved in this space. Do you think this is something that all of us can get better at, doing a better job of positively influencing others? So I absolutely think it is a skill. And it's something that you can build with and you can strengthen with intention. But I think you have to be intentional about that. So now, how do we do it? And before you give us sort of the steps or the actions we want to take, I think this is a thing where we have to first sort of check our mindset. Before we just dive into making changes and fixing stuff, how do we mentally prepare ourselves? What's the appropriate mindset we need to be in in order to be a better influencer of others? Yeah, I think this is where we get back to the conversation we just had about emotional intelligence, how we show up truly matters, what we say, the way we say it. And I think before you even think about influencing someone else or another group, we have to start by checking in with ourselves and where we are at that moment. I think there are times where something happens and I'm really frustrated about it. And I just want to go to that person and have a conversation. And what I've had to learn is that I have to first ask myself, where am I, both emotionally and mentally right now? Am I calm? Am I clear? Am I grounded? Are my intentions in the right place not to express my own frustrations, but to see the bigger picture? And there are times that I will delay a conversation because I need to give myself time to be in a better headspace. And I think that's where emotional intelligence comes in and really understanding where you are in that moment. And then I think once you are centered and you have clarity on intent, I think you ask yourself, why do I want to influence this? What is my intention? Where do I want to go with this? Am I helping someone else grow? Am I trying to move a project forward? And am I trying to build better trust? And I think once you're clear on your intent, then I think you're ready to have a discussion. And I always think, especially we sometimes have to get into discussions that I would say are higher risk discussions because you want to maintain the relationship and protect the relationship. And so I do think it's important once you have that clarity, once you have clarity of intent that you think about, okay, what do I want to say and how do I want to say it? Not to be scripted because I do think that individuals immediately see when you are overly scripted. So it's not intended to be scripted, but it is intended to help you with how do you want to kick off that discussion. And then lastly, it has to be a two-way discussion. There are always emotions and perspectives on both sides. And so you have to go into it with perhaps wanting to set the stage, but then also wanting to be open to the dialogue and that this discussion is going to morph over the course of the discussion. I do think you have to be very careful about not pre-scripting or planning what you think the next steps are going to be from that individual. That's a mistake I've made so many times where I thought, okay, we have somebody who's maybe not hitting the mark. We're going to have to have a tough conversation, give them the feedback, and then they respond in a way that is surprising or shocking to me. And I think, well, if I was given the feedback, I would have behaved like this. You know, why are they not behaving like that? And that's simply me just projecting myself onto them. And so I think that you have to understand where you're coming from, but you also have to understand that other individual and say, okay, I know how I would handle this feedback, but how do I think this person is going to hear that feedback? And what response should I expect from them? Because that response is probably going to be different than what it would be if I were the one receiving the feedback. And I do think coming into those discussions, though, with too many assumptions can also block your curiosity. And so I do think you need to be thoughtful about-- and to be clear, I've done this throughout my career as well, where I go in and I'm like, I'm sure that we tell ourselves these stories. I am sure that they did that because of X, Y, or Z. And so I do think it's important to go into the discussions understanding what your own assumptions are, but trying to create that space for curiosity. You probably should be asking more questions than you are giving statements in these types of situations, which is hard. It's really hard, but I think essential. Okay, so now let's say we're doing that. We've got this growth mindset. We've really thought about ourselves and made sure that our intentions are pure and clean and we're doing this for the right reasons. We've thought about the individuals we're talking to and influencing. Can you now give us some steps to kind of put it in action? Do you have a step-by-step plan for this? I would love to say that I have a recipe or this is like-- even though it's really hard like building IKEA furniture, that there's a step-by-step guide. The reality is there is no exact sequence that works every time in every situation. Every situation is different. Every person is different. So I think your points, Chris, about getting to know the people you're working with or living with and understanding what makes them tick kind of can help you with that. But I do think there's like a few core principles that I find generally whole true. Some of these we've already talked about being clear with your intention. And I think sometimes we don't take the time to actually state our intention. And it gets to your point about talking about the culture, defining the culture. I think it's a good thing to start with. My intention is to help you. My intention is to see you succeed. My intention is we've had lots of discussions about where you want to be in 10 years. And I want to make sure you're doing the projects that allow you to achieve that goal. And I do think verbalizing that intention in the discussion I think can be a really powerful way that we are not on opposite sides. We're on the same side. We're on the same side of the table. And that my role is to help you be the best you can be. And taking the time to state that I think is incredibly important. I think to your earlier point, understanding the audience is important. But I also think sometimes we try to sandwich feedback. And I think it's a mistake. I think that when you can create clarity, there's a kindness in that clarity. And being honest and transparent and clear about your feedback is really important. And that's going to be easier to do if you set the intention at the beginning. If you came out saying, hey, I'm not here to beat you up today. Some of what I say may be challenging to hear. But ultimately, I want you to succeed. If you start that way, then it makes it easier to say, all right, here's the struggle. Here's the difficult stuff. Yes. And then the last thing I would say is give yourself some grace. Influence to me is built over time. It's built in multiple moments. It's not just one big conversation that says whether you have influence or not. And so know that we're human. We're never going to be perfect all the time. And when you lead with sort of that clarity and that empathy, but also consistency, your influence will grow over time. But I think sometimes we have one bad conversation and we beat ourselves up about it. Influence is not one conversation on one day. It's the consistency with which you show up with every single day that you're working with colleagues and working with friends. It's absolutely a process. And you never know when it's going to click. And sometimes it feels like you've said the same thing, five, 10, 100 times, and all of a sudden it clicks with somebody. Sometimes it never really clicks. There's not a clear click to it, but you just see some slow, steady progress. I think you're right. Don't raise your expectations too high that you're going to see this dramatic turnaround or change in behavior, although it happens sometimes. But I will say that it's magic when it happens. Yes. There is, to me, that has been the most joyful parts of my career is when I'm trying to create a culture, when you talk about defining culture of innovation and of willingness to fail and of being clear but kind and giving each other feedback. When I start to see that those words and discussions are resulting in behavior and actions, and I've seen it a couple of times in my career, it is magic. I think it can happen all of a sudden. Suddenly you notice, "Oh, we're a different team. We're behaving differently." I don't have to say anything anymore because the entire team has bought in to "This is who we are and this is the way we work." You hit that tipping point. There's a real magic there. My last question here in this section, I'd like to give folks some top tips or small behaviors that they can do. This isn't always... Influencing people is not always a sit-down formal feedback session where we're going to go through something big and elaborate. I think sometimes it's just in the small little gestures and behaviors that we do. Do you have any suggestions on some small little easy things that we can be adding to our lives that'll increase our reach or influence on those around us? I do have a few. I think one is stating people's names. I know that's kind of like why, but when someone says, "Chris, how are you doing today?" It feels more personal. It feels more connected. It helps build that relationship. Calling people by their name, I think, in those little moments throughout the day is critically important. I also think that, especially if you're in a leadership role, is you are a bit always in a spotlight. People are always paying attention to how you behave or how you show up. I learned this early in my career when I would walk into the department each day and I'd walk by our desk and I'd always say good morning. One day I walked by and I didn't say good morning. At the end of the day, the supervisor came to my office and she said, "The desk staff think you're mad at them because you didn't say good morning." There is a piece about consistency of behavior, saying good morning, I think, or a smile, and connecting with staff and trying to be consistent in that. I also think that, and I will be honest and say that I struggle with this because I'm one of those people that's quick to have an answer or a fix. If you can learn to pause in a discussion and create just a little bit of space, it helps you give a little bit longer for thought. It allows other people in the room to speak up or share and it takes you out of the position of always having to be the fixer or always have the answer. The last thing I'll say is don't just acknowledge the outcome, acknowledge the effort. I think we have teams across industries that work exceptionally hard. We don't always get the outcome we may want, but when you acknowledge the effort, it creates space for learning and it creates space to say, "Okay, this didn't work, but how do we pivot?" I think sometimes we limit our celebrations to wins rather than celebrations to effort. And process. Great. That's an excellent list. I'm going to add one more item to that, Alyssi, that you mentioned earlier, ask more questions. I think none of us do enough of that. I think asking more questions just shows that, "Hey, I'm interested in you. I'm open to learning about you. I'm not coming with some preformed opinion about you, so I'm flexible in this." Tell me more. I think it'd be really helpful. You actually made me think of one more that I think I learned very early in my career that Bill's credibility and influence is follow through in what you commit to. And it's little things and big things. I'll send you that document. Make sure you send the document. I'll check in on you in a couple of weeks. Check in in a couple of weeks. And making sure that you follow through on the commitments you make, whether they're small things or big things. This has been an excellent discussion. I've been taking notes. I almost ran out of space here on my page. But I'd like to take a quick second just to sort of summarize my notes, and then I'll give you a chance to answer the big three questions again. So I loved your definition of influence and starting out by talking about what it's not. It's not control. It's not about title. It's not about hierarchy. But it is our way of shaping thoughts, behaviors, and directions of others. And when you can tie it to shared mission and purpose, it's critical. But it is really focused on others. And positive influence is rooted in intention, all about others. Even though the term is positive influence, it might not always feel positive in the short term, but it can at times that it does. But also when you're thinking about the long-term good for that individual, hierarchy really doesn't matter. It influences everywhere anytime more than one person is gathered, and vulnerability is really, really key. We talked about how to do it. And you said there's really no exact sequence on how this should be done. But some of the key components are you should always be clear with your intention. And I think you need to do that to yourself and to the person that you're influencing talking to. Know your audience. Give it to them straight. You need a lot of clarity. Give yourself some grace and know that this takes time. Sometimes it can happen in an instant, but not always. And then the small behaviors you gave us were great. That list is use names, ask more questions, be consistent, pause in your discussion, acknowledge the effort of other people, and follow through. So a lot of good take-homes here. You've answered our big three questions masterfully over the last 45 minutes, but I'm going to give you a chance to hit each one of them here quickly. So big question number one, what exactly is positive influence and why does it matter? Positive influence is about inspiring growth, change, even that sense of resilience in others. It's about encouraging curiosity, which leads to great things for teams like a growth mindset and innovation. And it's not about hierarchy. It's about belief in people. Big question number two, why is it often hard for us to positively inspire ourselves and others? It's because life is noisy. We get overwhelmed. We get disconnected from our purpose or we get stuck in self-doubt. And we forget that inspiration doesn't have to be big. It just has to be real. And the third one, what practical steps can we take to positively influence others so that they can be their best selves? Start with being kind to yourself and being kind to others. Start with your intention. Listen more than you speak. Communicate with clarity. Celebrate others. Show up consistently because trust is built over time, not in a single conversation. And influence isn't about charisma. It is about consistency. Very well said. And to our audience, I'd like to point out, you know, the title of this session is The Art and Science of Positive Influence, Practical Steps for Inspiring Yourself and Others. And I think that's key. It's both yourself and others. And so in order to be good at this, you really need to work on yourself a little bit first. Get in the right mindset. Have the right intention before you try to go influence others. And be thoughtful and intentional about doing that in a positive way. Roshy, this was an excellent discussion. And I appreciate you taking the time and letting us learn from your wisdom and experience. And thank you for the opportunity, Chris. It was such a pleasure to talk. And I also learned a great deal from you. Oh, perfect. Thank you. So we always like to end by giving the audience a challenge or sort of a call to action. So we want to take some baby steps in this process. And so I actually think you did a really good job of outlining some of the small behaviors that people can take. So I think that's probably one of the best places to start. So I would say to our audience, your challenge for this week is go back and listen to that third section where we outline all the small behaviors. And just to remind you, it's use more names, ask more questions, be consistent, pause in your discussion, acknowledge the effort of others, follow through on what you do. And I would also say take some time to kind of understand yourself and your own intention. Pick one of those things on that list and start practicing that. So just get one down, try to make it more consistent in your behavior. And then once you do, you can start adding others in. So that's it for this session. Remember to live intentionally, consistently better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you liked this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at optimize at mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.