Mayo was my last interview, actually, and it was my best interview. I think the culture, the warmth, the very evident feeling that you get invested in personally, that you're cared about. It was very obvious that all of my interviewers had been thoughtfully thinking about me, reviewing my application, and it was just infectious. Really feels like a family kind of being smaller. Being able to know not only everyone in my intern class, but also second and third years who are doing things that I'm interested in, whether it's going into or doing research. What's been inspiring is everyone's willingness to teach, no matter what stage of training that you're in, there's always more to learn. I've felt supported by everybody, and I feel like there are lots of opportunities specific to Mao that we don't have other places. We get really good exposure to very highly trained subspecialists here. I've done rotations with the people who see the rarest, most extreme forms of things, and I found myself being able to take that back into primary care in a really meaningful way. Being here at Mayo and seeing so many different subspecialists really engaged in trying to push the boundaries of their field, but then also build capacity for subspecialty care in resource limited settings to make sure that children have more equity regardless of where they're born. I think it's just that culture of, like, Let's all learn this together. Let's all get better for patients, because ultimately, that's what's going to benefit the patients the most. I feel like the residency takes a lot of time to learn what we're interested in and how we want to propel ourselves forward in our career. Every one of my consultants that I've worked with and the program directors that I've talked to has made a real effort to learn what I want and work towards how best we can get there. I have been able to tailor my entire schedule around primary care, and everyone is so supportive about it here and is so excited that I'm going into primary care. Thanks to the help of our wonderful pediatric hematologist psychologist in his connections was able to get back to back kind of research electives that will give me a prolonged bench research time during residency. I'm currently doing some research with some consultants in medical education specifically in mastery learning, which is an educational pig that is on competency based learning rather than time. Mayo provide support throughout the journey in terms of conference registration fees, but then also your travel fees, your hotel accommodation, just that true academic support, and that you can be productive in your area of interest and passion and you're supported along the way. Opportunities to teach are endless. It started in intern year where you finally are kind of in a role of an educator for the medical students. Everyone kind of wants to be your mentor here. You'd be hard pressed to find someone who doesn't want to offer you something in some way or want to teach you something. I think I have found little mentorships in multiple different people. My mentor is an interventional cardiologist. I've had great research opportunities, but then I've also been able to pick a lot of brains on how do you blend this with global health? Unfortunately, so many of our pediatric attendings here at Mayo are involved in global health in either small or big ways. A lot of the consultants will deliberately hang around in the resident and fellow work area. So they're literally a turn of a chair away. The nice thing is like you can work right physically next to them and bounce ideas off of them. Rochester is special in that there's a lot of places designed for us to go and spend time together. My co residents have actually become some of my best friends here and are actually people I really admire. We have those Friday afternoons off, and we've utilized every one of them. I think I've been grateful with just all the different people I've been able to meet at Mayo, whether those are my peers, my attendings, mentors, who have different interests, but still are able to enrich your experience in some way. We have the opportunity to get to really know people. Like, I know who sells me my potatoes at the farmers' market. I know the guy that I get my flowers from. And those are the kind of opportunities you don't get when you live somewhere bigger. I truly do think this program is a little bit of a Goldilocks program in that it has everything you can want at your fingertips. Every single subspecialist, every single expert in every field is here at the Mayo Clinic, but you also can tailor it in a way that meets your own career goals. Everybody wants to help you be the best physician that you can be and give you the opportunities that you're interested in. There's been no questions asked about what I want to get out of it and how I'm going to do it, just because we can actually make that happen here.