hello my name is Renee tzemre and I'm coordinator in the historical unit and we will be seeing dr. will and Charlie's friendship galleries their last offices and also the Board of Governors room we are seeing dr. William oral male who came from a small village outside of Manchester England he immigrated to the united states and was a chemist at Bellevue Hospital in New York for a brief period of time ended up in Indiana where he obtained his medical degree in medicine Louise and he came to Minnesota because he had a malaria type disease and he was miraculously cured so he went back brought his wife Louise to Minnesota and settled in the Twin Cities area briefly and then lesueur and then President Abraham Lincoln appointed him as the examining physician for the Civil War recruits for the Union and the board was located here in Rochester so thus the reason we're in Rochester Minnesota we also have an image of will and Charlie his two sons who went into medicine doctor will went to University of Michigan and Charlie to Northwestern they practiced out of their home for a period of time the artifact over here is a microscope the father actually mortgaged his home to purchase it and cost six hundred dollars and it took him ten years to pay off that mortgage as the clinic grew they rented space and so in the next class case you'll see some of the space that they occupied and interesting enough the first building they built was a library in 1909 which emphasized the need for education for the staff here when they decided that they needed additional space of the 1914 building came into play dr. Henry Plummer helped design the building and he's the one that really asked the Mayo what type of practice do you want they were both surgeons and dr. polymer was an internist and so the mayos felt that we needed all our physicians working together for the betterment of our patients and so the x-ray physicians that internists the laboratory individuals and the surgeons and so this was really the first group practice in medicine in the United States if not the world and we were expecting 14,000 patients to arrive and 26,000 were coming and so the building we quickly outgrew and then we built the building we're standing in today which is the plumber building named in the honor of dr. Henry Plummer and on top of the building we have carillon bells and who was were dedicated to the American soldiers we got a question here what was the original name of the library was there an original name for the library or just the Mayo Clinic library was grass right up above on the walls you'll see friends and acquaintances of dr. will and dr. charlie from all over the world they traveled extensively to learn from others and room at best practices here to the clinic next we'll take a snapshot of dr. wills last office he was the elder of the two brothers and he married his high school sweetheart her photo would hurt her photos above the bookcase in there and her name was Hattie Damon and they had five children but only to live past infancy two daughters Carrie and Phoebe but as good daughters did they marry prominent male physicians and surgeons if dr. wills motto was he'd love the truth and sought to know it and dr. Charlie's motto was there's no fun like work so you can kind of depict their personalities just a little bit dr. wills first assistant in surgery was sister Mary Joseph Dempsey and her image is above the door here and she was very instrumental in our st. Mary's Hospital history and over here we have some artifacts of dr. William worrall her doctor will mail and him with his wife on their 50th wedding anniversary him with his two daughters carrying Phoebe receipt book that says private leave this alone case we probably shouldn't put it on the internet right doctor bills passport is the blue sheet of paper and that was well used right it was he traveled often one would travel in the spring one would travel in the fall so somebody was always taking care of business here at the clinic we will show you that President Roosevelt's honor the males in 1934 with an American Legion of ward and it was for their involvement in the military doctor will and dr. Charlie served during World War one as advisors to the Surgeon General of the army Gorgas at the time and dr. President Roosevelt algorithm for those efforts so we have a little looks like a lot of graduation gowns here right these are honorary caps and gowns there's just a few on display again they're from all over the world so you'll see one from Canada one from Scotland one from Cuba so they end up receiving these honors throughout their lifetimes we also had two schools of Nursing st. Mary's School of Nursing and Memphis Caylor School of Nursing and these are some of the uniforms that were warned by the nurses and the st. Mary's School of Nursing started in 1906 and a few years later the Methodist kaler School of Nursing opened both schools closed in 1970 when the Community College took over the nursing program here you'll see dr. Charlie's laboratory coat and dr. wills surgical scrub film both from about right around 19 20 now we're entering the Board of Governors room and it was really in 1915 when dr. will and dr. Charlie looked at the future of the clinic and they realized that they need to put things in place so that the clinic would continue after their deaths and so they gave their life savings to start post graduate medical education with the University of Minnesota and they also kind of did our three shield logo you know the needs of the patient always came first and dr. will stated this in 1910 in a rush medical college address and so that's our first and foremost shield the needs of the patient come first then on each side to provide the best patient care we have education and research so in 1915 they started this post graduate medical education and it was a curriculum of a three-year period and it was really outlined well which prior to that training was not consistent or standardized and then also they invested money in the laboratories for more research primarily out at st. Mary's Hospital and so at the same time they also created a board to run the clinic and so all that kind of came into play and they also set it up as a non profit institution back in 1915 when we they set it up as a non-profit based ended up having a board run the clinic and so this is the boardroom on the walls are honorary awards and certificates of doctor will and dr. Charlie again from all over the world and primarily on this self walled our military honors of the males they had advised the Surgeon General of the army goregous at the time and they also offered care to any veteran who needed assistance that was deemed by the army to have a critical need to come to mayo clinic for that care and I was part of the reason why dr. President Roosevelt had come to visit that's correct ghastly and over here you will see dr. Charlie's diploma from medical school William whirls diploma and dr. wills program diploma so the one is from University of Michigan where William James mayo went William worrall went to the University of Missouri and dr. Charlie went to Northwestern this room is still used on Thursday evenings for the Eagle Scout board reviews and dr. Charlie was instrumental with the boy scouts and so we continued that tradition by using this room for those reviews and as we come through this doorway this is dr. Charlie's friendship gallery again more friends and acquaintances from all over the world but I want to point out that this is dr. charlie early on in his surgical career you can see that there is guests in the gallery observing surgery you can see it's very early on because the nurse anesthetist has no mask dr. Charlie his nose is not covered so it's amazing that people were able to survive surgery in those days here we have again more images from all over the world of physicians and acquaintances I'm going to just pause here a moment to show there was three boats that the mayos owned in their lifetime and with the Mississippi River being so close they were able to take time on the river so a little work life balance at the last boat however the North Star was own during the Depression and they did not feel right having something of that luxury and they ended up eventually selling it and giving the proceeds to social services here at the clinic now we will take a peek into dr. Charlie's office you'll notice it's a little smaller than dr. wills let's be under brother thing right I'm pretty sure that's the case being a younger sibling i would agree dr. Charlie again was younger and primary the first trained nurse here in Rochester Edith Graham and she trained in Chicago area and had a hard time finding the position there because she was told she was too beautiful so she came back to Rochester where's William worrall hired her and trained her as the first nurse anesthetist at st. Mary's Hospital they had six children and their photos are above the bookcase in this room there are two sons and four daughters the daughters did not go into medicine that the two sons did and Chuck Mayo would have been the last mayo on staff here and he would have passed away in 1968 over here you will see some early instruments used by the nails we have a corkscrew a soldering iron a potato masher and William moral always said we don't need a hospital everybody has a kitchen table and you can kind of see the mentality when you look at these instruments Charlie however would get into surgery and get frustrated because he couldn't maneuver clamp or cut the way he needed to and so he would go home and make instruments at home and bring back but eventually they did have an instrument shot at st. Mary's Hospital and it evolved into our division of engineering today the terracotta came off the top of the building it was installed originally and the carillon bells initially were not part of the plan for the building and so when they decided that they wanted to add a tower to put the carillon on top of this building they ended up taking off some of the terracotta so we can enjoy it at a lower level and are able to see it so that's meet the individuals in the friendship gallery many of them are our positions but there's two that I kind of wanted to point out that aren't Jack Dempsey the boxer and Will Rogers the actor were both Friends of dr. Charlie and also we'll look at a few mementos of dr. Charlie's his passport and with his two sons Joe and Chuck and I had mentioned earlier about the involvement with the boy scouts and so dr. Charlie received the silver Buffalo award one of the highest honors that the Boy Scouts award as we entered this room you will notice a desk and it belonged to William worrall the father he was known as the little doctor he was 54 his photos above the desk along with his wife Louise and little moral instilled in his sons that no one is big enough to be independent of others so the teamwork philosophy that we see at male really stemmed from William worrall the mother instilled in the voice that humanitarianism don't be concerned about what others can do for you how can you help others so really foresight full and encouraging parents to the boys here we have a practice Caroline and so this would have been in a small room where the Kerala near would be able to practice and that the whole city of Rochester wouldn't be able to hear the mistakes the caroline is played with the sides of the hands and then also with the feet a little bit similar to an organ and so i'll give you a little good home not a song by a so that you have an idea how it's played and the noise and tunes that come from it so we also have a bell that had been cracked and was discovered in 2007 and replaced so obviously not like the Liberty Bell the crack isn't that distinctive but it did change the tone and pitch and so needed to be replaced these are the collected papers of the staff of mayo clinic and so it was in 1907 when dr. will and Charlie hired an individual by the name of mod Mellish Wilson and she one of the first assignments she had was to organize the library and help them with their manuscripts that they were going to be publishing and so this was one of her projects she would review the articles and publications and edit them and then make them better and send them to different journals to be published over here we have a Nobel Prize in medicine dr. Kendall and dr. hench were awarded it in 1954 the use of cortisone in rheumatoid arthritis patients and they the clinic opted not to patent the medicine because it would slow down the process and not be able to get it out of the patients who so needed it here we have plaster Paris castings of hands of some of our prominent male surgeons from early on and this was a common practice because the surgeons made their money with their hands and here we have some items belonging to William worrall the father now he passed away in 1911 he had a one-eared stethoscope some of the instruments he carried in his medical bag I get off and asked if he was a dentist and I'm sure he pulled his fair share of teeth but no dentistry wasn't his main specialty he was a family medicine and surgical physician so was a horse and buggy so he would get in his buggy and go out to the farms as needed and would see the patients where they lived I mentioned that in 1911 William were all passed away but it was nineteen thirty-nine when dr. will and dr. Charlie passed away and they were four years apart in age they wintered later in their life in Tucson Arizona and dr. will was not feeling very well in the early part of 1939 so he came back for a checkup and was diagnosed with stomach cancer his son-in-law performed surgery and he was doing ok so dr. Charlie went to a medical meeting in Chicago where he contracted pneumonia and died in may of nineteen thirty-nine and dr. will died in July of 19 39 1939 was a very hard year for the clinic sister Mary Joseph the individual had pointed out as dr. wills first assistant and surgery also passed away that year in March but Harry Harwick an administrator for the clinic at the time said we didn't have time to mourn we knew what our mission was and it was to carry on the mission of the clinic