When we got him, he was just a baby now. He's huge. David Gerfest is an animal lover. That's my buddy Max. He's a lap dog. He's a big-time sports fan and a fighter. He says, "Mom, I got this. I got this. I'm going to beat this. I got this." And to hear that out of a 12-year-old is just amazing to me. As I'm just balling like a baby, not knowing how to take this, that my boy has cancer. didn't hurt at the time, not until after the game. Well, he was playing football, seventh grade football game, and he got hurt. So, they ended up doing a full MRI all the way up into his neck, and that's when they found the tumor. The tumor is this white mass that's both in front of the spine, in the middle of it, and pushing on the spinal cord as well. David had an extra oius cordoma, which is a slow growing but relentless tumor. Mayo Clinic neurosurgeon Dr. Michelle Clark removed David's tumor and reconstructed the severe damage it had caused to his vertebrae, but his doctors worried stray tumor cells might still pose a threat for this type of tumor. Uh there aren't a lot of other treatments. Once we realized we could not take it out in one piece, we knew that David had to go for proton beam therapy. Proton therapy is a massive step forward in radiation therapy. X-rays were discovered back in 1896 and one of the first uses was the treatment of cancer, destroying the DNA, the genetics of the cancer cells that uh prevent them from growing and spreading and eventually cause them to die. They'll damage the tumor, but they can also potentially damage a lot of healthy tissue on its track to and from. We can't control where X-rays stop. Protons are completely different, which explains the excitement surrounding Mayo Clinic's new $180 million proton beam facility. To understand how it all works, we start with the protons, which are basically hydrogen atoms from water that are given a positive charge. That charge allows them to be controlled by a sophisticated series of magnets. first in a device called a synretron, which accelerates the protons up to 2/3 the speed of light, then fires them down the line to any one of four patient treatment rooms. Doctors can control how deeply protons penetrate the body by how much energy they give them. They'll go a set distance, they'll stop, and you'll have a sudden explosion of the energy. And so, you'll treat the tumor, but very little normal tissue surrounding it. Mayo Clinic's proton beam facility features spacious treatment rooms with robotic patient tables and threetory tall 110 ton gantries that rotate around the patient to direct the proton beam between the 180°ree gantry and the robotic patient positioner. We can send the radiation beam into the patient, hit the target from from any angle possible, allowing doctors to sculpt the radiation therapy even more precisely in order to protect healthy tissues surrounding the cancer is technology called intensity modulated pencil beam scanning. The smaller the beam, the more accurate and precise it is. If you think of a um tumor like a a picture in a coloring book, the sharper your crayon is, the easier it is to stay within the lines of the colors. And we'll have the smallest size beam available in the world. Uh the most accurate, most precise. And once again, the properties of protons allow them to be delivered in a way that maximizes their lethal impact on cancerous tumors. Since they have a positive electrical charge, we can use magnets to move the beam back and forth and up and down to radiate the entire volume of the tumor. Sometimes we'll give more dose than you could with X-rays. And that allows us to cure cancers that you couldn't with X-ray therapy. Which brings us back to David. It takes like 10 minutes. It's really quick. It's awesome. with a fitted mask to immobilize his head. David received 43 treatments. His radiation exposure plan shows how the highest dose was concentrated at the tumor site while vital arteries, his spinal cord and esophagus were avoided as much as possible. On average, we can drop the dose to the normal healthy tissues by typically 70 to 80%. Eight weeks later, the finality bell signaled David's last treatment and a family's gratitude for the hope delivered by a beam of protons. Oh, I think it's phenomenal. It's amazing how it has come this far. For the Mayo Clinic News Network, I'm Dennis Dota.