Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be, so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. We are all a product of our environment, and this includes the people we surround ourselves with. Anyone that has achieved a level of success knows they didn't do it completely alone. One of the key ingredients to success in all activities is having high quality mentorship. A good mentor is worth their weight and gold. But how do we find a good mentor? And equally important, how can we be a good mentor to others? That's what we'll discuss today in our session titled How to Find a Good Mentor and How to Be a Good Mentor. Our expert guest is Dr. Chad Rehal. Dr. Rehal is the former chair of cardiology at Mayo Clinic where he now serves as a member of the board of trustees. He's the chair of the Mayo people and culture committee where he works on many aspects of workforce development. He has additional training from the Carlson School of Management and the University of Oxford and the Harvard Business School. He led the Mayo Clinic Personnel Committee, has published over 500 manuscripts, and has won the teacher of the year award at Mayo Clinic more times than I can count. Today, we have three big questions that we're going to answer with Chip. The first big questions we'll work through is what qualities make up a good mentor and why do we need one? The second big question we'll answer with him, what are the most common mistakes we make when trying to find a mentor or be a mentor? And then lastly, we're going to have Chad give us some solutions when we ask him, "What steps can we take to identify a good mentor and serve as a good mentor to others?" Well, Dr. Riall, thank you so much for joining us today. Really appreciate you coming on. Dr. Camp, Christopher, thank you so much for having me here. I'm delighted to be here. >> All right. Well, let's let's dive in. So, Chad, you've been doing this for a long time, uh, with a lot of experience, and I think mentorship often can feel sort of abstract for a lot of people. So I think let's bring it down to earth and for somebody who's an expert in this area. What is the simplest most useful definition of mentorship that you can give us? >> So this is a terrific question. It's the I suspect it'll be the foundation of everything we're going to speak about today. To me, mentorship is a relationship that can allow one to be their optimal professional self and perhaps personal self, but that that's related but not may not be directly related to the professional optimization. So really a mentor is someone that can help you achieve the best version of your professional self at all stages of your career. >> I love it. and and there's a lot in there too and you you talked about uh stages as well. So I think that there's some role for it to kind of evolve over time which we'll get into. >> I think there's a a lot of other terms that sometimes get thrown in with mentorship. One of the common ones being sponsorship. So can you tell us how mentorship and sponsorship are the same or different from one another? I think the simple way to think about it is a sponsor is someone that may put your name forth for opportunities be they positions or projects uh or educational opportunities someone that points you to one of these and perhaps puts in a good word for you right um so that's sponsorship as I understand it >> mentorship is different mentorship is not transactional it's more of a relationship that develops over time and again as I that helps you achieve the best version of your professional self. >> Okay. And I think of at times it may be the responsibility of a mentor to also serve as a sponsor but not always. And and so I think it probably depends a little bit. So we'll mostly focus on the mentorship component uh for today but I know sponsorship is a is a big uh key attribute to that as well. Okay. >> So let's talk about I I think a lot of this is obvious but I want to it's worth stating. What are some of the primary benefits of having a good mentor? >> This is a great question and I I think these things are seemingly obvious but they're they're not actually obvious, right? Um we as individuals, you know, are can be are very different from one another. Some people are highly individualistic, others are team oriented from the start, etc. But as we progress through life, it's very difficult to go through by yourself. Just like when you were a little kid, right? There's your family that supports you, then perhaps your friends and family, classmates, whoever. As you start your professional career, it can be difficult to navigate either the technical or professional aspects of your career, whatever you do, right? And the nuances thereof. Mhm. >> Having a guide, that's another way of thinking of a mentor. It's not quite the same thing, but a guide to point you in the right direction, help you answer your questions, >> um, will make it easier to navigate, to avoid pitfalls, avoid dead ends, and to make sure that you're growing and developing and becoming professionally satisfied, whatever your goals are. >> And everyone has different goals, >> right? And the world we're living in now is growing rapidly, right? the doubling rate of knowledge now you know in the early 1900s it it took almost a hundred years for human knowledge to to double and now the thinking is it human knowledge doubles almost every day I mean it is growing rapidly so I do think that we need that guidance more than ever because it is very easy to be lost in this overwhelming sea of information that's out there for us and I think the mentorship can can do that >> it can and I'd like to comment uh on this point you just made knowledge has now become commoditized. It's no longer our role to memorize knowledge. We need to learn how to how to manage knowledge and how to use it >> which is different. >> Yes. >> Right. I no longer need to memorize everything there is about cardiology. I I need to know how to look up the latest clinically relevant data so I can bring them to bear for the benefit of my patients. Same goes for any field, right? >> So knowledge in and of itself um I think the modern technology has taken off some of the burden that we used to carry of knowledge. >> And so on the one hand there's much more knowledge as you just pointed out growing exponentially, right? On the other hand it's hopefully should be easier to manage. >> Mhm. So really our charge now as humans is not to memorize uh everything but it's to learn how to actually use it and apply it. And that's one of the things that mostly differentiates us from computers now maybe not for long but at least for now and having a mentor is a very powerful way of learning that process of how to how to use that knowledge and apply it appropriately. I also think it's a lot of us have had the experience of learning things the hard way and although we really rather not do that some of the most powerful lessons are learned the hard way but that is really challenging and comes with some limitations and I see that as one of the values of having a mentor is that you have to learn things the hard way less often and you can learn the smart way and learn from others mistakes failures and successes. Yeah, I I think that's true. There's value in both as you pointed out, right? Learning the hard way, failing is a tremendous life lesson. And mentors should not deprive their mentees of that lesson, >> right? But help them assimilate the lessons thereof, >> right? So gosh, I tried something, didn't work out. Here are the roadblocks I hit. A good mentor would say, well, let's think about that. What did you learn? >> Right. >> Right. the the the mentor is not uh their parent, right? The a mentor is someone that's that should be helping the individual again achieve their full potential. >> All of us are going to make mistakes with or without mentors, >> right? But how do we deal with those mistakes? How do we embibe the lessons of those mistakes and how do we integrate them into our career development? >> So, >> that's where a mentor can help. And and it may not necessarily be the role of the mentor to remove all of the obstacles. Maybe some but maybe not all. And and maybe sometimes the role of the mentor is to see somebody through those obstacles and guide them and direct them >> and point out the pitfalls. Right? >> Opportunities can look very attractive, but there may be pitfalls that that the mentee has not realized. And I I do think it's the role of a mentor to say, gosh, this is a great opportunity, but you know, here are some of the downsides of it. as you make your decision. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> On it, right? >> Do you think so? I agree and that the the mentor can help you avoid some blind spots and pitfalls. >> Do you think the opposite is true though? Can they also sometimes help you see a little further and and maybe see some potential that you weren't aware of and help you achieve a higher ceiling that maybe you didn't know you were capable of. >> Absolutely. And the classic example is um a person in the early stages of their career may be presented with a not so glamorous opportunity, right? >> And they they may think gosh this is going to be a lot of work. I may not get anything out of it. There won't be any papers on my CV. It's not going to advance my career. Now I may point out well on the other hand this is a challenging difficult task. If you do it, you do it well and you make it look easy, people are going to remember that and your stock in the organization is going to go up and you are going to learn more than you think. >> Right? So >> there's there's gold everywhere >> and and perhaps the mentor's role in that type of situation is to help the mentee see that gold, >> right? >> It's not always black and white. We tend to chase bright shiny objects, but sometimes our bright shiny objects are hidden. You're speaking to my soul here. I I had this exact experience, you know, when I first came back on staff at Mayo. I had >> the chance to work at, you know, some other places and I was weighing different jobs and my I had a strong desire. I'm in sports medicine, so I had a strong desire to be involved in taking care of a professional team and I had another job offer where I was going to be involved in taking care of a professional team from the beginning. [snorts] >> And that I didn't have that here at Mayo when I first started. And I was talking to a mentor at the time and he said, "You know, sometimes even though you may have to work a little harder here, it it becomes your own work and then when you earn it over time, it means so much more to you." And it was really hard for me to see in that position. I was like, "Ah, that sounds good, but I this seems easier over here." And ultimately, I ended up taking the path a little tougher. had to build it and then did but it was so much more fruitful and I couldn't see that on my own in my position and a mentor really helped me to do that >> and here you are. >> So I definitely saw a possibility that I didn't think existed because of the mentor. >> Okay. So those are some of the benefits of having a good mentor. Now let's talk about some of the benefits of actually being a good mentor. >> Yeah. So this this is a great question. So I I can just speak for myself obviously but I'll try to generalize. I think if somebody is oriented towards um education as sort of the bedrock and then helping others grow and thrive a mentor mentee relationship is fantastic because it provides professional satisfaction that I can't get elsewhere. I really enjoy seeing my charges grow and thrive and then become independent just like you know I saw my kids do that right >> it's the it's a it's sort of an analogous in certain ways not in every way but in certain ways helping others grow and thrive and achieve their full potential I find great satisfaction in that's its own reward for me >> we we talk a lot on the humanization project about kind of understanding and defining your own purpose for your life and even though it's your own purpose, it most commonly should be rooted in others. It it can't always be self centered and self-focused. And we have to remember that we're not the only thing. And we talked one of the taglines for the project is that we want you to become your best self, the best human you can be so you can go give your gifts to the world. And I think that being a mentor is a tremendous way of doing that and seeing that. And often times you can get more joy and fulfillment in in seeing that happen to others than than you can yourself. >> Yeah. And uh you know as as you're pointing out not everyone you know will find joy and and being a mentor. So um but for the people that do it can be enriching and very rewarding. >> I think it also it it challenges you in ways that you may not anticipate. It's very easy as you get a little bit more experienced or maybe get a little bit more successful to sort of rest on your laurels >> and and just say, "Well, this is what I've done. I've always done it." But oftentimes when you have that person there's asking questions saying, "Well, why do you do it that way? What's going on?" And I know I get challenged all the time by residents or medical students and they're saying, "Yeah, I see what you're doing, but why?" And it forces me to say, "Oh, why? Why am I doing this?" Actually, that's a good question. And and so I do feel like it kind of reinforces for me a lot of the things and it forces me to constantly introspect and and think and kind of understand myself better, my thinking a little bit better. So it sort of sharpens me as well as I'm trying to contribute and and give to them. >> It really does. >> So what are some of the key kind of qualities or characteristics that you need in a good mentor? >> Yeah. So I' I'd say first of all I'll get to specific attributes but first of all understanding what the relationship is about that the relationship ought to be about helping your mentee become the their best professional self >> no matter what stage of career they're in right um and so having realized that then you think when you think about it what are the attributes that the mentor needs I'd say the first one is listening, active listening, really understanding the mentee. And it's an iterative iterative process because the mentee may or may not understand themselves yet as you just pointed out, right? >> So it could be a growth experience for them there. Um, but knowing what their ultimate goals are, helping them define those ultimate goals and then helping them achieve those goals. Mhm. >> That's the role of the mentor, right? So, if you think about the attributes, I I think communication and in communication, the listening part is usually more important than the talking part. >> Yes. >> And so, I'd say that's number one. But I I I also think that uh knowing how to bring resources to help your mentee and teaching them skills or helping them learn skills. >> One of the most important one being how to say no. Mhm. >> Right. Like like you were just saying with your experience, you were probably offered half a dozen opportunities, probably all good, >> great opportunities. Can't do them all and exceed excel at all of them. Right. >> So, how do you select the ones >> that will help you? How do you say no to the other good and worthy opportunities and do so gracefully without alienating people? That's not an innate skill. No. And that's something that a mentor, a good mentor can and should be helping their charges learn. That's an example of one skill. There are many other skills. >> I love it. And another one I would imagine is as a mentor, even though we said there are benefits to being a mentor, you really can't bring those desires as the mentor, desire for betterment for yourself as your primary motivation to the relationship. you really have to subvert your own benefit for that of the mentee. Right. So, so there is a an element of humility that's required and really an element of submission even of the mentor to to the mentee to be able to do that. >> Yeah. It should be a symbiotic relationship I think. But what the mentor should be getting out of it is personal and professional satisfaction watching and helping others grow. Right. Um now this this is different than being say a a an investigator or a research mentor where both perhaps are writing papers together or doing research together and both career both individuals careers are growing. that's related but different, right? A mentor >> shouldn't mentorship is not necessarily working with your mentee directly, right? It's helping them work with the right people, >> right? >> That'll further their career aspirations, >> right? Even if you're not on the same projects or even directly in the same line of work, to be honest. >> Exactly. Okay. Exactly. You don't you don't even have to be in the same field actually. >> Right. If you really understand mentorship and coaching which is different but related >> you don't even have to be in the same field >> okay >> to be a good mentor. >> All right so let's talk about some of the elements needed in order to be a good mentee. So again I I I think I think this is even more difficult than the first question >> but I think communication skills and again listening right listening to the questions that your mentor is posing to you reflecting upon them contemplating them and and and really working with your mentor to better understand yourself and your goals and aspirations. Again, this is not an easy thing to do, particularly when somebody is starting a career because they're they're they're typically confronted with a vast array of possibilities and everything looks good, right? >> And I I'll comment on our profession, Christopher, as well. In medicine, our behavior is so goal directed, right? So, for example, you want to get into medical school, you've got to do a certain set of college prerequisites. You've got to excel at them. It's it's sort of prescribed to you. Formulaic >> formulaic you get into medical school first real decision you then make is what residency am I going to do right you went through this I went through this >> and then you've got a set of requirements for that then you do your residency you you hopefully excel there then you get a job and then the world is your oyster >> right now it's not formulaic now you've got a hundred different decisions to make and you've got to make them you can easily make the wrong ones if you don't understand yourself >> so understanding yourself and your drivers and working with your mentor or whoever it happens to be, right? To understand yourself so that you can make the right decisions is an important quality of the mentee. >> Very [clears throat] good. Uh how important is it for the mentee to set expectations in a role in their role between the mentor and mentee? Can the mentee do that or does that need to all come from the mentor? Yeah, I I I would hesitate to be overly prescriptive here because this will change, >> right? A mentee may not know initially, right, exactly what is required. They may not know. They have to grow into it. So, I'd say the best thing rather than a set of written expectations and follow-ups and all this. It's not a business meeting, right? >> You don't need you don't need a contract. >> No, no. This is relationship building with someone that can help you grow. That's what it is. That's what you should focus on. >> And and the best mentee is that you know I've been fortunate having mentees in you know many different aspects of cardiology and even from outside cardiology. Um approach it with that in mind. And so I think maybe rather than having clear expectations as the mentee, you should probably have clear questions >> um that that you want to have answered and a willingness to be open-minded to the answers and then some accountability for your actions, you know, and what you're being told by the by the mentor. >> I think that's really important. Typically, after a meeting, >> both parties will agree that, you know, uh the mentee is going to do this or whatever it may happen to be, right? It's important to follow through in that. >> And ideally, you send an email or a note back to the mentor saying, "Oh gosh, thanks for the advice. You know, I did do this. I followed up on it. It was helpful or it wasn't as great as it I thought it was going to be." And then, you know, have have some clear follow-ups for the next meeting. And when that next meeting >> um should be, I think depends. I think depends. >> Sometimes sooner, sometimes later. >> Good. >> Now, let's talk about the relationship as a whole. So we've sort of talked about some key attributes of the mentor, some key attributes of the mentee. >> What are some key attributes of the relationship between the mentor and mentee that when you when you look at a mentor mentee relationship and you see these things, you think, okay, this is this is a very productive relationship and this you two are ideally suited for one another. >> Yeah. Yeah. So this is another great question. It's not always this always obvious who's going to be the best mentor for a person, right? It's not always the person that works in their same work unit or their same line, right? Since it's truly about relationship building, it has to be someone with whom you can develop a productive relationship whether it's for just a few years or whether it's you know for whether it's career long >> and I would say as as you think about this relationship it actually should change and morph depending on the needs right as somebody is is beginning a career their needs may be more intense and maybe more operational let's say and as a growing their career, they may become more strategic, right? Should I do this supplemental program? Should I do that supplemental program? I often get asked, should I do an MBA? You know, that these type of questions at kind of at the mid-career level. More recently >> towards the latter stages of of a career, mentorship is needed there as well. And there's a crying need for mentorship at the later stages of a career. whereas typically we mentally think it's mostly for early career people but that's not true >> right >> um so at all stages of our careers I think mentorship can help >> so one of the key components of the relationship is flexibility and you have to expect and allow it to to change over time that relationship and maybe the frequency and the content and maybe even you come up say okay you're at a different stage now we need to find somebody who can help you with this stage and not I'm not that one anymore >> absolutely and and and it could be that at the mid-career stage, sponsorship becomes more important than >> so-called mentorship. And there's a big overlap here. It's all a vin diagram. >> Um where in the later stages of of a career, it may be you just need someone to maybe open your eyes to what's happening or going to happen. I've often heard that referred to as ethical escalation and and knowing when is the right time and the right amount to say, "Okay, let's let's go to the next step here of this becoming a sponsorship or or reversing roles or finding you a new, you know, so we're going to change things up ethically and appropriately >> um so that it's the mentee is getting the the best out of it." So Christopher to your point about relationships changing, morphing and being flexible, let me tell you an interesting anecdote about one of my mentees who then became my mentor. >> Mhm. >> Uh very very smart, intelligent uh young cardiologist who I helped I think a little bit during the early stages of his career. Um and then he being of course a generation younger than me actually became my mentor and how to get on and use medical social media. >> Ah >> you see >> so this was something he was an expert and is an expert in. I was a novice >> right >> we already had this relationship I said now you're going to be my mentor here >> right and it was a fun and b very productive >> that's amazing. So we talk about the value of >> having a mentor and being a mentor and often times that can happen within the same set of two people in both directions. >> Well, it did in this circumstance. Yeah. >> Christopher, as we have talked about the career growth and trajectory and the changing needs of mentorship. One concept I would like to just bring up here is the concept of becoming your own mentor in a way. >> Okay. Right. >> Yeah. Tell me more. >> Yeah. Because a a very common pitfall of the mentee is trying to become their mentor. >> Mhm. >> And that's a mistake. You can never become someone else. >> And I think that's goes both ways. Uh the mentor can try to turn the mentee in into them as well. Right. >> Exactly. >> Probably the most common pitfall in being a mentor is thinking they want to become you. >> Yeah. Or or say here here's what I did. You should do the same. >> Exactly. Exactly. I think that's a mistake. M um so for someone to avoid that trap eventually we have to realize what our goals are, what our drivers, our inner drivers are and where our true professional satisfaction is coming from. >> It can come from a variety of different places and then to maximize those opportunities. But the only way one can know that is through introspection. Um through trying things, failing at them and also having a long-term perspective. And so this is the thing I want to really bring out here >> is when somebody is beginning a career, I will often ask that person, think about why you went into, in our case, medicine. >> Why did you go into medicine? Write those things down. Do not get distracted by administrative burden, >> this and that and all that other thing. If you're getting despondent, go back >> and remember why you chose this career path, right? >> And as you judge opportunities, judge those opportunities against your career goals. If they're aligned, they're good opportunities. If they're not, then hopefully your mentors taught you how to gracefully say no. >> Mhm. And if you do this in an iterative process, you eventually will become your own mentor. >> So the [clears throat] other thing I the second question I pose to them is imagine yourself in the future. Okay, you're just starting your career now. Imagine yourself 30 years from now retiring after a long productive successful career at Mayo Clinic managing a sports team and all that. Ask yourself when I retire, what are the things I will be I will be most proud of? Write them down. >> Those are your goals. >> And use them as a benchmark when opportunities come up. And if they don't come up, then seek them. >> Right? So eventually if we know ourselves well, we then can become our own mentor. And you know where this comes from. I know you know >> this is this is I was inspired by the meditations of Marcus Aurelius. >> Yes. >> Right. Fourth century Roman emperor >> who wrote his meditations not not for publication for his future self. >> Right. >> So think about your future self. >> Mhm. >> And that person in the future be true to that person. >> Oh this is fantastic. One of the things I've talked about is it's really hard for us to sort through all of the information that's out there. We talked about that at the beginning. And it's also difficult for us to decide okay which action should I take which behavior should I do what's my next step because there's you know our knowledge base is growing infinitely so are the number of different behaviors or actions that we can actually do neither one of those is sustainable for us so we have to know ourselves and understand ourselves and then use that as the filter through which we run all of these decisions and then filter out everything that doesn't apply. and then take action on the things that actually do apply. But I've never thought about that as really serving as your own mentor. You're you're exactly right. And not only in the moment, but also potentially in the future as well. >> But it you're you're right. It really starts with knowing yourself, your own values, your goals, your mission, your vision for your for yourself. >> That's tremendous. I love it. Okay. So, if we can do that, we will be in a much much much better position. So, what are the most common mistakes that you see mentors make when interacting with their mentees? >> Yeah. So, perhaps the most common mistake I see is thinking your mentee wants to become a carbon copy of yourself, right? As great as you are, not everyone wants to become you, right? and uh it's not listening to the to the mente's aspiration or not helping them think it through. Right? So I think that's the most common mistake and the correlary of that is is giving them projects to do and in our space in medicine is writing papers with them. Now not everyone wants to just you know write papers with you right >> that that can provide opportunities for growth of their CV or whatever. Yeah, sure. But that's not really the full benefit of mentor mentee relationship. Right. >> So avoid the trap of thinking they want to become you. >> Mhm. >> Right. >> And conversely on the mentee side, right, is thinking that there's only one mentor out there. And when I think of my personal experience, I I had perhaps four or five different mentors at different stages of my careers. All of whom brought different things to my career growth and development, right? Some on the technical side, some on the clinical side, some on the academic side, some on the you know business administrative side. And the mentee has to realize that the mentor is not an oracle with all the answers. >> Yes. >> Right. And that perhaps what they really need to do is to learn and this is part of their career growth and development. like the mentors, you kind of outgrow mentors after a while as I mentioned and and you may need role models. How to take the best from other people and perhaps leave the less than best attributes behind. >> I I think mistaking the mentor for an oracle is probably a mistake that both the mentee can make and the mentor themselves. Right. >> Exactly [laughter] right. >> Often times I think the mentor might think that they have all of the answers and they know which is never the case. Right. >> And and you're exactly right. I think um listening becomes the key and really understanding that person. I know one of the mistakes I have made or maybe one of the things I have learned and has changed for me over time is recognizing that as I'm talking to somebody who say who's in their early 20s. >> As I get further and further away from my early 20s, I realize folks in their early 20s are living in a different world than I did when I was in my early 20s. >> Absolutely. And so even though maybe I've grown and I've gained some wisdom and I've learned a few things, my ability to relate to that individual's everyday life is harder for me now than when it was when I was in my early 30s, so to speak. So I have to recognize too that there are some shortcomings like even with age comes wisdom, but there also comes a little bit of separation uh from from the young people that that you're mentoring to. So you have to recognize your own limitations in that which I think can be hard for mentors. I I think it's very difficult actually it's extremely difficult. So when you think about, you know, your statement, what things say the same? Well, perhaps some of the technical aspects of our work, I work in a technical field doing procedures. You work in a technical field doing surgeries. >> Um perhaps some of those things, you know, tend to stay the same, but even though even those grow and change with time, right? So nothing stays constant. >> And I think part of our role as mentors is is to keep up to date, >> right? I mean, the technology is the most obvious example, right? That's the most obvious example. You don't want to be the the guy that, you know, the residents are taking the phone and setting up your Wi-Fi for you, right? I mean, that's if they're doing that, then you're way behind the times, right? So, you need to also try to keep up with with what's uh with how the world is changing. >> You have to stay sharp. Yeah. Yeah. Well, let's say you're you're in a situation where maybe some of these mistakes are being made um and maybe the mentor mentee is not, you know, getting along or seeing eye to eye. As a mentee, how do you handle it when you maybe disagree with your mentor or maybe you think your mentor doesn't understand you or is giving bad advice? Yeah, this is a terrific question and I have experience with this >> because I was advised to go into a certain aspect of cardiology into non-invasive cardiology, right? Um I think I had, you know, I think I was reasonably good at it. I vibed well with my mentors and they fully expected me to go along this line. I had another career path over here in invasive cardiology doing procedures and perhaps the hardest thing I had to do as a fellow was to tell my mentor right who was a big national international name I had to muster up the courage and tell this person actually I'm going to go into cardiac cathization one of the best decisions I ever made I never forgot what I learned over here and now as time has evolved. I have integrated that knowledge and that training into my invasive practice doing the specific types of procedures >> that I'm currently doing. >> But had I just followed my mentor's advice and expectations, I know I would not have been as professionally satisfied as I currently am. >> But that takes what I said earlier, right? You have to really >> get to know yourself and that's not an instantaneous thing. Right. >> Right. Not an instantaneous thing. >> No. And hopefully if you do a good enough job of knowing yourself, you'll understand it clearly. But I think one of the roles of the mentor and mentee is to then relay that information. So if you are mentoring me, >> I need to do a good job of understanding myself and then I also need to communicate that to you as well. And and I've been in a situation many times where I've actually discouraged >> a mentee from following my path. When they said, "I think I want to do what you're doing." I say, you know, >> given the conversations we've had and what you tell me you value and I think where you know what really makes you come alive, >> have you thought about this other pathway or this other option and >> think give that a little bit of thought and and see because you're exactly right. It is tempting to try to make carbon copies of ourselves, but there's value if the mentee knows themselves that then allows the mentor to understand them better and ultimately get them on the right path. And the correlary to that Christopher is we have to avoid the charisma trap. Individuals tend to follow charismatic individuals and I could imagine if I was a young Ortho resident I'd want to follow, you know, the charis, you know, the charismatic Dr. and their career pathway, right? But but we do tend to follow charismatic individuals and we have to separate that from you know when they're no longer here or you change institutions and they're not no longer around in your life are you still going to be happy? Mhm. >> So to that end, I I have tended to advise uh my mentees, do what you're good at, not necessarily what you think your passion is. >> And ensure that you like the day-to-day humrum stuff that we do in our lives, which is 75 80% of what we do, not just the exciting >> 10 20%. Right. Because there's exciting stuff everywhere. >> Right. >> Right. So yeah, I think this is a really important uh trap that we have to avoid. >> Oftentimes passion follows competence. You you tend to become passionate about things that you're good at and then because you enjoy the things that you're good at and and so I think that that can be a real challenge. Now, now speaking of, you know, getting to know a mentor, mentee and h that the dynamics of that relationship, how important is it that the mentor and mentee be similar to one another in terms of life experiences, background, expectations? So, in other words, should I look for a mentor who looks like me, sounds like me, uh has experiences like me, or should I do the opposite? Should I look for somebody who's got different experiences in a broader breadth? >> Yeah. Well, I think it depends, you know, what the what the goal is. I'll give you an example. I had uh an African-American mentee. I was not really able to advise her on what it's like to live in our community. On the other hand, I found I made connections for that person who then got the, you know, information that they that they needed. Right? So, it depends. I was still able to function as a mentor even though I wasn't able to provide the ex answers that were necessary there. So I'd say it's only important to the extent that there was there are those type of you know questions that may arise. On the other hand, I think it's much more important to have someone that you can develop a long-term relationship that's professionally oriented >> regardless of your background or looks or whatever it happens to be. Well, I think and that gets to your point earlier about having multiple mentors. You're you're never going to find one mentor that checks all of the boxes for you. If if so, you're you're looking at the wrong boxes. >> And so, but I do think it's important for that mentor to know, okay, >> of of your boxes, I can check these >> and then I'm going to help you find somebody who can help check the other ones. And so, we'll make sure that you're whole uh at the end of this, I think, is is really valuable. So now let's let's jump into our third section where we'll kind of talk a little bit about strategy about how you can approach this. And one of the questions I have before we do this is I think you know you and I both work in a in an academic setting. We tend to think of mentorship as an academic thing. Do you view this as a mostly academic uh space or is this something for all walks of life? is clearly not just academic and I would argue academic mentorship is not necessarily related I mean it's related but not the be all and end all for career mentorship right >> there's a piece of my career that's academic there are many other pieces that are not the leadership management stuff the clinical technical work that I do you know it's it's all interrelated as you know but it's different >> right [clears throat] so it's it's not just for for academic ICS uh I would say the concepts that we've been discussing here this morning are applicable to any field right any field >> medical non-medical technical non-technical right >> athletics artistic yeah absolutely skill skill-based trades I agree everything >> right as an athlete progresses through their career and you know much more about this their needs I'm sure change >> right >> and uh I I would posit that's the Same for any field, right? Any 30, let's say roughly 30-year career arc, >> right? >> Early, mid, late, things are going to change, >> Right. >> Absolutely. Okay. So, now let's tell somebody >> how [snorts] to do it. And and I think this is another mistake, too. I'll say often times people will think, well, I work in a field where you kind of got to do it by yourself. I don't really have room. I can't have a mentor or I'm somebody who can't be a mentor. Um, I don't know enough. And I'm I'm going to strike that down and say they're both wrong. Anybody can be a mentor and everybody needs um uh needs a mentor. So I think it goes both directions for everybody regardless. So let let's say you're somebody who says okay I'm ready I need I want to find myself a mentor. >> Uh personally, professionally whatever you know irrespective of the field what's what sort of um a checklist they can go by or what steps can they follow to identify somebody to be their mentor? It's again a really interesting question and and I think the answer I'm going to give may not um uh be one where you can kind of check the boxes but >> it's sort of like you know finding your own doctor in a way. The best way word of mouth good mentors tend to be good mentors and the mentees tend to know who the good mentors are. So ask your peers, ask your colleagues who has helped them over the course of their career, whether they're new in staff, whether they're just beginning their career or mid-career, right? I think word of mouth is actually exceedingly important. >> Now, one may be assigned a mentor by their division or department at a place like Mayo initially. >> Right. >> Right. And that's it starting point. that may or may not be the ultimate relationship that one ends up with because it's truly about relationship building. >> Not about technical background, not about um personal backgrounds, right? It's about that relationship. Can it become productive? >> And that becomes evident with time. >> I like that. And I also think too and maybe even to back up even before you start asking around, one step would be know yourself like we've talked about. So figure out why do you want a mentor? What do you need them for? What goals are you trying to accomplish? like have some sort of sense of what you're looking for because I think then when you start asking around, hey, here here's the here's what I'm looking for. Who who do you know that would be good for me to talk about with this I think would be really good. >> You know, we Yeah, I I agree. I think defining what your goals are. You know, this knowing yourself thing that we've talked a lot about that's that's a work always a work in progress. So >> people you don't want to wait until you really understand you want to get started, right? Because that will come with time. Yes, that will come with time, right? But clearly knowing what your needs are and let's again choose the early career person, right? It's how do I navigate >> how do I navigate such a huge matrix organization like open? How do I navigate my department? >> Right? >> How do I make the early career decisions that are the seeds that will bear fruit later on years or decades later? >> How do I do that? Right? So you need to know what you're asking for and why you're asking for it. >> Yeah. Okay. So, so now I, you know, I've done a little bit of soularching trying to figure out, you know, why I want to mentor. I've I've asked around. I got a list of a couple names and I'm going to reach out to one of these people on my list. If when I do any recommendations for how I how I reach out to this person and what I say to them. >> Yeah, terrific question. I'd say um there there's multiple ways you can do this, of course. Uh perhaps the least obtrusive way that also gives a mentor some time to think about things, right, is to send send them a brief email introducing yourself, why you're reaching out to them, why you specifically, right, or why this person specifically. Um maybe send them a very very high level overview of your of your CV or or your early goals, right? So the mentor knows you're thinking and you're engaged and it's not just another you know it's going to be the mentor also has to feel that this person can be mentored >> right >> right so so give that impression that you know what you're asking for and why and what stage of career you're at >> and uh if you're looking for academic mentorship which we talked about send them a copy or two of a paper that you've written right >> but if it's more career development explain where you are in your career and why you're approaching them, what your goals are, right? Or maybe you need help setting your goals, but why are you approaching this person? Why are they approaching me as a mentor? Right? >> Okay. And then appropriate, let's say that per you do that and that person says, "Sure, I'd be happy to meet >> appropriate expectations for you as the mentee." I mean, should you go in expecting love at first sight or mentorship at first sight? Uh or or do you go in with an open mind? >> I think you go in with an open mind almost like a job interview, right? It's a job interview. And if you think about it, right? Um why should this person take me on as a mentee, right? Um so approach it that way, right? Tell them something about yourself, a little bit about your background, how you ended up, where you are, what you're looking for. Um assure them it's not going to be a ton of work, and this it's going to be an enjoyable experience working with this person. Right. >> Perfect. So, >> and and I think too, you probably need to go in with an open mind, knowing that, hey, if this isn't a good fit, >> it's going to be best for both of us to to walk away from this. We're not locked into something that's not fruitful for for the two of us. Okay. Extremely helpful. >> Now, what about on the flip side? Let's say now you're the mentor and you get an email from, you know, somebody who who's looking for uh mentorship. How do you look at that and decide, yeah, I can help this person or not? and and if so, how do you make sure that you're going to do a good job in that first interaction? >> Another terrific question. I I think the perhaps the greatest limitation that really good mentors have is time because they get approached by many people. So, I think being honest with the mentee and with yourself. you may really like this this mentee, but you just don't have the time, you know, to to put in and to relationship building and and, you know, the few hours of work that it may take over the course of a quarter or or a year. I think just being honest with them still helps to meet with them and helping them find someone that sort of prementorship, mentorship, right? Helping them connect with somebody who can help them if you can't take it on. >> That's great. And I've been in that situation, too. And I'll say upfront you somebody reaches out I say happy to meet with you and I've also been in the situation where somebody says can we meet then I say sure about what you know because because you didn't get that information from them on what they're looking for then they then they reply oh yeah happy to meet with you about that not in a position where I can take it on or that's not quite in my wheelhouse I'm not sure I can help you but tell me more and we'll help help you find the right person to do that. So I think that's part of the mentor's role is to knowing when I can help when I have the time and I have the knowledge and the skill set and the the ability to help or if not how can I get you to someone who who may. >> Perfect summary. >> Okay. Wonderful. Well, this has been a great discussion. I really enjoyed I've learned a lot. Uh I've taken a lot of notes uh as we've gone through. So I'd like to take a minute here just to kind of summarize my notes if that's okay to give me a chance to summarize and then I'll ask you the three big questions. So I loved your definition of mentorship in the beginning. So a relationship that can allow one to be their best professional self and we talked about we t typically think about in the professional setting but it can also happen in the personal setting. It is different from sponsorship and sponsorship where somebody is they put their name out or their political capital uh put it out on the line for you to to to help advance you and that sometimes that is required of a mentor. We talked about bene benefits of having a mentor. Um you can't do it alone. you you need one. It's a mentor can also help teach you how to use knowledge and how to apply knowledge, which is really what we need to be doing these days. Gives you a chance to sometimes not have to learn everything the hard way, but can also walk you through the challenges and difficult obstacles that you need to. A mentor can point out blind spots and pitfalls and maybe even help you reach a higher ceiling than you thought was achievable. some of the benefits of being a good mentor. The main one is going to be professional and personal satisfaction and fulfillment of your purpose and giving you joy, but also can really keep you young and relevant and help you stay sharp as well. We talked about key qualities of a good mentor mentee relationship and it's going to be a productive connection needs to be flexible and it may change over time and we talked about that ethical escalation. Uh some good attributes of a mentor is that you've got to be an active listener. You need to know the mentee. You need to know their goals and then you need to be able to teach them the skills that they're looking for without trying to turn them into a carbon copy of yourself. So making sure you're helping them achieve their goals rather than using them to achieve your own goals. And then for a mentee, same thing. You got to communicate, you got to be clear, you got to be a good listener, you got to have clear questions, keep an open mind, and then be accountable for your part of the relationship uh to keep it going. And I like at the end you sort of gave us some steps to take to identify a good mentor. One, kind of understand a little bit of why you want a mentor. Second, ask your peers, word of mouth, find some names of who would be good. And then third, reach out to that individual. Give them some background information who you are, what you're looking for, see if they do an introductory meeting, and then go into that meeting with a very open mind saying, "Hey, this maybe it may or may not work out, but let let's connect and see." So that's my summary of everything today and now I want to give you a chance to summarize it if that's okay. All right. So our three big questions that we started out with. Our first one, what qualities make up a good mentor and why do we need one? >> So firstly, Christopher, I I think your summary is is spoton and fantastic. I'm not sure I can really add to it very much. So I I I'll I'll keep this very brief, but I think the qualities that good mentors need to have is is is understanding the purpose of the relationship is to help the other person grow. And how do you do that? You listen. You help them set their goals, which may or may not be aligned with your goals, right? So that separation is really important. You're helping the other person grow. They may or may not have goals yet. your job is to help them think it through. Why this goal? Why not that goal? It gets back to part of our earlier conversation. So, I think active listening skills, the ability to help others grow, right? Not make decisions for them, but help them make decisions, right? They've got two choices here, right? Do you do A or B? What are the pros and cons? How are you going to make your decision? >> Yeah, >> that's how a mentor should approach it. rather than saying I would do a because of these three or four or five reasons. >> So a good mentor is going to ask more questions and they're going to give answers often times. >> Communication skills especially listening is usually more important than talking. >> Ah beautiful. Okay. Our second big question. What are some of the most common mistakes that we make when trying to find a mentor or be a mentor? >> Yeah. In terms of finding a mentor, perhaps the most common mistake people make and I didn't think about this is going to the biggest names in the field, >> right? Mhm. [clears throat] >> They want to go to the biggest name in orthopedic athletic surgery. Oh, it's Dr. Camp. Well, he may or may not be the best mentor, right? >> So, so avoid that trap. Avoid the charisma trap. Do not try to become a carbon copy of your mentor. Remember your part of the relationship is your personal growth and development. >> Right. >> That's a great question. >> And and uh and remember this person is your mentor, not your not your nanny, not your parent. >> Right. Right? So, it's a professional relationship, right? So, you've got to approach it professionally and with a growth mindset. >> And I think on the mentor side, you summarized it well. It's trying to turn that person, I think, into a carbon copy of yourself or imagining your pathway is the best pathway. But the truth is, if you look around this place and other large organizations or small organization, there's many, many pathways to success and professional fulfillment, right? Everyone has a different pathway. >> Excellent. Our third big question, what steps can we take to identify a good mentor and serve as a mentor to others? >> So, we again we've talked about this. I I think asking around, right? Being clear with the person what you're looking for as you're trying to find a mentor. Maybe you're looking for someone to meet with once a quarter, once every six months just to touch base on a couple of brief things. or maybe you need more intensive mentorship in the first year of your career and then typically it tends to go down with time right >> uh so being clear what your needs are as a mentee >> I think that's that's really very very helpful >> and in terms of serving as a mentor to others it's the converse of that right understanding what stage of career the mentee is in helping them with that stage and setting themsel setting them up for success at the next stage of their career. And we didn't talk much about it, but I alluded to it even including kind of like the late career stages. >> Right. Right. >> So, wonderful. So, I always like to end these with a challenge or a call to action for people. We try to turn this sort of passive knowledge that we're passing on here into active uh knowledge put in practice. And so, for this one, I think it's easy. We I think you've made a pretty good argument that each one of us should have a mentor and each one of us should be a mentor. So the call to action today is sit down and ask yourself, do I have a mentor? If not, all right, go through those steps that you outlined in the third section to get one. And then you also have to ask yourself, am I a mentor to somebody else? Odds are you probably are. Whether that relationship has been formalized as a mentor mentee relationship, you probably are somewhere. And so if you're not, then you need to go find somebody. If you are, if you feel like you have that relationship, but maybe it hasn't been formalized, then I would challenge you to formalize it. Talk to that person. Say, "Hey, I' I'd like to mentor you in this. Are you open to that?" And do that. So that would be my challenge to people. Make sure that at all times in your life, all stages of your career, that you always are a mentor and that you always have a mentor in in both directions. >> So can I just add to your list, >> please? I would challenge everyone out there who's listening to this podcast to write down what your goals are, including you and me. >> Write down your goals and then write down your drivers, your internal drivers that will ultimately be the source of your professional satisfaction. >> Love it. And that's going to help you both as a mentor and a mentee. Absolutely. Both directions. Absolutely. Win-win. >> Wonderful. Well, Chad, thank you so much for joining us. This is this has been great uh talking to you today and I really appreciate you passing on your many years of expertise and wisdom so we could all benefit. >> Absolute pleasure. Thank you for having me. >> You got it. And to our audience, remember to live intentionally, consistently, better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you like this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help [music] as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at optimize mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram x and YouTube. This podcast is forformational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is forformational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.