Hello, my name is Maddie Lee, and I'm a physical therapist here at Mayo Clinic. I'm a recent graduate of Mayo Clinic's orthopaedic physical therapy residency, and I currently work in the emergency department in acute care at St. Mary's Hospital. We're happy to have you here with us today for this tour. I'm standing here at Mayo 14's scheduling desk. Mayo 14 is the primary physical therapy area for outpatient orthopaedic and neurologic conditions, and it's also the area where you'll spend most of your time during your residency year practicing. We're supported here by amazing ancillary and scheduling staff who help us achieve our great patient outcomes and patient experience. Follow me and we'll head into a treatment room by the gym. This is one of our treatment rooms where you can perform evaluations, treatments, and we also have the capacity for telehealth. Here at Mayo Clinic, we use Epic for our documentation and software systems. We're standing here in the gym on Mayo 14. This is an area outside of the treatment rooms that you can use to have additional space and additional equipment. We have access to cardio equipment, strength equipment, as well as various equipment to supplement your balance and gait training. We're sitting here in the workroom on Mayo 14, where you'll commonly find staff collaborating and discussing patient cases. One of the unique aspects about our residency here at Mayo Clinic, besides the high numbers of mentorship hours, is you also have the opportunity to collaborate with other staff therapists, residents, and PT students. We're now upstairs on Gonda 15 in the Hand Clinic. In this area, we're in the treatment room where occupational therapists, occupational therapy fellows, and physical therapists work side-by -side to treat patients with shoulder, elbow, wrist, and hand conditions. In addition to this treatment space, we also have a splint room, which we'll head into now. This splint room provides patients the opportunity to get custom elbow, hand, and wrist orthoses made for their condition. And a unique aspect about our hand practice is that patients have the opportunity to get same -day appointments after seeing their specialty provider for treatment and orthoses needs. We're currently standing on the 11th floor of the Stevens Building on the downtown campus. This is where our Doctor of Physical Therapy program is housed. One of the cool parts about the residency here at Mayo Clinic is that you get to teach giving lectures in the physical therapy school and also working closely with students in the lab environment. Currently, we're in the physical therapy treatment rooms in our Baldwin Building. This is one of the practices that you'll rotate through as a physical therapy resident here at Mayo Clinic. This practice serves our community members and employees, and you work closely with primary care providers to treat musculoskeletal injuries and conditions. We're going to head this way and show you our Baldwin Gym. It's slightly smaller than the gym at Mayo 14, but has all of the equipment you should need to give effective treatment. I'm introducing Sam Fisher, one of our current orthopedic physical therapy residents. Sam, we'd like to ask you, during the residency year, how has your clinical practice grown? My practice has probably grown the most in evaluation techniques and clinical reasoning, especially for complex patients. What is the culture like in the Mayo Clinic physical therapy orthopedic residency? The culture here, it's really a teaching environment. Really everywhere you go, there's a lot of mentors that you can learn from, and then in the residency, you get to take that knowledge and practice teaching it to students and other interns that come through. So it's really an interactive teaching environment for all the residents involved. Thank you for joining us on our tour today, and we look forward to seeing you here at Mayo Clinic soon.