Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. We all know what exercise is, or at least we think we do. We're all familiar with many of its benefits, such as getting stronger, improving flexibility, losing weight, but there are a number of benefits that most of us may not be aware of and don't commonly think about when it comes to exercise. These benefits are essential knowledge that can be inspiring and motivating for both the beginner trying to get off the couch and get started exercising for the first time as well as the super fit athlete that's already committed to a fine-tuned routine. In some cases, those benefits can literally be life-changing. Accordingly, the title of our session today is exercise as a prescription for life. Why exercise is the best medicine everyone should be taking. The three big questions we're going to try to tackle today. Number one, how do we define exercise and what types of activities actually count towards exercise? Our second question, what are these surprise benefits of exercise that most people don't think about? And then the third big question, what changes do I need to make in my life in order to start reaping these benefits in order to work through this? Our guest today is Dr. Ed Lcowski. Dr. Lascowski, thank you so much for joining us and helping us tackle this big topic. >> My pleasure, Dr. Camp. Great to be here. >> All right. Dr. Dr. Lascowski is the former co-director of Mayo Clinic Sports Medicine and ameritus professor in the department of physical medicine and rehabilitation and division of sports medicine in the department of orthopedics at Mayo Clinic. He is nationally and internationally recognized for his expertise in fitness and sports medicine. Over the course of his career, Dr. Drkcowski has advised thousands of patients, many organizations, US presidents, and multiple national and global governing bodies as he studies and promotes best practices for general fitness, muscularkeeletal rehabilitation, injury prevention, and injury rehab. Ed, thank you so much for being here today and letting us take advantage of this vast extensive experience that you have and something that I know you're very passionate about and is very near and dear to your heart. >> Oh, my pleasure, Chris. It's great to be here and and talk about this topic that is so important, like you say. >> Good. Well, I'm going to start out with a question that that sounds easy, but but after I wrote it, I realized it's it's probably not as easy as uh many people may think. How do you actually define exercise? >> You know, it's a great question because sometimes when people hear the word exercise, they think of, you know, sweating bullets, putting on something with spandex in it, going somewhere, doing something intense, taking a shower, going back and, you know, really exercise. We like to use the term physical activity. Any anything is good. You know, movement is medicine, motion is lotion. So, anything you do with your body is good. Walking is great, swimming is great. Um, anything, any movement, house cleaning, vacuuming, any time we move our body, we're reaping benefits from the movement that we do. So, to get out of that mindset that exercise has to be intense, it has to be strenuous. We have to be lifting, you know, hundreds of pounds or running a marathon. No. Uh, physical activity is the magic, >> right? What are what are some other uh common myths or misconceptions that you think a lot of people have about exercise? >> Well, you know, I think a lot of people think that it has to be really hard. So, if I'm not running a marathon, I'm not really cardiovascular fit. Or if I'm not, you know, squatting 500 lb, I'm not strong. So, really, it's amazing the benefits that can be gained by just moving the body and and just doing basic things, basic strength training. We we when we work our muscles, when we use our body, when we move, uh we're doing things for our cardiovascular system, we're doing things for our balance. We're doing things for our strength. Um those are all good things and we don't have to do in fact a lot of gains are are achieved with with some just just everyday things, just walking and and you can get the same benefits from walking as you can from running. So, uh again, if you like to run, that's great. But if you don't and you think, "Oh, I'm I'm inferior. I I only walk." No. No. You're going to get incredible health benefits that's going to that are is going to contribute to increased longevity as well as increased quality of life. >> So So you're telling me that old adage, no pain, no gain. That may not necessarily be true. >> Exactly. Yeah. You know, and and you know, people get sore if you do something that you haven't done before. uh you can get a little soreness and all that but but every workout shouldn't be to the point of you know pain that really is debilitating or and that's that that's not the point and your body is gaining benefit when you don't hurt. So uh just the fact of consistency of doing something of moving um physical activity anything that we do there's been studies on people who do ballroom dancing tai chi walking swimming um just any kind of movement that gets your body moving is good. It's the sedentary part that really uh really is the dilitterious part for our our longevity as well as our quality of life. And there's been a lot of studies showing the the the the risks of a sedentary lifestyle. So, we're we're made to move and the more we do that, the more benefit we're going to get. >> Yeah. I I think it's a great definition of what exercise is. Now, can you tell me how much I'm supposed to do? So, what what are general guidelines and recommendations for how much exercise the average adult should be doing in a week? >> So, that's a great question, Chris. I was privileged to work on the physical activity guidelines for Americans and this was a a consortium. A bunch of different organizations were involved. Um, bunch of different physicians and scientists were involved and we called the literature for the best evidence on on exactly that question. And, uh, we came out in 2008 with the guidelines. They were revised in 2018. And from those guidelines, we've determined that 150 minutes of moderate intensity exercise. That's kind of you're working, but you know, you can maybe still carry on a conversation that intensity and or 75 of vigorous. And we hear about HIT high intensity interval training. 150 minutes a week of moderate intensity or 75 of vigorous is what we need to reap the optimal health benefit. So that's about 30 minutes of activity five days a week if you're doing the moderate. Um if you want to lose weight or maintain weight loss, it's probably about 300 minutes of moderate activity and 150 minutes of vigorous activity. So to keep weight off or to aid in weight loss, uh those are the numbers and that's called from voluminous amount of research. We looked at thousands and thousands of articles of the highest level evidence really and uh you know these are these are things that really when when we get that level again you don't have to run a marathon when we get that level you're going to be protected from cardiovascular disease cancers multiple different things >> right and as a part of that I'm curious did did you look into seeing how many adults are actually meeting those suggested uh amounts of exercise. >> Oh, again a great question, Chris. So, so in those in during those times, we looked at that question and only about only about 30% 25 to 30% of Americans were meeting these guidelines. And uh it hasn't really changed. It hasn't really improved. And in fact, in in some cases, it's gotten worse since uh the time I was involved with those administrations. So, about 70% of Americans are not getting the activity that they need. >> Okay? And this includes our kids too, which is which is scary. I mean, we had we had to include in the guidelines actually guidelines for kids 2 to 5 years old, which you can believe it's because we're seeing changes in kids that young. We had to encourage parents and caregivers to to get these kids moving. >> Okay. So, what we're going to be talking about in this session, I think, you know, obviously applies to that 70% of people that aren't getting the recommended amount of exercise. Um, but I also think for the 30% of you out there that are getting the recommended exercise, this is important information that you need to know as well. You know, exercise is a journey. It's not a destination. We can always improve and and and we can always uh get better. And I think one of the things that we we need to to do in order to get better is to have proper incentives and and motivation for for while we're doing it. So, we'll we'll sort of shift into our second question. And we know a lot of the obvious benefits to exercise, weight loss, getting stronger, improving balance, injury prevention, and we're going to have other sessions that are dedicated to those topics specifically. But Ed, I want to hear from you. What are some of the the real benefits or surprising benefits that most people don't think about when it comes to exercise? >> Great question, Chris. It's and you know at Mayo we're doing a lot of research and we like to really research uh evidence-based uh data to say what's what should we do when what's the best practice. So we're doing a lot of research. What if I told you that we were working on a medicine that could reduce the death rate of breast cancer and the recurrence rate by half, that could lower the risk of colon cancer by 2/3, that could reduce the risk of Alzheimer's by 40%, that could reduce heart disease and high blood pressure by almost 50%, that lowers the risk of stroke by 30%, that lowers the risk of type diabetes by 2/3 and that can decrease depression as effectively as Prozac or cognitive behavioral therapy. If we were working on a medicine like that, would I I'd sign up for that. I' I'd wait I'd wait however long. I'd pay whatever whatever. But these are all the effects of physical activity. These are all the beneficial effects. And it's it's interesting and and I know uh that you are involved a lot Chris in regenerative medicine and I have this discussion a lot. If you look at effect size, effect size means that if a re a large effect size is that a research finding has has practical significance. A small effect size means that it has limited practical application. If you look at the effect size of exercise compared to the best studies on regenerative medicine and regenerative medicine is great. We're doing a lot of research in there, a lot of research in that area. But if you look at the effect size, the effect size of exercise is 800 times that of the best regenerative medicine studies. So, so this is a this is a medicine. This is a pill that is amazing. And and as you point out, it's it's for for all facets of life that if you take a if you have if you're anxious and you take a 30-minute walk, that anxiety decreases immediately. So, and depression it has the the facts we've done some great research at Mayo Ron Peterson on on mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's founds that those who are phys though the people who are physically active have less incidence of mild cognitive impair impairment and Alzheimer's disease. Um so, uh mental alertness and clarity of mind thinking skills improve with physical activity. Uh we're also kind of a sleepd deprived nation and uh exercise helps sleep. Exercise helps stage four sleep which is the restorative sleep. >> It that's pretty incredible and I kind of want to spend some time actually going through each of I mean you that's a lot of information in there and if we ever were to develop a medication that did that. I mean that's Nobel Prize and and you know I mean that's revolution revolutionary light lifechanging. And so I I think I really want to drive home the implications of how big that is. And it's fascinating to me in our society today. We're our culture is very quick to jump on the uh not I won't say the bandwagon, but to be very interested or show a lot of excitement for different supplements and life hacks and all of these different things. And so many of those things are expensive and have very questionable benefit. Maybe they help, maybe they don't. Most of them are not proven, but we're so quick to take those be because we think it's something easy. We feel like we're we're patting ourselves on the back. We're doing something positive for our health. Yet, here is this incredibly high leverage item sitting right in front of us that so many of us ignore. And it's hard for me to imagine getting a better return on investment of your time, effort, energy, and money cuz this is it's also one of the cheapest things that that we can do if you if you do it well. >> It's hard for me to imagine getting a better return on investment from anything any medication or any any intervention in your life beyond what you just described for exercise. And so we talk a lot on the human optimization project about focusing on the highle items in in in your life. And I I want to state now I don't know that there is a more high leverage item for for improving things than exercise when I think you would probably agree with that Ed. Totally agree, Chris. And the foundational things work and and you mentioned how the 30 even dealing with elite athletes, as I know you do. You know, you you ask them what they do. They do the basics. They do the basics well. And and and they there's no magic pill. Um there's no magic, you know, everything we take has a side effect. And and you know, we're a very medicated culture and society right now. But these are foundational things that that really change our physiology in a real time in real way. This is uh this is not just oh yeah that's kind of good and oh yeah that's kind this is this is truly medicine and and and again the research that has been done in this we're always when you hear about these new findings you read in the in the paper online and and all it's like oh we're trying to make this work oh we're seeing this works and it has worked through from the beginning of history. I have a colleague who has a something from Cree in 2000 BC showing people walking around and getting exercise and it's you know it's it's really hypocrates says you know the same thing that you know basically movement is medicine our bodies are made to move. So it it it I think we kind of sometimes want the quick fix and we want something that's that's easy. um exercise maybe is not quick but but consistency if we do it we're going to reap better found and longer lasting benefits and and and again no side effects and as you said it's free perfect and we're going to get in a little bit of how we do that and what it needs to look like uh towards the end but actually I want to go back through these benefits you you that was a that answer that you gave was rich and full of information so I I want to unpack that a little bit more um so I want I want to hear some of those numbers Again, talk to me specifically about the physical health benefits in terms of different medical conditions and medical diagnosis. How are those impacted by exercise? Well, you know, the cardiovascular health, Chris, so our heart disease risk uh plummets significantly. So um the reduction in high blood pressure which is a risk factor for stroke the reduction in cardiac uh disease all that is improved significantly with those and again this is all that 150 minutes. So we looked at the health parameters. Now you can be more fit with that greater than 150 minutes and running marathons but the return on the health part of it is is is diminished. That that biggest bang for the buck is getting that 150 minutes. So cardiovascular disease certainly um helped about 13 separate cancers uh the risk is mitigated with physical activity. >> You said 13 >> 13 cancers including some of our most prevalent and common and significant such as breast cancer and colon cancer. So 13 different cancers and again voluminous evidence on this um psychological health. You know, we talked about depression and and our culture right now. Again, there's so much stress in so many ways from our kids to our adults. Um, we're feeling stresses and in areas that we never felt stressed before as a culture and a society. Um, but again, physical activity can mitigate uh depression effects. It can mitigate anxiety. Um I reviewed a paper uh where where for male clinic proceedings where they had uh exercises they made them sedentary for a week and then they they got them exercising again and they gave them profiles of mood states and all these indices and the week they weren't exercising all those went down and they actually recovered right back up when they got active again. So >> do do we understand why so the the health benefits I I get that that's pretty straightforward. Can you tell us a little bit more about why or how exercise has such an important impact? Let's let's talk about the mental health component. So, depression, anxiety, all all those sort of things. What's the mechanism and what's going on there? >> Well, it's a great question, Chris, and it's probably complex. There's probably a lot of things going on, but people may be familiar with the term the runner's high. Um, well, your body when you're active, when you're moving, releases a lot of endorphins and good chemicals that um that make you feel that improves your mood, that make you feel better. So, the runner's high is actually a um a physiologic change that occurs through some hormones and chemicals that are released in our body from physical activity. And when we move, we our body resets itself. It it it um it it gains benefit from those chemicals. It makes our mood better. it it our focus changes when our when we exercise you're concentrating on different things so you may forget about certain things but uh so there's physiologic changes but I think there's also mental changes too I think when we're when we're moving something happens and and we haven't quantified all of this yet and found out specific pathways but we do know when we study people who do who are active they do have less anxiety is amazing there's a bunch of studies on on exercise and anxiety and people who are anxious instead of giving them a pill or something, they have them do a a 30 minute walk and immediately that has an effect on the body. So those those beneficial effects of increased blood flow um increased uh endorphin release and and kind of mood improving chemicals all those things happen when we move our bodies. So >> and to clarify too those things happen not just while we are moving our bodies but but a lot of those benefits continue for a period of time after the exercise. Correct. You're exa you're exactly right. Those are lasting effects and as we mentioned even on sleep when you if you exercise earlier in the day even your sleep is going to be improved that night. So it it changes our body. Our our we're made to move. We're made to move. Our bodies need that. And when it when they don't get it, that's when we start to see some of these other effects building up. We may get more tense. We may get more anxious. Um you talked about anxiety too. Muscles. Muscles get tight and tense if we're sitting all the time. If we're if we're tense, uh, we contract our muscles. If we move, we're we're getting increased blood flow to those muscles. We're loosening those muscles up. We're feeling less tense. We're feeling more relaxed. So, even those things and and we talked about the the effects on mild cognitive impairment and dementia. If we increase blood flow to the brain, we're doing good things for our brain. So, you know, again, in a myriad of ways, we're we're improving things. >> Yeah. Le let's unpack that a little bit on on the brain health. And so, you know, I know there's a lot of data that links exercise to cognitive performance. >> Yes. >> And I think of that as not just our ability to maybe reduce the risk of dementia, Alzheimer's, but also our current processing ability in in terms of how to handle data that we're getting now, our our ability to memorize things, learn new concepts, acquire new skills. How does exercise relate to uh cognitive function now and then maybe long term? Yeah, you it's a great question and everything you said is that that's a positive effect of exercise. So because of uh because of our body movement, we actually improve our brain function. So as you mentioned there's been studies on people with task performance, they'll give them a specific task to do and people who are sedentary versus people who are physically active. The people who are physically active do better at task performance. They do better at thinking skills, at pattern recognition, at recognizing things, at logic skills. So all that our brain is being improved by doing exercise and activity as well. Um you know and again sleep quality that's our deep restorative sleep is a part that that many people lack and when we exercise we improve blood flow to the brain even at night we're we're improving that deep restorative sleep as well. Um, and I think there's a lot of positive synergy in there as well. And I think it's interesting that, you know, doing the exercise improves your cognitive performance. It also improves your sleep. Your sleep improves your cognitive performance. >> If your cognitive performance improves, you're going to be less stressed, which is going to make it easier for you to sleep, right? So, there's so much positive synergy that occurs between all of these things. And if we if we can start making some small progress, it has the potential to compound pretty quickly. >> For sure. For sure. It's a feed forward mechanism. And all these things are interrelated as well, as you point out. So the more we do these things, we're going to reap benefits throughout our our whole body. It really affects every aspect of our life, you know, our mood, um you know, our our our thinking skills, our our sleep habits, our health status. Um it's it's really again there is no medicine out there that can have all the beneficial effects that physical activity has. And uh you know again and this is one thing that I I think a lot of people are neglecting. We're we're seeing that like we talked about those numbers um these foundational things we need to emphasize these more as well in treatment uh and and find out why people aren't doing it to you know to get help them to get the benefit. >> Yeah. You know, I mentioned the positive synergy that can occur. And unfortunately, I think the same is probably true for the reverse. And that if you're not exercising, then it makes it harder to learn that new thing or or remember that fact. It makes it harder to get the quality of sleep at night, which then makes you more tired the next day, which then increases your stress level, makes it harder for you to learn. And so you that that synergy can also happen in a negative way if you don't exercise too which which I think often times we don't think about and we don't realize how that negative impact of not doing it can really be amplified across multiple areas and domains of our lives. >> I totally agree. It's uh you know it's a vicious circle um that you get into if if again as it affects so many bodily systems um both physical and mental. When we don't do that we're going to unfortunately reap consequences of that. What about um our interpersonal relationships sort of our social skills our friend groups how we communicate with others? Has has there been any evidence or research that's shown that um exercise has influenced that? So influenced the quality of our relationships, our joy, our happiness, our our general well-being. >> That's a great question. I I think there's been some studies on mood states that that in general people are more um uh happy with life um who are physically active um social interactions and and that's you know one thing to point out some people like to exercise at a group they they love to go to a health club that's energizing for them it's it's but you don't have to you know and if you like to do stuff on your own and all some people are more introverted they they like to do stuff by themselves that's okay too so but even in for that person who may not socialize as much, it's improving their well-being and so that when they do socialize, when they do get out in a public environment, those people seem to do better. So, it is yeah, it is interesting. We have some aspects on psychosocial aspects of physical activity and and most of them again point positively toward an improvement in human relationships and and again if you're feeling better you can think of your your spouse or your kids if you're feeling good and and you're a role model as well for them. So if if we're all doing stuff together uh I know we used to you know just kind of go out for walks after dinner and stuff together. You're talking about the day you're walking doing stuff. There's something to that and and uh you know it improves everybody's health um and also mental health and also just relationship health. You know and and as you're saying that one of the things I'm thinking about is or a a common um buzzword or thing that people are interested in nowadays is the concept of longevity and and living for a long time and and then going one step further and thinking not just about their lifespan but their health span. that that's another term uh that's been introduced that is is very popular and people want not just a long life but a high quality of life and if that's something that people are interested in it's hard for me to think of a better way to achieve both an increased lifespan and simultaneously improve their health span or quality of life than with exercise. You're exactly right, Chris. Both quantity and quality of life are affected by uh physical activity in a positive way. And again, voluminous evidence for that. And the sedentary lifestyle can decrease two to three years in some cases off a person's lifespan. And uh so it's it's um it's as you point out the the health span or lifespan. It's it's not even just how long we live, it's what quality do we have in those years that we're living. And when we're when we're older, we want we still want to be vibrant. We want to be active. We want to be engaged. We want to be um out there and and gaining benefit. And exercise preserves those faculties. We talked about thinking skills, delaying dementia, all that sort of stuff. So physical activity can keep you sharper later in life, can help you to live longer and live longer with the quality of life. The disease burden is going to be what are the diseases of old age? a lot of type 2 diabetes, heart disease, cancer risk profile. Uh physical activity mitigates all of these risks. So, it's going to give us the best chance of uh a long lifespan, but also a long lifespan with good quality of life. >> Good. All right. We'll start shifting gears here a little bit into our third question of, you know, what are the changes we actually need to be doing and and making in our lives to to reap these benefits. But I want to set the stage for that a little bit. And I I think when it comes to exercise, a a lot of people really struggle with it. I I think one they struggle with the definition, which we you've sort of clarified for us, which I think is helpful. Two, don't really understand all the benefits, which you've done an excellent job of describing that. Beyond those two reasons, what are some reasons that you see folks struggling with establishing some sort of exercise habit or routine in their lives? >> That's a great question, Chris. I I think I think in a lot of cases people take on too much too early. So it's it's not a bad thing to start slow and sometimes you know you hear those numbers 150 minutes or 300 minutes and and some people may try that and they try it the first day and they get really sore and they say oh this is not for me I'm done. So really enticing you know really I don't you do two three minutes you know in the morning two three minutes in the afternoon two three minutes at night and and that's one of the things that we changed in our physical activity guidelines we used to think it's 10 minutes was kind of the you had to exercise or be active for 10 minutes to get benefit no anything is good so whatever you can do is great and and and again that the misconception of it has to be intense it has to be running marathons it has to be lifting you know multiple pounds of weights no just just getting out there and doing stuff. So, the old adage, you know, park further away, take the stairs, whatever. Anything you do that moves your body is going to provide benefit. So, I think getting people to um to embrace that that it's it's not, you know, these dramatic things or intense things, but it's these little things that add up over time and we can start out very slow. Um an example one patient who who uh basically he was in a walker. He had uh cardiovascular disease. He had low-grade cancer risk, type 2 diabetes, couldn't walk without a walker. And we got him, you know, he's like, "You can change this." No, I can't. Yes, I can. No. Went back and forth. Finally, he agreed. The guy was walking like 90 seconds with a walker, but then 3 minutes, but then 6 minutes, but then 9 minutes. He comes back a year and a half later, 250 lbs lighter, and and changed his entire life. He's now working in high mountain altitude rescue in Europe. And you know, he he had me take a picture of him because he said, "Doc," he goes, "you take a picture of me." He brought his pants in. He said, "You could fit two of me in these pants that he used to wear." And he said, "I didn't do anything special. I just did what you told me." He said, "I ate less and I I moved." And and again, that movement was was commulative over time. So all the little bits add up. You don't have to if you don't have time, a lot of people, oh, I don't have time. any little thing you can do throughout the day is going to benefit you. >> That's great. And and I think you un unpacked or sort of debunked a lot of things that I think are barriers for people, you know. So I think often times um a lack of desire uh might be there. But hopefully through this discussion we've sort of we've hit on a lot of different reasons that exercise is helpful. So hopefully folks can find you know something that motivates them and and um makes it very desirable for them. Probably the most common reason I hear why people don't exercise is because they say they don't have time. And I think you just did a really good job of showing you don't need massive amounts of time. And there are ways that you can integrate exercise and movement into your regular life in some cases that don't take up any additional time whatsoever. So I I think that that is a tremendous. So if lack of time is your main barrier to getting started, please listen to this. know that you don't necessarily have to dedicate 2 hours a day to drive to the gym and do all of this. You just find ways to be active in your current life. And it's really interesting for me to hear you say that even a couple of minutes uh can really mean something for some people. And you know, the the the guy said that he he you know, the one that lost 250 lbs didn't do anything special. It was just, you know, move moving more and and and eating less. I think to me what's most special about that is the consistency over time and and that it's you know started with two minutes which anybody can do but then made a committed effort to continually improve. Doesn't matter how long it takes as long as you're moving forward. >> So to me that consistency really is the magic to it. And sometimes I think that can be hard for people because we live in a culture of instant gratification and I I want to see it happen now. So how do you counsel patients or presidents or whoever it is you're talking to that that want something now that you know is really going to take some time to acquire? >> That's a great question. Well, you know, I think the long-term effects. So, so some of the education we talked about just really the found the benefits of exercise and activity, the foundational benefits to look forward to that and and the fact that you kind of mentioned this earlier, the feed forward mechanism that once you start doing it, you're you're going to start feeling some benefits. You're going to start to feel better. Your sleep gets a little bit better. Um you'll be able to walk a little bit more this day than you did the other day. Um you're able to do a little bit more. Your mood is improved. that feed forward is going to catch in. So to get people to hang in there, I I think the education most of all is that it doesn't have to be dramatic stuff. You know, you don't have to change your clothes. You don't have to you can just move. You can just walk. You can just, you know, whatever you like to do. And if you have arthritis, there's low impact ways of getting you moving. There's there's no matter what you have, we can find some way of getting some some motion in your life. Motion is lotion. Movement is medicine. So if we can get people to buy into that, I think they they start and it's not too long. I mean, the the the maybe the definitive effects take a little while, but a lot of the effects of activity, you know, will start to to acrue pretty quickly. You that anxiety reduction we talked about, the clear thinking, the sleep quality. People know I'm sleeping a little bit better. You're not at the poundage maybe you want to lose yet, but hey, you're already feeling better. So that feed forward mechanism is a is a powerful tool as well. But I think I think really that that I think we've kind of the the main thing is we've with the term exercise, we have this vision of a of a buffed athlete and we think, "Oh man, I'm never going to be like that." And and again, to get all those benefits we talked about, that's that's not just the elite athlete. That's just the person who just does things consistently, walks a little further to to get into work, um just walks with the family after dinner, just does those little things over time, they're going to add up and provide a communive benefit. >> Good. I I like the way you phrase that. And I think one of the issues with exercise is when we think of the traditional benefits that that we all know of, you know, losing weight, gaining muscle, getting stronger, all of those things take a long time. Yeah. >> And so I think often time we make the mistake if we focus on that being our only goal >> then it takes a while and those are not bad things. Those are good things. We should try to do those things. But when we're assessing our progress in those areas, we have to take a more longterm view and a long-term approach, which works for a lot of people, but it can be challenging uh when when you're first getting started. So that's another piece of advice I would give to folks that are just getting started. You're looking for kind of a quick return. you know, h how I want to know I wanna if I do something now, how am I going to know it's gonna that it's helping? And I think >> if that's you and you're that type of person, which we all are from time to time, you just need to look at the right metrics. You need to look at the right outcomes. And so those the the quicker benefits you're going to get are the things like increased energy, improved mood, improved sleep. So I would encourage people to look at those shorter term improvements if they're needing that shorter term motivation. And and I think often that can be what sustains them and helps them get started on that pathway of consistency. And then you do that and all of a sudden now 3 months later, 6 months later, you look up and you think, "Oh, I've lost some weight or I've gotten stronger." And so now you're starting to see some of those longer term benefits kick in. So I think it's important for us to recognize what things you're going to see improve in the short term and what things you're going to see improve in the long term and then set appropriate expectations around those. >> I It's a great point. I you know one analogy is is kind of like building a house right you have to have a good foundation first and it takes a while to build a house because you have to get that foundation set you have to get the structural elements set you have to get the HVAC everything else and the you know the the fluff stuff comes at the end right so and and it's the same thing we have to do the foundational things first with physical activity and then we're going to see those benefits so that that completed structure you know as we do it over time but so we're not going get that house up in a day, but the endterm result going to give it, wow, this is what I exactly wanted. This is the the way the living room's laid out, the way the bedrooms are, this is this is perfect. So, if we can kind of have that mindset that, hey, we're we're doing foundational things that are changing us, you know, long term, but but you, as you said, these things take time. We're going to see some immediate positive things, but uh our main thing is to focus on that that foundational reason why we're doing it. Because we build that foundation, well, that house's going to stand forever. So the same thing here if we build that foundation of fitness habits. I know a lot of the people I counsel it's you know they they say hey doc I if I don't do something I feel bad you know and and these are people who didn't do anything before. So they're they're in that mindset now and they're they've reaped the benefits for their from for their body of of physical activity that if they don't do it um they don't feel as good. >> Yep. And and I do think our society is doing a little better job of this. you know, we are seeing increased attention paid to lifespan, health span, these longer term goals, you know, so >> hopefully folks can get away from the mindset of, you know, doing the six week shred or, you know, dropping 20 pounds by my high school reunion or this trip I've got to the beach and, you know, take a much longer term quality approach, um, quality of life approach, you know, think about this as a lifestyle change, uh, rather than meeting a specific goal. So when when you think through that, how do you counsel people on establishing their goals? So if somebody says, you know, I want to lose x amount of pounds by this time or or you know, I want to achieve these sort of timebased goals, do you encourage that or you do do you discourage that for somebody who's starting with exercise? >> Well, I think that you know the main thing is if we do the So I went to Duke for college. So Mike Shasheesky was a coach there in basketball and he had a saying. He said, "At the beginning of a season, we never say our goal is to win a national championship." We say, "Our goal is to play well together as a team. If we play well together as a team, we have a shot at winning the national championship." So rather than focusing on, you know, maybe time limited goals, if we just focus on doing those basic foundational things, you know, doing getting movement in, um, getting clean eating in, getting, you know, watching our sleep, watching what we put in our bodies, watching our stress, watching those types of things, we're going to start to reap the benefits from that that's going to feed forward. Um, I know some, it's just like heart monitors. And some people love heart monitors and and that's nothing wrong with them but but they've you know correlate they've done a bunch of studies shown that perceived exertion correlates almost entirely with what a heart monitor can tell us. So if some people are data driven and they need that and it's a type of person who needs a goal set I I think that's not a bad thing necessarily but I just can I just hopefully that person is going to be more flexible if they don't meet those goals because oftenimes it's hard to tell. We may be going through different things in our life or uh period of life or whatever that affects our physical function. So not making those hard and firm but maybe more generalized goals. But in general I I really focus people if if you do things uh the good stuff will happen and and you don't have to you don't have to really monitor it that much or or whatever. It'll it'll uh your body will gain the benefit. And uh >> that's great. You know, one of the terms that I find myself thinking about a lot and using a lot in my in my life is this concept of process satisfaction. >> And often times, you know, we're all very goal oriented. We want to look at the finish line, but it's probably more important to focus on the process. And in doing so, I think we also have to give ourselves permission to enjoy that process and take some satisfaction in it and take some pride in it, too. And I I think that that's a lot of what you're talking about. And so I would encourage people, don't just focus on the end goal. Focus on the process and establish that process. Figure out what it's going to be for you. Start doing it and then enjoy that. Actually doing the process and carrying out the steps are an accomplishment in and of themselves that you should enjoy. And just like the the gentleman you mentioned that lost 250 lbs, I'd imagine that that be the the exercise and the movement became a process for him and they became habitual for him and I'm sure he took some joy and satisfaction in seeing that process play out over time consistently in his life. So I love that concept of process satisfaction which I think is really key for this uh for people to to help them stick with it long term. I it's a great point, Chris, and and as you said, Ken Cooper said, "Fitness is a journey, not a destination." So, yeah, and there's going to be days, you know, you're going to get sick or stuff's going to happen in life and the family. Hey, maybe I won't get my activi. That's okay. It's just it's it is, you know, you just really it's what you're characterized by. If you're consistently doing something, if you kind of maintain those habits all the uh over time, that's that's going to provide the most benefit. And and I think there is going to be some enjoyment along the way as you see yourself maybe able to get some new clothes because you're losing weight or see your your fitness, your tone level improve of certain muscle groups. There's going to be some feed forward as we talked about with that too. That's that's going to help as well. >> Fantastic. Well, Ed, thank you so much uh for for taking the time to be with us today. We'll kind of wrap up here and I'll give sort of a summary of my thoughts on on this topic. Um, it's one that was very deep, uh, with a lot of rich information. And my biggest take-home points is there, in my opinion, there is nothing out there, no medication or or intervention that is better researched, understood, and more impactful for health, wellness, health span, longevity than exercise. And it really affects every domain of our life. Not just our physical health, but also our mental and emotional health, our relationships with others, our joy, our satisfaction, our ability to handle stress, our lifespan, uh everything that we do. And there's a there's substantial positive synergy that can occur when we begin to exercise and that it starts to have all these positive effects in other areas in our life. And so you can establish that positive feedback loop. If you don't do it, there will be some negative synergy in your life and it will make some easy things a lot harder for you. I also uh was surprised to hear how little you have to do to start receiving some of those benefits. You know, knowing that moving just a couple of minutes at a time I I think is huge and and substantial. And pretty pretty soon I think those couple of minutes you can get them to add up to that 150 minutes a week uh that you need to be doing. So in in developing that system and process, I would encourage people to take some some joy in that process of getting there. Start small. Pay attention to the the quick goals where you're going to see that that quick early return on investment. Really enjoy those and and continue to build. And we started this out with three big questions, Ed. And I think you've done a great job of walking us through those over this session. So I'm going to give you a chance to answer those sort of succinctly for the audience. So our first question was how do you define exercise and what types of activities count? >> So again we like to say physical activity right? So anything counts? Motion is lotion, movement is medicine. So whatever you do that moves your body is going to be beneficial for you. And that that makes it easy too because some people may like to do certain things. Um you you don't it doesn't pigeon hole you into any one specific activity. Motion is lotion. And I know the list is extremely lengthy, but what are some of the surprise benefits of exercise that most folks don't realize? So maybe just give us a few of the top ones that you think people need to be aware of. >> Well, people may think of the heart disease risk and all that they've heard of, but really well, as we talked about, there's 13 separate cancers that can be medicated by physical activity. And also the the mental status effects, the mental health effects that depression, anxiety, all that can be improved with physical activity. and also uh mood states um but also dementia risk and the risk of mild cognitive impairment can be decreased and also as you pointed out a relationship status. So better able to handle stress better sleep quality uh better relationship status with people who are physical physically active. >> Good. And what changes do I need to make in my life in order to start reaping some of those benefits? >> So the small stuff works. So just just moving you know just mo just movement is medicine. So anything you can do to get started doesn't have to be dramatic doesn't have to be intense uh but find a way to weave activity into your life whether it's going for a walk after dinner playing tag with the kids just doing simple stuff and and all that simple stuff over time is going to add up to benefit. >> Wonderful. And we're going to have additional sessions in the human optimization project that go through some of these specific exercises in terms of how to improve cardiovascular health, how to get stronger, how to build muscle, how to how to do all of that. So stay tuned for more if you want to learn more about these incredible topics. As you know, we always like to end with a challenge or call to action. So we want to help folks get started in this process and pick up on some of the easy wins. And my challenge for the audience today, two separate challenges. The first one is if you're not exercising at all, if you if you don't have any sort of plan for exercise that that you're doing, get started and start with two minutes. Just get up and move your body for two minutes. And while you do it, I want you to tell yourself that you're doing it for one of these reasons that we discussed today. So, don't even think about weight loss. Don't think about getting stronger, but say, "I'm doing this to improve my joy, prevent dementia, improve my relationships, reduce my cancer risk, improve sleep." So, think about these longerterm benefits to to see how that inspires you. If you're somebody who's already fit and active and and participating in an exercise plan, you're sort of looking to go to the next level, think about it. When you get to the end of your workout and you're ready to stop, you want to do one more rep or one more set or one more lap. When you do that, I want you to do one more of whatever it is and say, "I'm doing this one for improved cognition, better relationships, more joy, not to make my muscles bigger, or not to lose more weight, but think about some of these other longer term benefits." So, that's my challenge uh for you today. Hopefully, that'll that'll help get you going. So, all right, optimizers, you have it there. Dr. Ed Lascowski just did an incredible job walking us through this topic. Our title is exercise as a prescription for life. Why exercise is the best medicine that everyone should be taking. That's all caps, underline, bold font, full stop. The best medicine everyone should be taking. So, this was a big big concept. Um, a lot of impactful information in there. Ed, thank you so much for joining us today and letting us take advantage of all of your experience and knowledge. >> My pleasure, Chris. It's been a delight. >> All right, to our audience, thank you for joining us. And as always, remember to live intentionally, consistently, better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be, and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you like this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at optimize@ mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram, x and YouTube. >> This podcast is forformational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is forformational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.