Hello and thank you for joining us today. My name is Lisa Ueno and I am here with Kina. And she'll be answering a few questions about her role and experience at Mayo. Can you please introduce yourself? My name is Ka Strobe. I am the Quality Specialist in the Protein Immunology lab that's in the CBI division. For the first question, what made you choose Mayo Clinic as an employer? Was a biochemistry major in college. And I didn't know what I wanted to do with that. When I graduated, I just chose it because I enjoyed my science and math classes. Then my boyfriend at the time, who he's my husband now, so obviously worked out, but he knew he wanted to go to grad school for immunology. He was applying to some places around the country, but I was pretty adamant. I was like, I'm not going to follow a man anywhere, I'm going to do my own thing I was just applying to lots of different places. Looking at through all those applications, Mayo was really like the best option. And then my boyfriend got a job accepted into the grad school at Mayo. It really all worked out, the pieces all fell into place. And then I got an interview and it worked here I am. What is your favorite part of your job? I'm a quality specialist, so it's my job to keep us all following the rules. And I really like the organizational part of that, Making sure that we have everything together and making sure that the processes are all in place to help everybody do their job the best way that they can. I always believe that there's a way that we can improve the process to make the work better. Um, make our lab run smoothly. I like the problem solving aspect of that. And then also there's things we have to do every month, that's pretty standard. Every month, I have to look back at our round times and QC and all of that, but then there's also problems that come up every day. There's some routine things, and then there's also enough variation that it doesn't get boring. What would you like to tell our audience about Yo Clinic? I think that everyone here really cares a lot about doing the right thing. That was something that when I first started the job and everyone asked me like, how's it going, what do you like about your job and all of that stuff. That was the first thing that always came to my mind is that you come into work and no one just phoning it in. Everyone really does care about what they're doing and wanting to do the right thing. You might not get along with everyone on a personal level, but you can all work towards the same goal. Good here, how does the work you do make a difference for patients? Like I said, I keep us all following all the rules, which sometimes can feel like a drag. And you just want to do what's easy and right for the patient. Can we just do this? In my job is to say like, no, we can't just do this. We have to step back and make sure we're following all the rules. Which doesn't always feel like the best thing in the moment, but it really is because it makes sure that we're giving those right results and we're doing everything by the book so that we can keep running and keep doing everything right. Sometimes it feels a little bit counterintuitive, but we get to the point where we're always following the rules. And we know that we're giving the best results to the patient because we follow all of those rules. You share a story that demonstrates how Mayo Clinic provides you with the sense of belonging. Yeah, I again, got really lucky when I got hired at Mayo, I started as a tech when I first got hired. And then I was a tech for two years and now I'm in the quality specialist role. But when I was first hired, I was in the same lab, protein immunology. And the lab was moving from downtown out to Superior Dry Support Center. And a lot of people in the lab at that time didn't want to make that move. They liked being downtown or their retirement was coming up soon. And they didn't want to deal with moving a lab because that's a whole thing. They retired or went to a different lab. There was an influx of new hires around that time that I was being hired and I was part of the first wave. It was great because there were a bunch of us who had just graduated college. We moved into town. We didn't really have friends in Rochester. There was a whole group of us that really needed somebody at that time, banded together and we're friends. And now a lot of us are still in the same lab and we're still really good friends. And we've been friends for almost five years now. It really worked out well. I'm a pretty introverted person and making friends is not my strong suit. I got some built in a built in social group with just the circumstances. I'm glad you're able to have that. Yeah. Compared to other jobs you've had, how does Mayo Clinic compare? Like I said, it's my first job out of college before this have an adult job. I had AI did data entry for a company and I was a cashier or whatever. But I think the big thing, what I already said is that everyone just cares about what they're doing here. That was always something when I was in a thing, I was always been quis. And I remember when the first time you get into an audition quire, like oh wait, people actually care about this. They're not just here for a credit or something. That's how I feel about May versus other jobs that I've had as people are here. Because it's something that they care about and they want to do the right thing and get for patients. For the lack question, what do you see as your future at Mayo Clinic? So loops back into how I chose Mayo Clinic because again, my husband now is in grad school and he's in his last year of that. We're waiting to see when he finishes his degree, where he'll end up, if it'll still be in Rochester, or if we'll go somewhere else. He wants to go into industry so we could end up somewhere else. But when we first moved here, I was like, I wanted to get out of the Midwest. I've lived in the Midwest my whole life, Wanted to do something different. I was a little bit disappointed that we ended up in Rochester. But now that we've been here for five years, I really feel like I have a base here and we have a lot of support in home, and I've grown up a little bit. I know when I was graduating college I was like, I'm not following a man anywhere. I'm going to do my own thing and I think that's a good thing. I'm glad that I had that perspective. But also now I'm a little more settled in myself and I'm a little, I want to stay here and if I stay at mail, that would be nice. And I have a good base here. I learned a lot and sorry I'm rambling, but I'm really happy where I'm at. If I kept being in this lab, I think I can make real improvements. I feel like it really took two years. I've been a quality specialist to grow into the role, and now I feel like I've got the everyday stuff down and I can start making a real difference in changing things. Short term future, I'm happy where I'm at. Long term future, I don't really know yet, but I've got a good solid base. Thank you so much for participating in this video. It was really great to hear about all your insights about a job may.