Fecal incontinence is accidental bowel leakage. There are three main uh reasons that we can lose stool and one is that the sphincter is damaged and does not close properly. This usually the most common reason for this happening is uh following child birth or after surgery. the rectal reservoir or what holds the stool prior to a bowel movement does not expand anymore and that's very common after surgery or radiation. And finally the uh the sensory component where we sense that it's the stu the rectum is full and it is time uh for uh the trip to the bathroom. That doesn't occur until it's too late. uh the essentially the rectum is overloaded and there is no time to make it to the restroom. So those three reasons are uh why most people will have a chronic accidental bowel leakage. How common is uh accidental bowel leakage or fecal incontinence? Approximately 8% of the uh general population has uh this accidental bowel leakage. uh the majority of these patients are women. Uh because of the birthing process, the nerves and muscles are injured. There are other medical conditions that can also lead to patients dealing with fecal incontinence. It's uh obvious that this would be a devastating thing in any one of our lives. Uh we would become recluses if we went anywhere have to carry a change of clothes with us. Uh most patients because of the fear of odor and uh just the inappropriate timing of the uh loss of stool they they remain home uh and separated from their families. The Phoenix device is placed by surgery. The s the patients are in the operating room either under general or spinal anesthesia. It is placed through an incision between the rectum and the vagina. Uh we have a a sizing device that helps us select the appropriate size of the phoenix. Every one size of rectum is a little different and the patients stay overnight and their healing process is usually between four and 6 weeks. What makes the Phoenix device so important is how devastating fecal incontinence or accidental bowel leakage is to the individual. Again, most of these patients are women, but men and women are affected by the same problem. Unfortunately, our conservative efforts are not uh always successful and or only partially successful. And at this point, the Phoenix device is the only option a patient has if they wish to not deal with the reclusiveness, the isolation, the embarrassment of uh of this problem uh and a colostomy. Again, it's only uh proposed to a patient when they've failed the conservative efforts and that again is the physical therapy, the medications, trial of inner stem. Uh and if all of those fail or do not give the patient the quality of life that they're looking for, then we would suggest the the use of the Phoenix device. uh most of the procedures at this point have been carried out in Europe and there were approximately 35 patients that this uh procedure has been implanted in Europe and uh over it's it's close to 90% of those folks uh found uh a greater than 50% reduction in their daily and weekly stool loss. So, it's been uh you know for for these patients that have nothing else to be offered, it's been a wonderful treatment.