We bring value at multiple levels and in multiple domains. It's a very streamlined operation. We do deliver 2.3 million diagnostic studies and interventional procedures per year, and every one of those studies is a sub specialized study, meaning it's tailored for each patient's indication. And with that, we're able to deliver diagnoses to patients that they can't get elsewhere. Patients come in in the morning, they get all their bloodwork, they get all their complex imaging, the CT scans, their MRIs or PET scans. They see me in consultation, they'll get some procedures, and then literally on the third day, they can start treatment. So it's about a 48-hour turnaround. That's our goal and that's why people come here, because it's efficient. What we see is really those very complex problems that haven't been able to be solved elsewhere. Even though it's complex, it's routine for us. And for patients that makes all the difference. You get to the diagnosis quickly and very commonly patients will have a cure they would not have gotten elsewhere, just from that knowledge. Our superior image quality that is achieved through our medical physicist helps us as imagers make diagnoses that cannot be made on a CT scan of lesser quality. Every staff radiologists is board-certified with subspecialty training. This means we have specialists who focus on specific organs within the body, such as liver, pancreas, and so forth. This specialization allows our experts to routinely interpret the most challenging cases, and answer the most complex questions. My mission is take something a manufacturer makes and then our hands use every advantage we can to improve the patient images or the whole patient experience. In our department, we have 29 medical physicist, and that allows us to specialize. In CT alone we have five Ph.D. physicists working to make sure our exams are the highest quality, the dose is correct, we get the right diagnosis, and we have that in magnetic resonance imaging, in nuclear medicine imaging, interventional radiology. We do deep dives in all of our specialties and that is very different than what you would see in most medical centers. When people come to Mayo for the first time, we will have patients tell us all the time that, "everybody here is just so kind." "We don't get this care other places" and you just kinda think to yourself, oh wow. I think that says a lot about the value that we try to give our patients and what our expectations are for ourselves. I'm not just providing them good images. I want them to feel comfortable here. I want them to enjoy it as much as possible here, making the entire experience enjoyable for them here at Mayo Clinic. Mayo radiology has the highest value of any imaging that's performed in the world. We have the most advanced imaging technology. Every patient has a tailored study interpreted by subspecialized radiologist. They also have the time to determine what is unique with that patient and give an accurate diagnosis. Mayo radiology provides in terms of diagnosis for patients anywhere in the world.