(upbeat music) Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. We all need to improve our emotional intelligence. And one of the main pillars of that is learning to manage ourselves. We've said before that the first step of emotional intelligence is understanding ourselves. After that, the next step is managing ourselves. This concept is critical to improving our ability to interact with and impact the world. Accordingly, the title of our session today is "Self-Management," the second step in improving your emotional intelligence. This is the third installment in our series on emotional intelligence, and it builds on our prior discussions, including episode three with Mary Ann Djonne and episode 29 with Kimberly Collins. Our expert guest here to teach us about self-management is Dr. Chrissy Holm Haider. Chrissy comes by our expertise in leadership and mental performance honestly. A five-sport letter winner in high school, Chrissy began a career in rowing while an undergraduate at the University of Michigan, where she won national and world titles on her way to being named Big Ten Athlete of the Year. She went on to earn a master's degree in sport and exercise psychology in London and later returned to the U.S. as a coach for women's crew at the University of Minnesota. She has since earned a doctoral degree in sports and performance psychology with a master's in clinical mental health counseling. Chrissy currently works at Premier Sports Psychology, developing and facilitating leadership curriculum for clients in university programs and bringing mindfulness practices and mental skills training to amateur, professional, and Olympic-level athletes. In addition to her group and leadership work, Chrissy regularly sees individual clients of all ages and skill levels and has been the chief curriculum developer for Premier's resilience program. Well Chrissy, thank you so much for joining us today on the human optimization project. Thank you. I'm so excited to be here and jumping into emotional intelligence and self-management. All right, let's do it. So to keep us organized, we always break the discussion up into three big sections and I kind of have a question that headlines each of those sections. So our first big question today is going to be what is self-management and how does it fit into emotional intelligence? And then for the second one, the big question is what makes self-management so challenging in our modern lives? And then in that third section, we always try to get into some solutions and answers. The big question there is what are the actual steps I can take to finally master my ability to manage myself? So I think it's going to be challenging, but I think you're up for the challenge. You ready? I'm always up for the challenge. All right, all right, let's do it. So let's dive into this first section and we'll start with some definitions. So for you as an expert in the field, how do you define self-management? Sure. So I think self-management, there's a huge initial step to that, which is self-awareness, understanding your emotions, identifying your emotions, but self-management is really the action piece with it. Emotions are what move and motivate us. Emotions move and motivate all share the same Latin root, emovare, which means to move. And so taking that time to use those emotions versus blocking them out allows us to really learn how to interpret and leverage our emotions and take action and really have the awareness and then control of what moves you. You know, as our listeners know, action is one of my favorite words. I think that we spend so much time thinking about things and learning about things. That's important. We have to do that. But if we don't take that next step and then actually act on the things we learn, we're selling ourselves short. So I love your thought. It's sort of taking the self-awareness is the awareness of the knowledge and then self-management is the next step of actually taking action on that, which is great. So speaking of, how does self-management differ from just discipline and self-control? Is that same or different? Yeah, that's a really good question because I think on that note of taking action, sometimes the assumption is that we're really rigid with that. Like you have to be super strict, you have to be super rigid in terms of the action that you take. And so yes, there may be a little bit of discipline involved and the discipline I think would be really in taking the time to slow down and tune into your emotions versus blocking them out. So it's really using the emotions to find accurate solutions to what you need to do next, because emotions are signals, they're giving us feedback, they're telling us to pay attention to something. And there really is, and we'll get more into this today, there really is a mind and body aspect to experiencing emotions. And so I would like to think that action has a little bit more flexibility and adaptability versus that rigidity that can sometimes come with discipline and self-control. Yeah, I agree with you. Discipline and self-control sometimes have that negative connotation to it. Like it is rigid, it's kind of painful, you're reluctant to do it, you don't want to do it, you wish you didn't have to. We all need discipline and self-control, but I would say, I think self-management, it's not just about pain and suffering and withholding from yourself. It's really just about being intentional and setting that intention on how you're going to behave and what you're going to do next. It doesn't necessarily mean that it has to be painful or difficult. Correct. And I think this is something that we all think, okay, yeah, this is probably important for me and some of the benefits of this are obvious, but why is it important for me to do a better job of managing myself and my behaviors? Yeah, so I think that you hit it right there, nail on the head in terms of being intentional with how you're going about your day. I know from a human performance standpoint, we are pretty hardwired to be negative. There's data shows it's anywhere, we have anywhere from 16,000 to 60,000 thoughts a day and about 85% of those are negative and repetitive. And if you think, you know, we can look at that number and say, gosh, how are we going to get through our day with all these negative thoughts? But it really roots from survival. If you think back to the cave person days, is the saber-toothed tiger coming after me, my running out of resources, like we had to be paying attention to those things to survive. But nowadays we're not facing those kinds of threats to our life challenges. It's more threat to our ego. And so, but that mode of operation is still pretty automatic. I mean, to give you an example, to even just feel it, if you were to imagine that there was a bear in the room, Chris, and you know, no matter what we're talking about, you're always going to have one eye on that bear. And if it starts to move, it's not, all right, Chrissy, we're going to reschedule our podcast. Let's talk to you later. It's like, you're out of there, right? It's this innate thing that we all have. And so we have to be really aware of that if we don't want to just go on automatic. And so being those initial emotions that might come up when we're disappointed or frustrated, you know, we could talk about the positive emotions as well, but just knowing that the negative ones are probably going to come up more quickly or be more accessible. Do we need to linger there? Do we really need to be fearful of that thing that's coming up for us? Or can we slow down, make adjustments, and take action in a way that moves us towards our values or our goals? And so it's that that slowing down process is so important to be able to work with our natural instincts to be more on guard for threats and things in our environment. It is so frustrating, but maybe necessary that our thoughts lean towards the negative so much, and that we are always constantly looking out for threats. And, you know, that is something that I think maybe now more so than ever that the threats are different than what they used to be, obviously for us. And I think that we do have to be more intentional about sorting through those, which is what you're talking about. It's kind of reflecting and making the decision, okay, I'm having these negative thoughts or I'm viewing these threats. Is this something that I need to give credence to? Do I need to give my time and attention and effort to? And I think our tendency to not sort through what we have to pay attention to and what it's rooted, that leads to a lot of the issues we're dealing with now with languishing and burnout and even depression and anxiety. And so in some respects, our ability to take agency over that to know, okay, my mind is going to drift towards the negative. That's sort of how I'm wired. We're all wired as humans, but I'm going to take agency and make the decision on whether or not I'm going to act in that way, I think is really important. When we start to talk about the concepts of emotional intelligence and self-management, you know, it's got the word management in there. And we often think about this is something, well, this is really important for leaders and CEOs. And I think that that's true. But does this just apply to leaders and CEOs that are overseeing teams or organizations? Absolutely not. I think it applies to everyone, right? We're all humans. We're all going to be excited about certain things, triggered by certain things. We have really important relationships in our life, important work. And if we're not aware that we're going to be reactive and not navigating our day that we want to. So I think anybody with a pulse can probably benefit from some of this work. A lot of the stuff we talk about in human optimization, we try to touch on universal concepts that really apply to every aspect of our life and every domain of our life and every human. And this is definitely one of them, in my opinion, no matter what you do, no matter what your goals are, no matter what your starting point, this is something that we all should strive to be better at and to master. And once you do this, it sort of becomes a foundation that then allows you to achieve other levels of performance beyond it. Correct. Good. All right. So speaking of setting the foundation and achievement, what are some of the things that we could expect? What are some of the benefits that we would get in return if we were to become masters at managing ourselves? Yeah, I think just overall, increasing your ability to handle the stressors and the challenges of your day, to make better decisions, to feel more joy and connection with those that are important to you and the work that you do in your life. Really, the possibilities are endless because it's a certain openness that shifts with self-management where you go from the survival mode that I had mentioned to more of like, "Okay, I'm present. I'm ready to take on my day," kind of more of that challenge mode. It's whatever I think is most important to the listeners today. You will come at it with some more intention and openness. And so in that way is the possibilities. The benefits are endless. And I think if we can do that ourselves, the term is self-management. It's obviously focused on yourself. But if you can do those things, if you can increase your tolerance to stress, increase your stress threshold, increase your joy, improve your connection and be more open, that is really going to set you up to have much better interactions with other people as the follow-up step, which is one of the core tenets that we talk about here is that we want to improve ourselves. We want to be our best selves so that we can go positively influence others as well. And so I agree. I think it improves relationships and it improves authenticity. People are going to understand you better. You're going to understand them better, increase creativity, higher job satisfaction, productivity, a lot of different areas of our lives. Yeah, absolutely. And one of my favorite quotes, and we've actually used it a few times on this, is Victor Frankel. So between stimulus and response, there's a space. And in that space is our power to choose our response. And our response lies our growth and freedom. And I think that that quote lines up well with what we're talking about today. So how does that relate to the concept of self-management in your mind? Yeah. So I want to just point out first, how there's so much wisdom that comes from Victor Frankel and just knowing how much adversity he went through and that the wisdom that came through something that was really challenging in the Holocaust, of course. But I can imagine that he experienced some pretty negative emotions, some pretty challenging emotions. And I think what a prime example of self-management right there, of let me slow down, let me be intentional and do what I can working with the adversity that comes my way. So I just want to name that. But in terms of how it works into emotional intelligence, a really simple kind of framework that I use with the clients that I'm working with is, and this can be for anybody, is awareness, acceptance, and action. And the piece that this really speaks to is that moment of acceptance of, okay, let me slow down, let me pay attention. What is my emotion telling me right now? Am I feeling overwhelmed? Am I feeling lonely, stretched beyond belief? What can I do about that versus just sitting in that emotion and, okay, it's going to ruin the rest of my day and impact my relationships and my interactions with others and my ability to focus and get tests done. So it's that taking that time and really being, I think, curious about the emotional experience. And with curiosity, there is, this curiosity is possibility, right? It's inspiration, it's creativity to then move from a place of feeling kind of stuck or in your feelings, so to speak, as the young kids say, and more to this place of action. So I think that really speaks to that super important step of acceptance and the awareness, acceptance, action, progression, to help self-manage. That's perfect. And I like the term acceptance too, because that is a relatively unemotional or nonjudgmental word, right? And I think so often, when we reflect on what our emotion is, we often judge it. And our first reaction is, "I shouldn't have said that," or, "I shouldn't have felt that way," or, "I shouldn't be feeling this," or, "That's bad, that's good." In a reality, what we should be doing is, "No, let's not put a label on it. Let's just figure out what it is. Use it as information." We've talked about being an emotional scientist on here, like, "This is just data that I'm taking it, and I'm going to then use this data and make a decision on how I'm going to respond next, what my management is going to be or what my action is going to be." And if I can give a quick example for the listeners here to please, yes, you know what acceptance is like, and then leaning on that curiosity. Let's say, Chris, if I had a... How do you feel about spiders? So, I am the official spider killer in our house. It is one of my titles, and I am very proud of that. I don't feel comfortable with them, but over years of spider killing, I have built up a little bit of confidence, and so I know when duty calls, I'm there, I'm ready, and I'll go for it. Ready to go. Okay, so imagine that you've got your hand out here, and everyone listening can kind of do this, but your hand out in front of you. Imagine that I put a big hairy spider in your hand. Oh, I'm not that comfortable. Okay. What would you do? What would you do? I would get rid of it immediately. Right, get rid of it. Exactly. Yeah. Knock it, right? Spider killer. Okay, now let's say I put that spider in your hand, and I say, "All right, get really curious about it. Really look at it. How many eyes does it have? Is it smooth? Is it hairy? Does it have a name? What do you think would happen?" Yeah, much more calm, but I would still have a little hesitant. It would take me a minute, to be honest with you, but I would be more calm about it. And you wouldn't have to love it, but notice that you're leaning in, you're holding on to that spider heck of a lot longer than the initial, "Ugh, get rid of it." Right. Now, how many things in our life do we treat like a spider? Emotions, experiences, do we treat like the spider where we, "Ugh, I don't want to experience it. Get rid of it." Now, probably a lot. And the challenge with that is that we're cutting off the growth. We're cutting off the learning, right? Victor Frankl talked about growth and freedom. If you can lean in, it increases your capacity to, "Hey, let me really look at this and see if there's things that I can learn from, that I can uncover." But it keeps you in the moment for longer, which is the whole goal of self-management is to be present. And not only to be present and stay in that moment longer, but you're right. If we throw that spider off, it's going to come back to us, right? So if we throw that emotion off, it's going to come back and then we do it again. And so you're in this never-ending cycle of throwing these emotions off, never actually accepting them and acting on them too. So I think the sooner we can do that, sooner we understand that and we can move forward, not only in that moment, but really going forward for the rest of our lives. Yeah. That's hard for us though as humans. So let's use that to slide into the second section where we're going to talk about why this is so challenging. Self-management is so challenging for us. So as a society, how are we doing at self-management? What grade would you give us? Well, if there's no opportunities for extra credit, I would say probably a C minus. Oh, I was thinking D plus, so we're close on that. Okay. Okay. Good. Yes. And why might that be? I think that in some ways, we have gotten better at being able to express our emotions or there's maybe more emotions that are accepted as a society. In my mind, I'm thinking about just the research around Gen Z for example. They tend to be much more empathetic towards societal issues, much more expressive about mental health and wellness, which are all really great things. However, we also see that mental health disorders are higher than they've ever been. Now, part of it is probably that, yes, there's some awareness around it. People are speaking about it, but I also think they're in some ways over identifying with it. And so they're missing the piece of acceptance and action. It's the awareness. Okay. I'm feeling anxious. I'm feeling stressed. I'm upset, but what do I do about it? And I think it's in combination of, right, we have the, we know we're experiencing these emotions, but then we're in this environment society where it's fast paced, there's constant distractions, instant, we're wanting instant gratification, lack of attention span to really take the time to sit in that emotion, learn about it, and then take that action and follow through. I think the follow through piece is really missing, which is what I think takes that great emotional sensitivity and actually makes it a strength overused and creates some problems for us. But I'm hopeful, I'm hopeful that we can turn things around. We can't. You're going to tell us how. So we're going to do it today. So you're saying, you feel like maybe our self-awareness might be improving overall as a society. Like we're maybe trending in a positive direction there on how aware we are of what's going on and what we're feeling. Yes, I would say that, and we can get into this a little bit more, I think later, but there are levels of self-awareness and the initial one is, okay, what am I thinking or feeling? But the impact of that, you really have to go a little bit deeper. What's that impact on myself and my ability to perform? What's that impact on those around me and their ability to perform and how they interact with me? That piece, I think, is missing. It's a lot of, this is my, and I don't want to totally call out Gen Z because I think that there's a lot of that involved, but that's a prime example of maybe the self-awareness is there, but the first layer, and we could go a little bit deeper. And it's hard. It's hard to take the time to do that when there's so many distractions around us, so much stimuli that we're experiencing. And then within that, and maybe we go a little bit more into this as well, is a lack of real connection too that can deplete us and prevent us from being able to have the capacity to self-manage. Yeah, that's a great point. And I think being self-aware is great, but it's only as good as your ability to then do something with that information. And so that second step we're struggling with on the management part to say, okay, I am aware of this. Now what do I do with it? Rather than letting it, because if you don't know what to do with it, sometimes it can be overwhelming and you tend to be more judgmental rather than scientific and it can be a real struggle. So I think coupling the awareness with the management is really critical for us. So you mentioned kind of generational changes and why folks may be getting better at the awareness piece. What do you think are some of the big things in our current modern world or society that is preventing us from doing a good job of managing it? Yeah, the lens I like to look at from this is one that comes from evolutionary psychology and just looking at connection. And if you look at the whole span of human existence so far, most of the time we have lived and traveled in groups and tribes. And for those that are listening, if you were to imagine like a foot, a teeny piece of that in the entire foot, that is we're living and existing in groups or tribes. Except for maybe a half inch of that time. And the shift that came from that was a switch to agriculture to have consistent food bases versus traveling around together. And so people started to get a little more spread out with the industrial revolution and having access to cars were able to spread out even more. And now with modern day technology, everyone's a phone or phone call or FaceTime away. And so what we're seeing is that yes, we're theoretically more connected because we're always texting, we're always calling, Snapchatting, social media, all these things. But we aren't as connected in real FaceTime with those that are important to us, those that are in our group or tribe or family. And so what we're seeing is higher levels of mental health disorders, dissatisfaction. And the challenge there is that not enough time has evolved for our DNA to evolve, to shift to our current way of living. Now, I'm not saying, "Hey, we need to throw our cell phones into a blender and press start." And totally cut off all of technology. But I think being intentional with really connecting in meaningful ways with even just, "Hey, when you're in line at the coffee shop ordering your coffee, put your phone away, make eye contact with the barista. Schedule some in-person time to hang out with family and friends, even when you're feeling busy and overwhelmed." And I know that might feel like, "How is that connected to emotional intelligence and self-management?" But again, there's some fundamental needs that are being missed. And so it's causing us to be more susceptible to that emotional reactive state to want to turn towards the plethora of distractions that we have available to us in modern day. Our phones are just all of our screens, substance use, AI can go on and on. There's lots there. Right. Well, I think if we break emotional intelligence up into four components, the first one being self-awareness, the second one being self-management, which we're focused on, the third and fourth components are social awareness and social management. So the next piece of this is interacting with other people. And that's through genuine social interactions and connections. And what I'm hearing you say is that a lot of those have been fractured now, even though we are connected, it's largely electronic. It's through text message, email, social media. So it's filtered. It's not genuine. And it probably doesn't require us to fully manage ourselves in order to communicate in that way. But in order to have a true meaningful interaction with another human being, you really kind of have to manage yourself in order to do that. So maybe we feel like we're not having to have those social interactions, or at least we can live in the world without having them, which unfortunately is causing us to not do a good job at the step before, which is the self-management. And the sad part with that is it's making us worse at self-management, but it's also stealing from our joy. We know the three big things that bring us joy are fulfilling our purpose, making meaningful progress and genuine social interactions. And if we don't do those things, we're missing out on our joy, and then we're doing a poor job of understanding ourselves. And that can be fairly negative for our overall health and performance. And it probably drives others away too, because we're in this world to be around. Yeah, exactly. It just keeps pushing others away, which is really unfortunate. So the struggles that we have with self-management, also I'm curious how much of this is an acute problem versus a chronic problem. And so am I likely to be worse at it just because I've had a bad day, a lot going on, super stressful, and that's what's affecting it? Or is it more susceptible to kind of chronic levels of fatigue and stress and feeling overwhelmed over longer periods of time? Yeah, great question. I think it's both. We can experience kind of trigger stacking in a day that may put us over our edge, and that can also depend on what is that trigger. And so I think having some awareness of what are sort of those traps that if I walk into, I know it's not going to end well. And how can I structure my day around, I don't want to say avoiding, because avoidance isn't the way, but just planning ahead, I think, and making sure that your battery is charged. And then also kind of looking on the chronic side, there's such a key connection between how we're taking care of our mind, our body, just long-term general health routines that will increase or decrease our ability to handle stress and prevent burnout. And we can go into what those are a little bit more as well, but it's both to answer your question. Okay. All right. Yeah, let's do it. Let's go into it. We'll start this third section, and you're going to give us all the answers on how we can fix this. I'm ready for it. Busy healthcare professionals? This one's for you. Find Mayo Clinic Talks on your favorite podcasting app, or visit CE.mayo.edu slash podcasts to learn more. Every week, we share succinct, relevant, and practical medical insights tailored for healthcare clinicians that you can immediately apply to your practice. Each episode covers common health issues seen in a primary care practice shared by Mayo Clinic experts. So in our third one, we'll talk about the actual steps we can take to start to master our abilities to manage ourselves. So before we talk about how to do it, I want you to, this feels like a really challenging thing. And some people are saying, this is not possible. There's no chance I'm going to be able to do this. What do you think in your experience in working with teams and organizations and clients, is it possible for everyone to get better at self-management? Or some people just kind of doomed. There's some people who are doomed. No. You know, let's talk about expectations. If it's, hey, I'm expecting to have a linear progression. Once I start this, all my problems are fixed. I'll never have to experience a negative emotion again. Yeah, good luck. Right? That's not the human experience, nor do we want that to be. But in terms of gaining more awareness, control, adaptability, flexibility, purpose, and the way that we're navigating our lives, absolutely that can be trained. And we start small. And it, when we focus on one thing, let's say sleep, for example, right? That's a huge one that affects emotions. My goal is, hey, I'm going to try and go to sleep 30 minutes earlier each night, right? Then you start to feel a little more clear-headed and then that impacts your interactions at work or with your family or with your friends. And then it has this ripple effect. And so, it can feel overwhelming and I don't think it needs to be. I think we can get a lot of bang for our buck, making some small, consistent and persistent changes. Baby steps. All right. I love it. Now, on the flip side, so she may have that individual who thinks, this is hopeless, I'll never get better. On the flip side, there's some folks out there that think, I'm crushing this. I'm so good at it. I don't need to work on it. What would be some signs or signal to people that, hey, this probably is an issue for you. You should be working on it. Yeah, I think if one is you can get, pick people in your life to get some feedback from. I think this quote, this status for self-awareness, but I think this works for self-management as well. And that 90% of people think they're self-aware and 10% actually are. And that's not to say, oh, ha ha, you're not self-aware, but it's to say, we all have to work on this. We all have to work on these things and there may be some unintended consequences of our actions that we're not aware of that we need to illuminate that blind spot. Got to get the flashlight out there and see. And so I think asking loved ones for some feedback is helpful. Also, if you're noticing that you're putting in the effort towards something and it's not quite getting the outcome you're wanting, that's a good indication that, hey, there's something off there. And I can give an example. I work with a lot of coaches and sometimes they may get, yeah, if the game's not going well, they get emotional. They explode. They get angry. And they're saying all the things that they want to say to their players, hey, you need to hustle more. Hey, we need to be sharper on this and this. They're saying all the information, but their athletes aren't responding. And it may be the state that they're delivering the message in that actually is causing their athletes to tune out and ignore them or to say, yeah, this coach is off the rails. And so in situations like that, whether you're a coach or you're a parent or you are a CEO and those that work with you and under you aren't doing what you're asking, there may be some disconnect there. So it's something to pay attention to. And then lastly, noticing what's happening in your body. Emotions are kind of a two-way street where we can name it like, hey, I'm feeling angry. And then also noticing the feeling of like, okay, I got a tight jaw. My chest is really just feeling really stiff. I'm I'm clenching my fists. Okay, I'm experiencing anger. And then it also for some people, it's they're able to better identify their emotions the other way where it's like, hey, gosh, my shoulders are up to my ears. My jaw's hurting. And I'm clenching my fists. Okay, what might I be experiencing right now? And so if you're going through your day and you're noticing, God, I've got like some kinks in my neck or my jaw really hurts or I'm just feeling like low energy, that's a good signal to pay attention to the emotional aspect of your day as well. All right, audience. So there you have. So none of you are so hopeless that you can't improve and none of you are so good at this that you don't need to improve somewhat. This is an infinite game. So I think the call here is for all of us to try to get better. And so if we recognize that as we say, okay, I know this is something I can get better at no matter regardless of what my starting point is, I can get better at this. I we've talked about the benefits. I know I need to do this in order to be able to appropriately interact with an influence the people in the world around me. Now I'm committed. I want to get better at myself management. Chrissy, how do I do that? You mentioned kind of taking small baby steps along the way. Can you kind of outline those for me? I know there's not going to be a one-size-fits-all here, but what are some of the initial steps I need to be thinking about? Yeah, so I think up, you know, tend to keep it simple. Focusing on a strategy that and I'll offer a few of each but a strategy that addresses your mind, the mindset, and then also strategy that impacts your body. There's some really cool research around in particular, how the heart communicates with the rest of the body. There's actually, you know, so it has its own neural network. And so and different emotional states. This comes, this research comes from the HeartMath Institute, but different emotional states can impact the body in lots of different ways. Hormoneally, for example, if you're experiencing more kind of negative emotions, we tend to have, see, higher cortisol levels. So which is not necessarily bad in the short term, but long-term can impact immunity, decision-making, just skeletal muscle function and things like that. And you would know way more about this than I would. And then when we have more positive or genitive emotions, higher levels of DAGA, which is more of like a building block hormone for optimal functioning. Connecting with the body, I think, helps to regulate a lot of and helps to free up the mind to be able to do this. So I'll offer two kind of two ways to get at that today to the mind in the body. But I would just say choose one of each. That sounds interesting to you. And that's a great place to start. Awesome. And for our audience too, we do have an upcoming session on somatic intelligence, which talks about understanding the body and how it is giving you signals to help you be successful in your productivity. So stay tuned. There'll be more on that to come. So let's do it. So let's go through some of the mental mindset approaches and then we can kind of talk about some of the body approaches as well. Sure. So on the mind approach, this idea is rooted in integration, which comes from Dr. Van Segal and essentially what that is is that we have two hemispheres in our brain. The right hemisphere is more autobiographical information. So like our emotions are the sights, the sounds, the sensations that we experience. And then the left hemisphere is more of it takes that information and it creates a cohesive narrative for our day. So if I can give you an example to be able to feel it, it's like if you're having to sit down to have coffee with a friend and you're feeling kind of overwhelmed and you're like, hey, I've got this deadline and I didn't get much sleep last night and I go on and on and on and on. And your friend says, huh, it sounds like you're feeling really stretched here or that you're you're overwhelmed. You're kind of on an island having to handle all these things. And when they're able to pinpoint that, it's this feeling of like, oh, okay. Right. We feel understood. If you were to visualize a Tetris game, right, maybe ages me a little bit, but if the Tetris pieces start just stacking up and we don't do anything with them, game over, right? But being able to really talk about our emotions to be able to have them be understood in a cohesive manner is like adjusting those Tetris pieces so they fit and then the bottom line drops out this calming feeling. And so that first step is being able to get really clear and accurate about the emotions that we're feeling, not just the basic ones like, oh, I'm happy. I'm mad. I'm sad. That doesn't tell us that much. And so some of the work for a lot of us is increasing our emotional vocabulary. And so an exercise I like to do even for myself, but I'll have this particularly for athletes because I think they come from an environment where it's like, hey, the emotions don't have a place here. You just got to push through. So tapping back into that can feel really unfamiliar for a lot of people. So you can Google this wheel of emotions, get a nice colorful picture and it starts in the center with some really basic ones, happy, sad, angry. And then it works its way out to a couple different layers getting more and more specific about that emotion. And so taking 20 seconds a couple times in your day, pull that up on your phone and take a moment to pause and practice. What am I feeling right now? What's happening to my body? What am I noticing? What sensations am I tense? Am I loose? Where am I feeling that? What might I be feeling in the more specific you can get about that emotion, the more clear and specific you can get about the right the resolution for that emotion and so daily practice of trying to increase emotional back vocabulary using a wheel of emotion or just trying to do a self-reflection on that as well. So that's one. And another way to get at integration is journaling. So actually taking the time to write it down. And I will say that for some that can be a hard sell. Journaling kind of feels like a kids camp activity at times. But for those that practice it consistently, even five to ten minutes a day, put a journal under your pillow, have it be kind of the last step, the key you need to be able to go to sleep, writing stuff down, takes that and the experiences of our right hemisphere puts it in a cohesive manner from our left hemisphere so that we get a felt sense of, okay, I'm understood either by myself or someone else if you're expressing and talking with people more. So first one kind of understanding your emotions, labeling them very specifically. The second finding some way to write them down or in journaling, I think is a great option. What about talking about it? Does that have a similar effect to journaling? So if you're not comfortable or you don't want to do that, you don't have time or you don't have your journal with you, can talking to somebody else about it help? Absolutely. Yep. So whether it's you have a friend, loved one, someone that you feel comfortable talking with, talking it out really can be helpful. It takes the information that's in your brain and externalizes it, never goes back in the same. So talking out with a friend and then also, of course, a professional, right? We're there to be a listening ear, to be a third party neutral perspective, but be that space to offload to us what has been swirling around your mind. Great. And I think one of the keys of those conversations too is letting that person know why you want to talk to them. Just say, hey, let me bend your ear for a little bit and tell you what I'm feeling just to get this off my chest. You know, maybe I don't need you to solve this problem. I just want you to hear me out or don't think I'm crazy, but I'm going to be vulnerable to you. What about some of the physical or kind of body focused strategies that you mentioned? Yeah. So one is slow breathing or a technique called resonance breathing and what this is, it's really simple, but it's a four to five second inhale. In a four to five second exhale, preferably in and out your nose. Now a distinction that I want to make with that is it's not deep breathing. Like, sometimes when we take deep breaths, it actually creates an imbalance between oxygen and carbon dioxide where we kind of get to a state of more panic. So if you think about someone having a panic attack, right? So it's not necessarily super deep, but more slow sips of air and just really just like taking the time to slow down and the research shows the best practices in and out of your nose. But sometimes we get, you know, seasonal allergies or things like that. You get sick and in and out of your mouth is fine as well, but more slow breathing is really helpful. Doing that a couple minutes a day, even whether it's start your day, end your day, have a moment during the day where you're in a lunch break, something like that. A time out if you're an athlete to just take a few of those slow breaths. But I do think it's important to have a consistent practice where you sit down or your stand, whatever. You've got that time allotted each day sort of like brushing your teeth where you're doing that to really help train your nervous system. To be a little bit more calm and grounded. And then also it's great. It's a great strategy to use in the moment when some tough emotions come up to be able to come down and get to a headspace that is much more optimal and open. But I would say if you're just doing it as like, hey, this is my emergency thing that I'm doing. It's not going to be as effective as if you're also doing it daily in a lot of times. Potentially. Good. Any other physical or body focused things? Yeah, so I think just in general, I know Dr. Justin Anderson came on an earlier podcast and he referenced the stress threshold, right? So increasing our ability to handle stress. If you think about the stressors in your day can be anywhere from 0 to 10. If your stress threshold is at a 6, everything that's above the line is 7, 8, 9, 10. You're going to be in survival mode, right? You're going to go back to that fight or flight. Anything below the line 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. It's like, all right. Yeah, challenge accepted. I can handle that. And the kind of the five key things that will influence at that stress threshold increases or decreases are sleep, good nutrition, staying hydrated, exercise or movement. And I don't necessarily mean like go out and pound the pavement, but more so movement and exercise that allows you to kind of reconnect to mind and body like dropping into your body a little bit more. So walks, stretching, yoga, dancing, right? Giving, honestly giving somebody a hug, going to get a massage. Those are things that can help you to back and move with your body and then also socializing or having some fun. Getting reconnected with people will help also increase your ability to handle stress. I love it. And you just named five of the domains of the human optimization project with that. So we're very well aligned. So excellent. Well, Chrissy, thank you so much. It's been a great discussion and I'd like to wrap it up by recapping kind of mind notes. I've been taking notes as we go here. So I've jotted a lot down. So I'll highlight those then I'll give you a chance to answer those three big questions. So we talked about self-management and what it actually is and you stated as it's the action that then follows your self-awareness. So it does need to have a component of action to it and it is something that is done very intentionally and deliberately. It's not quite as rigid or painful as discipline or self-control all the time. So it doesn't necessarily have to be rigid, but it is intentional. And you mentioned that 85% or the vast majority of our thoughts tend towards the negative and we look for threats. So because of that, it's very important for us to recognize that and then ask ourselves, or how am I going to manage those negative thoughts? Maybe I need to pay attention to them. Maybe I don't, but you have to be intentional. Some of the benefits of that improve self-management increases our stress threshold, increases our joy, improves our connection, makes us more openness, and it just makes us more intentional. And in order to do that, we need to have awareness of our emotions. We need to accept those emotions without judgment and then take the action. And you talked a lot about some of the things that make us bad at this being chronic stress or even acute stress with trigger stacking. So things to keep out for. If we're trying to improve it, the plan needs to be simple. You got to start very small and you talk about taking a mindset approach versus a physical body approach. And some of the things we can do that will help us expand our emotional vocabulary and know being able to accurately name what we're feeling, journaling to express it or talk to other people about it. Also, slow breathing can really help us. And then ultimately, after that, make a plan on what we want to do about it. And sometimes the plan is to do nothing and that's okay. Sometimes management is not to do anything. So the absence of action might be the right answer if done intentionally. So that's my summary. Now, I'm going to give you a chance to summarize by going back through the big question. So our first big question, what is self-management and how does it fit into emotional intelligence? So if we're thinking about awareness, acceptance, action, it's accepting and listening to and using your emotions to help guide your behaviors. Understanding what moves and motivates us and being intentional about taking actions that are going to align with our goals and our values. Perfect. And our second one, what makes self-management so challenging in our modern lives? Yeah, distractions, isolation, instant gratification that will take us away from experiencing and paying attention to our emotions. And then our last one, what are the actual steps I can take to finally master my ability to manage myself? Recognizing that emotions have an experience that occur in the mind and in the body. And so being able to, the greater we are at being able to identify and express and really get specific about our emotions on the mental side, we'll open up some doors for us. But then also having some awareness and intention with keeping our body open and relaxed and grounded will also help to optimize the way that we're using and expressing our emotions as well, which ultimately will have a huge impact on how we are behaving. Excellent. Well, Chrissy, thank you so much for joining us. The title of our session today was Self-Management, the Second Step in Improving Your Emotional Intelligence. I always like to end these with a challenge or a call to action for our audience. And I think you've set this up well for us. And I like what you talked about with our how we manage our emotions and that we must have first awareness and then acceptance and then action. So the challenge is going to is going to follow that. So what I would like for the audience to do is to be proactive and determine a time when you're going to do this and ideally make it make it habitual or habit stack. Do every time you brush your teeth or when you get on the elevator or when you get in your car to go to work or you hop on the bus, as soon as you do that, it's okay. Pause. What am I feeling right now? I'm let me be aware of my emotion and then name it and then second, accept it. And then third, ask yourself, what am I going to do about this? What action do I need to take? Is the right answer no action at all? I can ignore it, move on. Or is it no, I actually need to do something and move forward in my life. So be aware of it by naming it, accept it and then decide what action you're going to take. So try to work that into your routine, something that you can do daily. If you can't stack it with another habit, set an alarm on your phone to go off six hours from now and then and then do it when your alarm goes off. Chrissy, thank you so much for joining us. Really appreciate you sharing your wisdom and stories for us on this. Yeah, my pleasure. I enjoyed the conversation. Great. To our audience, remember to live intentionally, consistently, better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you liked this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at: optimize@mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic. (upbeat music) Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. We're all busy and have a lot of tasks that we need to complete. And those tasks need to be accomplished somewhere. So whether you're working at home, in an office or on the road, your physical surroundings play a surprisingly large role in how you do your work, how much you get done, and the level of quality of that work. So in this episode, we're gonna talk about some of the science behind how your surroundings impact you and what you can do to optimize them. According to the title of this session is, how your physical surroundings are impacting your productivity. Our expert guest joining us today is Dennis Dahlen. And Dennis serves as Chief Financial Officer of Mayo Clinic. Prior to joining Mayo Clinic in 2017, Dennis held the same position at Banner Health, an integrated healthcare delivery system in Phoenix, after serving in several other executive positions from its inception in 1999. Mr. Dallin has served or is currently serving on the boards of a number of different companies from all walks of life. Some of these include Envision AZ, Think Bank, Greater MSP, the Ronald McDonald House, Sonora Quest Laboratories, Spirit in the Desert Retreat Center, the University of Arizona Health Plan, and many more. He is the outgoing chair of the Healthcare Financial Management Association National Board. So he's an incredibly productive human, and he's done it in a number of different settings and environments. So we're gonna discuss what he's taken from each of these environments and put it all together to help you optimize your own space for maximal productivity and peace. Well, Dennis, welcome to the program, and thank you so much for joining us today. Thanks, Chris, appreciate it. So we always like to keep things organized around here, so we'll break this up into three main sections. And we have a big question that headlines each of those sections. So our first section, our first big question, is gonna be how do our physical and mental surroundings influence our productivity? The second is what common obstacles keep people from creating productive environments and what is secretly sabotaging our productivity? And then in the last section, we'll try to get into some practical solutions. So the last question is what practical strategies can anyone apply to optimize their physical and mental spaces for sustained high performance? Great question. Sound like a good lineup for you? Sounds like a great lineup of questions. All right, let's tackle it then. We got a lot to talk about here, so we'll die right in. So in our first section, we're gonna talk about kinda how our physical and mental surroundings influence our productivity. So first, let's start with definitions. How would you define an optimized environment for productivity? What exactly does that mean? Yeah, no, so I would think, when I think about this, I think we're all individuals, right? And so everybody's got a way of working and things that irritate us and things that distract us. And so you have to, it's gotta be an individualized approach. And so think about the things that prevent you from being entirely focused while you're at work on the problems, the challenges, the assignments that you've got. And so for me, it's, I need quiet because I've gotta be able to focus. And particularly things that require thoughtful consideration. You can all answer an email, a perfunctory email, and oh yes, click. But some challenges require some thoughts, some discernment, and I absolutely need quiet for focus and being able to do that. We also need privacy, right? Because not everything we handle at work is going to be subject for public consumption. We're either going to be on the receiving or sometimes a giving end or sometimes a team based, maybe a reset or a coaching exercise that does require some privacy. And I think that's important as well. I do think, again, we're all different, but I think an environment that provides some bit of respite or calming or rejuvenation during the day or during the week is also helpful. So if you, I'm not a plant person, but if you like plants, great. If you like soft music or ability to turn that on, that's all well and good. Two really important things for me being proximate colleagues that I'm collaborating with, really, really important. In my role, I have the privilege of working with Mayo Clinic's CEO and his administrative partner, Christina Zorn, and my office happens to sit between the two of them. And the amount of work that we can get done just by physical proximity is just frankly amazing. And maybe the most important work we do is just the hallway conversations. And then the last I would probably say is, you've got to create, particularly with hybrid roles and this work from home versus work from the office, particularly if you're at home, that line of demarcation between I'm at work or I'm at home or I'm on my own time, I think that's really important. So setting up your laptop at the kitchen table, maybe there's no other alternative, but I would try to move that along towards a much more of a sequestered kind of environment for the designated space. So in that, I'm hearing you say, probably the most important thing I think to take from that is that this has to be individualized to the person. Yes, absolutely. And that has to be to the person themselves, probably to the type of work that they're trying to do, whether this is you're doing something fun at home versus you're slogging it out at the office or you're a hybrid or remote worker. And also there's a lot of intentionality behind what you just said too. So you mentioned, at times you need privacy, other times you need close proximity to people. So it's something that there isn't one right answer for everybody. I completely agree. And there may not just be one right way to do it for the individual. At times you may need a little bit different setup or different access. Sometimes you need people to be away from you so you can lock in. Other times you need quick access to those individuals to be productive. Right, absolutely. And that goes, that's reciprocal, right? Because even though I've got a Dora or a sliding glass Dora in my office, I have to be open to people interrupting me. And so, and right first I, the others have got, I've got to be willing to let me interrupt them for an urgent or a, you know, something that has to be decided. Okay. Yeah. So let's talk a little bit about why this is so important. Sure. What are some of the why's behind optimizing your physical and mental spaces for productivity? I have yet to meet, you know, I've been in professional practice for, you know, 40 years or almost 40 years. I've yet to meet an individual who's not geared to be successful in what they do. Everybody wants to succeed. And if you're trying to succeed, but are being hindered or held back by, you know, sort of an imperfect environment in which to work, I think you're self-optimizing. And so I think that that's why it's important is you should bring the tools with you and environment is one of those tools to be your best every single day. And if you are self-optimized in the environment and that you're working in, you know, you're not bringing in your best. I think that's the important piece. We talk a lot nowadays about having grit and tenacity and being able to lock in and do deep work. And I think all of those things are great. And we all need to be good at that and probably all need to be a little bit better at doing those things. But it would be nice to save your grit and tenacity for the times you really need it and not have to use it when you shouldn't have to, right? So, yeah, sure. You can be, let's say you're in a spot where you need privacy, you need to focus. You can do that and try to block out everything going on around you. But that's gonna be stealing some of your mental bandwidth if you're having to use your subconscious to block things out, if your environment is not optimized. Couldn't agree more with that. Is that if you're using tenacity and grit to solve for things that can be solved easily, otherwise you could redirect that grit and tenacity. There is a finite amount each of us has in terms of grit and tenacity. There's only so much effort you can put into things. And if you're gonna use it on things that are maybe easier or otherwise solved, you're gonna yield less in the tank for the stuff that really requires grit and tenacity. Like socializing hard decisions or arguing or pressing the point on something that's really important. Then all of that takes a tremendous amount of grit into this. An analogy here that James Clear talks about how we don't rise to the level of our goals. We fall to the level of our habits or our systems. And I think this is sort of similar too. It's like, you're not gonna rise up to that deep work, focused grit, tenacity every time. You're gonna be tired and you need to be exhausted. So you're gonna fall to your surroundings and to your environment. So if you can set your surroundings and environment up in a way that sort of uplifts you, all right, now I don't have to use my mental effort for that. And I can use my mental effort on the work and on the relationships that I need to be building. Absolutely. When we talk about optimizing your surroundings, let's go through some of the key elements or components that people should be thinking about. I think we're talking about a little bit more than just cleaning up your desk here. What are some of the different elements people should be thinking about optimizing? Well, I think, I mentioned some of them before, but for me, and I'll just contrast this with my 26 year old daughter. She actually prefers a non-quiet space. She'd rather be listening to music or something in the background or have the television on or whatever when she's working at home. That drives me crazy. And so I think it's obviously individualized is really important here. But I do think there are, and I know one of the hindrances to what we're doing or to creating the perfect work environment for productivity down there and just enjoyment purposes is going to be budget and what would you do? But there are, before I came over this morning, I just did a quick Google search. I mean, there's hundreds of sites that can give you inspiration on what easy things you can do to just make your workspace more conducive to how you like to work. And I think things like color palettes and patterns. Now today, the other element that's come of age over the last five or six years is the virtual environment. So all of us have to worry about how do we look on camera as we're interacting with colleagues near and far in a virtual realm as what was behind me? What's the lighting look like? All of those sorts of things, that all matters in terms of the way, if you're distracted by the way you look on camera, you're going to, that's one piece of attention that you're not directing towards problems that you're supposed to be solving or challenges you're supposed to be meeting. So no particular order, I think all of those are important. Good, and some of the other things we had mentioned are I'm kind of making a list going back through your previous answers too. So factors to consider will be noise. Some people like it loud, some like it quiet, which may be okay. Privacy versus connection or maybe the ability to do both, appropriate temperature and lighting. Like surprisingly, some of those things, there's actually some decent evidence that shows having an optimal temperature and optimal lighting actually improve productivity and decrease error rates and typing speed and all sorts of different things as well. Right, those are all, I should have mentioned some of those, but yeah, the absolute temperature is, and honestly for me, temperature depends on the day. Depends on, you know, in the morning, I'd rather have it a little warmer in the afternoon, maybe a little cooler to keep me fresh during the later part of the day. And one thing we haven't mentioned yet is, the challenge of just being at a job or in a work situation for eight or nine or 10 hours a day, and the ability to sort of vary the way you stand up desks and some colleagues use treadmills underneath, while they're on phone calls and all of that. I think if that's something that matters to you or works for you, absolutely. I suffered through the first years of COVID without a standup desk and it drove me crazy. So I finally got a standup desk again, and so now I'm up and down every couple of hours, I take one meeting, stand up, and I sit down for the rest, and that matters a tremendous amount. Oh, that's great. There's a lot of ways to do that too, if you don't have access to a standup desk or under the desk treadmill. I know I did a research fellowship once where I basically spent a year sitting at a desk without getting up and didn't have the chance to modify, which is hard for me, I'm a little hyperactive. And so I would take a break at 10 o'clock every morning and I took the elevator down to the bottom of the building, I was on, I think, the 12th floor, and I would take the stairs back up. Oh, that's a good idea. I mean, I'd be out of breath and panting for 15 minutes, but it sort of got the blood flowing, and so there's other creative ways that you can do that. So if you don't have complete control over your surroundings, you can get creative. Here's another idea, I've got a colleague that loves to do walking meetings. And so, and I'm not talking like walking down the hallway, I'm talking like going outside, walking around several blocks. In a half hour meeting, that's about a mile. So let's go take a mile walk and have a half hour meeting. And perfect, that's a great break in the day. I actually ran across a news line that I had missed in preparation for this, but I just saw this weekend that, a small study that showed that if people will take, make the effort to personalize their space, it actually increases integrity. And that it showed that if your surroundings are something that you created, particularly if you have pictures of loved ones and family around, that you're more likely to make good, tough decisions, and not only correct those decisions, but more sort of virtuous decisions and less likely to be deceitful too. So I think that there's some other added benefits that we're really starting to learn about in the mental space as well. It's like a subconscious presence of people that matter to you. Exactly. It's like they're watching you. I don't wanna let this group down. That's terrific. That's in this photo right here, I hadn't thought about that. Let me ask you this, what about other social factors that may play into it? So I'm thinking about this as, a lot of people, especially working from home now, have very different setups. Maybe you have kids running around or you don't. Maybe you're single or maybe you have a partner. And how do those things sort of factor in? Well, I think you've gotta make some choices. I mean, there are some lines that are just really too hard to bridge, right? So if you've got lots of small children and they're at home all day and your job requires you to work from home, it's maybe not the right fit. I'm fortunate because at the point, hybrid and or remote work came up. I was already an empty nester and I've got a very understanding spouse. And so, a space at home, I can do that with privacy and low noise and all of those good things. But I do think, we can all flex a bit, but I think there are circumstances that require a little bit too much of a stretch and you're probably not able to give it your best if you've got too many distractions or interruptions to your day and not a strong designated space and boundaries around that. I think those are really too hard. But you're right, they're all kinds of, if you're a caregiver and you've got, the person you're caring for is, has needs that can't be too flexible, you've got to do it every 30 something, every 30 minutes or every 60 minutes. Those are hard. And I don't have a great answer for those except, some of those, I think they just sort of make it impossible to be very productive. Yes. And hopefully they're fleeting, hopefully they're temporary. And we can all return to being our best selves, highly productive at work at some point. And you bring up a great point as a caregiver, we're talking about productivity and which increases joy, which is incredibly important. There are some things more important than productivity too. So if you're taking care of a loved one or somebody who's sick or something like that, and that takes precedent in your life, you may have to knowingly sacrifice some productivity here. And that's a knowing and willing sacrifice you're making. But I would just say, just do it thoughtfully, intentionally and know that you're doing that. And then even within that, say, okay, I have this set of limitations on me that I cannot control, within those limits, how can I still make the most of this situation? Right. That I can. And even, I would recommend being proactive on that front as a work with whoever is your supervisor, whoever you're reporting to, and just be honest about the circumstances so that you're not trying to hide anything and say, I've got, maybe they're temporary, maybe they weren't always there. And hopefully you've been, if you've been a terrific employee and highly productive up to that point, you can reach into that bank of trust and credibility that you've built up over the years and say, look, I've got a temporary situation here where either I need to, de-emphasize the job a little bit, or I need just a little bit of space or something. And most organizations, most supervisors, life happens, right? And so we can't ignore the fact that in each of our lives, there are points of time where we're not gonna be at our best. And sometimes it's us, sometimes it's imposed circumstances externally. And I think we just all have to, we all have to work through that. So that's a great example of talking about the things that are sort of outside of our control. Now let's talk about some of the problems that are inside of our control. So we'll go into our second section of why this is such a struggle for us. So why is it that so many of us tend to cling to clutter and other things, even though we know it's pretty good evidence that it shows that it hurts our productivity? Yeah, it's an interesting piece. I mean, a clutter just happens, isn't it? I mean, it's a species. I think we just, we're hoarders, you know, to some degree, just at our core. And so it's hard to throw things away. It's hard to put things away. I'll tell you, so a quick story for me is when I landed at Mayo Clinic, we had standard office spaces and we all brought in the stuff that we'd collected over the years and we'd put it on shelves and whatever else. And then we re-did the executive suite. And so no more offices. We're supposed to rotate through and we all got flexible workstations. And so now we have lockers. There's not very much you can put in a locker. You know, we've got a few tablets and some pens and pencils and that's about it. And so that was, it was like forced decluttering. Yes. And actually, thank you. I mean, whoever was behind it, I owed down a thanks because it is freeing to not have very much stuff at the office and appreciate that. Yeah. Honestly, for me, this was one of the biggest things I was prepping for this session. It had a huge impact on me. I tend to be somebody who's relatively organized and orderly, but as I was prepping for this, I realized how little attention spanner bandwidth I had. And when I look around at my desk, even if there's just a few items, my mind is constantly vying for attention and fighting. And I'm trying to focus on the work at hand, but all of these different things are sort of stealing from my attention when I glance over and I see this or I see this. And I realized my desk, or my office, if it has physical stuff and mess, it basically becomes like a physical to-do list that I can't hide. I look around and every time I see it, I'm like, oh, I have to file that or I have to finish that or I have to do this. And so here I'm trying to work and it's like, all of these different things just taunting me and distracting me and saying, remember, don't forget about us, you're still gonna do this. And not only does that slow you down, but mentally that kind of takes a toll on you a little bit. And it's overwhelming. Chris, have you found the medical practice has become much more digital? Certainly my work has become much more, I'm old enough to remember a big desk with a pile of paper on the left and pyro paper on the right, and there were things that I had to do. And I don't think anymore I have almost no paper. It's all, it's an email inbox or a digital list of things to do. And I actually think that's in a sense on cluttering as well. Yes. I don't have any eyesight or line of sight to clutter. It's all on a screen, but it's still. It's nice. It requires a bit more intentionality because you have to think about, where am I gonna put this away virtually? What sort of filing system am I gonna use online and how am I gonna do it? Rather than just letting it physically pile up on your desk, that's easy to default to, it's default. So it does require a little bit more intentionality on the front end, but is immensely more helpful on the back end. We've absolutely seen it in the medical space for sure. So let's talk a little bit about how the mental components of this, we started to do that. I'm wondering, I'd like to talk a little bit about how our kind of multitasking culture or desire to do that or think that we're doing it really good can actually perpetuate this kind of messy mental space for us. That's a great point. I think there's a fair amount of clinical evidence that says humans really aren't very good multitaskers, right? So we can fool ourselves into thinking we're multitasking, but we really aren't. And so I've sort of tried to internalize that and the only things I multitask are easy things. If I don't, anything that requires, I mentioned, things that require thought or discernment, I can't multitask that, that takes too much attention and mind span. So in my case, the only things I multitask are things that are somewhat perfunctory or yes, no, whatever, but I do think the fact, and the other thing I would say is that in many of our roles, I suspect you're in the same situation that I am, is that if you're not multitasking, you're falling behind because the pace of work requires you to multitask. And so, and I see it from all of my colleagues, I suspect you see it from most of yours as well, is that if you're sitting in a meeting, you're probably answering emails, you're probably checking your text stream or whatever else, and you just have to to stay up, right? There are very few times during a day where I've got an hour where nobody needs to get ahold of me. And so it's a fact of life. I think you have to manage it thoughtfully and not sacrifice quality of thought and quality of decision-making in order to stay not behind, right? You're spot on, 100%. And it's a challenge because I feel like having a messy desk or an office clutters my physical space. And I feel like multitasking clutters my mental space. Oh, absolutely. And it's really difficult. And sometimes you can't avoid it, right? The same thing with the physical space. Sometimes people come in, they set stuff down or I set stuff down. So it is gonna get physically messy from time to time, just like it's gonna get mentally messy from time to time. But I think the key is try to minimize that the best you can when it does happen, say, "Ooh, I need to do a cleanup here." Whether it's my physical space or my mental space. How can I get this cleaned up, put things in boxes, organized and put on a to-do list that I'll tackle later. So I think we have to think about not only straightening up physically, but also trying to do that mentally. Completely agree. The one thing I would say is, you know, it's from multitasking is that the converse is also true is if I'm not multitasking and I am falling behind, that's clutter too, right? And so there is a yield, a dividend of multitasking. Again, if you're in its proper place and for the proper things. And I think too, along those lines, sort of a bigger version of the mental stress that multitasking causes, is that if we're carrying personal stress from different areas of our life into work or work stress into our personal life, that that will really cloud our mental space as well. And can decrease productivity in relationships and things too. So the better job we can do of organizing kind of our mental space and compartmentalizing things, I think the more it allows us to stay focused in the moment and whether that's a moment at work or a moment at home, you know, with loved ones. Yeah, no, I completely agree. And we all go through those times when there's something that's distracting us. Could be, it could be a health issue, it could be a family issue within boundaries. I'm probably maybe too transparent with people that I work with and whatever else is it. Something going on, I don't actually mind telling people that. And what I found is that the net effect of being a bit more transparent and is there something that's distracting you or working outside the workplace that's impairing your ability to be fully productive, your work colleagues will support you. It's a bit of a safety net. They're there to help and they don't want, they don't want to see you fail either. So I've found that to be a real gift. Knowing the people that you work with and being in a high trust environment or a psychologically safe environment, the benefits are immense. Because then in those spaces, you feel comfortable saying, hey, folks, I got this going on at home right now. So if I'm a little distracted today, here's what's going on. And feeling comfortable to share that is immensely helpful because then you're gonna get support and that allows you to balance that. And I think the opposite is true too. So having a mentally safe space at home where you feel like you can have this conversation, you don't believe what happened at work today and help. Talk me through this. It can be great both ways. And so it's a huge challenge for people that don't feel like they're in that, have a psychologically safe space at work to do that. And I would encourage you, if you're in that spot, figure out how you can get there because there's a big benefit to it, not completely. It might not be your direct supervisor, it might be your colleagues. Might be people that work for you. Carve out your own safe space. You mentioned earlier, you talked a little bit about physically sort of design spaces and not having your laptop at the kitchen table and those sort of things. What are some of the things that we get wrong with that and how do we do a better job? Yeah, that's a great question. I think, and you as a practicing orthopod, I would know this, I mean, ergonomics are really important. You know, the right chair, the right high desk, the right, you know, do you want to set yourself up so you're looking out a window? So you can see a pastoral scene or an urban, a street, some activity, whatever. I think all of those things, again, they're individual, but I think they're all considerations. We've talked about lighting, we've talked about noise, we've talked about designated spaces. I think all of those are key. One of the big upgrades for me over the last couple of years was, rather than working on a laptop, what is that, a nine by 13 screen or whatever it is, just making the investment or a bigger screen monitor on these. So if you've got geography and you could blow things up and that's become more important to me as I've aged because there's a bit of eye strain that goes, from eight or nine or 10 hours of looking at a screen for all of those hours. And so I think it's worth the investment to have a bigger screen and invest in it. Good, all right, let's slide into our third section here where we'll talk about some practical strategies. And you set us up nicely for this earlier when you talked about how there are a number of different factors to consider, but it ultimately has to be individualized. So we're not gonna give a one size fits all plan here that everybody needs to be doing exactly this, but we'll try to uncover a few, I think, universal truths that are generally helpful for people to do. But ultimately, you need to spend some time thinking about it and design your space, physical and mental space to help you become the best performer you can be. So can you tell us, if you don't mind, we'll have you be a little bit vulnerable here. And Tara, tell us how you design your space and what you've done that's been really helpful. You mentioned sort of larger monitor, which is helpful, but some other things, maybe both in the physical workspace and then maybe at home. Yeah, so it's a great question. So things that are, again, are important to me and it does have to be individualized. And I actually think the first thing anybody should do is prioritize. What are the irritants that are most impactful to you not being able to focus and being as good, as a you as possible? And for me, it's quiet. It's, and so what I've got, at least in my home office and certainly my office office, I've got a door and I'm able to have that sequestered space and time to focus and be my best. Lighting's important to me. Again, I prefer somewhat subdued lighting. I'm not a bright lights kind of a person. So lighting's important. I have to have some ability to stretch, walk around, do something like that. And so I've arranged to have the standup desk and do all of those sorts of things so that I can be somewhat kinetic during the day. And I guess maybe the other thing is I've got to have an ability to do, to take a break. And so there's usually some meetings or some part of your day that you could maybe do while you're walking around, go take a walk, go walk the dog, do something like that. I think that's all part of what I've put into my home office at least. I've made a lot of mistakes in this area over the years and I've had chances to iterate. And I've been in different stages of my life too. As a college student that was single and as a medical student, I was married. And then as a resident, I was busy, married, had children and then as a fellow. So I've tried multiple different ways. I've gotten it wrong a lot. And one of the things I learned too, as a resident, I would often, and we were generally still reading from books made out of paper. Now it's mostly electronic, but I would, after we'd finished dinner, I'd sit on the couch or somewhere because I was tired from a long day and sit down reading a book. And inevitably, within about five to 10 minutes, I'm starting to slouch a little bit. And all of a sudden I'm leaning on one elbow and then in 15 minutes, I'm asleep. And I did this sad pattern for years until I finally realized, okay, this doesn't work. I cannot read on a couch during residency. I'm too tired. And so we didn't have a lot of money or a big house. We didn't have room to have an office, designated office space, but I sort of got a small little cheap desk and a table. And I just said, all right, this is gonna be my study space. And when I was a fellow, it was in an apartment in New York City. So in one small room, it was our dining room, our living room and our office. And so my office table was tiny table, tiny chair, literally three feet away from the kitchen table. But just having that designated, like this is where I sit when I, I sit here when we're eating dinner as a family. And then when I study, I'm moving over, it's three feet over, but when I'm sitting there and it was immensely helpful because it sent a signal to me, say, okay, I'm in study mode or I'm in prep mode or work mode, but it also helped my family too. They're like, okay, sitting at the kitchen table, we know we can interrupt him and we're having conversation. If we're sitting there, he's working or studying. And so that kind of helped as well. So having that designated space, it just helped put me in the mindset. And then that sends a good signal to everybody else around. And now they know they can still interrupt me if they need to, but it's gonna be for something that's a little bit more important. Yeah, that makes sense. We haven't talked much about this, but another part of sort of being productive is I think there's a training aspect here. You can't solve all of the things that might distract you, but with some practice and some training, you can get over some of the things that might distract you. And so I'm just trying to think of you at a small desk next to the kitchen table and approximate to the kitchen, you were able to make that work. And I think that's just evidence that we as humans can overcome a lot. We don't have to be, it's not automatic that this irritates me or this distracts me, so I have to be irritated or distracted. We can train ourselves to still be productive. Absolutely, and it's really helpful to do it in those situations where it's really challenging, because then eventually if you can get yourself to a spot where your setup's a little better, then it becomes much easier. Oh, absolutely. Now I'm fortunate I'm in a spot where I actually have a room that is a designated office. And we still know, my kids, four kids that are all wonderful and high energy, a lot of noise in our house, which is great, but when I'm working, I need quiet. And so they know if I'm in the office and the door is open, they can freely come in and interrupt me, it's no problem. But if I'm locked in or if I'm in a meeting, I close the door, and it's a glass door, so they can still see in. But they know if it's closed, not to bother me, unless there's an emergency happening. So it's really helpful. So now even my kids, my youngest son is six years old, and he knows that. And so it just makes it easier for everybody. Absolutely. And that way I'm not getting frustrated with them for interrupting, and they're not getting frustrated with me because I'm not responding when they think I should be. The lines are clearly drawn, which is helpful for all of us. Sounds like you've got the plan. Well, I messed it up a lot. It took a while, but we're working on these things. And it's gonna look different for everybody, but just whatever it is, be intentional about it for yourself and tell others, because I think it helps everybody. So what are some of the positive impacts I can expect on productivity if I optimize my space and look at these different factors that you've mentioned? Well, obviously, if we're fully present and fully engaged more of the day, we should see greater throughput, should see maybe higher quality of decisions, maybe fewer mistakes. Depends on what your workout put is, obviously, if you're, say, in the medical field, working with patients and their balances and things, can you touch more accounts and get patients to the end of that financial consideration faster? Terrific. Can you handle more adjudications of working with insurance companies and figure that out for patients faster? All good. If you're putting documents together for executive decision-making, are they put together thoughtfully? Are they understandable? All of those sorts of things. There's so many nuances, there's so many dividends that come from being highly productive. I guess one way to say it is, are we reducing the amount of rework that somebody that follows you has to do? I think that's probably one of the main dividends of just being fully engaged, fully prepared, fully there all the time. All of those things you mentioned, not only are they gonna make you more productive and you get more work done and higher quality work, but when you make more progress and do things that you're proud of, that's gonna increase your own joy and satisfaction in what you're doing. It's gonna decrease your burnout risk, it's gonna increase your satisfaction, improve retention rates, all of those sort of things. One of the things that I think people often don't recognize is that increased productivity is not just about doing more to the level that you become exhausted, but if you do more in an effective way, you can actually do more and feel less exhausted by it. You're doing higher quality work, you're producing at a higher level, but you're using less energy to do it because you did it efficiently. Absolutely. So then when you leave at the end of the day, you still have something left in the tank to go spend with your family and friends and loved ones and things. I know, very early in my career, I was complaining to my boss at the time that I was working too hard, and he had very good advice to me. He said, "Well, that's not really my problem, maybe it's your problem." He said, "You're not very efficient at what you're doing." And I thought that was a really good way to set a 20-something kid on his way to a better future. That's not my supervisor's problem, I've gotta figure it out, right? Yeah, yeah, it's wonderful. Okay, so let's help folks get started with this. So if we think about a practical approach to how you do it, and what I would like our audience to do is sort of think about if I'm assessing myself to say am I doing well at this or not, think about it as two separate questions. Number one is how is my physical space? Is that optimized using all the factors you've mentioned today? Is my physical space, and then secondly, is my mental space optimized? So am I able to focus? Have I eliminated taking care of the mental distractions? So ask yourself on those two levels, what you're doing well, what you're not doing well. And I think if you had to start with one of those two, cleaning up your mental space or your physical space, ultimately it's up to you. I would encourage you to look to the physical space first, just because I think it's easier. But we all know how to kind of do that some more. Sometimes the mental space is a little bit more to unpack there, and that can be a little more challenging, you might not have as much control. So I would encourage people, assess both physical and mental space, but maybe start with the physical space, because I think that's gonna be a little bit more straightforward. So how would you recommend somebody go about sort of assessing and optimizing their physical space? What are some key elements they need to look at and change? Yeah, so I think, first of all, again, back to the theme that we started with, it's all individual, right? So I'd suggest that you prioritize first. What's standing in your way to the greatest degree or with the greatest impact, and prioritize that first, but I fully endorse your perspective of focusing on the physical space first and the mental space. I think focusing on the physical space, particularly once you, if you have some success at creating a better physical space, that helps the mental side, right? 100%. And I'm not sure if the reverse is true, but I know this flows that way. So I think that's important. I do think, what's your priorities? What's the biggest irritation or impact from the physical side? It's probably some of those things like quiet, ambience, lighting, the tools that you've got, size of monitor, what kind of keyboard you're working with, all of those sorts of things. Maybe it's things like proximity, a little bit harder to work on, because that requires somebody outside of you to work on it. But I do think all of those are pretty important. That's where I would start. Yeah, I think you're spot on there. And I do agree with you. I think that once your physical space is where it needs to be, then it makes it easier to, because in reality, your physical space being cluttered is one of the barriers in your mental side, right? Because that's your physical to-do list is all this junk sitting around you. So I think if you do that, you sort of get a twofer. It sort of helps in both areas as well. Agreed. Okay, perfect. And then, this is harder, but if we start to talk about an approach to, once folks get the mental, are the physical space optimized, how do they approach the mental space? This I think is really complicated, but I think you will have had your first success in cleaning up the physical space. Now what do you do to kind of clean up the mental space? Yeah, again, everybody's different. If I felt there were some mental, and there probably are, and I'm just not aware of it, right? There probably, if there are mental barriers to me being my best self at work, I think those are more easily identified through conversation or with a coach, with a help, helping aid. I think we as humans are probably, we all probably over interpret our ability to self-diagnose. And so I would engage, whether it's full therapy or a mental health coach or something like that, maybe it's just a work coach or a work life coach, what is there that's prohibiting me or preventing me from being my best self and as highly productive as I can be? So that's where I would go next, is let's find a coach. That's excellent. And I think even if you don't have access to a coach, you don't want to get one. You can start with a family member, loved one, co-worker, supervisor, somebody, but it is helpful to get an objective set of eyes and to help look at that. Yeah. Or, I mean, I mentioned supportive colleagues before, is that there's, again, work groups are also, could be useful too. Like what's getting in your way? What are you thinking? What are you feeling? All of that. Good chance some other people are dealing with the same stuff that you are. Probably. We're all humans and we all have different versions of the same stressors. All product to the same evolution. Right, exactly. All right, excellent. So this has been a tremendous discussion. I really appreciate all you've shared with us. So I'm gonna kinda summarize my notes. I've been taking notes as we go here. So I like how you started in the beginning about your approach to this must be individualized. There is no one size fits all plan to this. So be thoughtful and intentional about what you do. Think about this as being both a physical problem as well as a mental problem. So try to organize the physical space and the mental space. And then it's really all about balance and it's gonna be different for everybody. Some are gonna like it quiet. Some are gonna like it loud. Some are wanting hot, some want it cold. And it varies between the person and even within the individual. There may be times in your life where you lean towards one way and other times where you lean towards another. Why is this so important? And you said it's because we all wanna succeed and whatever it is you're out there doing, we all want to be good at it and be successful at it. And one of the benefits of this is that this will allow you, if you can get your physical and mental spaces organized, then you can save your grit, focus and tenacity for the actual work. It's not being stolen to deal with these external factors. You gave us a great list of factors to consider. So in the physical space side, some things to be thinking about are what's the noise? Are you in a spot where you have privacy versus connection and maybe there's times you need both temperature, lighting, the color palettes, and then also personalization. So do you have family photos or your favorite team or region where you're from? And then also minimize the clutter. That clutter is very distracting, sort of serves as a physical to-do list for you. And then lastly, really be thinking about creating a designated space for work, even if it's a small little tiny chair in the corner that sends a signal to you of what you're doing and it sends a signal to others around you. And then I think your advice at the end was great. So I agree, start with the physical space and then that will help you on the mental space side. And for the mental space, get some help, have somebody work with you. So I'm gonna give you a chance now to answer our three big questions. Once again, you've done it wonderfully here for the last 45 minutes or so. So we'll go quick-hitter answers to these. So our first one, how do our physical and mental surroundings influence productivity? Well, for all the reasons that we've talked about and those, if you can eliminate distractions or things that take mindshare away from the things that you're supposed to be doing, eliminate them one at a time or together and you'll have more time to spend on the things that you're supposed to be doing. Great. What common obstacles keep people from creating productive environments in what is secretly sabotaging our productivity? Yeah, so in an office environment, there's the, sometimes there's standard office environments. It's hard to customize and individualize it. So there's that, there's always a budget consideration. I guess what thinks environment costs money. And then there's the, just the family circumstances or the small kids versus empty nesters, totally different things. I think those are common obstacles that you keep us from optimizing our space and therefore being the best we can be. Good. And this last one, I feel like we've answered a couple of times, but let's do it again. What practical strategies can anyone apply to optimize their physical and mental spaces for sustained high performance? Yeah, first, I think we agreed. Let's start on the physical space piece and start by prioritizing what irritates you, what impacts your productivity the most or your ability to focus on the challenges they face. So prioritize first and use the resources that are available to you. There's infinite amounts of inspiration you can get from the internet and whatever else, websites that'll serve this. And then on the mental health side, we talked a lot about engaging family members, coworkers, coaches, whatever, to help you work through those things or at least identify the things that are maybe there as barriers. Tremendous. You've set us up perfectly for our challenge here. So at the end, we always sort of issue a challenge or a call to action. We're pushing people towards action. Learning about all this stuff is wonderful. The data is terrific and it's very compelling, but if you don't actually make some changes in your life, it's all for naught, doesn't matter. So ultimately, we wanna help people get the first win in this. And so based on what you've told us, the challenge for today is, number one, take inventory of your physical workspace. Don't even worry about the mental side yet. We'll save that for later. Just take inventory of your physical space. And you can choose from the list of things that Dennis gave us here. So just pick one of these things and ask yourself, is it optimized for me? And if not, then optimize it. So that list again, noise, your privacy versus connection, what's the temperature, what's the light, and the color, your personalization of your space, getting rid of the clutter, and then make sure that space is designated for work. So just pick one of those things. Don't have to do them all at once. Just pick one and then fix that and then move on to the next one. Just slowly work your way down the list. And then once you're starting to feel pretty good about it, then you can switch over to the mental side and take mental inventory. But step one is just to take inventory of your physical space and see where you're at. So that's our challenge for you to help you get the first win in this process. And again, remember our goal for doing this is not just to make you a more productive person, but when you are more productive, you're increasing your output while decreasing the amount of effort or energy too. So you're gonna have more joy because you're gonna have a lot of progress. And then you're gonna have more energy left in the tank to go do the things that you wanna be doing. So Dennis, thank you so much for joining us today and walking us through the session. Really appreciate it having you. Thank you. It was a lot of fun. Thanks for the invitation. This is fun. You got it. So our session today was titled How Your Physical Surroundings Are Impacting Your Productivity. We've given you some great tips. I hope you can put them to action and make a big difference in your life. So remember to our audience to live intentionally, consistently, better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you liked this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at: optimize@mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.