The Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship is really the anchor on which we build our practice, our research, and our educational resources here at Mayo Clinic in the division of Community Internal Medicine, Geriatrics, and Palliative Care for those specializing in the care of serious and complex patients. Palliative care at Mayo Clinic has really been transformed over the past 15 years. We've seen not only a considerable growth within the actual numbers of patients served, but also the footprint within the institution. We now encompass over 60 clinicians serving patients in inpatient setting and outpatient settings, hospice practices, and in our teaching practice. For our fellows, they're going to see a broad variety of complex symptom needs and communication needs. Our fellows will see patients in intensive care, cardiology, oncology, hematology. We collaborate with internal medicine and family medicine. They will see the host of palliative medicine care. One of the unique aspects of our fellowship is our three plus one block schedule. We have the first three weeks of each block that are dedicated to focusing on that rotation, whether it's consult service, our primary palliative care service, hospice, elective time. During that last week, the time is split between clinic, didactic days, and two flex days. Our fellows have a hundred percent five year board pass rate, and they pursue leadership opportunities in clinical, educational, and research realms. At Mayo Clinic, the patients that we meet each and every day are seen as much more than the diagnosis that they present with. What we really value and really set out to identify is who our patients really are and how their illness impacts their own wellbeing and their own sense of self. Altogether we collaborate to make sure that our patients are seen within all the elements that are important to them. We have a team-based approach to care in our palliative care clinic. We all work in the same work room. We talk about patients throughout the day, and these patients can be really complex. We're not all on service every day. We're not all in the clinic every day. So a lot of our nurses and our APCs and our physicians know little bits of information about our different patients. And so if you're going to see a patient and you might not know the whole story, you can talk to the team, hear what's evolved since their last visit, hear are some of the intricacies in their care that might not have made it into the note. Medical care has become extremely complicated now, and it really does take a team of people to be able to address just the medical issues. And then when you throw in the medical, psychological, and spiritual part of it, you definitely need a team to address all three of those, and that's, that's what we do. There's a lot of things that we can do with, uh, Reiki therapy, social work, with music therapy, and just sitting and listening to people. And again, those things don't have bad side effects. When I think about the way in which our fellows interact with the team, it's as an integral member. It's someone who's brought in very early on to be part of the team in a way that is beyond just learning, but really engaging, sharing their experiences, being able to be vulnerable and supported in that vulnerability in a way that we find both important as part of the work we do every day, but also the work that we build for the future. One of the things that it was very apparent to me when I first came to Mayo was how important it was for my mentors to know what were my career goals. We are always thinking, okay, so what, what does this applicant, uh, want to do with, uh, his or her career? And okay, what can we offer this applicant to develop the skills necessary to achieve that goal? That's why, you know, no fellow has the same career path, even if they're doing the same fellowship. And that's pretty neat. In my role as an education program coordinator and supervisor of the fellows, I'm their point of contact through the course of their fellowship. I will advocate for our fellows and want them to know that they can come to me for just about anything. It is my goal to make the fellows time in our program go as smooth as possible. Rochester's just an easy city to get around. I think for just a year you should be able to adapt within a couple of weeks. There's always a lot to do and even though it's a smaller city, I think there's a strong sense of pride here. Traffic is almost unheard of. If you wanted to get out of the city, there are a number of parks that can be hiked with or without dogs. We certainly have small cities around too that have their own unique charm as well. Part of what helped us grow together as fellows was that we did things outside of work together. Um, we would go to dinners. I hosted a dinner and did things together as a fellows group, and that's been really special. It's just such an amazing place and I like the respect that palliative has. Everybody's important and the experiences that we got to have were really truly amazing. This is a year that I get to expand my knowledge base and skill set in an area that I was really unfamiliar with. It's made me a better doctor. I think it's made me a better person, better colleague. You can't measure it. It's unbelievable. One of the best parts of my role here is that I get to see the fellows grow and develop into world class hospice and palliative medicine clinicians. That relationship we have with our fellows doesn't stop after their year of training. It carries on well after graduating from our program. Whether our fellows stay here or move on to practice somewhere else, they will always be a part of the Mayo Clinic family. We hope that you choose to come and join our team and our family at Mayo Clinic.