It's such a pleasure to be here. Thank you uh so much for inviting me. I've had such an amazing experience both talking to the other speakers and and having an opportunity to talk to many of you just sitting uh in the audience. Um I'm going to start out just by uh reminding us that many of the struggles that society faces uh when it comes to the health care challenges we kind of bring on ourselves with our own poor health habits. So, uh, for some of us it's we eat too much and others, uh, we maybe smoke. Um, Homer Simpson here has not gotten the med message that, uh, donuts are are actually spiders. Uh, maybe he's a little bit inactive. Uh, Joe Cavdar commented me commented to me yesterday that, uh, sitting is the new smoking. So, you can think about that as you're uh, enjoying your afternoon here. Some of us live in New Orleans. Um, and this is uh, particularly tempting. We have a history of getting our drinks to go at any restaurant. And I mean by drinks I mean martinis. Um and we have uh bars in our uh grocery stores. So of course the economic cost of these poor habits is huge. So obesity, smoking, physical activity, billions of dollars in direct medical care and even uh uh lost productivity and other indirect uh costs. I like to think of public response or uh public officials response to these uh challenges as having sort of a life cycle. There's a life cycle of uh intervention and it starts with increasing our awareness. So if we increase people's awareness about the dangers of smoking or the dangers of overeating uh that's a good place to start and it's very very well-intentioned. The idea being that people will act in their own self-interest. Right? Once you know that this is bad for you and you have good information, you'll stop. So it's part of this cycle of increasing awareness and educating people and essentially giving them lots and lots of information. So we see that uh warning labels on cigarette packages are ubiquitous. We see now uh many decades of nutrition labeling. More recently calorie labeling is everywhere we go. Lots and lots of information. But the reality is that despite giving consumers all of this information, twothirds of American adults are overweight or obese. uh and one in five American adults still smokes. Uh it's one in four in the state where I live. So at some point we have to ask a question of whether or not consumers really lack information. Is that the problem when we we're thinking about public health interventions. And it's more often the case that smokers know the risk of uh smoking and they know the benefits of of quitting. And people who are overweight know that they are overweight and they don't wish to be. in many cases they want to change and they know the benefits of of losing weight. And so what happens is that we see this finding in that people's knowledge and even their intentions are very poorly correlated with their uh behaviors. And we know that information uh as well-intentioned as it is has limited power to close the intention behavior gap. And health behaviors are particularly challenging. things like getting people to quit smoking, getting them to eat healthy, getting them to exercise. Why is it so uh so challenging? Because it requires self-control. And not self-control just one time. It's self-control all the time. Uh, and so what my colleagues and I look at in our research is how can we help people activate and maintain self-control in the marketplace in in cases where they may be making just everyday decisions that over periods of time and and repeatedly can have a a long impact uh or a long-term impact on their health. So the next stage in the life cycle of interventions is starting to target self-control with incentives. Again, this is a really really good idea. The idea being that if you just pay people, they'll become self-interested in being healthier. And it absolutely works. We know that people uh will be more likely to exercise, they'll lose weight, they'll stop smoking, and they'll adhere to medication more with financial incentives than uh without. The problem with this is that it's incredibly expensive. And we'll see this. Many many uh incentive programs are being rolled out under the Affordable Care Act. They're very expensive to implement and they're very expensive to maintain at scale. So the problem here becomes you have to remove incentives and of course when you remove these incentives behaviors uh bad behaviors quickly revert. So uh in our research we try to take a more sophisticated approach and when I say sophisticated I mean thinking about the talk that we uh that we just heard consumers are often aware that they have self-control problems um and they may be willing to do things that help limit their environment. So the most classic story of this of course is Ulisses. Uh Ulisses on his adventures uh was going uh through the waters and uh trying to resist the lure of the sirens. Right? So he's going through the waters. He's trying to resist the lure of the sirens. He knows that they're going to be so enchanting and that he's going to be tempted to jump in the water. After them, of course, he will surely drown. And so what he does is he instructs his crew to literally tie him to the mast. And this allows him to go through uh the call of the sirens, listen to their enchanting song, but not act on his impulses to jump in the water. Incidentally, uh Ulyses also instructs his crew to either stuff wax uh in their ears or go below deck. So, he's saying, "You should avoid the temptation altogether. Uh I'm going to tie myself to the mast." And we see evidence that actually consumers are willing to do something similar to this uh when dealing with their vices in the marketplace. Right? So we know that cigarettes smokers often prefer to buy cigarettes by the pack rather than buy the carton uh forgoing the bolt discount. Many of us uh uh just play these simple games where we hide the goodies. So you go to the grocery store, you buy some junk food, and then you immediately put it in the cabinets. If you're like me, you just don't even bring it into the house to begin with. So, we're restricting our access to our vices as a way to get us to have better self-control, not necessarily having to sit there and struggle uh with the bag of potato chips calling to us uh like the sirens. And so, our question was whether or not we could leverage this insight in uh the marketplace. And so, the place that we first started was in a fast food restaurant. And instead of asking uh participants in or consumers in fast food restaurants if they wanted to superersize their meal, we asked them if they wanted to downsize their meal. We asked participants on various days. So we went into Panda Express. I don't know the last time that you've been to a Panda Express, but you go into Panda Express, you order an entree and a side dish. Uh the entree is typically orange chicken. I think 85% of their sales. And you order orange chicken and you order a side dish. And the side dish is essentially two heaping 5 oz scoops of rice or noodles or some other uh starchy dish. And we asked people at the time that they were ordering, would you like to cut 200 calories from your meal uh by taking a half portion of your side dish? And on some days we just saw uh we didn't ask people anything and we just measured how often they were willing to do this uh on their own. And then some days we asked them to do this with little with absolutely no discount. would you like to cut 2 thousand 200 calories by taking a half portion of your side dish? Or we asked them on other days if they would be willing to downsize their meal for a discount of 25 cents in addition to cutting out uh 200 calories from their side dish from their meal. Um so essentially we're asking people to be a little bit healthier by pre-commitment. And if you're worried here that the Panda Express customers are being deprived of food, what you see on the left is a full-size meal. So you have two entre and two uh uh scoops of uh very delicious noodles. And then on the right side, you see a fairly full plate, but this is only a half uh half portion of the noodles. And this works out to be about a 200 calorie savings per meal. So remember on days we just had some baseline days where we didn't ask people to do anything, right? We just measured and saw how many people came into the Panda Express and asked for uh uh less food on their own. Of course, no fast food customer ever does that. Uh but then on the uh days in which we prompted people to take just a half portion for no discount, we saw that a third of the customers were willing to downsize their meal for absolutely no discount, right? And save themselves 200 calories. We went back to see whether or not this uh this carried over, whether or not there was any learning. And of course there's not, right? So if you don't prompt people, they don't spontaneously ask for less food in fast food restaurants. But our critical test was whether or not there would be some uh additional benefit of giving people a discount. Who would do this? What kind of person would come in and take less food for little or no discount at all? Pay more to get uh pay more to get less. And it turned out that when we asked people to downsize for a 25 cent discount, we essentially saw that only uh or again a third of the people were willing to do this. um a third of the people were willing to do this. But we can also translate this into uh actually estimating the number of calories that people uh were served. And so what you see on this graph is just looking at the people who were invited to downsize their meals that they did in fact save those who uh accepted our invitation to downsize saved about 200 calories per meal all on the side dish. So you know one of the things that could have happened would be that people would downsize their meal and then compensate. they would get a another entree or they would get a more uh caloric entree. But we didn't see that here. Basically, people downsized their meals and they didn't compensate on other portions of the meal. And what this uh does, even though only a third of the participants or a third of the customers who came into Panda Express were willing to downsize, this uh this savings actually translates to an average savings of 100 calories per customer served over the entire intervention period. So, we have days in which there's no prompting. We have days in which there's downsizing. And just on the days where there's downsizing, about 100 calories per customer uh fewer is served all on the side dish. Uh meaning that people are downsizing their meals, but they're not compensating with uh additional uh calories. So, our takeaway message or our takeout uh uh message is that we know that consumers aren't going to spontaneously ask for food, less food, but they will do it if they're uh prompted to do it. uh and meal downsizing can save 200 calories or more uh in this case per person who does it. But it also significantly lowers the average number of calories served in the o the whole uh entire restaurant. We know that people don't compensate. We know that they don't complain. They feel perfectly satiated and satisfied after they've left the uh drostanolone. And then although I didn't walk you through all of the details, we did directly compare downsizing to calorie labeling. Calorie labeling, not surprising, consistent with many other studies, showed no effect at Panda Express when we were doing our studies there. And so downsizing is significantly more uh effective than just giving people information about the caloric content of uh of the food. So you may be asking why this works. And our explanation for why a pre-commitment to smaller portion works is that on one hand it disrupts scripts. So, we all have a a a pretty good idea of what happens when we go into fast food restaurants, and it never involves asking for uh less food. The next thing it does is that it it reduces the impact of mindless eating. So, this is Brian Wson's research showing us that basically people eat every single thing that's put in front of them. And that the cue to uh to feeling full is actually having an empty plate. And so, with meal downsizing, you get that. You get a smaller portion to begin with. You're able to eat the entire meal. uh you get the cue that the uh the meal is over when your plate is clean, but it really reduces the need for self-control while eating. So, last night at dinner, I got a wonderful entree. Halfway through, I'm completely full and I'm really struggling to stop eating because it tastes so good. So, there's two ways that I can try to exercise self-control. While it's really difficult for me to do so in the middle of eating, or I can set myself up to be better by just taking less uh uh to begin with. So our next question was whether or not there would be some other opportunities for us to be able to leverage this insight that people may be self-aware. And this took us all the way to Johannesburg, South Africa where we partnered with Discovery Health. Uh they're a large health insurance provider in South Africa, the largest and they were very exciting to us because they have this uh vitality rewards program. So, the vitality program is a is a healthy rewards program much like many of the programs we're going to be seeing roll out in the United States in the coming year in the coming years. Um, and it's essentially frequent flyer miles for doing healthy things. So, if you go to the gym and you get immunizations and you take your medication on time and you eat healthy food, you get points. Points earn you status and status earns you uh discounts. And one of the most uh coveted benefit is their healthy food benefit which is a 25% cash back benefit that's paid by Discovery Health to their members uh for healthy foods that they're purchase that they purchase at pick and pay. So pick and pay is a large uh grocery store in South Africa. And so it's not that you get the discount at the point of service, it's that you get the discount paid by the health insurance company to your credit card at the end of the month. So, if I spend a hundred rand on healthy food, then at the end of uh the month, I get a 25 rand credit uh on my credit card. And it turns out that about a third of the eligible foods at the uh at the grocery store are um are discounted. And all of these foods have been designated healthy by the program. So, they're labeled as healthy. It's lean meats, fat-free dairy, vegetables, uh produce, all of the things that you would typically think of as as healthy food, and you get this 25% cash back discount. We are wondering whether or not we can get people to do even better than 31% and asking people again, are you willing to be healthier by uh by pre-commitment? So, we invited Vitality members to put their 25% discount on the line. We used a randomized control trial where we told some people in the control group a little bit about the notion of pre-commitment and then we had a treatment group in which we asked people to make a financially binding uh uh pre-commitment to increase their percentage of healthy food by five percentage points over their household baseline for each of the next six months. So if my household has only 20% healthy food under this program I agree to go up to 25% healthy food at the grocery store. uh I do it for each of the next six months. If I am able to do that, I keep my 25% discount. I don't get an additional discount. I just get to keep the discount that I've always been getting. But if I don't, I forfeit my discount for the uh uh for the month. So that 25 rand that I was getting on my uh credit card statement after buying a hundred rand worth of healthy food is now reversed on my credit card. I see uh my credit card statement. and it says I get the 25 rand credit and then right underneath it it's struck out and it says that I I've forfeited this. So, uh you may ask again like the the case with the fast food restaurant, who does this? Who who would sign up for a benefit in which there's no additional uh discount? There's no additional incentive. There's only the threat of a loss. Um, and in our case, a third of the uh the households that opened our invitation were willing to precommit to healthier uh shopping at Pick and Pay. So, of course, our big question is how well do they do? They've pre-committed, but how well are they actually doing? And so, what I have here is showing you this graph where basically we're looking at an 18-month period. So, from January 2012 to June 2012, this is our baseline period. And we see that there's a control group and then we've we've uh split out the treatment group into the those who did pre-commit and those who who deni declined our invitation. And what you see is basically that before the intervention starts of course because of random assignment everybody looks exactly the same. But then as soon as the commitment device starts those who pre-commit significantly increase the percentage of healthy food that they're purchasing and they stay increased over the next six months. Now the really interesting thing is that of course in December of 2012 we take away the threat of a loss but we see that there's a lasting effect. We see that those who had precommitted are still doing better for almost six months than people in the uh the other group. And so we've not given any additional incentive. We've only given people an opportunity to uh h get the discount that Vitality is always willing to pay. And yet we're seeing that there's significant improvement when people put this discount on the line. It really really motivates them to uh behave better at the grocery store and it looks like it's working to develop healthy habits. You can take the commitment device away and then uh people continue uh to do well. So the checkout message uh from the grocery store study is that we know that there is some demand for commitment devices. About a third of the people that we offer them to uh will try them. They don't need an additional incentive. This is not something that's only attractive to healthy people. In fact, the healthier you are, it's harder to go from 50% healthy to 55% healthy than from 10% healthy to uh 15% healthy. You have more on the line. So, we're not just attracting healthy people. Uh, and we have to offer them something that's financially binding. We can't just float the idea of pre-commitment and hope that people will be better. We actually have to get them to make a financially binding commitment. And it does work. we see a persistent effect as soon as you put the commitment device in place. Behavior improves and it improves at a steady and stays at a steady rate for each of the six months and it lasts even after the intervention is over which is very very promising for uh uh for habit formation. So in closing uh I just want to say we know that consumers are sophisticated about their self-control problems. They're they're self-aware uh and because they struggle with these things they sign up for Weight Watchers. they sign up for smokeenders with every intention of doing better. They will pre-commmit to a one-time decision that makes the choices later uh a little bit uh easier and that there's some appetite in the marketplace for commitment devices that limit portion sizes or even get us to forego uh lucrative discounts in order to keep us moving along the path of most resistance. Right? It's the path of most resistance that gets us to eat better and exercise more um and ignore or try to ignore some of the cravings that we have. Um, and in doing all of this and and leveraging what we know about self-awareness, uh, we can create these healthier uh, environments and keep people, like I said, moving along the path of most resistance. Thank you. Thank you, Janet. We're going to stay on time here, so I will urge people to uh ask Janet questions at the meet the speaker uh session right at the end of this session right down in front. Thanks so much. You know, it's great the idea that there's a value to staying with the commitment and that people sort of understand that they don't need an additional incentive to basically follow through on a program that they're kind of involved with in their sort of individual opt-in for the 25% discounted. I think that's right. Like nobody absent nobody signs up for the healthy food benefit hoping not to use it. fail. Nobody signed up for a gym membership hoping not to go. People are very optimistic about these things and then it becomes incredibly challenging to go and stay with it. And so we have to think about how do we get people uh past the initial hurdle of sign up to actually realizing what it is that they want to do? How do we close the intention behavior gap? My intentions are good. I signed up for this program. How do I keep myself uh engaged and moving towards the goals that I've I've ostensibly set for myself? Another view of intentionality. Janet, thanks so much.