Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be, so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. How we think about ourselves and the world is really what shapes how we experience the world. Not only does it shape our experience, but our thinking is one of the main drivers that determines our success in every avenue of life. So much of our thinking can be helpful for propelling us forward towards our goals, but so much of our thinking is actually unhelpful and it prevents us from achieving our goals. To help us take charge of our thinking and use it for good, the title of our session today is "Helpful vs. Unhelpful Thinking Patterns." How to Use Mental Models in a Healthy Way. Our expert here to help us with this is Dr. Dona Locke. Dr. Locke is a professor of psychology in the Department of Psychiatry and Psychology at Mayo Clinic, Arizona. She completed her fellowship training at Mayo Clinic Rochester in a combination neuropsychology rehabilitation psychology track and then joined the staff in Arizona 2005. Clinically, she performs diagnostic neuropsychological evaluations for a broad range of symptom presentations in adults with a specialization in aging and seizure disorders. She's also director of the HABIT program, a cognitive rehabilitation and brain wellness program for patients diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment at Mayo Clinic in Arizona. She's been involved in funded research since coming on staff in 2005 to include a variety of grants to help improve the thinking patterns of patients of all walks of life. Well, Dona, welcome to the Human Optimization Project and thank you so much for joining us today. It's great to be here. Thanks for having me. So we have this broken up into three sections and I have a big question that's sort of the theme of each of those sections. So I'll run through that real quick for our listeners. So our first section, my big question is, what exactly are thinking patterns and how can we distinguish between ones that are helpful and those that are unhelpful? My second big question, why do we commonly default to the unhelpful patterns of thinking? And then in the third section, we'll try to get to some solutions. And the big question there is, what steps can we take to start using helpful thinking patterns and mental models to help us achieve our goals? So that's a lot. So we've got a tall task ahead of us. And I think that we can hopefully we can do this here in the next 40, 45 minutes or so. We'll do our best. So we'll start with this first one. We're going to talk a little bit about what these things are. So let's just before we get into helpful versus unhelpful, can you just define a thinking pattern? What exactly does that mean? Yeah, so in my mind, a thinking pattern is really just the inner narrator that we all have that's kind of giving us commentary about our lives, our situation, what things that we're thinking ahead to, things that we're thinking about, reminiscing about in the past. It's sort of that, like I said, the narrator that's giving us some commentary on whatever that is. And good and bad, we all have that running nonstop in the background. Yeah, OK. So let's talk about how that relates to mental models. I think Charlie Munger has done a lot to discuss mental models and how they're powerful and help you to think through things. But I get the sense that this is a little bit different or maybe not. How does it relate to mental models? Yeah, I think there's some similarity, although I think my understanding of the mental model structure is that it's a little bit more directive, problem-solving, goal-oriented kind of. And this is a little less that. It's a little less intentional kind of goal-oriented thinking patterns. This is a little bit more almost automated kinds of thinking patterns. I mean, we can become aware of them and we can sort of select them or adjust them. But this is just a little bit more of a default mode, I guess, is the way I think of it. Perfect. So the mental models are sort of these different constructs or formulas that you can choose to apply to a situation or a problem. Whereas the thinking pattern is sort of that default background narrator voice that's running in your head all the time, no matter what. OK. Yeah. All right. That's helpful. And our goal here, hopefully, is to influence that inner narrator to speak to us in a way that's helpful. So now that we've sort of defined what a thinking pattern is, I'd like to talk a little bit about unhelpful ones and helpful ones. So maybe let's start with the negative. We'll end with the positive. So what exactly is an unhelpful thinking pattern? Yeah, it's unhelpful. So you actually use the words positive and negative there. And I think this is something that's important to highlight is a lot of times when people venture into this construct, you'll hear a lot about positive thinking and negative thinking or irrational thinking. I mean, I think as a psychologist, sometimes we throw out those words and we see that in our culture as a lot as well. You just got to think positive. Right. And that's something I always want to really make sure that we're differentiating is we're really not talking about positive or negative. It's really about helpful or unhelpful, you know, because as I'll say to my patients or even a friend, sometimes the thing you're dealing with is really terrible. And saying to somebody, you just got to think positive about that terrible thing that you're going through. That makes no sense at all. But even when something is terrible, you can still analyze whether you're thinking about that situation as helpful. Or unhelpful and helpful or unhelpful for what I mean, it kind of depends on what you mean, you know, adapting resiliency, problem solving, moving forward, achievement, you know, whatever the next thing is that you'd like for it to be is your inner narrator offering you something that's helpful in terms of taking a step toward that goal or not. So it's not positive or negative. It's not good or bad. It's helpful or unhelpful. That's great. So the positive versus negative scheme is really kind of an emotional based kind of how it makes you feel. And that's really not what we're talking about here. We're talking about is this pattern of thinking something that is helping move you forward or help you progress towards your goal or purpose or mission or achieve whatever it is or benefiting you in some way, whereas unhelpful is not. And at times, a negative feeling might actually be helpful. And at other times, a positive feeling might be unhelpful. So the two are not necessarily related or correlated. OK, good. So now let's focus on the unhelpful stuff. Sir, what are some key characteristics or commonalities across unhelpful thinking patterns? A big one that I am often finding lots of people can become aware of is when the thinking is about something you can't control. I wish it shouldn't, you know, any time you're thinking things along the lines of, you know, I wish this were different or I wish X hadn't happened or this shouldn't be or what it should be like X or Y. That's usually when you're kind of getting stuck in something that you really can't control at all. And usually that's not helpful to kind of get stuck in that space. Sometimes though the more unhelpful thinking pattern can be also a negative thinking pattern, right? Kind of that negative self-talk sort of piece, you know, that is certainly something, you know, even though I just said it's not positive or negative, some of what is unhelpful can also be that negative space, right? You're going to do really terrible at this interview. You know, you're probably going to stumble over your words, you know, all of that. Some of that might be true. I might do all that here today, but is it helpful for me in preparing to have that be the mental message that I'm giving myself, the narration that is coming through? Or is it, you know, kind of you've prepared as best you can for this interview. You talk about these things all the time. You know, Chris wants this to be a helpful, successful, you know, interview for his listeners. That's a more helpful approach. So helpful can be more positive, unhelpful can be more negative, but not always. Sometimes it just isn't productive in terms of moving forward. I like what you said about oftentimes it's things we can't control. Sometimes it's unnecessarily negative or inaccurately negative and talking us down. What about, and that made me think a little bit about the accuracy of our thinking. And one of the problems I think that we all tend to have these cognitive biases or distortions oftentimes, I might see that as aligning with unhelpful thinking. How do you see cognitive distortions or biases in this framework of unhelpful and helpful thinking? Yeah, our inner narrator definitely is influenced by all the messages that we intake throughout our lives, right? All the things other people have said to us about ourselves. Some of that is positive. Some of that is negative. Some of that is helpful. Some of it isn't. And our narrator will grab onto those things and sometimes it will play back the stuff that really isn't true, but becomes sort of that inner bias. I never do anything right. I'm stupid. I'm worthless. I'm a burden. I'm fill in the blank whatever message that you might have been given that really is an all or nothing black or white kind of thinking pattern that you could challenge as probably untrue about you. But sometimes there are things that are true, but it still isn't helpful, right? In terms of, I sometimes give the example, sometimes we'll be worried about something we think we're not going to do well or we're kind of ruminating on something that didn't go well. And maybe you're right. Maybe it didn't go well. Maybe you didn't do a great job at whatever that is. But is that really helpful? So it isn't inherently that those thoughts are necessarily untrue. They can be. Now, you know what you said about those cognitive distortions can be entirely true. Irrational thinking. There's a lot of work that goes into self-discovery to kind of become aware of those underlying cognitive distortions that probably aren't true. But it's not always necessarily that they aren't true. Sometimes they are. And just because it's true doesn't necessarily mean it's helpful. Right. And I'm not a very good golfer. My oldest son is learning to play golf this year, so I'm going out with him and I'm not good. I'm terrible. But it's not helpful for me to stand there on the tee box and say, I'm a terrible golfer, even though that may be true. At that time, that information is not helping me. It's also not helpful for me to try to lie to myself and say, I'm an amazing golfer. You're great at this one. That's also not true. So that's good. So just because it's true doesn't necessarily Great. Let's talk a little bit more now. So we'll kind of flip the script. We talked about unhelpful. What are some common characteristics of helpful thinking patterns? Yeah. So it's probably the flip side. A big one, a big one, is a refocus on things that you really can control. And so I said one of the kind of unhelpful patterns is often focused on the stuff you can't control. So the flip side of that is really evaluating a situation. And A, is there something about this particular situation that I can control? And if so, let me focus on that. Let me put my energy there. Or if you can't, it's about how do I let go of this if I can't really control anything about this situation? So it might cut me off in traffic this morning. Great example. Actually, this really did happen to me. And I had this literal thought, probably because I was coming in thinking about this interview. He kind of cut me off. And I was running a little bit late. And I honked at him. You know, and I was mad for like a second. I went, wait a minute. I don't know what that guy's deal is. Maybe he's a jerk. Maybe he's late. Maybe he was inattentive. But is it really kind of setting me up for success for the day for me to be like really angry at this guy? It already happened. I can't control it. Why am I going to put my energy into that when I need to save energy for other more important things in my day? Right. And so I think it's these little situations, little choices sometimes to let go of things that you can't do anything about them. Sometimes it's big things you have to let go of. Big things that you really wish were different that you can't change. But that awareness of, am I spinning my wheels about something? Is my narrator kind of just revving me up about something that I really can't do anything about? And if you can kind of choose not to, kind of say, no, thank you, narrator. We're not going to focus on that. That's not really in our control. We're going to pivot. That's probably going to lead you in a more helpful direction. And we talked about some unhelpful self-talk. You know, I can't do this. I'm not good enough. I'll never make it. I'm a failure. Is there a, I imagine there's a flip side to that that is helpful self-talk. And this is probably not unrealistic. I'm the greatest. I'm never going to fail. I'm not going to have a problem. I'm amazing. But there's got to be some balance in there where the self-talk is constructive enough that it is accurate and also helpful. Is that true? Yeah, no, absolutely. That's another important focus. And some of it is, you know, maybe I will mess this up, you know, but I'm going to do the best I can or I've done the best I can. Or like your golf example, you're not doing it because you want to be a great golfer. You're doing it so you spend time with your son and get him out there doing something that he likes to do. Whether you're a good golfer or not is of no consequence. Obviously that's not what's important. So kind of finding what the underlying value is, whether it's a value you live by or a value of that situation and focusing on that as a more helpful focus for that particular situation. And a lot of what we're talking about here I'm sensing is surrounding intention. You know, what is my intention with this activity? And why am I honking at this guy that just cut me off? Yes, it's true. He deserves a honk and he was wrong. And maybe it's because I'm a self-righteous warrior that believes in righteousness. But was my intention to come out here and teach this guy a lesson today? Or was my intention to get to work in a peaceful, sound state of mind? And what's the chance that me honking at him is going to mean he's not going to cut somebody off again? Yeah, he's out there cutting his house off right now. He's not learned anything today. And I also love that your first—the way you characterize the unhelpful and helpful thinking was basically whether you can or cannot control the situation. I'm a big fan of stoic philosophy and stoicism. They talk about the dichotomy of control. You try to separate things into what you can control, what you can't control, and I think that that is certainly coming to fruition here. So now let's transition into our second section where we're going to talk about why we unfortunately sometimes default to the unhelpful patterns of thinking. So we've discussed several different types of unhelpful thinking patterns. I think it's pretty obvious that these are not optimal for us, yet it seems like we still tend to default towards that a lot of times. Why? Yeah, well, I think, you know, honestly, this is our biology. This comes from—our brains are built as problem-solving systems, right? This is how we evolved as a species, right, as we got really good at solving problems. And a lot of times where we tend to get stuck is when there isn't really a solution, right? Because if your narrator can offer you, "Here's the solution for the problem that you're facing. It's something you can control, and it's something you can do," right? So those are two helpful things. Where that biology gets stuck is in those situations where you really can't control whatever it is, and there isn't a solution. There isn't really something that you can do to fix it. And so I think our default is problem-solving because that's how we survive as a species. It's just when the situation doesn't really allow for that underlying biology to really be what's most productive, where we can get stuck, and where we have to kind of learn to guide ourselves into that more helpful direction, saying, you know, "No, thank you, problem-solving brain. This isn't exactly where we need to be today. Appreciate you. You're going to help me in the future, I know. But today, you get to take a break, and we're going to focus on this more helpful approach to whatever situation it is that you're dealing with." I like that. Not today, problem-solving brain. We live in a world now where so many problems are presented to us constantly, many of which are our own problems, other of which aren't even our problems, but we're still exposed to them because we're reading the news or we're seeing it on social media or whatever. And so we feel the burden of the world's problems. And sometimes, and I think that that could be a contributor too, is that we're seeing more problems than ever before. We have this negativity bias, unfortunately, which means we tend to pay more attention to the problems than we do the things that we've already experienced. Yeah, for sure. It's also part of our biology in terms of our nervous system. Our sympathetic nervous system is also, that's our fight-or-flight system. That's what keeps us alive as humans. So when we were running away from tigers or other things, and we still need it now to keep us safe and keep us activated enough to do well when we're going to be doing interviews or whatever big ticket things we're working on. So we need that system. The challenge is when you don't need that level of activation, how do you kind of get that nervous system dampened down a little bit? I love this analogy and I really want to give it here if I can. One of my colleagues actually used this analogy and I thought it was so amazing. So our nervous system is sort of like a smoke alarm in our house. So the smoke alarm is the alarm. It sounds the same whether your house is on fire or you burnt toast in the morning. So we're not trying to turn off the smoke alarm or we're not trying to make the smoke alarm not happen. It needs to happen because we need that emergency system. What we're trying to do and how our thinking patterns can help is help us identify when the alarm is really just we burnt the toast. We can settle that down with our thinking patterns. We can sort of become aware of, wait a second, this really isn't an emergency. Let's pivot here a little bit and your thinking patterns can play a role in some of that along with other tools, but your thinking patterns can play a role in some of whether you're kind of heightening that alarm, really extending the length of that alarm or you're kind of becoming aware it's not an emergency. So we can settle this down a little bit. Oh, that's what a great analogy. I think that's fantastic. I think unfortunately we seem to have a lean towards the negative in a lot of this and we do have that negativity bias and we pay more attention to the negative things. That's what keeps us safe. Exactly. So how do we factor that into this because is that negativity bias? When is it helpful for us and when is it not helpful and how do we sort through that? Well, I think it's really situational is the issue because again, you're using that word negative and I'm not putting you on the spot, but that's where I'd encourage us to think about not necessarily positive or negative, but situationally, sometimes whatever it is is going on is really terrible. And being able to say to yourself, this is really terrible that I'm going through X, Y, or Z thing that can be okay. I mean, I'm not asking you to pretend like that's not happening. This isn't a Pollyanna kind of situation. There is something out there called toxic positivity. This idea that, yeah, I'm just going to pretend like everything's okay. And that leads to all kinds of health issues and relationship problems and other things. So it's a matter of, some of it is, I guess, the basic frame of reference in terms of things are, right? My brain is paying attention to things that are potential threats to me. It's my job as a thinking human to sort of be able to filter, is this really where my focus needs to be? Is this where my energy needs to go? Is this going to improve my quality of life? Is this going to improve my output or my achievement or whatever it is, whatever value it is? So I think it's all about our brains being primed to pay attention to danger or quote unquote, that's negative, right? Because that's how we stay alive. And it's our job to sort of sort through that, I guess, is what I'm getting at. And to sort of let go a little bit of positive versus negative and helpful versus unhelpful is I think a great replacement strategy because you said before, the same thinking pattern can be helpful in one situation when there's a problem to be solved and your brain is in problem solving mode. That's a helpful thinking pattern, right? But when there is not a solution, you've thought about this as many ways as you can, and there is not a solution that now becomes an unhelpful thinking pattern. So it's not inherently necessarily positive or negative. It's more the idea that our brains are going to pay attention to threats. That's how we're built. And how do we use our thinking patterns to recognize that and adapt? This really reminds me a lot of some of what we talked about previously on here in the space of emotional intelligence. And we talked about understanding your emotions and approaching them with a sense of curiosity and doing it as an emotional scientist rather than an emotional judge. So just saying, okay, what is this thing that I'm feeling? What is it? I understand it. Why am I doing it? What's the threat here? Without criticizing or judging yourself. So you're using it like a scientist that says, okay, this is just data. This is information that I'm gathering. And I'm not saying it's good or bad. I'm just gathering the information. So I'm understanding what's going on in the world around me. I'm paying attention. Is my house burning down or is it that I just burned the toast? Which one is it? And then I'm going to act accordingly. So we need to be scientists rather than judges with this and just view it as information coming in. Yeah. And there's a big connection between the way we think and how we feel, right? The way we think can really drive our emotional state. And I think that's what you're getting at with kind of becoming a scientist, right? That's about sort of stepping away from the emotion a little bit and putting a little bit of cognition on it. You know, thinking about that emotion that in a way that can help to drive it, you know, either evaluate it and okay, I'm really angry. Is this really something I should be really angry about? Or am I, is there something going on inside of me that's driving that anger to be bigger than it really needs to be? Or is there a way I can pivot away from that anger with the way I'm thinking about the situation? That connection between thinking and feeling is really tight and often automatic. It's one of those things where, you know, as you start to reflect on, what do I feel? What is it? Some of what's going to come up is I think it's unfair or I think that shouldn't have happened. And that's going to be a big connection to that emotion state. Oftentimes it's really hard for us to connect our thinking and our emotions because when we are emotionally driven, it's hard to also be clear minded in that situation. Are there certain types of situations, stressors or events that predispose us to fall into those unhelpful thinking patterns? You know, certainly kind of nurturing, you know, nature versus nurture is a big piece of this and a little of both is going to get us here. We've already talked about how this is our biology. We're primed to pay attention to these threats. But certainly that can be enhanced by the messages we learn as we, you know, as kids in terms of that resiliency kind of building messages or those messages about how we're maybe not good enough or not. It's not, you know, we're not able to do things that can certainly play a role as well. I don't know if it's necessarily just certain experiences as much as it is experiencing successes, experiencing failures, and what is it that happens in those scenarios, right? You know, it's interesting because, you know, parenting is interesting in terms of there are lots of different models out there for parenting, right? In this, I've got, you know, a couple kids, pre-teen, teen kids, and there's this big, you know, let them fail kind of experience happening in their lives, right? Not necessarily, oh, you forgot your Chromebook at school. I'm not bringing it to you, right? Because you'll learn, right? But it's not that I'm saying you're stupid, you made a mistake. You're so dumb. I'm also not rescuing to say you're not, it's not possible for you to learn how to do this. I'm saying you failed, you made a mistake, but I think you can do it differently. How do you think you're going to do that differently next time? So it's kind of trying to get into that resiliency, I believe in you, but I'm not going to rescue you kind of frame. You know, and I think, you know, it's not that parents have to do that perfectly, you know, no parent is perfect. No society is perfect. You know, it's not just our parents. It can be the messages that society gives us as well, but kind of that experience in general of failure and success and our role in that and our kind of opportunity to learn to grow from those experiences. You're doing that in a way to where your intention is to say, I want my child to learn from this and I want to see my child grow in this process. It's not saying I want to punish my child because they made a mistake, which is, there's a little difference in that. So setting the intention is great. Yeah. Okay. And sometimes though, it's about, I know you're going to get punished at school because you didn't do the thing and I'm going to let that happen. Right. Because I believe you have the capability to grow and become responsible and you know, I'm going to let you do that kind of thing. Yeah. And that punishment will be valuable for you because you're going to learn less in it somewhere. And then to our third section here, we're going to start talking about solutions. So you're going to tell us how to make this easier, the helpful, more helpful thinking, less unhelpful thinking, which I know is not going to be easier. I do wonder though, as we start, we talked about nature versus nurture. Are there people who naturally default to helpful thinking patterns or is this something that's mostly for the people that are good at this? Is it mostly because they've intentionally trained it over time? That's a great question. I am not one of those who is naturally in that I talk about this with my team all the time and I do feel like I'm surrounded with people at work who have this, seems to me to be this innate ability to sort of focus on those more helpful thinking patterns, right? Not Pollyanna, everything's going to be okay, but this kind of we can do it attitude about things. And I don't know how they got there. I'm still working on it myself. And I guess that's kind of part of the message or response I want to give to that is maybe there are people who just naturally come at this easily, but I bet there are going to be a lot of listeners who don't. And I don't want that to be a you're flawed kind of message, right? Whether it's some people just get there naturally or had nurture that got them there more easily, we can all work on this. We're all capable of this. And so I don't think we have to worry about whether we're naturally good at it or not, or there are people who are naturally good at it or not. We all have this capability to really kind of become aware of this aspect of our metacognition, I guess. So the people that are that feel like they're not naturally good at this, I would say two things. You're not alone. You're in the majority. Actually, that's most of us that struggle with it. Number one and number two, let that be a motivating factor for you, not a deterrent, because I think that you have the most to gain in this. And then if you can start making some small changes, you'll see a bigger impact in your life than somebody who has this relatively dialed in. But even for those few select people out there that maybe do have this dialed in, there's still room for growth. So really, we should we're all on our own journey and should all be trying to move forward starting wherever we're at on that journey. So if I say, OK, this is this has actually been really helpful. I'm convinced now I want to get better at this. How long is it going to take me before I start seeing some improvement? Yeah, no, I think the first step is to figure out what kind of catchphrase you can can come up with for yourself that's going to help you kind of pause in that situation. For me, it really is, is this helpful? Right. And that's a very intentional kind of thing. For other people, that is it helpful doesn't really work as much. So everybody will have to explore a little bit. Let me take a time out. No thank you narrator, whatever little catchphrase that you can come up with to sort of snap your mind kind of back into let's evaluate the situation rather than run off down the river of distress. And remembering this is the next step is not to say, oh gosh, I'm really terrible at this. My brain is just going all over the place. I just saw this podcast. Here I am doing it again. That's also not helpful. And so recognizing this is what your brain does. This is what your brain and body is supposed to do. You don't want to change that. You don't want your brain to not have this capability of problem solving, of alarming when there's an emergency. These are important biological processes. All we're trying to do is be able to navigate. This isn't something I can solve. So problem solving brain, you know, you got to take a break today. Or I just burnt the toast. The house is not on fire. It's a nervous system. You can take a break today. And whatever little phrase you can come up with, is this helpful? Is this my focus? Is this valuable? Is this moving me forward? Some of those kinds of things, if you can come up with something that works for you, that's the first step is just having some way to sort of stop those systems, which are often so automated that it's hard to even become aware of them in the first place. So kind of that focus of, is this helpful? Can I control this? Am I focused on what's going on? Whatever it is that works for you in a different little catch phrase will work for different people. Those are all great. I love that when you threw it at the end, can I control this? Is this under my control? I think is another great way to look at it. Okay, good. The first step you just told us is to kind of have this catch phrase for yourself to say, is this helpful? Can I control whatever you want it to be? Which is just a way for you to sort of insert that pause, stop, think, reflect a little bit and then move forward with the next step. So I'd like for you to finish that plan out for me. So you've given a step one. What are steps two, three, four, five, six? Is there a roadmap or a formula that I can follow? Yeah, I think it is a little bit of that. Typically unhelpful thinking is two categories. One is being stuck in problem solving mode when you really can't solve the problem. The other is that more, this is terrible, this is awful. I'm terrible, I'm awful kinds of scenarios. And so when you've paused, I think the next step is to kind of, can you figure out which of those modes you're stuck in? Right? Is it my brain really wants to solve the problem of whatever situation I can't solve? That may be a little thing like the guy that cut you off in traffic in the morning. It may be a big thing like a medical diagnosis that you really can't change or a huge problem at your company that is above your pay grade or whatever big problem, whether it's big or little, that's the first step is, is your brain stuck in problem solving mode? And then if it's not that, then the question is, am I stuck in sort of a kind of self-perpetuating prophecy of things are terrible, I'm terrible. And then is that really true? Probably not. Or maybe you will make a mistake for whatever it is, but is it really all that helpful? I know that one of the patient populations I work with is folks with memory loss. And often they worry about, well, I might go to this thing and I'll forget my words, or I might forget somebody's name. And I never say, oh, that won't happen because it really might. And so we talk about is the focus of, I might forget somebody's name, I might forget a word, is that serving their values? Why would you go to whatever thing you're worried about? Well, it's my church group and it's really important to me being connected with my community, with my faith, and with the people there who have always been my supporters. And so it's sort of like refocusing on, I might forget a word, I might not remember somebody's name. And what's really important to me is this group connects me to my faith, they're my community, they're the people that have supported me. And then that sort of allows you to move forward. Without denying, you might forget You might forget a word. It's not that you have to talk yourself out of that possibility. It's more, I'm going to do it anyway because it's got this bigger value. Like your golf example, right? You're not trying to convince yourself you're going to be a great golfer. I'm there to be with my son, right? And that's enough. Right. And I think sometimes for me personally, and I don't know if this is wise or not, but when I'm in that situation where I think, oh, I'm afraid this is going to happen, or I'm worried about this outcome, or I'm worried about this, maybe I'm going to forget a word, maybe I'm going to hit the golf ball into the water. I actually tell myself, you will do that at some point, right? Like I'm going to hit the ball in the water, or I'm going to hit the ball in the woods, or I'm going to do something. And I just say, okay, that will happen. And sometimes for me, that is actually helpful because then I'm no longer fearing that this thing is going to happen. I just say, okay, it is going to happen at some point. And then it allows me to take the next step and say, here's what I'm going to do when that does happen. I'm not going to break my club over my knee or yell something I'm not supposed to know. I'm going to accept it and laugh it off and keep going. Or you work with folks with memory issues. I am going to forget somebody's name. But when I do, I'm going to say, I apologize. I've forgotten your name, or I'm going to do this, or I'm going to insert this joke, or I'm going to do whatever. So I think sometimes having that plan for what you're going to do is a way you take that unhelpful thinking and flip it into something that's helpful. Now you've got a plan and then you fear it less. Is that safe to do? I think so. I think that the risk is in those kind of situations, I think it's perfect. The thing where whatever it is you're worrying about is likely. You're going to hit the golf ball in the water. It's not crazy to think, oh, I'm going to hit the golf ball in the water. That's not an irrational thought. That's very likely true. I think the risk can be when you get stuck in preparing for less and less likely scenarios. That's where you can kind of get stuck in anxiety and worry, is if you go too far down the route of, I'm going to imagine all of the possible terrible things that could happen and see if I can come up with a solution for them. If you're talking about the one or two likely things, I might forget somebody's name. I might hit the golf ball in the water, but you can really take that on and on and on if you get too far down the stream of, let me prepare for every possible scenario that I can envision. That's where that idea of, is this really likely you can come into play? It's really likely that thing is going to happen to me or that I might do X or YZ thing. That's the only hesitation, is it can get into rumination and worry if you go too far down that track. Excellent. That's a great call. I agree completely. You mentioned that as a potential mistake or a pitfall that people could get stuck in. What are some other potential pitfalls that people may run into in their journey to convert their unhelpful thinking into helpful thinking? Yeah, I think falling back into the positive-negative trap can be always a challenge. Just reminding, again, this is what my body's meant to do. This probably is a positive-slash-helpful thing in some situations. Just trying not to label those as positive versus negative. The other is getting stuck in, "I'm terrible at this. Right here I go again. This is unhelpful thinking." I tell my team sometimes that sometimes my cranky pants fit really well. I don't want to not wear my cranky pants today. If you can just accept that as part of being human, you can always aim for growth and achievement. There are going to be times when you don't do it very well or you do get a little bit stuck. It's really okay to try again the next time. "Oh, wow. Now I realize two days later, I probably didn't quite do what I wanted to do when the guy cut me off." Next time, that's a learning experience. Not getting so focused on this as a skill that you're good or bad at as opposed to, "This is something we're all practicing all the time." Sometimes you'll do it well. Sometimes you won't. That is life. We're on a journey. There's no finish line in terms of, "Now I have achieved whatever it is, Chris and Dona were telling me I needed to achieve." This is an ongoing process that we're using, a tool that we're using all the time. It never gets put away. One other thing you mentioned earlier too is you want to avoid the trap of toxic positivity as well. I don't want to deny reality here. We have to be realistic with ourselves. Sometimes what is helpful is some grief about whatever it is that you're dealing with. Sometimes that's exactly what needs to happen. That's not negative. That can be really helpful. This has been a great discussion. I've been taking a lot of notes as we've gone. I'd like to quickly summarize those for the audience. I'll give you a chance to answer our three big questions as well. In my notes, we distinguish thinking patterns from mental models. Thinking patterns, I like your definition, are our inner narrator. It's automatic. It's our baseline, our default, that voice in our head that's always communicating with us. Whereas mental models are these formulas that we apply. We choose to apply to specific problems or situations. They're related, but they're different. We really talk several times about separating helpful and unhelpful from positive versus negative. They're not the same thing. Just because positive thinking is not necessarily the same thing as helpful thinking. In some instances, it may be, but not in all instances. Some common characteristics of unhelpful thinking is that we often focus on things we can't control. A lot of negative self-deprecating self-talk that's not rooted in reality. We talked about cognitive distortions or negativity biases. So biases that prevent us from seeing things as they are. An all-or-nothing approach to thinking and rumination can often be unhelpful. Some of the qualities of helpful thinking is that we're focusing on things that we actually can control. We think about letting go of the things we can't. We tend to be a little bit more constructive in our self-talk. Not just positive, but constructive. It's aligned with our goals, or at least helps us head towards our goals. Then really very intentional about what we're thinking as well. You talked about why unhelpful thinking is often a default for us. We're wired to be problem solvers. It's just kind of who we are as humans. There are some problems that just don't have solutions. That's really challenging for us to let go of. We live in a world now where we're presented with problems and issues constantly, more so than ever. That can be really challenging. We also talked about the need to be a scientist about how you feel and how you think rather than being a judge. Use the information as data. I loved your analogy about the nervous system and the smoke alarm. Just because we have that heightened sense of awareness, it doesn't mean the house is burning down. Maybe we just burnt the toast. We have to be thoughtful on how we do that. Then you gave us some great steps on how to improve on this pathway. Now I'll turn it to you. I'll let you give some quick-hit answers to our big three questions. Our first one, what exactly are thinking patterns and how do we distinguish between those that are helpful and unhelpful? Again, our thinking patterns are just kind of that inner narrator, that inner monologue that's going. You can think about it as almost like we've got a tape deck of all of these different tapes that our narrator can pull from. Sometimes it pulls exactly the right tape that helps us move forward to whatever next step we want to take. Sometimes not so much. The tape that gets played or the narration that gets launching isn't really helping us move forward. Good. Our second big question, why do we commonly default to unhelpful patterns of thinking? Yeah. I again just want to emphasize so much how biological this is. Our brains are humans. Our brains are problem solvers. That's what's really great about them. That is sometimes the place where we get stuck. Same thing. Our nervous systems are meant to be activated. It helps keep us safe. This is the way we want our bodies to work. This is the way we want our brains to work. It's just it's not correct or it's not helpful for all situations. Right. So it's often more situationally dependent rather than a fault in our biology. It's about getting that connection, getting those connections. The right reaction with the situation. Great. And our third one, what steps can we take to start using helpful thinking patterns to help us achieve our goals? I think one thing I would add to what we've already talked about is I mentioned coming up with your own little catch phrase that would be meaningful to you. But maybe even before that, it's about seeing when you're having strong emotions, just becoming aware of that. Wow. I'm really angry right now. What's going on? And that's where the phrase can come in after that. Is that really helpful? Am I really helping myself move forward? Is this helping me achieve my goals? Whatever it is. So sometimes the big emotion, it becomes become aware of those big strong emotions. Then you can apply the catch phrase to help you kind of become aware of the thinking that's going along with it. And then seeing kind of which potential trap you might be falling into. Is it the problem solving trap or is it the sort of here's all the things that could go wrong trap. Which one are you kind of getting stuck in and can you choose another? Can you find a way to be able to let go? An analogy, another analogy that I sometimes give is it's kind of like if you're in a river, you have choices, right? You can try to swim back upstream. You can hang onto a rock or you can try to find a way to navigate the river, right? So are you stuck hanging onto the rock? Are you really fruitlessly trying to swim back upstream? Or is your thinking helping you kind of move forward down the river? The river's happening. Like it or not, are you finding a way to help you help yourself kind of move down the river as opposed to getting stuck, trying to go back upstream or stuck in the river hanging onto a rock? Great analogy here. I like it. So now let's give the audience their challenge or call to action. We always like to end with some actionable behavior. We want people to actually start doing this. Not to just learn the material but put it into practice. This one's going to be super simple, but I think is really good. So I love the concept of having a catchphrase. And so I want people to think about what their catchphrase is going to be. You gave us a couple examples. Is this helpful? Is my thinking right now helpful? Is this something that's under my control? Can I control this? And there are others. So think of any of those that work for you. Pick one. And then on your phone or alarms, set an alarm for an hour from now, five hours, six hours from now, whatever. Just set an alarm for some time in the future. When it goes off, stop and just ask yourself that catchphrase. Just pause and say, "Okay, what am I thinking about right now? Is it helpful? Is it under my control?" Because I think doing that will help you see, "Oh, I am always thinking about something. Good chance it's not helpful what I'm thinking about." So do it. Let it be something random. That's just a little quick and easy way where you can put this into practice for the first time and get a little easy win. So, Dona, thank you so much for joining us. This was a great discussion on a topic that's huge and really occupies almost our entire day in our entire lives. So, wide applicability. Thank you for joining us today. Thanks for having me. I appreciate it. It was fun. Good. And to our audience, thanks for your attention. Thanks for listening. If you enjoyed this, go back and check out some of our other episodes around emotional intelligence. We've talked about that with Mary Ann Djonne. We also talked a little bit about emotional regulation and self-management with Chris Stephenson and Kimberly Collins. And so those are some episodes that I think will connect with this one as well. So check those out if you enjoy it. And remember, as always, to live intentionally, consistently, better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you liked this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at: optimize@mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic. (upbeat music) Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project, where we're creating the blueprint to help you become the best human you can be so you can give your gifts back to the world. I'm your guide and fellow optimizer, Christopher Camp. We're all busy and have a lot of tasks that we need to complete. And those tasks need to be accomplished somewhere. So whether you're working at home, in an office or on the road, your physical surroundings play a surprisingly large role in how you do your work, how much you get done, and the level of quality of that work. So in this episode, we're gonna talk about some of the science behind how your surroundings impact you and what you can do to optimize them. According to the title of this session is, how your physical surroundings are impacting your productivity. Our expert guest joining us today is Dennis Dahlen. And Dennis serves as Chief Financial Officer of Mayo Clinic. Prior to joining Mayo Clinic in 2017, Dennis held the same position at Banner Health, an integrated healthcare delivery system in Phoenix, after serving in several other executive positions from its inception in 1999. Mr. Dallin has served or is currently serving on the boards of a number of different companies from all walks of life. Some of these include Envision AZ, Think Bank, Greater MSP, the Ronald McDonald House, Sonora Quest Laboratories, Spirit in the Desert Retreat Center, the University of Arizona Health Plan, and many more. He is the outgoing chair of the Healthcare Financial Management Association National Board. So he's an incredibly productive human, and he's done it in a number of different settings and environments. So we're gonna discuss what he's taken from each of these environments and put it all together to help you optimize your own space for maximal productivity and peace. Well, Dennis, welcome to the program, and thank you so much for joining us today. Thanks, Chris, appreciate it. So we always like to keep things organized around here, so we'll break this up into three main sections. And we have a big question that headlines each of those sections. So our first section, our first big question, is gonna be how do our physical and mental surroundings influence our productivity? The second is what common obstacles keep people from creating productive environments and what is secretly sabotaging our productivity? And then in the last section, we'll try to get into some practical solutions. So the last question is what practical strategies can anyone apply to optimize their physical and mental spaces for sustained high performance? Great question. Sound like a good lineup for you? Sounds like a great lineup of questions. All right, let's tackle it then. We got a lot to talk about here, so we'll die right in. So in our first section, we're gonna talk about kinda how our physical and mental surroundings influence our productivity. So first, let's start with definitions. How would you define an optimized environment for productivity? What exactly does that mean? Yeah, no, so I would think, when I think about this, I think we're all individuals, right? And so everybody's got a way of working and things that irritate us and things that distract us. And so you have to, it's gotta be an individualized approach. And so think about the things that prevent you from being entirely focused while you're at work on the problems, the challenges, the assignments that you've got. And so for me, it's, I need quiet because I've gotta be able to focus. And particularly things that require thoughtful consideration. You can all answer an email, a perfunctory email, and oh yes, click. But some challenges require some thoughts, some discernment, and I absolutely need quiet for focus and being able to do that. We also need privacy, right? Because not everything we handle at work is going to be subject for public consumption. We're either going to be on the receiving or sometimes a giving end or sometimes a team based, maybe a reset or a coaching exercise that does require some privacy. And I think that's important as well. I do think, again, we're all different, but I think an environment that provides some bit of respite or calming or rejuvenation during the day or during the week is also helpful. So if you, I'm not a plant person, but if you like plants, great. If you like soft music or ability to turn that on, that's all well and good. Two really important things for me being proximate colleagues that I'm collaborating with, really, really important. In my role, I have the privilege of working with Mayo Clinic's CEO and his administrative partner, Christina Zorn, and my office happens to sit between the two of them. And the amount of work that we can get done just by physical proximity is just frankly amazing. And maybe the most important work we do is just the hallway conversations. And then the last I would probably say is, you've got to create, particularly with hybrid roles and this work from home versus work from the office, particularly if you're at home, that line of demarcation between I'm at work or I'm at home or I'm on my own time, I think that's really important. So setting up your laptop at the kitchen table, maybe there's no other alternative, but I would try to move that along towards a much more of a sequestered kind of environment for the designated space. So in that, I'm hearing you say, probably the most important thing I think to take from that is that this has to be individualized to the person. Yes, absolutely. And that has to be to the person themselves, probably to the type of work that they're trying to do, whether this is you're doing something fun at home versus you're slogging it out at the office or you're a hybrid or remote worker. And also there's a lot of intentionality behind what you just said too. So you mentioned, at times you need privacy, other times you need close proximity to people. So it's something that there isn't one right answer for everybody. I completely agree. And there may not just be one right way to do it for the individual. At times you may need a little bit different setup or different access. Sometimes you need people to be away from you so you can lock in. Other times you need quick access to those individuals to be productive. Right, absolutely. And that goes, that's reciprocal, right? Because even though I've got a Dora or a sliding glass Dora in my office, I have to be open to people interrupting me. And so, and right first I, the others have got, I've got to be willing to let me interrupt them for an urgent or a, you know, something that has to be decided. Okay. Yeah. So let's talk a little bit about why this is so important. Sure. What are some of the why's behind optimizing your physical and mental spaces for productivity? I have yet to meet, you know, I've been in professional practice for, you know, 40 years or almost 40 years. I've yet to meet an individual who's not geared to be successful in what they do. Everybody wants to succeed. And if you're trying to succeed, but are being hindered or held back by, you know, sort of an imperfect environment in which to work, I think you're self-optimizing. And so I think that that's why it's important is you should bring the tools with you and environment is one of those tools to be your best every single day. And if you are self-optimized in the environment and that you're working in, you know, you're not bringing in your best. I think that's the important piece. We talk a lot nowadays about having grit and tenacity and being able to lock in and do deep work. And I think all of those things are great. And we all need to be good at that and probably all need to be a little bit better at doing those things. But it would be nice to save your grit and tenacity for the times you really need it and not have to use it when you shouldn't have to, right? So, yeah, sure. You can be, let's say you're in a spot where you need privacy, you need to focus. You can do that and try to block out everything going on around you. But that's gonna be stealing some of your mental bandwidth if you're having to use your subconscious to block things out, if your environment is not optimized. Couldn't agree more with that. Is that if you're using tenacity and grit to solve for things that can be solved easily, otherwise you could redirect that grit and tenacity. There is a finite amount each of us has in terms of grit and tenacity. There's only so much effort you can put into things. And if you're gonna use it on things that are maybe easier or otherwise solved, you're gonna yield less in the tank for the stuff that really requires grit and tenacity. Like socializing hard decisions or arguing or pressing the point on something that's really important. Then all of that takes a tremendous amount of grit into this. An analogy here that James Clear talks about how we don't rise to the level of our goals. We fall to the level of our habits or our systems. And I think this is sort of similar too. It's like, you're not gonna rise up to that deep work, focused grit, tenacity every time. You're gonna be tired and you need to be exhausted. So you're gonna fall to your surroundings and to your environment. So if you can set your surroundings and environment up in a way that sort of uplifts you, all right, now I don't have to use my mental effort for that. And I can use my mental effort on the work and on the relationships that I need to be building. Absolutely. When we talk about optimizing your surroundings, let's go through some of the key elements or components that people should be thinking about. I think we're talking about a little bit more than just cleaning up your desk here. What are some of the different elements people should be thinking about optimizing? Well, I think, I mentioned some of them before, but for me, and I'll just contrast this with my 26 year old daughter. She actually prefers a non-quiet space. She'd rather be listening to music or something in the background or have the television on or whatever when she's working at home. That drives me crazy. And so I think it's obviously individualized is really important here. But I do think there are, and I know one of the hindrances to what we're doing or to creating the perfect work environment for productivity down there and just enjoyment purposes is going to be budget and what would you do? But there are, before I came over this morning, I just did a quick Google search. I mean, there's hundreds of sites that can give you inspiration on what easy things you can do to just make your workspace more conducive to how you like to work. And I think things like color palettes and patterns. Now today, the other element that's come of age over the last five or six years is the virtual environment. So all of us have to worry about how do we look on camera as we're interacting with colleagues near and far in a virtual realm as what was behind me? What's the lighting look like? All of those sorts of things, that all matters in terms of the way, if you're distracted by the way you look on camera, you're going to, that's one piece of attention that you're not directing towards problems that you're supposed to be solving or challenges you're supposed to be meeting. So no particular order, I think all of those are important. Good, and some of the other things we had mentioned are I'm kind of making a list going back through your previous answers too. So factors to consider will be noise. Some people like it loud, some like it quiet, which may be okay. Privacy versus connection or maybe the ability to do both, appropriate temperature and lighting. Like surprisingly, some of those things, there's actually some decent evidence that shows having an optimal temperature and optimal lighting actually improve productivity and decrease error rates and typing speed and all sorts of different things as well. Right, those are all, I should have mentioned some of those, but yeah, the absolute temperature is, and honestly for me, temperature depends on the day. Depends on, you know, in the morning, I'd rather have it a little warmer in the afternoon, maybe a little cooler to keep me fresh during the later part of the day. And one thing we haven't mentioned yet is, the challenge of just being at a job or in a work situation for eight or nine or 10 hours a day, and the ability to sort of vary the way you stand up desks and some colleagues use treadmills underneath, while they're on phone calls and all of that. I think if that's something that matters to you or works for you, absolutely. I suffered through the first years of COVID without a standup desk and it drove me crazy. So I finally got a standup desk again, and so now I'm up and down every couple of hours, I take one meeting, stand up, and I sit down for the rest, and that matters a tremendous amount. Oh, that's great. There's a lot of ways to do that too, if you don't have access to a standup desk or under the desk treadmill. I know I did a research fellowship once where I basically spent a year sitting at a desk without getting up and didn't have the chance to modify, which is hard for me, I'm a little hyperactive. And so I would take a break at 10 o'clock every morning and I took the elevator down to the bottom of the building, I was on, I think, the 12th floor, and I would take the stairs back up. Oh, that's a good idea. I mean, I'd be out of breath and panting for 15 minutes, but it sort of got the blood flowing, and so there's other creative ways that you can do that. So if you don't have complete control over your surroundings, you can get creative. Here's another idea, I've got a colleague that loves to do walking meetings. And so, and I'm not talking like walking down the hallway, I'm talking like going outside, walking around several blocks. In a half hour meeting, that's about a mile. So let's go take a mile walk and have a half hour meeting. And perfect, that's a great break in the day. I actually ran across a news line that I had missed in preparation for this, but I just saw this weekend that, a small study that showed that if people will take, make the effort to personalize their space, it actually increases integrity. And that it showed that if your surroundings are something that you created, particularly if you have pictures of loved ones and family around, that you're more likely to make good, tough decisions, and not only correct those decisions, but more sort of virtuous decisions and less likely to be deceitful too. So I think that there's some other added benefits that we're really starting to learn about in the mental space as well. It's like a subconscious presence of people that matter to you. Exactly. It's like they're watching you. I don't wanna let this group down. That's terrific. That's in this photo right here, I hadn't thought about that. Let me ask you this, what about other social factors that may play into it? So I'm thinking about this as, a lot of people, especially working from home now, have very different setups. Maybe you have kids running around or you don't. Maybe you're single or maybe you have a partner. And how do those things sort of factor in? Well, I think you've gotta make some choices. I mean, there are some lines that are just really too hard to bridge, right? So if you've got lots of small children and they're at home all day and your job requires you to work from home, it's maybe not the right fit. I'm fortunate because at the point, hybrid and or remote work came up. I was already an empty nester and I've got a very understanding spouse. And so, a space at home, I can do that with privacy and low noise and all of those good things. But I do think, we can all flex a bit, but I think there are circumstances that require a little bit too much of a stretch and you're probably not able to give it your best if you've got too many distractions or interruptions to your day and not a strong designated space and boundaries around that. I think those are really too hard. But you're right, they're all kinds of, if you're a caregiver and you've got, the person you're caring for is, has needs that can't be too flexible, you've got to do it every 30 something, every 30 minutes or every 60 minutes. Those are hard. And I don't have a great answer for those except, some of those, I think they just sort of make it impossible to be very productive. Yes. And hopefully they're fleeting, hopefully they're temporary. And we can all return to being our best selves, highly productive at work at some point. And you bring up a great point as a caregiver, we're talking about productivity and which increases joy, which is incredibly important. There are some things more important than productivity too. So if you're taking care of a loved one or somebody who's sick or something like that, and that takes precedent in your life, you may have to knowingly sacrifice some productivity here. And that's a knowing and willing sacrifice you're making. But I would just say, just do it thoughtfully, intentionally and know that you're doing that. And then even within that, say, okay, I have this set of limitations on me that I cannot control, within those limits, how can I still make the most of this situation? Right. That I can. And even, I would recommend being proactive on that front as a work with whoever is your supervisor, whoever you're reporting to, and just be honest about the circumstances so that you're not trying to hide anything and say, I've got, maybe they're temporary, maybe they weren't always there. And hopefully you've been, if you've been a terrific employee and highly productive up to that point, you can reach into that bank of trust and credibility that you've built up over the years and say, look, I've got a temporary situation here where either I need to, de-emphasize the job a little bit, or I need just a little bit of space or something. And most organizations, most supervisors, life happens, right? And so we can't ignore the fact that in each of our lives, there are points of time where we're not gonna be at our best. And sometimes it's us, sometimes it's imposed circumstances externally. And I think we just all have to, we all have to work through that. So that's a great example of talking about the things that are sort of outside of our control. Now let's talk about some of the problems that are inside of our control. So we'll go into our second section of why this is such a struggle for us. So why is it that so many of us tend to cling to clutter and other things, even though we know it's pretty good evidence that it shows that it hurts our productivity? Yeah, it's an interesting piece. I mean, a clutter just happens, isn't it? I mean, it's a species. I think we just, we're hoarders, you know, to some degree, just at our core. And so it's hard to throw things away. It's hard to put things away. I'll tell you, so a quick story for me is when I landed at Mayo Clinic, we had standard office spaces and we all brought in the stuff that we'd collected over the years and we'd put it on shelves and whatever else. And then we re-did the executive suite. And so no more offices. We're supposed to rotate through and we all got flexible workstations. And so now we have lockers. There's not very much you can put in a locker. You know, we've got a few tablets and some pens and pencils and that's about it. And so that was, it was like forced decluttering. Yes. And actually, thank you. I mean, whoever was behind it, I owed down a thanks because it is freeing to not have very much stuff at the office and appreciate that. Yeah. Honestly, for me, this was one of the biggest things I was prepping for this session. It had a huge impact on me. I tend to be somebody who's relatively organized and orderly, but as I was prepping for this, I realized how little attention spanner bandwidth I had. And when I look around at my desk, even if there's just a few items, my mind is constantly vying for attention and fighting. And I'm trying to focus on the work at hand, but all of these different things are sort of stealing from my attention when I glance over and I see this or I see this. And I realized my desk, or my office, if it has physical stuff and mess, it basically becomes like a physical to-do list that I can't hide. I look around and every time I see it, I'm like, oh, I have to file that or I have to finish that or I have to do this. And so here I'm trying to work and it's like, all of these different things just taunting me and distracting me and saying, remember, don't forget about us, you're still gonna do this. And not only does that slow you down, but mentally that kind of takes a toll on you a little bit. And it's overwhelming. Chris, have you found the medical practice has become much more digital? Certainly my work has become much more, I'm old enough to remember a big desk with a pile of paper on the left and pyro paper on the right, and there were things that I had to do. And I don't think anymore I have almost no paper. It's all, it's an email inbox or a digital list of things to do. And I actually think that's in a sense on cluttering as well. Yes. I don't have any eyesight or line of sight to clutter. It's all on a screen, but it's still. It's nice. It requires a bit more intentionality because you have to think about, where am I gonna put this away virtually? What sort of filing system am I gonna use online and how am I gonna do it? Rather than just letting it physically pile up on your desk, that's easy to default to, it's default. So it does require a little bit more intentionality on the front end, but is immensely more helpful on the back end. We've absolutely seen it in the medical space for sure. So let's talk a little bit about how the mental components of this, we started to do that. I'm wondering, I'd like to talk a little bit about how our kind of multitasking culture or desire to do that or think that we're doing it really good can actually perpetuate this kind of messy mental space for us. That's a great point. I think there's a fair amount of clinical evidence that says humans really aren't very good multitaskers, right? So we can fool ourselves into thinking we're multitasking, but we really aren't. And so I've sort of tried to internalize that and the only things I multitask are easy things. If I don't, anything that requires, I mentioned, things that require thought or discernment, I can't multitask that, that takes too much attention and mind span. So in my case, the only things I multitask are things that are somewhat perfunctory or yes, no, whatever, but I do think the fact, and the other thing I would say is that in many of our roles, I suspect you're in the same situation that I am, is that if you're not multitasking, you're falling behind because the pace of work requires you to multitask. And so, and I see it from all of my colleagues, I suspect you see it from most of yours as well, is that if you're sitting in a meeting, you're probably answering emails, you're probably checking your text stream or whatever else, and you just have to to stay up, right? There are very few times during a day where I've got an hour where nobody needs to get ahold of me. And so it's a fact of life. I think you have to manage it thoughtfully and not sacrifice quality of thought and quality of decision-making in order to stay not behind, right? You're spot on, 100%. And it's a challenge because I feel like having a messy desk or an office clutters my physical space. And I feel like multitasking clutters my mental space. Oh, absolutely. And it's really difficult. And sometimes you can't avoid it, right? The same thing with the physical space. Sometimes people come in, they set stuff down or I set stuff down. So it is gonna get physically messy from time to time, just like it's gonna get mentally messy from time to time. But I think the key is try to minimize that the best you can when it does happen, say, "Ooh, I need to do a cleanup here." Whether it's my physical space or my mental space. How can I get this cleaned up, put things in boxes, organized and put on a to-do list that I'll tackle later. So I think we have to think about not only straightening up physically, but also trying to do that mentally. Completely agree. The one thing I would say is, you know, it's from multitasking is that the converse is also true is if I'm not multitasking and I am falling behind, that's clutter too, right? And so there is a yield, a dividend of multitasking. Again, if you're in its proper place and for the proper things. And I think too, along those lines, sort of a bigger version of the mental stress that multitasking causes, is that if we're carrying personal stress from different areas of our life into work or work stress into our personal life, that that will really cloud our mental space as well. And can decrease productivity in relationships and things too. So the better job we can do of organizing kind of our mental space and compartmentalizing things, I think the more it allows us to stay focused in the moment and whether that's a moment at work or a moment at home, you know, with loved ones. Yeah, no, I completely agree. And we all go through those times when there's something that's distracting us. Could be, it could be a health issue, it could be a family issue within boundaries. I'm probably maybe too transparent with people that I work with and whatever else is it. Something going on, I don't actually mind telling people that. And what I found is that the net effect of being a bit more transparent and is there something that's distracting you or working outside the workplace that's impairing your ability to be fully productive, your work colleagues will support you. It's a bit of a safety net. They're there to help and they don't want, they don't want to see you fail either. So I've found that to be a real gift. Knowing the people that you work with and being in a high trust environment or a psychologically safe environment, the benefits are immense. Because then in those spaces, you feel comfortable saying, hey, folks, I got this going on at home right now. So if I'm a little distracted today, here's what's going on. And feeling comfortable to share that is immensely helpful because then you're gonna get support and that allows you to balance that. And I think the opposite is true too. So having a mentally safe space at home where you feel like you can have this conversation, you don't believe what happened at work today and help. Talk me through this. It can be great both ways. And so it's a huge challenge for people that don't feel like they're in that, have a psychologically safe space at work to do that. And I would encourage you, if you're in that spot, figure out how you can get there because there's a big benefit to it, not completely. It might not be your direct supervisor, it might be your colleagues. Might be people that work for you. Carve out your own safe space. You mentioned earlier, you talked a little bit about physically sort of design spaces and not having your laptop at the kitchen table and those sort of things. What are some of the things that we get wrong with that and how do we do a better job? Yeah, that's a great question. I think, and you as a practicing orthopod, I would know this, I mean, ergonomics are really important. You know, the right chair, the right high desk, the right, you know, do you want to set yourself up so you're looking out a window? So you can see a pastoral scene or an urban, a street, some activity, whatever. I think all of those things, again, they're individual, but I think they're all considerations. We've talked about lighting, we've talked about noise, we've talked about designated spaces. I think all of those are key. One of the big upgrades for me over the last couple of years was, rather than working on a laptop, what is that, a nine by 13 screen or whatever it is, just making the investment or a bigger screen monitor on these. So if you've got geography and you could blow things up and that's become more important to me as I've aged because there's a bit of eye strain that goes, from eight or nine or 10 hours of looking at a screen for all of those hours. And so I think it's worth the investment to have a bigger screen and invest in it. Good, all right, let's slide into our third section here where we'll talk about some practical strategies. And you set us up nicely for this earlier when you talked about how there are a number of different factors to consider, but it ultimately has to be individualized. So we're not gonna give a one size fits all plan here that everybody needs to be doing exactly this, but we'll try to uncover a few, I think, universal truths that are generally helpful for people to do. But ultimately, you need to spend some time thinking about it and design your space, physical and mental space to help you become the best performer you can be. So can you tell us, if you don't mind, we'll have you be a little bit vulnerable here. And Tara, tell us how you design your space and what you've done that's been really helpful. You mentioned sort of larger monitor, which is helpful, but some other things, maybe both in the physical workspace and then maybe at home. Yeah, so it's a great question. So things that are, again, are important to me and it does have to be individualized. And I actually think the first thing anybody should do is prioritize. What are the irritants that are most impactful to you not being able to focus and being as good, as a you as possible? And for me, it's quiet. It's, and so what I've got, at least in my home office and certainly my office office, I've got a door and I'm able to have that sequestered space and time to focus and be my best. Lighting's important to me. Again, I prefer somewhat subdued lighting. I'm not a bright lights kind of a person. So lighting's important. I have to have some ability to stretch, walk around, do something like that. And so I've arranged to have the standup desk and do all of those sorts of things so that I can be somewhat kinetic during the day. And I guess maybe the other thing is I've got to have an ability to do, to take a break. And so there's usually some meetings or some part of your day that you could maybe do while you're walking around, go take a walk, go walk the dog, do something like that. I think that's all part of what I've put into my home office at least. I've made a lot of mistakes in this area over the years and I've had chances to iterate. And I've been in different stages of my life too. As a college student that was single and as a medical student, I was married. And then as a resident, I was busy, married, had children and then as a fellow. So I've tried multiple different ways. I've gotten it wrong a lot. And one of the things I learned too, as a resident, I would often, and we were generally still reading from books made out of paper. Now it's mostly electronic, but I would, after we'd finished dinner, I'd sit on the couch or somewhere because I was tired from a long day and sit down reading a book. And inevitably, within about five to 10 minutes, I'm starting to slouch a little bit. And all of a sudden I'm leaning on one elbow and then in 15 minutes, I'm asleep. And I did this sad pattern for years until I finally realized, okay, this doesn't work. I cannot read on a couch during residency. I'm too tired. And so we didn't have a lot of money or a big house. We didn't have room to have an office, designated office space, but I sort of got a small little cheap desk and a table. And I just said, all right, this is gonna be my study space. And when I was a fellow, it was in an apartment in New York City. So in one small room, it was our dining room, our living room and our office. And so my office table was tiny table, tiny chair, literally three feet away from the kitchen table. But just having that designated, like this is where I sit when I, I sit here when we're eating dinner as a family. And then when I study, I'm moving over, it's three feet over, but when I'm sitting there and it was immensely helpful because it sent a signal to me, say, okay, I'm in study mode or I'm in prep mode or work mode, but it also helped my family too. They're like, okay, sitting at the kitchen table, we know we can interrupt him and we're having conversation. If we're sitting there, he's working or studying. And so that kind of helped as well. So having that designated space, it just helped put me in the mindset. And then that sends a good signal to everybody else around. And now they know they can still interrupt me if they need to, but it's gonna be for something that's a little bit more important. Yeah, that makes sense. We haven't talked much about this, but another part of sort of being productive is I think there's a training aspect here. You can't solve all of the things that might distract you, but with some practice and some training, you can get over some of the things that might distract you. And so I'm just trying to think of you at a small desk next to the kitchen table and approximate to the kitchen, you were able to make that work. And I think that's just evidence that we as humans can overcome a lot. We don't have to be, it's not automatic that this irritates me or this distracts me, so I have to be irritated or distracted. We can train ourselves to still be productive. Absolutely, and it's really helpful to do it in those situations where it's really challenging, because then eventually if you can get yourself to a spot where your setup's a little better, then it becomes much easier. Oh, absolutely. Now I'm fortunate I'm in a spot where I actually have a room that is a designated office. And we still know, my kids, four kids that are all wonderful and high energy, a lot of noise in our house, which is great, but when I'm working, I need quiet. And so they know if I'm in the office and the door is open, they can freely come in and interrupt me, it's no problem. But if I'm locked in or if I'm in a meeting, I close the door, and it's a glass door, so they can still see in. But they know if it's closed, not to bother me, unless there's an emergency happening. So it's really helpful. So now even my kids, my youngest son is six years old, and he knows that. And so it just makes it easier for everybody. Absolutely. And that way I'm not getting frustrated with them for interrupting, and they're not getting frustrated with me because I'm not responding when they think I should be. The lines are clearly drawn, which is helpful for all of us. Sounds like you've got the plan. Well, I messed it up a lot. It took a while, but we're working on these things. And it's gonna look different for everybody, but just whatever it is, be intentional about it for yourself and tell others, because I think it helps everybody. So what are some of the positive impacts I can expect on productivity if I optimize my space and look at these different factors that you've mentioned? Well, obviously, if we're fully present and fully engaged more of the day, we should see greater throughput, should see maybe higher quality of decisions, maybe fewer mistakes. Depends on what your workout put is, obviously, if you're, say, in the medical field, working with patients and their balances and things, can you touch more accounts and get patients to the end of that financial consideration faster? Terrific. Can you handle more adjudications of working with insurance companies and figure that out for patients faster? All good. If you're putting documents together for executive decision-making, are they put together thoughtfully? Are they understandable? All of those sorts of things. There's so many nuances, there's so many dividends that come from being highly productive. I guess one way to say it is, are we reducing the amount of rework that somebody that follows you has to do? I think that's probably one of the main dividends of just being fully engaged, fully prepared, fully there all the time. All of those things you mentioned, not only are they gonna make you more productive and you get more work done and higher quality work, but when you make more progress and do things that you're proud of, that's gonna increase your own joy and satisfaction in what you're doing. It's gonna decrease your burnout risk, it's gonna increase your satisfaction, improve retention rates, all of those sort of things. One of the things that I think people often don't recognize is that increased productivity is not just about doing more to the level that you become exhausted, but if you do more in an effective way, you can actually do more and feel less exhausted by it. You're doing higher quality work, you're producing at a higher level, but you're using less energy to do it because you did it efficiently. Absolutely. So then when you leave at the end of the day, you still have something left in the tank to go spend with your family and friends and loved ones and things. I know, very early in my career, I was complaining to my boss at the time that I was working too hard, and he had very good advice to me. He said, "Well, that's not really my problem, maybe it's your problem." He said, "You're not very efficient at what you're doing." And I thought that was a really good way to set a 20-something kid on his way to a better future. That's not my supervisor's problem, I've gotta figure it out, right? Yeah, yeah, it's wonderful. Okay, so let's help folks get started with this. So if we think about a practical approach to how you do it, and what I would like our audience to do is sort of think about if I'm assessing myself to say am I doing well at this or not, think about it as two separate questions. Number one is how is my physical space? Is that optimized using all the factors you've mentioned today? Is my physical space, and then secondly, is my mental space optimized? So am I able to focus? Have I eliminated taking care of the mental distractions? So ask yourself on those two levels, what you're doing well, what you're not doing well. And I think if you had to start with one of those two, cleaning up your mental space or your physical space, ultimately it's up to you. I would encourage you to look to the physical space first, just because I think it's easier. But we all know how to kind of do that some more. Sometimes the mental space is a little bit more to unpack there, and that can be a little more challenging, you might not have as much control. So I would encourage people, assess both physical and mental space, but maybe start with the physical space, because I think that's gonna be a little bit more straightforward. So how would you recommend somebody go about sort of assessing and optimizing their physical space? What are some key elements they need to look at and change? Yeah, so I think, first of all, again, back to the theme that we started with, it's all individual, right? So I'd suggest that you prioritize first. What's standing in your way to the greatest degree or with the greatest impact, and prioritize that first, but I fully endorse your perspective of focusing on the physical space first and the mental space. I think focusing on the physical space, particularly once you, if you have some success at creating a better physical space, that helps the mental side, right? 100%. And I'm not sure if the reverse is true, but I know this flows that way. So I think that's important. I do think, what's your priorities? What's the biggest irritation or impact from the physical side? It's probably some of those things like quiet, ambience, lighting, the tools that you've got, size of monitor, what kind of keyboard you're working with, all of those sorts of things. Maybe it's things like proximity, a little bit harder to work on, because that requires somebody outside of you to work on it. But I do think all of those are pretty important. That's where I would start. Yeah, I think you're spot on there. And I do agree with you. I think that once your physical space is where it needs to be, then it makes it easier to, because in reality, your physical space being cluttered is one of the barriers in your mental side, right? Because that's your physical to-do list is all this junk sitting around you. So I think if you do that, you sort of get a twofer. It sort of helps in both areas as well. Agreed. Okay, perfect. And then, this is harder, but if we start to talk about an approach to, once folks get the mental, are the physical space optimized, how do they approach the mental space? This I think is really complicated, but I think you will have had your first success in cleaning up the physical space. Now what do you do to kind of clean up the mental space? Yeah, again, everybody's different. If I felt there were some mental, and there probably are, and I'm just not aware of it, right? There probably, if there are mental barriers to me being my best self at work, I think those are more easily identified through conversation or with a coach, with a help, helping aid. I think we as humans are probably, we all probably over interpret our ability to self-diagnose. And so I would engage, whether it's full therapy or a mental health coach or something like that, maybe it's just a work coach or a work life coach, what is there that's prohibiting me or preventing me from being my best self and as highly productive as I can be? So that's where I would go next, is let's find a coach. That's excellent. And I think even if you don't have access to a coach, you don't want to get one. You can start with a family member, loved one, co-worker, supervisor, somebody, but it is helpful to get an objective set of eyes and to help look at that. Yeah. Or, I mean, I mentioned supportive colleagues before, is that there's, again, work groups are also, could be useful too. Like what's getting in your way? What are you thinking? What are you feeling? All of that. Good chance some other people are dealing with the same stuff that you are. Probably. We're all humans and we all have different versions of the same stressors. All product to the same evolution. Right, exactly. All right, excellent. So this has been a tremendous discussion. I really appreciate all you've shared with us. So I'm gonna kinda summarize my notes. I've been taking notes as we go here. So I like how you started in the beginning about your approach to this must be individualized. There is no one size fits all plan to this. So be thoughtful and intentional about what you do. Think about this as being both a physical problem as well as a mental problem. So try to organize the physical space and the mental space. And then it's really all about balance and it's gonna be different for everybody. Some are gonna like it quiet. Some are gonna like it loud. Some are wanting hot, some want it cold. And it varies between the person and even within the individual. There may be times in your life where you lean towards one way and other times where you lean towards another. Why is this so important? And you said it's because we all wanna succeed and whatever it is you're out there doing, we all want to be good at it and be successful at it. And one of the benefits of this is that this will allow you, if you can get your physical and mental spaces organized, then you can save your grit, focus and tenacity for the actual work. It's not being stolen to deal with these external factors. You gave us a great list of factors to consider. So in the physical space side, some things to be thinking about are what's the noise? Are you in a spot where you have privacy versus connection and maybe there's times you need both temperature, lighting, the color palettes, and then also personalization. So do you have family photos or your favorite team or region where you're from? And then also minimize the clutter. That clutter is very distracting, sort of serves as a physical to-do list for you. And then lastly, really be thinking about creating a designated space for work, even if it's a small little tiny chair in the corner that sends a signal to you of what you're doing and it sends a signal to others around you. And then I think your advice at the end was great. So I agree, start with the physical space and then that will help you on the mental space side. And for the mental space, get some help, have somebody work with you. So I'm gonna give you a chance now to answer our three big questions. Once again, you've done it wonderfully here for the last 45 minutes or so. So we'll go quick-hitter answers to these. So our first one, how do our physical and mental surroundings influence productivity? Well, for all the reasons that we've talked about and those, if you can eliminate distractions or things that take mindshare away from the things that you're supposed to be doing, eliminate them one at a time or together and you'll have more time to spend on the things that you're supposed to be doing. Great. What common obstacles keep people from creating productive environments in what is secretly sabotaging our productivity? Yeah, so in an office environment, there's the, sometimes there's standard office environments. It's hard to customize and individualize it. So there's that, there's always a budget consideration. I guess what thinks environment costs money. And then there's the, just the family circumstances or the small kids versus empty nesters, totally different things. I think those are common obstacles that you keep us from optimizing our space and therefore being the best we can be. Good. And this last one, I feel like we've answered a couple of times, but let's do it again. What practical strategies can anyone apply to optimize their physical and mental spaces for sustained high performance? Yeah, first, I think we agreed. Let's start on the physical space piece and start by prioritizing what irritates you, what impacts your productivity the most or your ability to focus on the challenges they face. So prioritize first and use the resources that are available to you. There's infinite amounts of inspiration you can get from the internet and whatever else, websites that'll serve this. And then on the mental health side, we talked a lot about engaging family members, coworkers, coaches, whatever, to help you work through those things or at least identify the things that are maybe there as barriers. Tremendous. You've set us up perfectly for our challenge here. So at the end, we always sort of issue a challenge or a call to action. We're pushing people towards action. Learning about all this stuff is wonderful. The data is terrific and it's very compelling, but if you don't actually make some changes in your life, it's all for naught, doesn't matter. So ultimately, we wanna help people get the first win in this. And so based on what you've told us, the challenge for today is, number one, take inventory of your physical workspace. Don't even worry about the mental side yet. We'll save that for later. Just take inventory of your physical space. And you can choose from the list of things that Dennis gave us here. So just pick one of these things and ask yourself, is it optimized for me? And if not, then optimize it. So that list again, noise, your privacy versus connection, what's the temperature, what's the light, and the color, your personalization of your space, getting rid of the clutter, and then make sure that space is designated for work. So just pick one of those things. Don't have to do them all at once. Just pick one and then fix that and then move on to the next one. Just slowly work your way down the list. And then once you're starting to feel pretty good about it, then you can switch over to the mental side and take mental inventory. But step one is just to take inventory of your physical space and see where you're at. So that's our challenge for you to help you get the first win in this process. And again, remember our goal for doing this is not just to make you a more productive person, but when you are more productive, you're increasing your output while decreasing the amount of effort or energy too. So you're gonna have more joy because you're gonna have a lot of progress. And then you're gonna have more energy left in the tank to go do the things that you wanna be doing. So Dennis, thank you so much for joining us today and walking us through the session. Really appreciate it having you. Thank you. It was a lot of fun. Thanks for the invitation. This is fun. You got it. So our session today was titled How Your Physical Surroundings Are Impacting Your Productivity. We've given you some great tips. I hope you can put them to action and make a big difference in your life. So remember to our audience to live intentionally, consistently, better. Keep striving to be the best human you can be and never stop optimizing. Thanks for listening to the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. If you liked this episode, hit subscribe and leave a review. It helps others find us. Know someone who might benefit? Share the episode with them to join us in our mission to help as many people as possible become the best humans they can be. Have feedback or a topic idea? Email us at: optimize@mayo.edu. And be sure to look for us on Instagram, X, and YouTube. This podcast is for informational and educational purposes only and should not be relied upon for medical, professional, or legal advice. Always consult with a qualified professional for any questions. The appearance of any guest does not imply an endorsement of them, their employer, or any entity they represent. The views and opinions expressed by the guests are their own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mayo Clinic. Reference to any product, service, or entity is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by Mayo Clinic.