So, we already talked about the type of uvitis and um choosing treatment of course depends on the type and how quickly it's progressing. Um, I should mention up front I'm focusing on non-infectious uvitis and pretty much everything here is off label treatment with the exception of um, triardex and redert. So other things I'd like to know is whether they've ever been treated and what's worked and what hasn't. Um, of course if they're diabetic, young, um, very old etc. Um, we all know about eye drops, corticosteroids, NSAIDs and of course cycloplegics. Um, we all know about perior orbital steroids or intravitrial and we all have heard a lot about ozardex and we haven't heard about reassert but that's out there too. Um, and so um, prednazone predniscolone acetate is the cheapest one about $12. This is a brief Google internet search on prices, so don't hold me to it. But once we go beyond PRFOte, and I don't really put I don't really care that much about generic versus brand name, but some people do. Um, once if I'm going beyond generic, then I'm probably going to use Durazol, which is a lot more expensive. And if I'm worried about IO an IOP spike, I might um try Lotomax once we're tapering down on lower dose steroids. um if they're going to have an IOP um response with the steroid uh durol will definitely bring their pressure up and it will be higher. So for the periocular steroids um dexamethasone um is cheap triumpinylone um the standard form is a little more expensive and tri is the most expensive. Um periocular dexamethasone really only lasts about 24 hours. So that's not something that I really use um for uvetics. um that's more commonly something you'd use um in a postcaract situation or uh intraoperatively. But if you're going with periocular then there's a couple of ways to do it. You can place it anteriorly in the subtenon space. You can go most more posterior or you can go um to the orbital floor going through the lower lid and then of course intravitrial triinolone is an option as well. um of the implants ozardex um as we heard about has dexamethasone and retoert has flu fluinolone acetani acetani can't talk today um so ozardex is less expensive than reticert um of course there is a difference in the length of time that steroid is being uh released oftentimes a strategy that people use is to start with a periocular steroid if things work well they don't develop glaucoma um then you might move to an ozex if that also shows effect, you might think about going to a reticert. Um the reticert of course is not biodegradable. Um it's an O procedure and it's sutured into the eye. Um there is a high rate of cataract formation um by the time you get towards that three-year mark. And um of those who develop um increased IOP, about 40% will end up needing glaucoma surgery. There was a recent study out that I don't have time to talk about looking at treating uvitis with steroids either um an implant versus systemic treatment and overall the visual outcomes were the same for patients that received the red assert their quality of life was better especially in those early years. Um patients on systemic treatments had a lot of side effects and um had a lot of uh time to get used to those treatments. So um corticosteroids um already mentioned IOP and cataract um there is some systemic absorption from the um the perryiocular steroids and so um this of course is important in patients that are diabetic um the intravitrial form of course we know about the risk of endoplitis and pseudoendommititis um and when I talk to patients about where I might place the uh steroid if I'm going through the for the orbital floor I always warn them about skin depigment pigment mentation especially in um patients with darkly pigmented skin and orbital fat prolapse as that septum becomes atrophic. Um patients can be really annoyed if you don't warn them about this and it happens. Um of course with the retrovar or the posterior septons um placement there's always a risk of globe penetration and rarely the retinovascular occlusion and thentosis and allergic reaction if you're in the more anterior space. Other things that we put in the eye for non-infectious uvitis um there have been uh a few studies looking at putting methtores in the eye of course we use it for um vitrior retinal lymphoma um there was uh one paper out looking at the use in um uvetic macular edema uh we did a small study at NIH and um didn't see that much effect for macular edema um it would be nice if we had something else besides steroids to put in the eye but we need to work more on that um rettoximab we've heard about a little bit that's also used for um uh vitrior retinal lymphoma um and something that was tried by um a group in upstate New York and some other groups was studying putting intravitrial inflammab in the eye this was actually for diabetic macular edema and they found um their patients had decreasing erg responses so it's not always a great idea to um use everything we've got in the eye without um additional studies So um indications including of course anterior uvitis um of anytime a patient can't tolerate systemic treatment then we need need to go to local treatment um and then some of these other indications and oftentimes we'll use it in conjunction with systemic treatment. So, moving on to systemic steroids. Um, either IV form or oral. Um, it's important to try to get down to a lower dose less than 10 milligrams within 3 months of starting treatment. And if you can't, that's a time to add other systemic treatment. Um, children are a special consideration um because I I always manage children in conjunction with some kind of pediatric specialist whether it's a general pediatrician or rheumatologist because children are still growing and the implications of um you know long-term implications we simply don't know. So we need to get help when we treat children. Um of course we have to watch out for bone min mineral density and um GI protection. So I always place patients on a calcium supplement with vitamin D when I start steroids. Um steroids I think people are uh feel more comfortable using them or a little more familiar with them but side effects there patients are pretty much guaranteed to have one of these side effects and some of them can alter their them for the rest of their lives. So compared to some of the steroid sparing imunosuppressives these things can be equally bad. Um once we move past the steroids then um you can co-manage with rheumatology, neurology, pulmonology and or uvitis as appropriate and the the cost ranges from quite cheap to very expensive. Um when we think about the conventional non-steroid treatments, there's the anti metabolites which include methtoresate um aoprine and cceptep or microfenolate. um this is used less commonly in uvitis and the T- cell inhibitors u most commonly used in the US is cycllosporin but we've heard a little bit about cerolymus and um cerolymus in a subconjunctal form has been tested for you guys as well it's just not commercially available at this time and then finally alkaline agents are kind of the the ones that are the scariest for those of us who are not um in oncology or rheumatology these disrupt DNA strands And there um is a of course a risk of cancer depending on the way and how much you use this medication. So I'm going to skip skip over the pictures here. Um the biologics are the the newest drugs and they're um of course expensive because these target specific molecules. The ones that um we use most commonly in uvitis include infleximab which is remade and adelimab which is humira. These two uh remade is an an IV infusion. Um it goes in over a couple of hours. Patients need to be in a day hospital or a an infusion center. Humira is a is an injection. You um inject it with a pen kind of like insulin and it's uh uh every two weeks. Infleximab there. They dose u the first week then two weeks later and then every four weeks and then they sometimes stretch the interval out to about every six to eight weeks. Rettoximab um is also retoxan and um we've been the rheumatology uh department here at Mayo has been using that quite a lot in the um vasculitities and it's increasingly used in uvitis as well. Um this is generally dosed once and then um a second dose uh second loading dose I think is a couple weeks later and then they don't get another dose again for six months. the effects on the um white blood cell count are um quite uh impressive and so if they run into problems with lucopenia they're really in trouble. So these this is a drug that you have to use with care. Um this is Enrell and that's um we don't use it uh primarily to treat uvitis and in some studies patients with uh rheumatologic disease who had not previously had uvitis actually developed it after embry was started. So um if I see a patient who already has rheumatologic disease and um has developed uvitis on embry I I like to talk to the rheatologist about maybe considering a different medication. Um declammab is no longer commercially available but when it was available it was a wonderful drug. It was also an infusion but only over 30 minutes and it worked very well with very few side effects. So we're hopeful that perhaps um a different form of that will be available on the market at some point in the future. It uh worked best in uvitis. It was developed for MS but it wasn't commercially viable so the company chose to stop making it. And then of course we all know about the anti-VEGF agents. Um these are great in conj uh in conjunction with other things but it's really not good for a monotherapy although it does uh VEGF does have an inflammatory role. Um you're sort of treating the end result if you're only using um an anti-VEGF injection. So um uh the u TNF inhibitors target TNF which is an inflammatory cytoine. It influences um all a lot of different inflammatory responses. It recruits cells. It changes um vascular permeability. So that's the reason why we try to target it in in a couple of different ways. Um ENL targets the uh TNF receptor and um it can be very effective. So this is one case example of a 24 year old young woman who's had intermediate uvitis for 12 years. She's been on a lot of other um imunosuppressives including methtoresate and a short course of humira. She's had sub subten on triinolone injections. She um had steroid responsive glaucoma and had a tra and most recently she's been on cell sept or micopenolate and we added cycllosporin. Um when you look at her early and her late florosine you see she has this laculated pattern of um of leakage in the temporal macula and on her corresponding OCT she had cystic edema in that area. Um this was after she had had inflammab remade um for 6 months and you can see she still has a a degree of small vessel leakage especially if you were looking out in the periphery but the area that's visually significant in the macula no longer has that same loulated um accumulation of fluid. So some of the things that we don't use as commonly um we briefly talked about using interferon um they use it a lot more in Europe and what the Europeans say is that Americans wouldn't tolerate it because of the flu-l like side effects. We're too I guess we're we whine too much or something our patients do. Um I don't know about that but we we simply don't use it very much here. Um and some of the things under development um at NIH they're testing a protein to uh induce oral tolerance. The idea is to kind of retrain the immune system so that it's no longer attacking the eye. Um this was tested in a small study and of course tested in an animal model and whether it works um will be interesting to see. So far not many side effects from the medication. Um I mentioned cerolymus in subconjuctal or intravitrial forms and um many of these medications if we put them just in the eye we could certainly decrease the systemic side effects. So when I'm starting want to start this medication um if the patient even if the patient seems to only have uvitis I still oftentimes will have them evaluated by rheatology. Um here we have great rheatologists who are willing to help me manage this medication although I I did receive training to manage it myself. I think it's always safest to have um many people involved with the care of the patient. Um of course we want to make sure that they're not they don't have latent TB. um they need to have need to be up to date on their immunizations, especially if they're children. Um and you should revisit the diagnosis of um infection um if necessary before starting these agents just in case we miss something. Of course, we um thoroughly discuss um everything about this medication and frequently rheumatology or the rheatology nurses can be very helpful with that. Um in general, there's no absolute recipe for treatment. It really depends on um on how you were trained and um of course puh the patient what he or she prefers. So um for acute or vision threatening uvitis um predinazone or or some form of steroids still works the fastest. So sometimes getting that patient hospitalized and using solumedrol is the way to go. But IV ren remade also works very quickly and um of course cycloposphomide can be useful as well. Um for anterior uvitis with jia methtoresate classically um for once acute inflammation is controlled with posterior uvitis then we're thinking about cell or cycllosporin. Um cycllosporin we tend to like with macular edema and if everything they've failed everything else and they have the insurance coverage we might be using one of those biologics. So, um, LA lab monitoring is very important. Um, I always tell patients about sun protection and contraception, flu vaccines, um, going to the doctor when they're sick and any new symptoms that are neurological, we have to worry about a rare syndrome, um, uh, called PML. And so, these are things to watch out for as well. Um just very quickly here um the site study looked at whether or not being on immunosuppressives and I um was harmful to your overall health. And so they looked at uvitis patients on systemic treatment versus uvitis patients who were not versus the general US population. And as a whole there was no increased mortality and no increased mortality due to cancer for the most commonly used amunosuppressives. there's less data on the TNF inhibitors and so um we always warn patients about this and we simply don't know. So if we're going to start these we say we think they work well. We don't have enough long-term data and then we we basically talk about whether this is something they want to do. So we've already talked we've talked about all these different types of treatments. Um the main thing is to make sure we don't use predinazone too long. And if um if you're not able to get off predinazone, seeking help um with uh from another specialist is uh the best way to go. So with that, we're at the last slide and thanks for staying here with us and um thanks for attending. It was a great conference and thanks to Sophie and Ray.