Welcome to the Mayo Clinic hospital, St. Mary's campus. This site is where the majority of the neurologic residency patient care practice happens. This is a brand new inpatient rehab unit that we moved into in August of 2019. As a resident, you will see patients through the continuum of care, seeing patients in the acute care neurologic and inpatient rehabilitation unit practices, along with our neurologic outpatient practice. Patients are seen in these gym spaces and in the attached acute care hospital. The clinical care hours are per Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to around 5 p.m. It really depends on the day. You will work with patients with acquired brain injury, spinal cord injury, brain and spinal cord tumors, neurodegenerative disease, myopathies, radiculopathies, to just name a few of the diagnoses. In this space, you'll have the opportunity to work with state-of-the-art equipment, including the Zero-G Dynamic Bodyweight Support System, The Zero-G Gait and Balance System protects patients from falls while providing dynamic body weight support as the patient practices walking, balance, sit -to-stand maneuvers, and even stairs. Therapists also have the opportunity to use the RT300 Electrical Stimulation Bike, which incorporates functional electrical stimulation integrated with TASC -specific for motor assistance resistance activities. You also get to work with the Bionis L300 Plus lower extremity orthosis, which delivers programmed low-level e-stim to activate the nerves controlling the muscles of the leg. We also have the exorobotic exoskeleton gait device. In addition to these devices, residents will also utilize standard rehabilitation tools, such as the Moveo XP exercise platform, extensor pressure mapping system, standing frames, and tilt-table. This is our Flex Gym. Our Flex Gym is a quieter space to work with patients who may have challenges with sensory overstimulation or who are working on cognitive tasks. This is also a great space which allows you to work collaboratively with occupational therapy, speech language pathology, and other disciplines. This is our workshop. Residents will have access to the workshop for wheelchair modifications or other needs for adaptive equipment. You also have the opportunity to collaborate with a recreational therapist. Recreational therapy assists patients with addressing their psychological and social returning function at home. They are a great resource for adaptive sports and other leisure activities. This is our rehabilitation simulation apartment. Our rehabilitation apartment is an environment to practice bed, tub, and toilet transfers, provide family education, and work on homemaking and cooking skills. This room has a multi -purpose use. It is an area where patients and visitors can spend time outside of their room. It also is an environment where therapists can work on booth transfers, find more coordination, puzzles, piano, or even a keyboard. The patients and family also have internet access in this room. From a therapist's perspective, it's a great place to practice walking as the carpeting has a visually challenging pattern. Pediatric gym. The neurologic residents have an opportunity to observe in the neurologic pediatric practice. This space is used for children undergoing occupational or physical therapy in both the inpatient and outpatient setting. Now we've moved on to one of our inpatient rehab patient rooms. The inpatient rehab unit has 36 beds, all with sealing lift systems. The rooms also have drop-down sofa beds to allow patient family members to stay in the room. The patients have a personal refrigerator to store food of their choosing. The patient rooms are on the same floor as the therapy gyms, so oftentimes it's therapeutic to walk the patient room to the gyms for therapy. We are now entering our therapy staffing workroom. This is an open office concept where staff members are able to collaborate with nurse coordinators, physicians, speech language pathologists, occupational and recreational therapy. Staff from all disciplines sit side by side. The other great thing about this space is that the residents and fellows are able to consult with their clinical mentors and didactic faculty members will also sit in this space shoulder to shoulder. Here is our break room that has currently been accommodated to meet COVID precautions with ample seating. This is located on the same floor as our staff office. There are multiple areas of fridge and freezer space, vending machines, and a salad vending machine. Residents also get the opportunity to practice in our outpatient practice. This is located on the 14th floor of the Mayo Clinic building. Residents spend approximately five weeks in this practice. It is located about one mile away from the St. Mary's Hospital campus where all the other clinical rotations occur, but it is connected by an interclinic shuttle so you don't have to worry about walking in the cool. Here the resident will see patients in the vestibular clinic, functional movement disorders practices, and the neurodegenerative practice. They also will observe in our wheelchair and seating clinic. Mayo Clinic has a doctorate of physical therapy program. Neurologic residents are involved in assisting with teaching of neurologic content, including orthotics, spinal cord mobility, and brain injury topics. They assist in both our lab and lecture content. We hope this tour has given you some insight into the space and practices that our neurologic residents will experience during their 54 -week residency year. Thank you for your time.