Hello, I'm John Staer, a pancreatic surgeon at Mayo Clinic Florida. Due to the increased amount and sensitivity of imaging studies performed in the past decade, more and more patients are being found to have cysts in their pancreas. Unlike the majority of cysts of the liver and kidney, some pancreatic cysts have the possibility of harboring cancer or have the ability to turn into cancer over time. In the past, patients diagnosed with these cysts were advised to undergo major pancreatic surgery. However, over the past decade, we have realized that only a minority of these cysts will require operative treatment. Therefore, a thoughtful review and workup of these pancreatic cysts by an experienced team at a center of excellence is critical. At Mayo Clinic, after the appropriate testing is performed, such as MRI or endoscopic ultrasound, each patient is reviewed by our multipety group. We use consensus guidelines and best practices approach to make a unified recommendation regarding surgery versus non-operative management for each patient. If surgery is recommended, the patient is sent to myself or my colleague Dr. Horatio Aspen for discussion about the possibility of treating the pancreatic cyst by surgical resection. While pancreatic surgery is a major operation, the safety of this operation is greatly increased in the past decade and the recovery from this operation is much quicker than in the past. For surgery on the pancreas, there are two main operations that are used to take out part of the pancreas. One operation takes out the back half of the pancreas while the other operation takes out the front half of the pancreas. In rare circumstances, some patients will have extensive cystic disease involving the whole pancreas and will require the whole pancreas to be removed. The operation to remove the back half or the left side of the pancreas is called a distal pancreattomy. This operation is generally done laparoscopically through four very small incisions. The use of minimally invasive surgery along with the absence of disruption of the GI tract generally results in a very short hospital stay of 2 to four days and a quick recovery of several weeks. The operation to remove the front half of the pancreas is much more involved and is known as the Whipple operation. In this surgery, the head of the pancreas, douadinum, bile ducts and gallbladder are removed and a complex GI reconstruction is performed. While recovery from this operation is longer and the risks of complications from this operation are slightly higher, most patients make a full recovery within one to two months. Afterwards, the cysts inside the pancreas and the surrounding lymph nodes are examined by a pathologist to asssure that there are no cancer cells within them. If cancer cells are found, additional chemotherapy is often recommended. If no cancer cells are found, simple follow-up and observation as an outpatient is generally recommended. In summary, if you or a loved one is diagnosed with a pancreatic cyst, please consider undergoing a comprehensive multipety evaluation with an experienced team such as the one at Mayo Clinic Florida. Please reach out to our office for more information or an appointment.