The first few months after a new baby comes home is a time of joy and wonder, but it can also be exhausting. That's why the woman you're about to meet didn't think twice about being tired and sometimes short- winded. What she didn't know was that her heart was growing weak because of a rare condition that can happen after delivery. Suddenly, she collapsed. She needed to get to a major medical center fast because her local hospital was not equipped to help her. An air ambulance from Mayo Clinic was her only chance at staying alive. Tanya Ginther's symptoms struck while in the garage packing the car for a trip. Sat down on the concrete and said she was tired and laded and I didn't know what was going on. Then all of a sudden she just collapsed. Cardiac arrest. Tanya's husband Mike called 911 and started CPR. An ambulance crew took Tanya to the local hospital. I was told if she stays in Bismar she'll die. They said, "If you take her to Mayo, she's probably going to die. She might have a chance. If you if you can get her down there, she has a chance." Mike took that chance to save his wife and mother of their two children. Tanya's heart was failing because of a condition called parapartum cardiomyopathy that began after her son was born. Her heart became enlarged and could not pump blood properly. Doctors inserted a balloon pump through her groin up to a main artery in her heart. The pump is synchronized to her heartbeat and inflates and deflates to help keep the blood flowing. An air ambulance jet that could handle this equipment, Mayo Medair, was the only way she could make it to Mayo Clinic. At that time, I didn't think there was any way we were going to be able to possibly transport her out of there. Tanya arrested multiple times on the flight. This balloon pump kept her alive. When they landed, doctors at Mayo Clinic implanted another device to keep her heart going while she waited for a heart transplant. I more or less just prayed and and just asked for a chance. "Look here, mouse" left Scruffy. Mike and Tanya got that chance. Her heart began to recover. 3 weeks after being near death, she and Mike went home to their children. And even though Tanya doesn't remember any of this, she will always be thankful for the well-trained team that saved her life. And it's the one flight that I'll never forget. She was so sick. Um it took all of us to kind of help save her life. And yet there is a great ending at the end. Tanya's heart recovered significantly, but it still is not as strong as it was before she became ill. Doctors told her she may be fine for many years or she may need additional treatment sooner. Right now, she's able to be active and is living a full life with her family. For Medical Edge, I'm Vivian