My name is Rita Malek. I'm a registered medical assistant. I'm in Rad Holding, which is an outpatient service for kidney transplant patients. We are the holding. So for pre and post. This is where the patients stay after their procedures. I'll bring them over here, hook them up to the vital machine, if they're getting any sedation, grab a set of vitals. How's that? It's warm. I know, yeah. I'm going to go grab your nurse for you. Okay? I'll go grab the nurse, the nurse will ask a good handful of questions. We'll call the ultrasound room for biopsies, for example. And if there's a room available, I'll transfer the patient and the bed from Rad Holding to the ultrasound procedure room. This is where they'll recover for an hour to two hours. We'll check in on them. Make sure they're comfortable. This is the time where we'll usually bring them snacks and drinks, because now they can eat. And then we'll send them back home. I'll walk them up to the front, wherever their car is, and onto the next patient. In the future, I see myself as the ultrasound technician, and that's why I love this department I'm in. I work alongside ultrasound technicians. I'm able to speak with them, ask them questions. It's really cool to see their process. I think Mayo is such a great place for people to get started, because they have so many opportunities here, and not many medical systems are able to go to this many departments in such a short time. I've only been here for seven months and I've been able to see three different areas in radiology, which is such an amazing opportunity because it really gives me an idea of what I want to become. I just think what they do for their employees is incredible how much they support them. This is a learning hospital and you can clearly see it everywhere you go that every person here is open to teaching someone something. And as a new graduate, it's really comforting to know that this place genuinely wants to learn and genuinely want you to succeed at whatever you're doing.