Hi, I'm John Copelan, a professor of cancer biology at Mayo Clinic in Florida. I'm a scientist who's passionate about finding cures for cancer and also an educator. As a scientist and researcher in Florida, I work on thyroid cancer, kidney cancer, and breast cancer. And we're actively identifying new molecular targets for therapy and towards this concept of individualized medicine. I'm a naturally curious person as a child growing up and always wanted to know the why of everything and I really didn't know what I wanted to do uh with my life after I uh graduated from college with a a bachelor's degree in chemistry and interviewed um in graduate schools and really became excited with the with the idea being able to answer questions um and being able to go into a laboratory and design experiments and ask and answer questions that nobody else in the new in the world knew the answers to. And I've always been really intrigued in in the idea of being able to make discoveries that will enhance human health. And so these are some of the things that have driven um driven me towards a career in in science and scientific discovery. And there have been numerous people along uh my career that have helped and influenced me uh to become not only a better scientist but a a better person. But in graduate school u doctors Aldun and Dr. Mahesh who was the chairman of the the department um in endocrinology that I received my PhD degree in had a very strong influence um with regards to uh critical thinking as as well as u pursuing uh more human related uh diseases. I moved from the uh the medical college of Georgia uh in Augusta, Georgia after graduating with a PhD to the University of Texas medical branch and I did post-doal fellowships in laboratories that were um um and had mentorship with doctors uh Dr. Alan Braasier who was a physician whose passion was science and scientific research and and you know Allen's influence really helped me focus and believe that that I had the capabilities to to uh pursue uh research and I had made some accidental discoveries with um some therapeutic compounds that had anti-tumor activity and this this was what has pushed me into the arena of of cancer research. The theme that I've focused on is our novel targets and and we actually collect patient tumor tissues uh that are that are surgical waste from from surgery. We're able to take these tissues and develop cell lines and and models that allow us to look at individual patient tumors and identify new gene targets using um uh genomic sequencing data to identify genes that are misregulated. And we can also now do functional genomics by knocking genes out and determining whether they play a role in tumor growth. One of the unique things about Mayo Clinic is that it also has graduate graduate school that allows employees to take classes for free. And employees in my laboratory have taken advantage of of of this opportunity and and have greatly enhanced their ability to make scientific discoveries in in the laboratory. And I still get goosebumps on my arms when when um we make new discoveries uh that that can potentially change the world and and and especially how we treat patients.