All right, Let's begin. First, I want to say apologize for the delay. We just had some technical difficulties on the back end, but I appreciate everyone hanging in there with us. This is our first annual summit. I want to first thank the participants, the panelists for joining and willing to share their wealth and knowledge on this Saturday morning in the middle of football season. Okay. I appreciate everyone that's joining as well for taking the time and want to learn about this information. One of the first things that I would like to do is just have a moment of silence for those who have either suffering or have been a victim of some of the diagnosis that we will talk about. So we'll take about 30 seconds, just have a moment of silence for that, please. Alright, appreciate it. Um, Today is going to be phenomenal phenomenal Saturday. We have a lot of a wealth of information for you to share with you guys. I just want to first introduce myself. My name is Dr. Tarik Smith. I am the Health initiative committee chair for the Psi Mu Nu chapter of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity Incorporated. I want to go over and also just introduce Chad as well. He's with Mayo on this and will be working the chats and the back office stuff. Want to see if our All right. So I don't see the president of the chapter on, but I do see vice boss is, David Hamilton. I wanted to pass it to him to give us give us a word and introduce yourself. Good morning. Thank you, doctor Smith. Welcome everyone on behalf of Brother Edward Williams, who's trying to get logged in right now. We'd like to welcome you to this annual Men's Health summit. We are most appreciative to the Mayo Clinic and definitely blessed to be able to have this partnership, to be able to bring this valuable information to the community. I also would like to extend a most gracious thank you to the panelists. We could not do this without your knowledge, your expertise, and your time making yourself available to do this. We definitely appreciate you, and we appreciate all those who are attending this Men's Health Summit. We hope that you're able to receive some great information and be able to share that information with anyone and everyone that you can pass it on to. We thank you, and we look forward to a great two to 3 hours of valuable information. Thank you. Doctor Smith, you're on mute. Sorry about that. I want to say thank you, Brother Hamilton. As soon as Brother Williams jump on, we'll let him have a word. Just going over the agenda for today. Today we have lined up. We talk about prostate and testicular health. The benefit of exercise, nutrition, and wellness, mental wellness as well. We do have some breaks in there where we will go over a few exercise. We have a couple of couple of participants that would like to testify about man's health and their experience and the importance of going to the doctor as well. Then at the end, there will be an evaluation that we will like for you to fill out. It's a simple part, should take no more than 5 minutes. You just click the QR code and send you to a sheet, and you just answer it. A lot of it is multiple questions with some short answers. But we're looking to improve this going forward to the next year. All right. And with that being said, I'd like to bring on our first presenter. And this is doctor Cobran . He's a Senior Associate Consultant, Department of Quantitative Health Science, with Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science. Thank you. Thank you so much, doctor Smith. And I just want to say, thank you for this opportunity to be able to present on prostate cancer and Testicular Cancer on behalf of Mayo Clinic Cancer Center and the Center for Community Outreach and Engagement. And doctor Cobran, before you start your presentation, I just have the pre evaluation. I would just like to share with the gentleman on the call. So what this is, gentlemen. This is how prostate cancer is one of Mayo clinic, Florida's main cancers of focus for Florida. On the different campuses, the Midwest and Arizona, we have different cancers that we tend to focus on. And what this is a is a pre knowledge evaluation. So prior to doctor Cobran, given his presentation, this is just a short survey that you would that I ask you to take, and this is allowing us to evaluate the knowledge game that after doctor Cobran  presents, he we will be able to present that. So this is the QR code for that. If you don't have a smartphone, that's okay. I'm going to put the link of the pre survey in the chat. So just for a couple seconds, doctor Cobran  I'll just have them to, So that, let me share my screen. I probably should have did that before. My apologies. Okay, share the screen. Okay. So let me move this over here. And switch. Okay. So this is the QR code. Are you guys able to see that so far? Okay. So just let them scan for just a second. All right. And then I'm also going to put the QR code in the chat. So doctor Cobran, you can proceed, sir. Okay. Good. Thank you, Chad. I just want to say, this is definitely a very much needed conversation. Can you all see the slides as displayed? All right. I just want to say I'm really excited about this conversation. I'm really excited about the opportunity to really empower us as Black men. The title of this is to really empower us and to call us to action for prostate cancer. I want to leave us with a message of hope, a message a message of empowerment. We do need to kind of be about that's why I think that this health summit is so critical, that we're taking a time out, as doctor Smith mentioned, away from football to really talk about something that is really critical and important, our health. We cannot be around for the next generation if we don't take care of ourselves. For the most part, I think that I'm excited to be a part of this conversation and to be able to share some information with you this morning. In terms of learning objective for prostate cancer, we're going to talk about the prostate specific antigen blood tests. What does the PSA test screen for? We're going to talk about signs and symptoms of and then prostate cancer in black men specifically or groups most at risk of prostate cancer. All right. We're going to start off here with just a quick video. A number of men that will be diagnosed with prostate cancer this year could fill up about 15 arenas. That's close to 300,000 men. and in the US an estimated 30,000 men will die of prostate cancer this year. And I got the call. The doctor said Stage three prostate cancer. I shocked, you know, I wasn't expecting bad news because I felt so good then. This is asymptomatic for millions of men. I was one of the fortunate ones. I caught it early, a simple blood test Saved my life. But if I wasn't proactive about getting checked, who knows what the outcome could have been? This prostate cancer awareness month, know your score. Finding prostate cancer early could be life saving. You know, this video, go to the next screen. The estimated number. Stop here. So that was Hall of Famer Alonzo Mourning basketball Hall of Famer for Alonzo Mourning who was recently diagnosed with prostate cancer. And it's interesting because he was one of the things that he mentioned was that he was asymptomatic. He did not have any he wasn't visibly sick. He wasn't vis he wasn't visibly he didn't have a cold or anything like that. And he was shocked when he was diagnosed when he got the call. And he said that a simple blood test, which is the PSA test. We're going to talk about PSA, and he talked about the fact that he caught it early. And so Our call to action as Black men is that we have to catch these things. Early, we have to be proactive about our health in order to be able to be on the cusp to be able to intervene in these matters that are taking us out and so we have to be proactive in terms of our health. What is the prostate specific antigen test? Prostate specific antigen , or PSA is a protein made by the cells in a prostate glands. It's a protein. The PSA levels in the blood is measured in terms of units called nanograms per milliliter. That's what usually, you'll see MG per ML. Essentially PSA, it's measuring a protein in the blood. Most men without prostate cancer have levels of PSA levels under four nanograms per milliliters in the blood. Men with prostate levels 4-10 have a one and four chance of having prostate cancer. As your PSA level goes up above four, the likelihood of you having prostate cancer will increase. If your PSA is more than ten, the chance of you having is over 50%. That blood test, that blood test essentially is looking for that protein that is testing for whether or not you have prostate cancer. There's 2 tests. There's the PSA test, which is the blood test, and there's the digital rectal exam, which is where the urologist will insert a finger into the rectum. But the simple simpler of the tests is the blood test. The PSA test is essentially looking for the levels of protein, the PSA levels in the blood. What are the factors that may impact PSA levels? At older age, PSA levels may normally go up as you get older, even if your prostate is normal, those are things that may impact your PSA level. Having an enlarged prostate. These are essentially non cancerous enlargement of the prostate that may affect many men as they get older and it can cause PSA levels to rise. Prostatitis, this is an infection or inflammation of the prostate gland which can cause PSA levels to rise and then ejaculation. This can cause your PSA to go up for a short time. This is why most doctors recommend that you abstain from ejaculation about one or two days before testing or your PSA testing your PSA levels. Those are things that can cause your PSA levels to rise. How is prostate cancer stage? Prostate cancer stage one. This is the prostate cancer prostate here. Stage one, usually the cancer is localized to maybe one globe of the prostate, so that's stage one. Usually you here, there's four stages of prostate cancer. When people say I was diagnosed, stage one or stage one, stage two and stage three. I'm going to show you just briefly the various different stages of prostate cancer and then the reason why you want to catch it early or why early intervention is important. If you notice here, stage one, the cancer is on one globe of the prostate, stage two, it's on one globe, and then you'll stretch to the other lobe of the prostate. Two globes of lobes Stage three, it will probably be in two globes of the prostate and then it will spread to the seminal vessels. That's stage three. Stage four is when it's on both lobes, it will spread to the seminal vessels and then to the lymph nodes, and then it will probably metastasize into the bladder. This is your bladder up here. In most cases, if you're able to catch prostate cancer early, stage one, stage two, possibly stage three, there is a there's a lot less volume or a lot less cancer in the prostate and or a lot less likelihood that it's spread in. That's why early, our call to action is go to the doctor, early intervention, develop that relationship, start to get screening. That's why you want to catch prostate cancer early. That's why it's essential. That's why it's important. Know the signs. What are the signs? Early signs of prostate cancer? Usually, there's no symptoms, but here's a couple of common signs that we typically see. Problems urinating, including a low or weak stream. Or the need to urinate very often, especially at night, those are typical early signs of prostate cancer. Blood in the urine or semen. Those are things that are early signs of. If you're seeing any of these symptoms, you might want to start having the conversations with your urologist, your primary care physician, so that you can start having conversations about prostate cancer screening, whether PSA and whether by PSA or DRE and or by both. More advanced prostate cancer. Trouble getting an erection. That's when you'll see you're likely to have more advanced prostate cancer. Pain in the hips, back, chest, other areas. The cancer and this is where when we talk about metastatic, the cancer can spread to the bones. You usually are seeing some weight loss and then you're feeling very tired. These are some of the signs of more advanced So we're going to talk finally in terms of for prostate cancer because with this presentation, we're talking about and then I'm going to transition into testicular cancer. So this last part of the presentation, I'm going to talk specifically about prostate cancer in Black Man. Because it's critical for us as Black men to understand the numbers and why there's a call to action for us, why this health summit is important, why we need to be proactive about our health in terms of making sure that we are going to the doctor. We have this relationship. We should not be suffering in silence, we should not be putting off screening if if you're having any symptoms, have a conversation. If you are afraid, talk to your brother, talk to someone, talk to a family member that you trust. So that you can you can go into the doctor. In terms of new cases of prostate cancer, we see that the incidence of prostate cancer in Black Man is 64% higher compared to White Man, and in terms of mortality, which is the death rate, in prostate cancer is two times higher in Black men compared to White men. When we look at this is an article that was published using SEER Registry, which is the National Cancer Institute Cancer Registry. When we look at prostate cancer new cases by race at the time of diagnosis, Here is here is the line for African American or Black men. As you can see, the numbers where it says two times 2.3 higher. These are prostate cancer cases in Black men by age. The red line is African American men. This red line, here is African American men with the square. The blue line with the circle is white men. The blue line with the triangle facing up is Hispanic men, the green line with the triangle facing down, is Hispanic Hispanic non Hispanic Indian men, and then then the purple line is non Hispanic Asian or Asian specific island, islander man. Essentially what you can see at age of diagnosis, we see when you look at it, most man for prostate cancer, most black men for prostate cancer are being diagnosed at age 60 to 64. Highest rate of age diagnosis in Black men, around 60 to 64. But at the same time, if you look at the overall trend, what I want to call your attention to is that prostate cancer is the leading cause of new cases in Black men. That's what I want to call your attention to. When we look at the rates of prostate cancer death by age, it's similar, a higher rate of prostate cancer death in African American men and you're seeing you know, you're seeing obviously it makes sense that 65, well, doesn't make well, I would say 65 or an older highest rate, but at the same time, you're seeing men who are 65 65 to 69, higher rate than any other racial groups. The death rate in African American men is highest in terms of prostate cancer at any age, any age rate starting with 50 to 54 all the way up to 85 or and older for any African American men. And that's why life expectancy for most men is 74-years-old. You still have you call it premature death when men are dying before the age of 74, these men here, 40 to 49, 50 to 54, 55 to 59, 60 to 64, 60 to 69, this is premature death. For most cases, you're still seeing men, African American men dying before the life expectancy. That's why this is important. I want to call your attention. There is hope. What Alonzo Mourning said, is you have to get this thing early. You have to want to leave us with an empowering message that you want to get this information, you want to get, develop a relationship with your primary care physician with a network of physician. You have to have a network of support around you so that if you feel any of these symptoms, if you You should be going to your physician at least once a year to get an annual checkup. That's something that I want to call your attention to. That's the prostate cancer part. I'm going to pause here for a second and then we're going to talk about testicular cancer, which impacts a younger demographic, but nonetheless, I think it's another critical cancer that we want to talk about. I'm going to pause for a quick second and then I'm going to transition into testicular cancer. All right. Okay. All right. So testicular cancer is another cancer that impacts men. Both of these cancer impact men. I study men's health. I study prostate cancer I'm a prostate cancer disparity researcher here at Mayo. For the most part, these are cancer that I see that impacts men's health. The overall objective for this presentation, focus on testicular cancer is just an overview and this is going to be shorter than the prostate cancer presentation. I just have a couple of slides. This is just an overview and incidence of testicular cancer. These are a learning objective. What are the signs of testicular cancer? Then I think I'm just going to focus on two in terms of just time for the rest of the panelists. When Chad reached out to me about giving this presentation, I was going through I typically will go through men's health. In May, I saw this article about when cancer come for your nuts. It was in men's health. I was just like, Chad I reached out to this talk and I was going through and I was like, Man, You know, the fact that I thought that there was just this serendipitous thing about this and I was like, I got to put this article in this presentation to highlight this cancer because this is the cancer that comes from men at the age of 20 to 40. Whereas prostate cancer, you're seeing men being diagnosed 40, 45, and older, but testicular cancer, it's coming for young men. It's coming from men who are younger in their 20s. The rates of testicular cancer based on this article, now, I'm going to show you some of the science behind it. Our rise in among young men age 22 40. It says the key to the person who wrote this article was somebody that was diagnosed at the age of 20. He said the key to beat in cancer is prevention. That's your hope, your message of hope. You have to touch your nuts and if you feel something, go to the doctor and get it checked out. That is the message of hope here. Here is this young man at 20, being diagnosed with testicular cancer. Here is he's getting treatment and chemo. This was him doing Halloween and here is him after treatment. There is hope. There is hope going through treatment. This is his wife, his now wife, girlfriend at the time, and here is him on the beach after treatment. And so there is hope. 20 something years old diagnosed with ticular cancer, you know, caught it early, was able to get treatment, and he's moving on living his life after cancer. And so you know, here is the Here is the National the National Comprehensive Cancer Network clinical guideline as it relates to National Comprehensive Cancer Network, testicular guideline for guideline for testicular cancer. And it says it's a cancer that is the most common solid tumor in man between the age of 20 to 34-years-old. This is a cancer that impact man early. In terms of incidents about roughly 9500 men will develop or were diagnosed with testicular cancer in 2019. But the interesting part about it, there is a 95% 95% survival rate of if you five years it's an excellent five year survival rate for testicular cancer when caught early. And I'm going to show you Just briefly the stage of and the spread. If you catch it early, the overall message of this presentation is early detection is key, whether it's prostate cancer or testicular cancer. Risk factors for testicular cancer, family history of Those are some of the things that are going to be risk factors. This article just talks about the stages. So Stage one of is usually defined to the testicles or the testicles, Stage two, early stage three, it's the testicle, it spread to the lymph node and boarder line in stage three, you'll see it spread to the lungs. Same here with stage three, testicles, lymph node, liver, and the lungs. If you're able to catch this thing early, same thing with prostate cancer, testicular cancer, if you're able to catch it very early, the cancer is going to be localized just to the testicle. The later you wait, the more likely that the cancer is going to spread to other organs, and then your fight in terms of because your treatment in terms of chemotherapy, you're fighting, you have to get the cancer out of other organs of the body. For the most part, early detection is key and that's your message of hope. What are the signs of testicular cancer, a lump or swellen in one of the testicles, breast growth or soreness, heaviness or in the lower belly or scrotum. Those are some of the signs of testicular cancer. If you notice any changes in the way your testicle look or feel, talk to your doctor right away. So that is essentially the signs of testicular cancer. My message here is a message of hope and empowerment. I want to empower us as we think about our health to be proactive. The narrative that the narrative, especially for Black male is that Black men don't go to the doctor, that does not have to be the case. We can be proactive. If we care about the next generation, being around for the being around for family members, we have to be proactive. We have to take care of ourselves so we can provide. We have to take care of ourselves so we can be around for the next generation. I just want to leave us while the statistics is there, I want to leave us with a message of hope and I want to pass it on to our next panelist. say to doctor, I just want to say to doctor Smith. Thank you for what you're doing. On behalf of Mayo Clinic, thank you for this opportunity to present on behalf of the COE. This is something that I'm passionate about and I just want to say I hope that I'm leaving you empowered and with a message of hope. All right. Thank you, doctor Cobran . Here's a question that I have, and if anybody any one of you guys have a question, please feel free to put it in the chat and we can get it to him. But what are resources available for someone that may have testicular or prostate cancer for their family to understand and cope with the diagnosis and treatment? So that's a great question. In most cases, you don't have to do it alone. There are peer support groups. Mayo clinic has the COE. There's often, for example, if you're diagnosed, it doesn't even have to be mayo clinic. Say you're diagnosed as a cancer center. Most cancer center has patient navigators. These patient navigation or patient navigation services. Patient navigation services is essentially a nurse or some kind of nurse that is trained to help walk the patient and their family, whether it's prostate cancer or testicular cancer to help you walk through the journey. When you're diagnosed with prostate cancer and testicular cancer, just hearing that you're diagnosed with cancer, It's a life changing moment. It rocks your world. Alonzo Mourning said that he was shocked. It rocks your world. You're like, now I have to go through treatment. Now I have to think about treatment, now I have to go through all of this stuff. You don't have to do it by yourself. In most cases, there is services that are provided by these cancer center that you're going to be treated at where you have a partner in terms of a nurse that will walk you through the process. They won't make the decision for you, they won't tell you This is the treatment that you should make. This is the decision that you should make, but they will help you to coordinate. They will say, Hey, doctor Smith, I'm calling from I want to offer this service to you and your family. I want to help you to schedule your appointments. I want to help you to schedule your appointment. There are resources in the community, the are community foundations that can partner with you to make sure that you have the resources that you need. My number one thing is, don't do it by yourself. Don't suffer in silence. Don't feel that diagnosed of prostate cancer with testicular cancer, and I need to be able and I need to do and I need to struggle with the diagnosis. There's no shame. I know that doctor Cook is going to come up next behind me. Don't feel like you have to do any of this thing in shame or in secret. A lot of people are diagnosed and they're like, I'm going to keep it to myself. I feel like I did something wrong. God is punishing me because I did something in my life. I was I live my life too good when I was younger and so that's why no, there's no sin that you did or something that you did that now God is trying to get you now or later in life or early in life. I think along the lines, I just want to leave you with that message that you don't need to struggle in silence, that you need to be able to put support around you because you're going to need support to walk through this journey. All right. Appreciate it. Thank you for that. You have a couple of questions in the chat. Okay. For doctor Cobran . The first question, doctor Cobran is about PSA. How can the PSA be controlled or can it be controlled? Um That question is more, so it's a blood test, right. For the most part, I'm going to leave that question. I'm more on the research side of things. That's more a medical question, so I'm PhD, not more so on the MD side of things. That's a question that I would want to would like you to engage with your primary care physician, primary care. I I don't have all the answers and that's the other thing. For me, who study prostate cancer disparities, on the science part of things, there's I studied the disparities and so I don't have all the answers. So I'm not going to try to try to present myself as an MD on this. I collaborate with awesome MD colleagues and I have these questions that you asked me about PSA and how their control. I'll go to my MD colleagues and say, Hey, doctor such and such, For example, here at Mayo, we have a urologist by the name of doctor Moore, and I'll say, Hey, doctor Moore, she's my clinician colleague here at Mayo and I'll say hey, doctor Moore. I'm thinking about doing this study and I want to understand these clinical ramification of prostate cancer, and all of my clinical questions, I'll ask her those clinical questions. As it relates to PSA, I want you to be able to ask those kind of questions to your primary care physician or your urologist in terms of PSA. I think that would be a good question for a physician. All right. General terms. I could probably chime in here, so I'm going to give the next talk, but also I'm going to talk about some of those kind of things. How do you control some of these things through exercise, and I'll tell you exactly why and how. But your PSA number is just like doctor Cobran is saying, is nothing but a marker of a particular dysfunction of those cancer cells. Those cancer cells are releasing this protein into your blood because they're cancerous, right. So you can control those by one monitoring them, going regularly to the doctor and having that test done to make sure that they're not rising if they keep it in a control level. But your lifestyle, is one of the main things. I'm going to talk about exercise, but how we treat our bodies to improve our overall cellular function is going to help to mediate a lot of these cancers from even coming about. I'll talk about that here next. All right. Thank you, doctor Cobran. Thank you, doctor Cook. All right. Doctor Smith. All right. Appreciate doctor Cobran for the wealth of information. Again, if anyone have questions, please feel free to still put it in the chat. And what we can do is we will also chat, if you can, maybe put my e mail and your e mail in the chat as well. You guys can reach out to us and we can give the panelists the questions and they can e mail you directly from there. So I really appreciate it. The next one. The next panelist I known this guy for a very long time since elementary school. So it is actually great. It was a privilege for him to say that he would do it when I asked him. He's always been top of the class, very smart individual, so I'd like to introduce doctor Cook. He is an associate professor professor of clinical Exercise Immunology, Associate Director research for forgive me if I butcher is Kader, North Carolina A&T State University. Doctor Cook, I appreciate it. And you have the floor. Yeah. So good morning, gentlemen. So Thank you, doctor Smith, for asking me to join the panel and to just give this talk really about exercise, especially for a grown man, right? And just to give some examples of how we can do it, right around this topic. So I have to say at first, because I'm going to provide you with some resources. I have to that I don't have any conflicts of interest to disclose or any investment in any of the things that I'm going to talk about. I just want to give you resources. Some of these are free, some of these you have to pay for, and some of these are really helped me as I've gotten older and more busy in my life. So Just in general, I want to talk about exercise physical activity, but there's a lot of misinformation about what exercise really is. You have physical activity and that's anybody movement that uses your skeletal muscles, and requires you to expend energy or burn energy, or what we understand is burn calories. Now, exercise is very intentional. It requires an engaged physical activity level over a sustained period of time, and we usually do this to improve our health and our fit. Right. And so exercise is a type of physical activity. So we should be physically active throughout most of the day. I know that some of our jobs sometimes make a sedentary, or you know, we're sitting at a desk or you know, we're driving a lot or those types of things. We don't get much movement. And so that's why exercise becomes very important. So I just want to talk to you about the major benefits of exercising. So when I'm here, in the community doing health literacy or talking to individuals in the community about the importance of exercising actually what it does. And I also train my students to do this too, our students in our program. There's a bunch of different systems, physiological systems in our body that exercise benefits. So our heart. We know that we can improve our heart health overall, the strength of our heart, how much blood our heart can pump at resting during exercise with consistent exercise. It improves our metabolic rate, right? So our skeletal muscles drive what our metabolism is going to be. The healthier that skeletal muscle is and its ability to burn sugars and burn fats and utilize proteins to build muscle. Exercise helps improve all of all of those ways. It helps improve our gut health. Right? And so and there's a tie between all of these things and our brain health. Right? And so really the tie is that I'm going to get a little bit technical, but I want you to understand that. Exercise in general trains our nervous system to improve the function of all of our systems. And there is one particular nerve that exercise train, which is our parasympathetic nerve, which is our coming nerve. We also have our sympathetic activity. So you understand that as your adrenaline system. Right? When you get excited, your adrenaline pumps up, right? You get adrenaline released, when you exercise, you get adrenaline released, right? But what exercise does is it trains the dominant calming nerve to have more functional control over our organs so that they can function better. Right. So our Parasympat particular nerve, improves our heart function. It also improves our gut function, brain function, and improves our metabolism. So here's some of the ways. So exercise decreases stress. It decreases heart stress, cardiovascular stress. You know when you exercise your resting heart rate comes down. That's because exercise, stimulating this particular type of nerve increases the dominant control over your heart rate to allow your heart rate to come down. It also decreases gut stress and psychological and neurological stress. We can improve our sleep. We improve our sleep, All of these systems get to rest and regenerate and recuperate themselves. This is why sleep is so important. Because of cellular recuperation and regeneration. We get to boost our immunity. So it boosts our immunity or improves our immune function overall as a basic scientist as an immunologist. I study how exercise improves our immune function specifically in the gut and in our heart and in our brain to help improve our overall health. It increases sexual health. That same nerve that I talked about that improves your heart rate, lowers your resting heart rates of your heart gets more rest, and it can actually work better. It improves the function of our gut, but it also controls erection. So when you exercise frequently, it improves or can diminish the retile dysfunction. It improves our body composition. So we know that we want to keep our cholesterol levels down, one of the ways that we do that is we increase our metabolic rate of our muscle so that we can burn more fat. At rest and during exercise so that we can improve our Increase our muscle mass, decrease our fat mass, and it reduces disease. If I improve the health of all of these systems, these main systems, it reduces the disease, it improves our quality of life. And so I just want to talk about what doctor Cobran  talked about. He was talking about prostate cancer. Right. So our governing, you know, entity, usually the American College of Sports Medicine. They do a lot of presenting research to the community around what's most appropriate to do to maintain your health and to maintain, you know, and to reduce and prevent disease and individuals around exercise in different groups and in different disease categories. And so, you know, we see it's just been reported that you can reduce your risk of prostate cancer, mortality rate by 33% just by exercising three days a week. That's it. So for this, how exercise works is that eating decreases our overall physiological stress so that and it also improves or boost our immunity to be able to stop cancerous cells from growing, right out of control. But there's other ways that exercise works to do this, right? So National Cancer Institute, most physically active adults can reduce their risk of colon cancer. No so colon cancer is also has a high mortality rate and really significantly high in the Black community. We can reduce it as much as 24% just by being physically active. I didn't even say exercise. Even moderate activity is beneficial. So going for walks, that's exercise because you say, I'm going to walk for 20 minutes during this time, is structured in plan, and that's most beneficial to reduce your risk from all diseases, but including cancer. Right. And so the governing bodies, right, how much exercise do I need? Right? Anywhere 150-300 minutes of moderate intensity a week, and then 75 to 150 minutes of vigorous activity a week. So that's a week within seven days. So that's a minimum of 30 minutes a day for five days a week. So how do these things, how does exercise work? What is it doing in my body to improve my overall health? And so I'm going to share with you this particular study that was just shown that they basically combined a lot of exercise training results from the study and put them all in one study and then show the associations between different types like resistance exercise and aerobic exercise. And I'll talk about what those are, plus both have on your overall health to improve your function. So If you were used to, like I was right in college, is doing a lot of resistance exercise, training. Right? You can improve your sugar metabolism, right? So when you train those muscles in this way, it improves your glucose metabolism, increases your muscle mass, and improves your muscle strength, and increases your metabolic rate. The more muscle mass I have, the more calories that I can burn, so that increases my metabolic rate. For aerobic exercise, I have that improves my cardio respiratory fitness. So the ability of my heart to pump enough blood through my body to feed those working muscles. That is during exercise, but that's also at rest. I can improve my heart function. I can lower my blood lipid levels. This is your blood cholesterol or your triglyceride levels, which a lot of our primary care physicians are on us about to keep and check. This is one of the reasons why we need to go to the doctor once or twice a year to get these values checked. And then hemodynamics. So what hemodynamics is as our blood vessels, our roots for our heart to be able to deliver blood flow through our body appropriately. So that's hemodynamics. Those blood vessels have to be able to open up when they need to open up or dilate and constrict constrict in order to help to maintain blood flow to our organs and tissues and to maintain things like our blood pressure. So when you combine the two, you get all of these benefits, right? Resistance exercise training, trains specific types of muscle cells, aerobic training, trained specific types of muscle cells. And when you do them both, when you do mixed, you have a better overall result. So that reduces your risk of having high blood pressure, high cholesterol levels and triglyceride levels. It reduces your risk of developing type two diabetes, and it helps to maintain you from becoming obese because it increases your metabolic rate and it improves your metabolism of lipids, right? And sugar. And so overall, that's going to reduce your disease risk. Morbidity is illness and mortality is death from cardiovascular disease. And so of course, we have this is just talking about the types of exercise and the frequency that the individuals did those types of exercise. So you most of you guys really know this, right? So three times a week, doing resistance exercise for 60 minutes, right? For three times a week. Right? You can actually split that up, right? So here's the types of things that they did, right? And in combination, they would do 30 minutes of aerobic and 30 minutes of resistance. So what this is telling you to get all of these benefits, it doesn't take that much time. Right. So really, the question is, man, our lives become busy for everyone else except ourselves. I had to come to the realization of that, you know, a while ago. I I really get busy, right? And then I wear myself out because I told myself that I was never going to do more work outside of my home than I did inside of my home. Right? And so that's when I realized I was really busy, right? And so How do I get in timely exercise and what resources do you have when you think you don't have time. And there's one important thing that I want to stress to you about intensity. Right? So how hard do I need to work out to get those benefits? Well, if you don't have all of the fancy things like a treadmill that you can map your heart rate and all those kind of things, you exercise based on how hard you feel like you're working. I exercise science and physiology, we use this scale called the rate of perceived exertion scale. And what you need to do to use this scale is that depending on how hard you feel like you're working at the time, overall, you don't just focus on your legs, if you're just, you know, doing like leg work or focus on your, you know, your breathing, like if you're running a job, overall, how intense do you feel like you're working? Where you want to stay on this chart is anywhere 4-6 when you first start exercising. That means you can breathe heavily, but you can still hold a short conversation. It's still somewhat comfortable. But then if you're at a seven to eight, your borderline uncomfortable, you're short of breath, but you can speak. You want to stay most of your time in these particular intensities in order to get those benefits that I just talked about in the previous line. So how do you do it? There's been a lot of evidence now that shows that it doesn't take 2 hours of exercise in a gym to get those benefits, especially for older people, right? Because we just don't have the time. And I'm saying older, I'm talking about 3040, you got a full time job. You got a family. You don't have time like that. Right? And so these are just resources that I downloaded from Google to share with you. You can do this particular workout right here. As a beginner, you do one set of this, right? And you follow this, It gives you what you need to do, and you go about your business. You did your exercise for that day. Intermediate. After about three or four weeks, you do one set four to five days a week. You can do this. This right here only takes you tent less than ten minute. We all have 10 minutes. Here's a ten minute treadmill workout. Here's a workout at home for you guys that have weights, right? What do you do? Right. Total body exercise. Right? They're talking about all of these types of things. You're training your skeletal muscle system by giving it some resistance, whether it's body weight resistance, or you have external weights, and you're also training your cardiovascular system, you know, your aerobic system to improve your heart function, right? By doing these things at such a rate to keep your heart rate elevated for that ten, 15, 20 minutes, right that you're going to do it. Here's another one. Here's a body weight, ten minute exercise workout that you could do at those intensities 4-6 or 7-8 once you become more immediate. This is all you need. This is all you need to improve your health to reduce your risk of disease. Right? So I'm just giving you a bunch of resources, right? 30 moves that make the most of your at home workout, right? You can do a YouTube search to search home Castenics workout, so whatever you want to do, and just follow along with that if you need something to follow along with, right? Now, One thing that I want to talk about and we'll talk about this later is nutrition. So I do work in a lot of different communities doing exercise training, work in individuals with high blood pressure, type two diabetes, cancer, kidney disease, all of these different diseases. And what we're finding, we just published a couple of studies in our student athlete body, in our male football players, basically, in all of our student athletes, what we're finding is that we have a high rate of high blood pressure in our athletes. Right? And these are these are Black athletes, right? At the college level. They're 18, 19, 20, 21, 22-years-old, 23-years-old. And what we're seeing is that they actually are not eating enough to the rate that they are actually exercising. So when you exercise, you burn calories, but you need to replace and replenish those calories so that your energy stores of sugar in fat are replenished so that you can continue to do that exercise and so that your muscles can grow so that you can improve your performance. And so nutrition is really important and we'll have this talk here. I'm not going to spend much time on. We're going to have a talk about it later. But what we're finding in young Black athletes is that when they have low energy availability or don't consume enough calories in a day, that promotes fat storage and muscle mass loss and a cardiovascular stress that shows up as high blood pressure in these young adults. And it is all because of them not understanding how much they should eat, when they should eat, right? And then in some instances, having access to food for them to eat. Now, I'm going to transition here because I want to really educate us all about exercising medications because we're now to the point at this age that some of us, and many of us might be taking high blood pressure medication. You know, you were pre diabetic, so now you're taking metformin or some type of drug that's, you know, going to improve your you know, high cholesterol I mean, cholesterol medication, all of these types of things. And so I just want to have a real quick conversation about exercising medications. So Let's just take blood pressure for instance. When you exercise, your blood pressure and your heart rate must go up, right? This is to make sure that your heart is pumping enough blood to your working muscles. When there is not enough oxygen or blood flow, oxygen rich blood being pumped to your muscles, that's when you start to feel the muscle pain, and it causes you to slow down. That's a protective physiological response to let you know that the exercise that you're doing is a little bit too much at the moment based on your physical activity or your fitness level, right? So you can progress to become more fit, but we need to train those metabolic systems to be able to be more efficient. So regular exercise, most days of the week, right, you can help to lower your blood pressure if you have elevated or high blood pressure or hypertension, right anywhere 2-12 millimeters of mercury. If you don't continue to do that exercise, your bloodressure, will go up again. And so I've had individuals in my exercise training studies that blood pressures were in the one 60s and after four weeks of exercise are normal. So it can happen. Now, blood pressure medication, when you're taking it, this is an important physiological process to lower your blood pressure, especially at rest because you don't need high blood pressure damaging your organs. It's like high speed crashes. When your blood pressure is high, the blood your heart has to pump harder to pump that blood out and that blood is going through those blood vessels a little bit to faster than they should be, and they can cause cellular damage and organ damage. Usually this shows up as high blood pressure damage to your kidneys. Now, there are specific sets of exercises that they've shown that can work to lower your blood pressure that don't take much time and you don't need any weights or anything like that. It's just simple movements to help improve vascular function or your blood vessels to be able to control blood flow moving into the large muscle group. Right. Now, your medications, whatever it is, I just want to because a lot oftentimes I hear this where doctor cook I don't understand why my doctor got me taking this medication because they didn't explain what it's doing. So I do spend a lot of time explaining what medication is doing. We actually we have a course called exercise pharmacology in our kinesiology curriculum to teach our students to actually understand the drugs and the interactions between drugs and exercise because they're going to be dealing with clinical populations, as athletic trainers, as PTs, as OTs, as physicians, as dentists, as exercise professionals. So your medications, when you take them, they get broken down by the bacteria in your gut and your testes, they get metabolized and activated by your liver and your kidneys. So they also they get activated and get broken down in these tissues. When you exercise, a lot of the blood flow that starts to circulate through your body gets re routed or redistributed away from your gut, which is your intestines, your liver, your kidneys, right your stomach, towards your working muscles, right? So that needs to happen, right? Now, when you take blood pressure medication, for instance, you need to make sure that you take that medication in plenty of time before you exercise. It's important to make sure that it's in your system that it's metabolized and it is working to control your blood pressure because these medications can help protect your heart and your blood pressure from going up too much. You just need to measure your blood pressure before you regularly measure your blood pssure if you're on a blood pressure medication. If you're on diabetes medications or things like that, right? Make sure that you do not take your diabetic medication right before you exercise. Here's the problem. Exercise independent of insulin, which is the hormone responsible for lowering your blood sugar by making sure that your tissues take up the sugar from your blood. Exercise will lower your blood sugar by itself, by itself, just by you contracting those muscles, it's going to start taking up sugar from your blood. So you do not want to have a hypoglycemic event where you're exercising your blood sugar goes too low because you took your diabetic medication right before you started exercise. Your blood sugar is if you're diabetic should be in the 200 to 300 before you start exercising. If your blood pressure, if your blood sugar is not controlled that well. Before you start exercising, make sure your blood sugar is high enough because you do not want to have a hypoglycemic event during an exercise because that increases your fall risk and it increases your injury risk while you're doing that exercise. Right? Now, there's a bunch of different tracking apps that you can do to track your physical activity in your nutrition, and our nutritionist is probably going to talk about that. But I just wanted to give you these particular type of resources. I use fat secret. I absolutely do this. I use this as a free app that you can use, this foods loaded in there. I just have my standard foods. I load them in there to make sure that I'm eating enough calories because I exercise at least 30 minutes a day. Days a week at the very least. So I need to make sure that I'm eating enough to refuel my body so that I don't have lethargy, being tired and all that kind of stuff for my physical activity. I'm doing it for my health now. I'm not doing it for the physique anymore. And I also, during the pandemic, started this program, which is what helps me to do my exercise five days a week. There's a calendar. There's resources. You can receive personal on ttrition. These videos, es on your phone, I cast it to my TV and I use it for 18 to 20 minutes is the workout, and it takes me through the workout, and I'm done for the day if if I know I'm not going to the gym to do my resistance exercise training. So that's all I had for you around this, and I'm going to stop the sharing and we can keep it moving. All right. Thank you, doctor Cook. We do have a question in the chat. Can you speak on the negative effects of cigar smoking, which seems to be on the rise, especially among Black men? Yeah. So you know, smoking increases your risk, you know, for cancer and not just lung but any cancer, it increases your risk for metabolic dysfunction, right? I can increase your risk for insulin resistance, diabetes, it can increase your blood pressure. So we have this talk with my students all the time, right? So smoking anything, right? Increases your risk for a lot of things. I think because one of the cultural things that seems to be happening in Black communities because I have cousins who have started this behavior is really around the social as being social, right? So they think, k, I'm going to have a drink, I'm not going to go to the bar like our grandparents did, great grandparents did. They spend their time at the bar smoking cigarettes and drinking. And so I think it's really a social thing, but the issue that comes with it is it increases your risk for disease. Right? We need to find healthier outlets. I mean, there used to be a time where, you know, when we were growing up, me and doctor Smitel we spent our time playing basketball with each other, right? So we spent our time being mostly physically active. We grew up, right in this age range, being physically active with each other, you know, even up until our college days and beyond, right? And so now I think that the culture shift is really that. I'm too busy, I'm going to relax, and absolutely, there are chemicals in cigar smoke, cigarettes, right like nicotine, right, that gives an individual a coming effect because this is how those chemicals work. It increases. It makes you feel better. It's like individuals drinking a cup of coffee and getting a caffeine. We have a lot of people who are addicted to caffeine, because and I can explain the cellular process of how that happens, right? But nicotine is similar to caffeine. It stimulates your sympathetic nervous system to give you a boost It stimulates that system, and nicotine is addicted similarly in the same way. And so some of the compounds and things in cigar smoke, can absolutely do that. And so it's not a good habit to get. But you grow, right? So you have to mediate, right? You can you smoke cigars every day, right if you're going to do it. If you're going to use it as a culture, you know, kind of like building a community and you just relaxing, you know, do what you're going to do. But I would say, make sure you have other healthy habits around it, you know, nutrition, right and exercising to help to reduce your risk. I'm not saying not to do it, right? Because everybody got to live. Some of you all like to eat McDonald's, but you can't eat it every day, right? You grow, you should be able to do what you want to do, but you have to take care of yourself around the other things. And so I think we just need to educate, individuals like, Yeah, you know, smoking anything is bad, and I have to get on our students about that, because they out here, you know, they can get a lot of, you know, these hemp products in the regular corner store now. They're selling pre row, you know, THC products and Delta and all of these kind of things, and they just don't know that they're spreading that stuff on those leaves. So So those types of things. I just saw another I just saw another question pop up in the chat about healthy foods that one can eat. So I to lower your blood pressure. So I let Mr. Williams talk about that, but I'm also going to say that we want foods that are higher in fiber, because what I'm finding in my research is that when we support the bacteria in our gut, with fiber to increase the production of beneficial metabolites. Those bacteria, eat that fiber, consume that fiber. It's not for us, it's for them. In order for them to make beneficial products that get into our bloodstream, it help control cellular process to lower blood pressure. So resistant fibers, don't take the skin off your apple, make sure you're eating whole grains, right? Mr. Wiles, he might talk about some of those things, but that fiber is key, and it is important along with exercise to help build a healthy gut microbiome because that's what I studied, the bacteria the gut, for them to make beneficial products to improve your overall. All right, doctor Cook. I'm going to take I got one question, but before we going to go one more in the chat, says the number of exercise programs you presented appear to be directed at younger adults. What about those and 60 plus age ranges? Yeah. You know what? It's not directed at younger adults. Those are for everybody to be able to do. And what you do is you work your way up to it, right? And so you know, I talked about those very general exercise like the exercises to lower your blood pressure. Their squats, right, body weight squats, you know, push ups, sit ups, those types of things. Once you start there and you notice your stuff start to get stronger and it only takes three, four weeks, right? Then you can transition to some of the other things, right? But some of you may have joint issues at the moment and those types of things. So you do those things in moderation. You adapt The movement to be able to reduce your pain, right? And if you need assistance in that, you can find an exercise professional, right, to help you do that, if you need to do that. But that's just not for younger adults. That's for us. That's for everybody. That at whatever age range, we should be at the point to be able to manipulate our own body. Right? If we can manipulate our own body weight and maintain our overall strength, right, in cardiovascular health by doing just those simple things, right? It looks kind of daunting, but those movements are functional movements for you to just to be able to function, and you just work your way up to it. It's not that you are going to be able to do every movement when you first start, right? But it's really about progression, right? And those things are things that you can try right in moderation. Like we said, you try it. You do how many you can in 1 minute. I think that's the misnomer that we've given people about what exercise takes, no. It's to your intensity, what it is that you can be able to do, and you should do it until you can functionally do it, and then you move on to the next thing that's going to improve the function of your body. We know that maintaining your strength and your cardiovascular health as you get older is important. You being able to reach above your head and get into your cabinet, being able to get up and off the toilet. Those types of things, right? If you maintain your strength, you can improve your quality of life for longer. So it's just about being more physically active and during exercise and less sedentary or just sitting in. U All right. So I'm sorry about that. Dot one last question. And the rest of the questions in the chat, just keep them comment. We'll send him that we'll send him those questions via e mail so he can get that right back to you. But I want to touch because a lot of us on here we are either recreational athletes, you know, whether it's pickle ball, track, or whatever, but we also have younger athletes. And you mentioned something that actually kind of resonated and brought up a light bulb on my head about the athletes having high blood pressure, possibly leading to cardiac issues. How much is that how much do the supplement component add to that? Because, you know, as a college athlete, pumps up on creatine, pumps up on different proteins, and, you know, major like when I was playing ball, they had us chewing on 800 ib proteins just so just so we won't get sore. So how much does that add add to that as well? Absolutely. Think about you think about Bronny James. He had a cardiac arrest and playing for USC. And you know he's probably one of the top fit athletes out there. So Yeah. So, the whole reason why we started this program to start to understand to empower the athletes that where they were, right physiologically, and to give them some information about their body so that their coaches, right wouldn't just to be able to say anything to them. So like understanding what their blood pressure was. Then we did body composition assessments so that we could assess things like hydration status, how much muscle masks they had, how much fat mass that they had, right? What their metabolic rate is based on their body composition, and you can get access to these things. What you do is that they have bioelectrical impedance scales. You know, those scales that they sell, where you got to stand on it with your feet, you know, with your socks off that actually test how much muscle mass and fat mass that you have your body fat percent. We were doing simply things like that. And they were more higher grade clinical scales, right? But to empower so how many calories that one what is my metabolic rate based on my body composition, which means how many calories do I burn at rest? So if you look at I won't get into the nutrition stuff because, Mr. Williams is going to do that. But we were empowering them there, and we have to tell them, k, so if you're taking ibuprofen daily, One, the athletes don't know that it can damage their kidneys, right? Because non steroid anti inflammatory drugs are metabolized by your kidneys. They don't even know what the maximum recommended doses is before you get liver and kidney damage. Right? And so you take 60 if you've taken more than 2,000 milligrams of ibuprofen a day, your kidneys can be dysfunctional. Right, because that's not normal. You also if I'm reducing inflammation in my body because it's a insD, it's an anti inflammatory drug. If I reduce inflammation in my body after a workout, inflammation is an important process in the regeneration and repair and the building of new muscle fibers. So if I'm taking an anti inflammatory and exercise training, that is reducing my ability to improve my performance because it can absolutely reduce skeletal muscular regeneration because inflammation is an important process in there. After you work out, you should get soil. You can get soil. That so this is inflammation means that those immune cells have come in and started to regenerate and repair that tissue. If I reduce that activity, I stay sore for longer periods of time. My recovery is lower. I'm in an overtrained state, right? And so those drugs and a lot of those supplements that individuals would take, supplements can absolutely increase your blood pressure because they can increase sympathetic nervous system activity or my adrenal, they make you more alert and aware and all of those kind of things. They're increasing the activity of that nerve, which can help you to perform better. But in doing so, they also at rest, increase your blood pressure because they send nervous systems to your blood vessels to cause basal constriction, right? And so they increase the blood pressure there too. So some Right? And they have all sorts of, you know, activities in the body. But one is on your blood vessels, right to increase your blood pressure. But if I'm taking them consistently, and I'm not exercising, I don't need to have a sustain and increased blood pressure. So some of those things can be really dangerous. In a young athlete, recreational athlete, right, you need to mediate your use of ins, if you can. So that's the ibuprofen in the proxin outside of the treatment plan that your physician might have for you. You might need to take ibuprofen to reduce inflammation if you sprained an ankle for seven day seven to ten days. After that, if you have to take it longer than it says it on the back of the bottle. If you have to take this for longer than a certain period, you need to contact your physician. Because what they're going to want to do is draw blood to see if you've been taking this thing for two, three, four weeks, they want to draw your blood to see if you've got liver damage, or kidney damage, which people don't get educated about, that those things absolutely reduce your ability. To progress physiologically to your exercise stimulus, but it also can damage your organs and cause a lot of vascular issues like high blood pressure. I appreciate it and it's part a lot of athletes also get hurt. Doctor Cook, I really appreciate a good wealth of information. Okay. Go ahead and please continue to put the questions in. Like I said, we will organize the questions and get it get it to the right panelist so they can get you to answers, okay? Appreciate it. The next what we're going to do before we go to Mr. Williams we have testimonials and the first testimonial that we will get to hear will be Brother Edward Smith as he available. Yes. I'm here. And good morning, everyone. My name is Edward Smith. And as doctor Smith mentioned, I am a member of the Omega Psi Phi chapter here in Clay County. I am 71 years young and grateful for each one of those years. I make that statement because a lot of the information that you guys have been sharing with this morning, I've lived through it and been able to know what to care of your health is all about. I really appreciate this opportunity. Benjamin Franklin once said, a ounce of prevention is worth more than a pound of cure. And in other words, it's better to prevent a problem than to fix it after it happens. And so I have taken that approach with my health over my lifetime in terms of being able to go to doctors on a routine basis. And I think for me, what's really important is to understand that if we stay on top of our health, we can ward off a lot of problems before they become big problems over time. And then secondly, for me, the thing I think has also been important is recognizing that all of us have hereditary factors in our lives that we have to deal with. And so the sooner that we can get with our physicians and discuss and make a plan, then we can monitor our health situations and be able to off some again, some of the issues that we certainly may come down later on in life, but we can work those off at least make our life it life a lot better. Longer. And then the last thing, addressing health issues, whether they're mental or whatever, mental, physical, whatever, all the things we talk about certainly impact quality of life. And so that's why I appreciate being able to have gone to doctors on a routine basis. I will say this myself, one kind of example is I had been to a doctor a number of times had a number of colonoscopies. And one of the things that was discovered over during the time that I had the colonoscopy is that I did have polyps. So you know, did but I have those polyps removed and then dogs to see whether or not they're cancerous was very important. Fortunately, up until this date, none of them have ever been a cancerous. They've been come back benign. So I really do highly highly encourage all of, you know, all of us those on on this line. And in your life to definitely find a physician. I I think internists are one of the better groups. I'm not pushing one in particular, but I do know that internist who deal with the blood a lot more definitely are, you know, pretty pretty efficient in terms of trying to diagnose and keep up what's going on in your body. So thank you for this opportunity and I like we or let's do what we can to stay healthy and be able to contribute to our society and community as long as we can. Appreciate you Brother Smith for that word. The next testimony that we have is Brother Carl Harvin. Mr. Harvin, Carl Harvin, you have the floor. Good morning, everyone. I said, good morning, everyone. I hope everyone can hear me. Brother Tarik. Can you hear me? Yes, you good. Okay. Thanks. Well, first of all, foremost, my name is Carl Harvin, I'm a member of Psi Mu Nu. I have been recently diagnosed with non cancerous prostate cancer. And The most important thing that happened that's going on with that is that is early diagnosis to catch it in that stage. Because as I know, there's a lot of people that get get diagnosed and caught in a later stage that you know, they have to go through more chemo stronger chemotherapy and radiation treatment, whatever they want to go through. But the biggest thing I get out of that is just that you go to hospital you go to your doctor, you get yourself a physician and definitely get yourself checked out because you know, me being 61. I never been 65, God wiling, if I do, and if I live to be 70, God wiling, if that happens, I know one thing that I'll always keep constantly is to keep going to the hospital and getting checkups for cancer, prostate, or lungs, or if it's high blood pressure, sugar diabetes, all of those things that affect us. Definitely get yourself checked out by the doctor, who will refer you to those people, suff like that, but you definitely got to do that because We can't control what we can't control what we put on off, but we know it's a habit forming thing. You've been doing something all your life, but as you get older, man, you can't go to McDonald's, and you can't be eating fast food like you used to. And you also, you know, sitting back and not doing anything, man, being retired and getting older. You don't have that the same vitality that you had when you in your 25 and 30. So you ain't gonna pop up and just go to the gym. Even though I I can go I used to go to the gym a lot now I'm getting older. I know feeling that I'm getting older, I can't just pop up and want to I've been in bed laying down for 30 minutes. Decide whether I want to go to the gym or not. Sometimes I'll get up and I'll go, but sometimes it's like I'm getting older. I'm not that same person I was. So you got to look at your body changing. You got to look at the habits that you had coming up, the meats, the foods, and all that stuff that we eat. A lot of it is it's not there to help us. The FDA, they're not there to help us. So you got to look for that information, rese research and get information as well too. And help your doctor out. It's what you put in your mouth til you got to stop doing that and a little remedies and doing your own little things. Well, if I eat this, I'll just don't eat it again here here and there. Yes, you're going to eat some things here and there, but don't over indulge over it and don't beat that couch potato, get up, go off, go walking, I brought a bike, and I ride the bike so I can go to my mailbox, and I can do that every day. So that's a little workout I can get in right there. But try to find little little things you can do. So the things that I recap on and saying is just definitely prevention helps out a lot. Go to your doctor, get a physician, have a physician, check you out, to get it before it happens. Get out and exercise. You don't have the same body, the same job you had when you were younger. And if you were younger, keep that drive going and exercise and get out and definitely, you know, have a health plan, an idea of what you want to do and where you want to be at. So that's the best thing I can say. All right. Thank you, brother Harvin for that. Thank you. I really appreciate you coming on and sharing your story. I think that's very important. All right. So we're going to move on to our next panelist. Mr. Williams, he works with Wellness Path Speaker Alliance, and I believe he's going to speak to you about nutrition and wellness. Mr. Williams, you have the floor. Dr. Smith, I appreciate that. Can you all see my screen? Yes. Okay. We see kind of the whole screen, just not the power point. It's up to you. Yeah, I think that's fine. Okay. I'm going to get to my Zoom screen so I can see what you all see. Give me 1 second here go. Okay. Yeah. That's good. All right. So my name is Tyree Williams. I appreciate you all, you know, so much for, you know, being online this morning. I appreciate the opportunity to be able to, you know, talk to you all this morning. Appreciate the opportunity to be, you on this panel with so many, you know, educated brothers out here working to really spread this information. You know, I think information is important. A lot of times, you know, I think our community being, you know, more of a community that kind of grew up in church. You know, we kind of heard the same people, our people parish or my people parish for lack of knowledge. So, you know, similar to the other panelists, my passion, my purpose, I feel is to spread information about health. You know, one thing that I really got into, you know, from early start of my career was nutrition. But, you know, now, I think More so I think in my favorite things around health and healing. It's now mental health. But I have a pretty, you know, long background in nutrition, I have a master's and a bachelor's in nutrition. So I've been a dietitian for, you know, some years. I can't even remember how many, but pretty much worked, you know, around nutrition for about ten to 15 years, as well as personal training. So the exercise piece is well in understanding the importance of that and but also being able to practice that as well. So, you know, I'm just honored to be able to share some of this information this morning. One thing I will say as I was kind of listening to everybody, some of the questions, you know, even, you know, some of the testimonials, some of the other panelists. One thing that I will say that I really press and stress when I do speak is it's a journey. Your health and your wellness is a journey, right? So, you know, you You may hear some things today. Some things may absorb, a lot of things may not, but the most important thing I would say is to continue that journey, to continue to learn more about your nutrition, to continue to learn more about physical activity, about your physical health, prostate cancer, testicular cancer. Mental health we'll talk about next with our next presenter, but it's your health. It's your journey. You're going to get so much more from actually being an active participant in your own health than really so much dependent and leaning and professionals to actually just be the only ones give you that information. Because if professionals are the only ones give you that information, you know, you're not going to be as active in following those recommendations, and you're not going to learn as much because one thing about nutrition, I'm going to give you some information, but nutrition is huge, physical activity is huge just so many I saw you know a question in the chat about calisthenics exercises, so many different types of exercises, so many different types of meal routines and plans that you can follow, exercise plans that you can follow. And we are all so different that, you know, What works for me may not work for you. What works for doctor Smith, may not work for, you know, somebody else? What works for doctor Cook may not work for another person. But the more knowledge you have around all of these different, you know, techniques and strategies around these different health practices, you know, you can find that thing that works for you. So, you know, my one piece of, you know, information, recommendation before we even get started is to be a active participant in your health journey. So don't just stop here, keep, you know, you know, really trying to find out more information. So why are we here? So about six and ten adults You know, pretty much have been diagnosed with some type of disease that's related to nutrition as well as, you know, sedentary lifestyle as well, so not being physically active. So I will start out by saying, you know, what are some chronic diseases? You can just drop this in the chat really quick. We'll take 30 seconds. What are some common chronic diseases like diabetes, high blood pressure, whatever that you are aware of that are related to food that are related to food. Just drop them in the chat. And I'll give you about 30 seconds to drop some of those in the chat. I see cancer, prostate cancer. Arthritis from doctor Cook. So inflammation I'm going to start naming another few because we probably got about 10 seconds left. So you think about things like diabetes, think about things like heart disease. Think about things like we already talked about, hypercholesterolemia or, you know, high cholesterol, kidney disease, obesity. So so many of these different, you know, health issues, cholesterol we got, are related to, you know, how you eat the nutrients that you're putting in your body. So this is why we're here. Super important. So all of these different, you know, physical health issues, as well as, you know, doctor Cook talked a little bit about mental health. Nutrition is also now there's a lot of research coming about of how nutrition affects even your mental health and your brain. So this is why we're talking about this because if you want to be healthy, nutrition is one of those things that you'll have to I wouldn't say necessarily master, but you need to have a good handle on it and a good understanding on it. So another question. Another quick question before we go to our next slide. Be another thing that I'll really press and, you know, I make my recommendations really simple because you know, I want to make sure these are actionable things that we all can take advantage of when we leave here. So the first one was, you know, be a active player in your health journey. The second question I'm going to or the second recommendation based on this question that I'm going to ask is around fruits and vegetables, but the first question, how many vegetables do you eat a day? So you can just drop 1-234-567-8910 in the chat 012 3456 on average. How many vegetables I got 2, 2. Okay. Two, two, two. Okay. Awesome. We got a lot of twos, five plus from doctor Cook. Okay, doctor Cook with the high vegetable intake. We got Earl with three, two, chat with three. Awesome. So thank you all for participating in that. I'm to ask you last question, fruits. How many fruits 123450 on average. doctor Cobran said three to four, doctor Cook, five plus, awesome two, two, two, one, three, awesome. So second recommendation, do all that you can to get your fruits and vegetables in. Those are my top three recommendations for the day at the play in your health journey. So always trying to figure out that information around health if you have, you know, questions, even if it's around the calisthenics workout. You know, Google it, try to find more information on it. Even if it's, you know, even in thinking about, took me back to the squats and things like that. You know, even if it's, you know, I can't do a, you know, regular body weight squad. What is how can I do a squat? And then you might get some information about modified ways to do squats. So always asking questions. How can I increase my fruit and vegetable intake? So that's something that I asked myself often because I didn't really grow up even though I'm a dietician, I didn't really grow up eating fruits and vegetables every day. Definitely grew up in the underserved community, single parent household, so we didn't have we experienced a lot of food insecurity. But fruits and vegetables are those things that are super important to your health and we'll talk about more why. But when I asked myself that question often because it's not health is not a straight line. So you might learn that, you know, I can get my fruits and vegetables in by juicing and you might do that for a while, but then that might get that might become for you something that is just Not sustainable or you just don't feel like doing that anymore. So now you have to ask that question. Again, how can I get my fruits and vegetables in more? So recently with myself, and we'll talk about some other ways, but recently with myself, you know, I've been drinking a lot more, 100% juices from the actual fruit area. So not like, you know, minute made juice or anything like that. But going to the fruit and vegetable area and getting kind of like the 100% fruit smoothie juices. Because, you know, even thinking about things like making sure those fruits and vegetables don't spoil before you eat them all, or you just even thinking about the amount of fruits and vegetables you should. If that feels like too much, juicing can kind of help to decrease the bulk so that you're not having to consume as much, but you're still getting those nutrients in. So you always ask questions. So the reason why I also asked about fruits and vegetables is because some of these, you know, really important health factors or nutrients that you should get in. Most of research shows that we don't get in in. So like fruits and vegetables, most people don't get enough fruits and vegetables in their diet. Probably one of the most important. That made me think about the dash diet as well. Definitely. That made me think about the dash diet. We had a question about hypertension. If  you Google dash diet, it stands for dietary approaches to stop hypertension. Talks a lot about fruits and vegetables. Potassium is super important when it comes to high blood pressure too. I know doctor Cook talked about fiber fiber super important potassium, and then also sodium. The dash diet is also lower and sodium and saturated fats as well. Most people exceed the limit for added sugars. So also limiting the amount of packaged foods. A lot of that comes from package sweets or, you know, sugary, sweet and beverages and things like that, sodas and things like that. So, you know, if you can you transition over the water and we'll talk about some other healthier beverages, you know, that's going to be one of those things that's really going to significantly improve your diet, as well as ex not exceeding the limit for saturated fat. So saturated fat is going to come from a lot of, you know, fatty animal meats. And then 90% of people exceed the limit for sodium. And I think we all kind of know, sodium related to high blood pressure, you know, also affecting the kidneys and things like that. So These are some kind of like the main. If you want to start somewhere, this is where you can start, increase your fruits and vegetables, Lawyer sugars, Lawyer, fatty meats, and then try to also lower your sodium as well as think about seasonings. A lot of times, you know, I've heard, working in the community, a lot of people will say, you know, I just use lemon pepper or something like that. You also got to look at the label on the back of those seasonings to also see if it's salt in there because even lemon pepper a lot of time has salt in. So really quickly, let's go over some quick guidelines. So these maybe these guys I'm going to go through these pretty quickly. I'll also make sure and I hit a lot of these slides. It's probably like a 30 something slide presentation for sake of time, we're not going to go through all of these. I'm just going to hit some of the hot points, and I'll make these available to the team at Mayo so that they can get these out to you so that you can kind of see some more of the information. But this one would be a great one to kind of take a screenshot. It's really some of the recommendations to really help you get started with a healthy diet. Number one, you know, appropriate calorie levels already hurt, you know, doctor Cook talking about, making sure you get the right amount of calories. A lot of times, you know, I hear about individuals talking about, you know, starting a diet and all I'm going to eat is salad, you know, That can go either way with calories because, depending on the salad dressing and some of the other toppings, you know, adding a lot of different toppings like fatty salad dressings like whole fat ranch and things like that, bacon, eggs. You can really get that salad to have a lot of calories, but if you're eating salad without all of those things, you may run the risk of eating not enough calories. So we'll talk about appropriate calorie levels. We'll talk about nutrient dense food. So nutrient dense versus calorie dense. So calorie dense would be something that's high in calories, but low in nutrients like vitamins and minerals. So that could be like a soda, really high in calories, but low in, you know, minerals and vitamins. So focus on meeting the food group, so we'll talk about each of the food groups. We'll talk about some other components that are normally seen, normal nutrients that are under consumed that are super important like calcium, potassium, fiber, and vitamin D really quickly. We'll talk about limiting those calories from foods, and then we'll talk about the 85-15 guide So really quickly, just talking about appropriate calorie levels, It varies, you know, from day to day person to person. Mainly, you know, we heard doctor Cook talking about the B amia basal metabolic rate, that's how many calis you burn at rest. So depending on your height weight, age and gender, whether you are a man or a woman determines how many calis you kind of need at rest, and then from there, your lifestyle kind of determines it from there. So if you have a really active lifestyle, you might need a little bit more calories. If you have, less of a active lifestyle, you want to kind of keep it, you know, to the recommended amount of calories for your height weight age and gender. So calories needs generally decrease as adults age. So our metabolism slows down as we age, so we need less calories. You know, a need to lose gain, maintain weight, affects how many calories you should consume. So if you want to lose weight, you want to make sure that the amount of energy that you're taking in from food is less than what you're expending, but not too low because then you run the risk of what doctor Cook was talking about, your metabolism slowing down, really storing more fat, which is what you don't want to do. So that's the lose weight. If you want to gain weight, you want to eat more calories or consume more energy than your body needs for that day than that BMR, and if you want to maintain your weight, you want to keep it pretty much even. One of the best ways from a nutrition dietitian standpoint. One of the I guess, recommended ways of getting your best way to get your calorie intake is by indirect calorimetry. That's when you breathe in this machine, but if you're not able to do that, there's a formula called Mifflin St Jeor, so you might want to take a screenshot of this so you can find that formula. But also, you know, we have you can also take a screenshot of this. This is just like a general calorie pattern for adults. So this also shows you about how many, you know, foods from each food group you should have based on your calorie level. You can even also go, you know, online, search for St. Mifflin Deor, calendar or not calculator. So Mifflin-St Jeor calculator or calorie calculator and it'll give you, similar it's going to ask those similar things, Height, weight, age and gender. Then from there, you can use this to start working on the meal plan. How many vegetables should I eat today? How many fruit Things like that? Also, consuming nutrient dense foods. I talked a little bit about this. But when you think about nutrient dense, it's going to be, more bang for your buck. We're thinking about, are you getting something that is not going to give you a lot of nutrients, but it's going to cost you a lot when you talk about sugar, calories, fat, or are you going to get something that is not so expensive, calorically, not really going to make you gain weight, but it's going to give you so many of those nutrients that are healthy for your body that's more nutrient dense. So a few examples. But then going through and thinking about vegetables, I'm looking at the chat really quick. Okay. Yeah. Many of the diet app trackers like Fat Secret, use that formula. Awesome. Thank you for that, doctor Cook. So doctor Cook, you know, just confirmed that, you know, a lot of the apps that he talked about earlier, so I know we talked about resources. So my fitness pal is one that I used myself. But those apps actually use that formula to calculate your calorie needs. So when we talked about vegetables, most Americans do not meet the recommended amount of vegetables for, you know, men, depending on your age, you know, your BMR. You recommended amount of calories for the day would determine how many vegetables you should have for that day. So we just solve that here. But anywhere 2-4 servings of vegetables a day is what's recommended and most of us don't get that. Some strategies of increase that is, I talked about juices, but also adding more vegetables to certain dishes. If you have spaghetti or something like that, maybe pure an some vegetables and putting it in the spaghetti sauce or something like that. But different ways to increase your vegetables. Then we talk about fruits. So same thing, most Americans don't get enough fruits. So some tragedy to increase your fruit intake, also juicing, smoothies, but also eating fruits and snacks, just having them around more. If you have, on your table, just having a bowl with a bowl of fruit so that you actually see them more as well. Also ways to make sure you increase your food intake. Grains. Talking about whole grains. Half of the grains that you eat should be whole grains. When you think about grains, you're thinking about things like flour, all of the different grains you see here, rice, those different things. Half of those should Whole grains are important because that fiber is really important for about colon health, heard about polyps. Fiber is really important for protecting against those polyps and colon cancer and things like that. So, you know, we also see here, most Americans fall below the recommendation for whole grains. So if you want to increase your whole grains, these over to, you know, your left here, you can kind of see different types of whole grains that you can increase in your diet. I think in addition to that, most of us really get enough grains in our diet, it's really just the whole grains that we don't get. Rice is something that in our community, we eat a lot of. Bread in our community is something that It's just as simple as really switching that to maybe brown rice or maybe wild rice or maybe a mix of white rice and brown rice if you don't like just brown rice by itself. Maybe getting in oatmeal, if you like oatmeal, but really trying to increase that fiber intake, even you know, maybe even with fiber supplements. So you have different fiber supplements like I remember my grandmother taking metamcle and stuff like that. So really flipping that switch between the white bread, the pastries and stuff like that and trying to eat more of the whole grains. Then dairy. Another important one, I think in our community, we experience a lot of I think dt distress from consuming dairy, consuming milk. A lot of us may be lactose intolerant, which may put us at risk for being having lower calcium levels, lower vitamin D levels, especially in the black community, vitamin D levels are, you know, normally lower, then having lower vitamin D levels is normal for our community compared to other communities. So vitamin D calcium is super important. So if you are lactose intolernt, looking at this picture right here will give you some ideas of some other calcium foods you can get in like green vegetables, almonds, sardines. Any of these here, if you can eat cheese or yogurt, even though sometimes people who lactose tolerant can eat some hard cheeses and yogurt to get that calcium in and that vitamin D, then those are also some other alternatives. Protein. Most of us get enough protein in our diet. Most of us eat enough meat. It's the types of meat that we eat. It's recommended to really get more seafood in your diet, eat less fatty meats like fatty red meats because that's where a lot of your saturated fat is going to come from. So really an advanced tip here for proteins is making sure you get more seafood, beans, peas and that group because beans peas and lentils and that food group of beans is not only high fiber, but it's also high in protein and low in fat. So it's a great protein source without getting all that saturated fat. So replacing those process or high fat meats with these subgroups here. Beverages, let's talk about beverages really quick. Beverages that are calorie free, especially water or contribute to beneficial nutrients like juices or fat free or low fat milk which is going to give you that vitamin D and calcium, should be your primary beverages. Coffee tea, lot of us drink a lot of coffee tea or flavored waters. Also good options. You would also want for those to limit the sugar and creamers because you want to limit that saturated fat as well as the sugar that we talked about. Sugar sweet beverages and alcohol should be limited. I think we all know that. So how much should we limit those things? So when you think about sugars, less than 10% of calories per day. So if you consume in 2000 calories, only about 200 of those should come from, sugar, which is not a lot. So that could probably be that's probably about two or three Oreos. It's going to give you about 200 calories of sugar or two 200% of those calories of sugar. Think about saturated fat, your calories. Then you have sodium, less than 300 milligrams per day. All of these things, you see these different limits. Sound like math. A lot of those different calculators will actually help you with that as well, like my fitness pile once you actually put in what you ate for that day, it'll tell you how many milligrams of sodium you consume, what percentage of that is saturated fat, what percentage is sugar. So you can actually use one of those apps to really help you track those things. And then limiting alcohol to two drinks or less a day for men. So just a quick recount. So eat more of these things. So if you want to take a quick screenshot of that, take a quick screen shot. This is going to kind of put you on a right track. So eat more of the things on the left, less of the things on the right. Then I want to run through a few resources. A lot of this came from the dietary guidelines for Americans. So they have some really good information on there, as well as my plate this also has a app. But these are some of the different things. They've got some presentations info graphics, but they also have customized dietary guidelines food list. So if you want to look at recommendations for vegetables because there's also recommendations for like dark green, red and orange. So if you want to know how many of those you take in because basically the different colors of vegetables and fruits are going to have different vitamins and minerals. So you know to have a balanced diet, you want to eat a balance of all of those different things. So you get even more information on that. My plate has things like You have the tool kits, you have the website, you have a fitness tracker within that as well. But I want to stop there, and I'll make sure you all get all of those slides so you can have all of that information, but I want to stop there for questions because I do know we I do know we are coming up to the last hour. So I do see a question from doctor Cook. Do you recommend vitamin supplementation? If so, can you discuss the importance, higher quality vitamin supplements versus what might be lower quality ones, and what those might be. And then another question of vegan best foods for protein and take. Awesome. All right. So the first question, higher quality you know, when I think about vitamin I actually sold I can't remember what supplement company it was, but I actually sold vitamins for a supplement company. But, you know, basically what I kind of recommend around vitamins. My first recommendation is always to try to get, you know, the recommended amount of fruits and vegetables, as well as the other food group so that you can get those vitamins and minerals from your food because it's going to be, you know, a lot more bio available, you know, for your body to digest. So your body is just going to digest it a lot better. And the way a simple way that, you know, I can prove that or that you can know that is if you get a vitamin, a lot of times you'll look on the back, it'll say, like 300% of vitamin C or something like that. All you need is 100%. So why are they putting 300% in that? Because your body is not going to absorb all 300%? Similar to what doctor Cook was saying, you know, depending on that quality of that vitamin, your body might not absorb 5% of that. You know, So making sure you get a good quality, you know, vitamin is going to be super important? You know, thinking about like a one a day or something like that, not necessarily going to be your highest quality vitamin. I usually will go to like a supplement store and really that's why I get my vitamins from. So you know I think higher quality vitamins, you know, you're going to pay a little bit more than you would, you know, if you were going to Walmart and getting a one a day. And me as well, you know, I don't have any conflict. So just for conflict of interest, you know, I'm not, you know, selling anything, not endorsing anything. I most of the time I'll go and get like a vitamin from GNC's one called mega mein. And it'll have like kind of like all of those special nutrients that a lot of nutrients you may not get like vitamin D and a lot of those calcium and a lot of those other things that I just talked about. But one that's designed for men, and especially depending on your age, you know, may be designed for a particular age or designed for a particular, you know, you know, health for a particular health reason. So that's what I would recommend. And I would say those can cost up to about 50 bucks for, like, probably a month supply, which is, you know, if you think about it, still not, you know, super expensive, especially given the fact that, you know, the quality of what your body will absorb will be higher. If vegan best foods for protein. So usually, you know, if I say anything around, you know, best foods, I think the best foods dependent, you know, on a scale of, you know, not talking about, you know, we're going to get we're going to the Soul food Bistro or something like that. I mean, just like online with, you know, fruits and vegetables, things like that. I always say, the best food is one that you can eat consistently that you're not forcing yourself to eat because you're not going to stick to it. But some other, you know, really good sources of protein that a vegan could eat. You know, we talked about beans, we talked about peas, we talked about lentils. That is the food route that's going to give you the highest amount of protein without it, with it also being like not being animal product, if I will say that. You could also, you know, I know we talked about supplements. We talked about protein powders and stuff like that, but you could also do a soy protein or a pea protein or something like that. Because, you know, I would say and then also quality of protein powders are important too, so don't just get, you know, a cheap protein, get a protein that, you know, is a little bit more expensive because it's going to be easier for your body to digest, and it's going to have, higher quality a higher quality supplement. So that would be my recommendation. But doctor Cook, what would you say for, you know, individual that is a vegan? What would be some good alternatives for protein for them? Besides, you know, Yeah. Exactly what you said. And so there are a number of companies, like I said, I actually take. I need to do protein supplementation because I notice for my overall nutrition, like there's a reason why I get five plus fruits and five plus vegetables in because I don't want to be on any medication. Me too. And I know that that's going to fuel you know, feel my body, right? You know, I'm 46-years-old, right? So you know, I've had health issues you previously, you know, due to COVID, and so trying to get back to where I was before. I actually use one that's called naked mass. And they have naked protein. It is a pea protein powder. There's not a lot of preservatives in it. It's just a pea protein. You can also there's another one that I use. You can look these up. It's just just, you know, kind of like an organic pea protein where you have less preservatives, not a lot of things, you know, additives like multi Dextran and all of those kind of things. And so I use that to supplement my diet because I know as busy as I am, teaching early in the morning, teaching most of the day and doing my research and whatever that. I'm not going to be able to sit down and consume a meal, so I drink a lot of my calories. I'm making fruits smooths natural. I put the fruits in my ninja. It's multiple fruits, the red, the orange, the yellow, the green, right? I'm packing it up a little bit of water, the protein powder and I'm drinking most of my calories throughout the day. Thank you for answering that question about the vitamin supplements because people really don't understand. The bioavailability of it. There's a lot of work that has to go into those companies to make the vitamins and minerals, those micronutrients more bioavailable for you to be able to absorb. And for the not to be toxic because you're taking multiple vitamins and it has 300% of and you can absorb it and now is causing GI distress, or might cause you diarrhea or something like that. So Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Williams. I appreciate you guys. We have one last question. Then we have to move on. Great wealth of information, but I believe this question was from Monte King. What is the best time to have your last meal for best results? I think it depends on results, but I think in general, couple of hours before you, you know, go to sleep, but I would say, you know, if you can get it to three or 4 hours because really, you know, as you as the day goes on, you know, your metabolism slows down so your body is really able to consume and burn less energy as the day goes on. So, you know, And then at night, your metabolism is a lot slower. So you would want to consume less as you know, get towards bed. I would say at least 2 hours, but also thinking about things like reflux. You definitely don't want to eat and then lay down because that will increase, you know, heartburn and reflux and things like that. But I would say at least 2 hours. I'm not really big on timing of food or eating. You know, sometimes you hear people say eat six meals a day or eat, you know, But I'm more so big on the amount of calories that you take in because, you know, it's I look at other things like intermittent fasting and where, you know, you may not eat for 14 hours of a day, and then you may consume your calories in a small window, and we see results of people being able to lose weight. So I don't think it's so much of timing of food, as the amount of food, but also I would say for things like reflux and Gert, you know, don't eat and lay right down. So nothing else. All right. Appreciate that, Mr. Williams. You know, again, if you guys still have questions to still go ahead and put it in chat, you can monitor and answer, and we can forward it to him. We also this is being recorded, so we can also send you send the recording to you in e mail so that you can review it on some of the information that these panelists have provided that you might have missed. All right. So the next session is we're going to take a little about maybe a 60 second break. In the meantime, what I want you to do, I'm going to take you through a A small routine of movement because as you learn, one of the biggest things that we have to do is get up and move, right? At least at least stretch some type of exercise because we've been sitting here for a long period of time, getting a lot of wealth of information. So if you want a coffee break, go get something to drink or some water, go ahead, about 60 seconds. For those, I'm going to just run you through a small stretching routine, right? All right. So first, what we're going to do is you're going to take your arm, kind of fold the back like so. Take your hand right just below your elbow and just kind of stretch it out. Feel a stretch like right back in here. All right. So you guess you're going to hold it for I don't know. Let's do about just for time sake, about six, about 10 seconds. All right. Then we'll switch and do the other side. This is a really good stretch because I am tight. All right. Now, I'm going to take one hand, go over just like this and just reach to the side. You should feel a nice, good stretch here. It's about 10 seconds and then move and go to the other side. All right. Now, what you're going to do is, would you want to kind of work our legs out? Just kind of get up and out of that chair, relieve some of that pressure on our butt. These just little chair squats. We're going to stand up and sit down. We're going to do about ten of these. Five... six... Seven....eight... Nine. All right. Now, just standing, what I want you to do is to ras. You're going to do about ten toe raises. All your doing is going up on your ball of your feet and back down. We're just trying to move and kind of get the blood flowing because we've been sitting here for a while. Alright, then, just kind of take our arms and go side to side. All right. Show the shrugs. Go. While standing. I'm just going to sit so you can see me going up and down and back and around. Moving. Do 10 one-way, then ten the other way. If you have any problems or pain, go ahead and stop or just modify your motion. All right. Now circle rotations to the left, right. It's still about five of these, kind of loosen up the neck some. Then down and up. And within the range, within your range, if you feel pain, you're going too far. And the last thing you're going to do is marching, we're going to do about 20 marches. Move your legs. I. All right. And that Little motions like that, if you're sitting for long periods of time is actually good for you, get your blood going and relieves pressure on certain bony promises, and lets you be a little bit less stiff as well. So about 30 more seconds, and then we'll get into our next presentation. Okay. Look like we got something All right. Doctor Cobran and Chat had actually posted a link that seemed to explain what the PSA numbers, a little bit more explanation on that. You got to ask refer to that, if you will. All right. So before we get to our last speaker, we're going to a small video for you regarding mental health. You got it? Do you want me to pull that up. Yeah, pulling it up now. 1 second. Switch. Okay. Let's get this going. No success, one second. Sorry. Let me exit. Sorry, we got 1 second. Let me put first. I'm pulling it out now. Apology, so I'll keep going. I'll pull it up. So while he's doing that, He's a trivial question for you. Some people may already notice, but what college football team has the NCAA football championships. You can go ahead and put it in the chat All right. So I see some All right. So, everybody, a lot of times, you would think like USC, Texas, Obama, but it's actually Yale. Yale University has 18 championships. So I thought that was funny. Bama goes behind with 16. Princeton with 15, Notre Dame with 13, Michigan with ten, USC with nine, and Harvard and Ohio State are tied at 88 championships a piece. So Little college football trivia. All right. And how are we doing the video? Are y'all seeing the video here? We see it, but it's not playing. Okay. All right. Can you hear the sound? No. Can't hear. All right. No worries. We'll just pivot from this point, a, we can't hear the sound. We'll see the video, but no sound. Okay. No big deal. We're going to move on to Mr. King. I want to talk about our mental health and mental well being. He resides from the College of Health Science of Jacksonville University. Mr. King, you have the floor. First of all, good morning, everyone. Good morning. Thank you for this opportunity. I am honored and eelated to be able to be here with you guys this morning. Thank you, doctor Smith for allowing me to participate. Let me go ahead and pull up my PowerPoint. I want to share that with you, guys. Just a little bit by myself while this is loading up. I am a licensed clinical social worker. I have been since 2016. I have been a part of JU since 2022. What we do at JU is we have a men's Wellness Center where we work with men in order to help them with their mental health. Go ahead. Screen. So I am a graduate of Florida State University. Last year, we did a lot of, but right now it's most sideways. Compared to last year, we did very well with the football, but this year we're starting off on a slower state. But I graduated with them in 2005 with my MSW, got my LCSW in 2016. My passion is to work with mental health to help individuals understand how their brain works and how that affects us. Hopefully, I can be able to add to our conversations, doctor Cobran , he was able to enlighten us about how our physical vessel works. Doctor Cook, he was able to give us an understanding as to how to help our vessel continue to function well, and Brother Williams, he was able to help us to understand how to feed our vessel. But just to give you a background of the Men Wellness Center is operated under JU, and that is and who we serve is we serve men, basically 18 and older. Now, a lot of the things that men have to deal with the traumatic events that occur through childhood up until that point are they grow dynamically. It's a drastic growth and how that affects us as to how we develop into the men that we are today. But our focus at JU is to work with men from the ages of 18 to 80, 99. It doesn't matter. Now, you probably wonder, well, what about the younger men? Well, my daytime job is, I work for Duval County Public Schools as a school social worker in the alternative school. I have the opportunity to work with young men middle and high school to help them understand their choices and how they are affecting their lives. Now, What we do offer through JU is personal in person and virtual counseling, and is to anybody pretty much in Duval County, but we have added St. John's, Clay, Nassau and we're looking at counties outside of those. But the priority is for that 32209 area where those individuals are basically a start for the need for being able to be able to reach them with those mental health needs. We are located here at the Emmett Reed Center. We have information on how to set up appointments with doctor Sommers. But also what's unique about us is we offer six to eight sessions and the thing that makes and we look at everything that individuals have to offer. What they're coming in with. Basically, we meet the client where they are. If they have a presentation of anything from depression, anxiety, parenting support, just basically life skills, how to support an individual through the life transitions. And what's unique about us, also is we're all male counselors. So as men receiving counseling from other men. Is somebody to be able to get your own perspective. Myself, I have two counselors. I have one that is a male, I have one that is a female. They help me to understand the different perspectives. I utilize the male counselor more because I feel like he can relate to me more. Now, the unique thing about this thing at JU is it's free and it's offered at no cost. If you can share information about what's going on with JU and we can be able to help more individuals to understand how life is affecting them and how they can be happier with the time that they have and the life that they have. One thing that I wanted to point out is that males have a greater access to health care right now that they ever have in life. Right now, black males are far better off, there's been a reduction in the number of individuals who do not have health care. So what this is telling us is that we as Black men, we do have access to health care. And inside of every last one of our healthcare plans is a mental health component. And also that mental health component is also a part of every one of our employers. Most employers, just about all employers have an employee assistance programs called the EAP. And that EAP is going to give you access to mental health guidance, as well as financial and just things that help the holistic and the well being of the person. One reason that mental health is so important right now is that suicide rates have been steadily on the increase within the male community. Males are finding themselves right now more stressed out, more anxious, more aggravated, than they ever have been in time. Right now it's at a point where since 2001, there has been a steady increase in the number of suicides and particularly in black male suicides. Since We're at this point, it's imperative that we get the information out there, that you have to talk to somebody. Because most black males, we have a idea that we have to take it inside. We have to handle it ourselves. We have to be the ones that can carry the load, carry the weight. But a lot of times that becomes a lot because we are not able to just get that information out. Now, this study was done by the National Center for Health and statistics. I just looked at the dissatisfaction with life, and it broke it down and the sense of by race. African American males are more are very unhappy when it comes to being below the poverty line. Now, 200% of the poverty line is actually $25,760. So when you live below that line, more black males are dissatisfied or unhappy with their lives. But what I found was interesting is on the flip side, when you live above the poverty line, Black males are more unhappy or dissatisfied with their lives than any other group, goes to the, I guess, notorious BIG was right, more money, more problems. Also, the social and emotional side. Now, the first slide, the slide previous slide was for Black males. But this shows at Black adults as a whole. The lower the income, the level of happiness decreases. So they're not as happy, but the higher the income, that's basically $75,000 and above, they find a greater sense of happiness. Happiness is something that has to come within is the concept that we generate as we gain an understanding of our lives and how we fit into the world that surrounds us. Now, what's unique about this study is the first one identified males. This study identifies just the entire family unit, all Black culture. So it's including women. There's a slight discrepancy there between Black men seeing that money is going to make them happy in the end. And Black women, they have a different understanding or a different belief. Just a short little story I was a guy that I was talking to. He has he was very wealthy. He was at the retirement age. He was looking to wind down. He said he was tired over three $3,000 a month mortgage. And he was trying to figure out how to slow down and get his life a little bit more on track with being able to remain calmer, finding things that interest him more. But his wife, on the other hand, was looking to try to accumulate more. She wanted to go from the house that they had to a different type of house that was 1.5 million. So it's just those things cause those stress and those emotional journeys that we have to go through as black man. Now, this is a short video. It's just a dad or a husband sitting in a car. I just I gives an insight as to what goes through our minds. And I want to make sure that I got the volume up and I can share the sound. Mr. Workman, let me know if you can hear it. Just that quick. That's how emotions affect us. We're sitting there. We're just sitting there relaxing, just in there. Yeah, I'm okay. That's how we as husbands, dads, black men, that's how we process all of those things. I reality, no, I'm not okay. I got a lot going on. There are things that's bothering me. That's things are affecting me this way. Overall mental health development. We have our growing years, our career years, physical, deterioration and retirement. The growing years, those years where you're developing your idea of what relationships are. You're looking at your education, your own identity and your introduction to self care. How should I for myself, my mental being, my well being, career and family. That's once you actually get out there into the world and you're identifying how can I be able to be productive in society. How can I be able to provide for my family? But that's also the point that you find yourself developing a sense of loneliness. Loneliness is one of the greatest threats to health in America because it was identified during COVID, more so than the physical illnesses that individuals received as a collective, the whole society was more lonely. Than they were then they reported as being ill. So you got to be understanding of, you're not in this by yourself. You're not alone. We're all in here trying to make this work best, but we have to communicate with each other. Just a personal testimony. I am I just turned 50. So I'm understanding more about the physical, Brother Brother Williams, you broke my heart when you said only two or three Oreos that really hurt my feelings. That hurts real bad But it's true. Our bodies are constantly deteriorating and that then affects our mind. I used to be able to run up the hill at Florida State or go over the FAM because I went to Florida State, but I attended FAM. Walking up the hill, the fan was no problem. But now I look at that hill from the railroad tracks and I just shake my head and say, Where is the car? Where is the trolly? But we have to learn how to push ourselves. Even as we get older in life, we have to remember that we can still do the same things. They just may not be done as quickly as we once had done them. In dealing with family and career, that's at a point where we start to separate ourselves into these little pockets. You start to believe that I have to do this for the job, but I have to do this for the family. In doing so, the place where you actually get to worry about focus and deal with your own self grows smaller, and you find yourself with less of yourself. Then you get to the point where you get to that retirement age, you hit that age 50 and say, hold up, you start to become selfish. What about me? Now, mental health concerns for black males is basically cognitive, socio emotional, communicating with others. Physical health, movement, being able to get around, but also financial. Financial health is something that weighs on us because we were under the belief that if we get all the money had to solve all of the problems. But the problems that existed before we had money are there if we don't solve them, and they continue to exist afterwards. So I'm trying to go quickly in order to respect your time, gentlemen. Now, how once you identify that there is a problem? There is something that you need to get off of your chest, that should be all of us. Every last person on this call has something to get off of their chest, whether it be from your past, your present, or what you see in your future. But you have to identify the right therapist for you and sometimes it may be more than one. It's identifying that connection. Somebody that encourages you to be vulnerable. Because if you can be tough in the environment where you're trying to work on yourself, then you're not really being honest with yourself. And you have to be open and accepting of a dialogue of trust. Be a therapist may say some things that really is abrasive and you may not be able to face or want to admit at that time, but you have to be as an individual ready to grow, and you got to know your non negotiables. What is it that you have to have? Now, this is something that we talked about. A lot of us talk about that physical workout. You have to work out the body, you have to have the right levels when it comes to those different things withinside of our body, whether it'd be high blood pressure, cholesterol. We have to be able to work those things in order to get them to the right levels. But our mental workout, how often do you go to a place where you can be able to sit and just be free and be yourself? Talk about those things that you really don't talk about with anybody. That's that counseling. That's that good friend. That's that family member that you may be able to really, really trust your secrets. You have to give yourself that opportunity for that mental workout. You have to give yourself that opportunity to be able to just let some of that extra stuff go. Now, The three areas of concern that I wanted to present today is basically surviving the game, physical health, and our social network. Surviving the game is living with popular culture. One thing that I wanted to share is in the environment that I work with, the young men that I see are caught up in all of the They want to emulate, whether it'd be Lo Wang, Weezy, Drake, whether it'd be athletes that they see. They emulate that And as a dad, I don't know about you guys, but as a dad, I have a different thing that I may be trying to teach my child, but I'm fighting this culture that says that your pants should be around your ankles. That's a stress that we have as fathers and as husbands, because then we have to communicate that with our wives or the child's mom. That's an added stress. The cod switching that we have to go through. We can be able to sit and talk and have a conversation with our friends one way. Then we go to work, we have to act in essence, a different way. Then when the police get behind us, we act a different way. That is so stressful. That we have to sit there and mentally flick all of these switches in our mind. As we go through life. We have to understand a lot of times we're told as black men that we're not supposed to be vulnerable. We can take it, whether it's making it happen no matter what, we're told that don't be vulnerable. If a black man cries, something's wrong, the crying is the normal part of the body. It cleanses the body mentally and physically, and you have to be open to seeking help. Now, physical help, 18 years older, having hypertension. 20% and older, 41% obesity. A lot of that is because there's mental things going on inside of our bodies, and our mind is affecting it. Just as hard as you work out in order to try to tone your abs or build your biceps. You have to work the same way with your mind because it's your mind that's making all of that move. It's that will power inside of you that you have to push in order to be able to accomplish those tasks. Also, HIV is on the dramatic increase within our community. As well, is hitting not just the younger people being 18 to to th, but it's also in that retirement community, those 60 plus the emotional health that we're going through, we have to be we're more likely to have an emotional breakdown. Than just about any other the population. And our access to health care, We have access but we suffer the inequalities because we feel like we can take care of ourselves. We're preventing ourselves from being able to go out into the community to meet with our doctors, meet with those individuals who can be able to provide that mental health support that we need in order to be able to move to that next level. Because we as men are the ones that are the head of the family, and we're trying to keep the family going in the right direction. And our social network. The social network is basically our friends, our acquaintances, our family, our co workers, and social media. A lot of times, living in our social network, they have influences on our thought process, how we feel about ourselves, how we see ourselves, how we feel about those are in our lives, and we're trying to keep up with what we see this person has or that person has or how they're living. But every last one of us has an individual right to have the happiest life in our own way. We can't be living off just what our social network says, but that's where counseling comes in, talking and sharing ideas, what you see, what you feel, how you think with somebody to be able to get a better understanding as to how to take that out into the world. Treatment methods that work the best cognitive behavior theory. That's just basically looking at how you think, readdressing it, and having an understanding of how that fits into your life. Solution focus if there is actually something that you want to focus in on making that work, finding out how to best work towards that solution, or why you're choosing not to. Where can you find help? You find your friends, your family, through help apps, com, talk space, mind head space. That's another community organizations. You can find small support groups. It could be a church function. It can be through your health insurance and EAP programs, but you've got to be able to find a place where you can be able to share how to deal with those different things that are coming up. Now, I want to show one more video. Now, this video just is titled the labels that we carry. And it basically looks at. It looks at how it shows a young Black man and all the things that he has on him as he goes through the day. And it also shows the things that he picks up from others, not even necessarily from the words that they share. Do we have sound? In that video, we all have things that we carry. But the key is we're all searching for love. We're all searching for acceptance. And a lot of times the physical things that we have, the hypertension, it could be, the cholesterol, the things that we put into our bodies, is a symbol of the lack of love that we received or that we have for ourselves. People try and work hard to avoid the things that hurt, and they hide it. We all do. But it's that love that we're looking for. Once we get it, we never let it go. If we lose it, we're always searching for it. But the key is to love yourself, and that will help you to be able to love somebody else. That concludes my presentation. I want to respect our time. But this is all through JU, our partners are listed on the screen. And we also with family support services. I want to thank you for your time. I want to thank you for this moment. If you're interested in setting up an appointment, contact information is out there. You can also find somebody else. But the key is just to find a way to make it work. Because we only have so much time, and we have to enjoy the time we have. Thank you. Mr. King, I really appreciate it, it's very informative. That last video actually meant a lot of show that sometimes might have been simple, but a smile can actually take a lot of those barriers or labels off or even just that one moment can change somebody whole day. Then there's also like you have to kind of retrain yourself mentally. Sometimes by default may judge just off appearance when we walking up or depending on our mood, but if we take ownership of ourself and break down the barriers in our mind. You know, that may help spread the love to the next person that's going around. That's just what I got from the video and from your information. So I really truly appreciate it. Do we have any questions for Mr. King. Yeah, there was a question in the chat, Mr. King, question is, do you serve or have partners that serve students in the 32210 or and/or the 32244 area codes? 32210, that would be family support services. But inside of every Duvall County public school, there's that organization called Family Support Service. And what they do is they provide mental health, physical health, is if the child needs to be evaluated for something, all you have to do is go to that schools guidance counselor, and that school guidance counselor can be able to put that referral in. And if you can't give that information, contact doctor Summers and myself, and we'll be able to try to point you in the right direction. The key is I'm going to be honest. I work at Grand Park. I may not be supposed to say that, but do I work at Grand Park. Grand Park is the alternative school for Duval County Public School. It is the last stop. But I will tell you this is 90% people that look like everybody that's on this panel. It's over 90%. And you can be able to tell the lack of love that they have for themselves by how how they respond to each other. Quick story. Quick story. Talking with a student, three Black men, students upset, Hey, young man, do you want to go here? No, fussing and cussing. Do you want to go over here? No. And a white man walked up, asked him the exact same question. I take that back. The white man,  he didn't ask. He just pointed and directed and the young man followed his instruction. That means that he didn't love me and he didn't trust me. And that says a lot because, like I tell the students, I just need you to grow up, pay your bills, keep your raggedy cars in the back yard, and pay taxes. That's all I need you to do. I could take care of the rest. But that love that he had for three men to look like him, trying to communicate how he can be saved. Where his support was. It's not it wasn't there for him. And that's where we have to work at. We have to work with those young men to deal with that anger, whether it'd be absent father, mother, having a different way of raising him, however, whatever it is. It could be abuse, but we have to be honest about it. Because I'd be honest, abuse occurs a lot in the Black community. But we don't talk about it. It's that keep it in the house mentality, but that in the house is where is destroying the foundation of the neighborhood, the culture in our society. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to take up too much time. No, that was actually that was actually. Do you have any recommendation that can help at least us work on our own mental baggage? Because if we don't work on our own mental baggage, there's no way in the heck we can help somebody else. In way, You know what I mean? I do. Let me get my book. I must have left it at home. But it's basically I can I can send it back out. It's the rules on how to be a happy person and how to basically how to have relationships. I think it's 37 laws of how to stay married because that's where I am right in life. And marriage is not just between a man and a woman, marriage is with you and your job, you and being able to go to the Hardware store and have a good communication, good conversation with the man that you need to help you fix your plumbing, being able marriage is just being able to have a relationship. And being able to do that in a healthy way that keeps you at peace and allows you to walk away with dignity, respect for the other person and respect for yourself. There's um, I'm going to have to get it back to you. I do apologize. I was not prepared for that. I was not, but there are several different things out there. Like I was saying the calm space, that'll help you when it comes to some stressful moments. Talk space, if you need a therapist. It's just finding that place where you fit in, you find comfort and you're able to actually be honest, not only with therapist, but most of all with yourself. Yes, sir. All right. Thank you, Mr. King. I appreciate that. Again, if anyone anybody have questions, just go ahead and feel free to post it in the chat, and then we'll do our best to get the questions to Mr. King. All right. So we are coming close to the end. Actually, this is the end. I just want to thank everyone for attending. I want to thank our panelists for sharing that wealth of knowledge that we have received and digest it today. I know I may have to actually go back and review it because it was a lot of information and a lot to actually absorb. You hear it the first time, but then go back and watch and listen for understanding the next time. We do have a survey. Can you pull it up? Yes, sir. It's a QR code link. Again, this is our first annual. We're looking to do this on a yearly basis. So your feedback is very important to us on how we can make this better. What topics that you will love to hear in the future. And also maybe a question that you may have that we can also get back to you. Okay. So this is a QR code. Please go ahead and just take a picture of it, and you can do this kind at the earlier, the sooner, the better, but do it at your leisure. And then I can I can put the link of it. Also, doctor Smith in the chat for Survey. I'll do that right now. That would be great. And then also, I'm sorry. Go ahead. Go. Go ahead. Also, we have the post evaluation survey for Mayo just to look at the knowledge gains that we were able to get today. That is I'm going to just go ahead and put that in that link so I can I can save that and then doctor Smith, I'll put the Omega Psi Phi. I'll put y'all's evaluation in here. But the first one I put up there, if all could click on that link there, that'll take you to the post survey from doctor Cobran's presentation, and then also the other presentations because we were able to wrap some of that information in. So that's able to see the knowledge gains and this will help us and Omega Psi Phi build their next summit. In addition to the survey that I'm going to share 1 second. I had all this pulled up. survey that I'm going to share for Omega Psi Phi, 1 second. All right. So now before we go, I try to do my best to summarize five steps, Chad, if you can pull that up five action items, some act items that I would like for you to implement, leaving this summit today. All right. So one is actually go ahead and schedule a health check up with your physician or your doctor. Go ahead and get checked out. Don't prolong it. A lot of times we prolong and then we go and we find something and then we find plethora of a lot of different issues that we could have caught early. So I think that is important. To implement a healthy lifestyle. You heard throughout this whole sum how important it was. I don't need to go into detail. Stay informed. Go ahead, do your research, like for me and my profession as a therapist is an informed patient, a lot of times, some of my best patients because they're really informed about the diagnosis. They're in tune and nine times out of ten, they will be compliant with the treatment that I give them. And they also engage in your community and support networks. Once once you go and get informed, what we're looking for is compliance and follow through. One of the things and how you will follow through is go and will be to be a part of some type of support group, a research group, stay inform and share that information, be an advocate to those in a community and above, that will allow you to stay on top of your help. Allow you to help somebody else, reach out, lift as we climb, reach out, teach, want to say, each one, teach one? Something similar to that to make our community as a whole better, you know. So that will be some of the take home action items that I would like for everyone on this summit to commit to. And then than that that's it, I really appreciate it. Do we have brother Edward Williams? Is he Is he able to be to log on and speak. If not, no worries. Yeah. Brother Williams, you should have capabilities now, Brother Williams. You see him? All right, Brother. This is our boss. I would like for him to have the last word on the summit before we close out. First of all, I want to apologize for not coming on time. You know I had technical difficulties, that goes with age. But hey, I want to I want to thank our staff, the guests, the speakers and all the groups that attended from Psi Mu Nu. and Omega Psi Phi And I'm know that I want to thank you for taking out your taking out of taking out time from your busy schedules this morning and taking part in this important health information session. And I'm sure as always, We did get a great gain of knowledge presented to us. And with that I want to say thank you again, brothers and Brother Tart. This is a great session. And I look forward to, we would look forward to doing even more things that related to this This information session for the health of black men here in Duval, Clay, Florida, Surrounding Counties. Back to you brother. All right. Appreciate Brother Williams. As Vice Boss, did you have anything you would to like to close out with? I did,  I'll just share one thing. That was a great closing presentation on mental health, no better way to close it up than to bring it all together because if you don't get your head, right, you can't get all those other things right. I did drop in the chat just now. September is Suicide Prevention Month. So reach out to your friends, families, and loved ones, co workers, anybody that you know, let them know that you're there, that you care about them, that you're concerned that they're okay. And if they're not okay, that they can always reach out to you and help you and, you know, or you can help them or get them help or whatever it may may just take just your phone call or whatever. But it's very important that we communicate, talk to each other and check on each other on a constant basis. Great, great 3 hours this morning. I could have been doing a lot of other things, but I think it was a very valuable 3 hours spent. And Appreciate the time and effort from the presenters. Appreciate Mr. Workman and the work that Mayo is doing, and we definitely appreciate the privilege and opportunity to have this partnership. Look forward to many more in the future. Thank you.