We're very proud of the preceptorship model and that we've been able to preserve it for this many years. I think that's where the magic is. You get to understand the brains behind the innovations, the research. You get to live that. You get to see that. You get to talk to that specialist that is going through that thought process. I think one of the best parts about this program is the preceptorship model. And what that really means is you are kind of tied with a consultant. You are their personal resident. And that means for, you know, five to seven weeks, if they're in the operating room, you're in the operating room. If they're in clinic, you're also in clinic with them. And you get this really close kind of mentor education where you're learning how they do things. By the time, you know, you're done with your rotation working with someone, that allows you the trust and opportunity to a lot of times progress in your training. Our training experience here is unmatched. One of my biggest goals is to be able to be a highly specialized surgeon who can kind of take care of any patient who walks into the hospital. I wanted a program that wanted to foster that in me, and I felt that Mayo Clinic really does that very, very well because you can come out of this program and do any sub-specialty. You have access to all the best resources, research opportunities, mentorship. I think also what really appealed to me was the really strong emphasis on education. That model is definitely at the heart of what we do here to allow residents to really become surgeons. Picking the right place to train is a very important task. Those that are interested, those that want to learn, those that come with exciting ideas, it's a perfect match. The training they get will be partially up to them, really, what they want out of it. What it's really about is what you've become, and that is someone that is focused on excellence, compassion, and proficiency. And that's what we hope for every one of our trainees.