Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your co-host, Dr. Brittni Scruggs. And I'm your co-host, Dr. Eric Bothun. We are here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today, we're joined by Dr. Richard Lindstrom, a world-renowned ophthalmologist, innovator, and thought leader whose impact on the field has spanned decades. Tune in to hear his career journey and perspective on pioneering advances in cataract and refractive surgery that have shaped how we think about innovation in eye care worldwide. Today, I am honored to introduce our guest, one of the most influential figures in modern ophthalmology. Dr. Lindstrom is the founder and a managing partner of Minnesota Eye Consultants, and he is internationally recognized for his groundbreaking contributions to cataract, cornea, and refractive surgery. He has pioneered numerous surgical techniques, developed innovative technologies and played a key role in advancing intraocular lens design, surgical instruments, and pharmaceuticals that have transformed patient care. A prolific author with over 350 reviewed publications, 60 book chapters, and 30 patents, he is also a visionary leader in the business of eye care, having founded and guided multiple companies that bridge research, innovation, and patient outcomes. He is past president of ASCRS and has received many major awards in ophthalmology. Through his mentorship, entrepreneurship, and international collaborations, Dr. Lindstrom has inspired generations of ophthalmologists and continues to shape the future of eye care around the world. And we have him today in our podcast, Dr. Lindstrom. Thank you very much. It's a pleasure and an honor to be here with you. So I look forward to a discussion. Well, you've been on the list for joining us here. And we're just so excited to have you here. I think we first reached out to you many, many months ago and aligned with when you were here in Minnesota. Certainly excited to just be part of and hear a little bit about your career journey and a variety of aspects and what you've been involved with. And so, yeah, thanks for coming. Thank you. Let's start it off by just asking what drew you to ophthalmology? Tell us your story a little bit. How did you get into this field? I think I'm a little atypical. I grew up in Minnesota, in Minneapolis. Culturally, I'm a fourth-generation Minnesota Swede, basically, and I was actually reared by my father to take over the family business. We have a family construction business, and I think I was 12 years old when he put the father and son sign in his closet, and I started to follow him to work. I went to the University of Minnesota basically to train to get into the business with him, and I was a good student, and I just enjoyed learning, and so I ended up in what was then called the Honors Division of the College of Liberal Arts, and randomly the dean of the medical school would take one or two advisees from the honors division at CLA. I ended up with the dean of the medical school as my advisor and he was very charismatic and in about a year he convinced me instead of going into the family business to go to medical school and so I went home told my father one of those rare people when you told your father you want to be a doctor that he almost disowned me but I then went off to medical school at Minnesota so I always say I didn't choose medicine medicine chose me and which is unlike many people I think that always wanted to be a doctor I got chosen into medicine and I think the business background that I had growing up in a family business where you talked about it at night and I started at 12 years old watching my father manage a private construction company did serve me well though when I started to be interested in the business sides of ophthalmology as well and we'll we'll talk about that later same thing happened to me in ophthalmology. In those days at the University of Minnesota, you had a pediatric track and a medicine track and a surgery track. And I was in the surgery track. I was very interested in ENT, very interested in plastic surgery. And my advisor was actually a pediatric surgeon. And so I was in the surgery division. They were recruiting me for that. And 1971, late in the year, a new faculty member in ophthalmology, Donald J. Doofman, came to Minnesota from Harvard after doing a two-year cornea fellowship. He was doing research in cornea preservation. He went to that same dean that was my advisor in medical school, said, I need a medical student to work in my lab, and that dean recommended me. So I got a call from Don Doofman saying I'm looking for a medical student to work in my laboratory, and I was looking for a way to generate a little extra money, and I said, great. So I met Don Doofman. He put me to work in his lab doing research in cornea preservation. And, again, after about a year, he was very charismatic. He had me talked into ophthalmology, and he pretty much designed my whole career. He said, you're going to train and do this and that. You're going to get cornea training. You're going to get cataract surgery to get some glaucoma training. You're going to come back and join me at the University of Minnesota. And basically I just followed his direction. So, again, I didn't really choose ophthalmology. Ophthalmology chose me. It's interesting. I've heard that before, that at that era in medicine, in academia in particular, the chair at a given program often directed people to go, I want you to go off and be trained in retina. Now we think of your subspecialty as sort of a list of cards, and you get to what appeals to you the most. But back then, it's interesting how often the stories have a visionary leader in a department sort of delegating or encouraging people to find a pen. I hear that **** Lindstrom, I mean, you share that now, but whether Dr. Knobloch for Retina, I think, you know, Bob Letson, people in my sphere, it's interesting how common that happened. I think so, and I think mentorship is still critically important to all of us in the subspecialties or types of practices that we choose. We see role models. We have mentors that influence us, and at least fortunately in ophthalmology, it often doesn't really matter what you choose. It's a pretty good choice, but I think mentors are still influential. In a sense, medical training is like an apprenticeship, and we we work with more senior doctors more experienced doctors and they guide us and and the ones that guide you often do impact your career significantly yeah before we get into your amazing career who's running the family business so my son so interesting the way the things work out is that when my father was ready to retire it was a family-owned business there wasn't really a buyer so so I had enough means to purchase the business from him and keep it in the family and the reason I did is that my brother worked in the business and my sister's son worked I had a son coming up who was interested in that as a as a career and so I bought the business from from my father I still Most people don't know this, but I'm the 100 % owner of a restoration construction business. We do fire, water, and wind damage. It was founded in 1953, and so we're one of the oldest ones in the Twin Cities. And my son went off to college, got a degree in construction management, and he's the president, but I'm still chairman and CEO and 100% owner. Phenomenal. So you brought up mentors. I think it's neat just if we could hover there for a second. So Dr. Doofman, being a corneal specialist, and obviously we're in his lab, helped to prompt you into ophthalmology shaped your, you know, intersegment interest beyond. Share with us just other mentors along the way that were influential, and what do you take away from that in your journey? Well, my first mentors, like most of us, were my parents, right? And so my dad was a classical Scandinavian, you know, work hard and look people in the eye and shake hands. And did I say it before, work hard, right? So he was a work ethic person. And then my mother was sort of Minnesota nice. So she was okay if you were ambitious and worked hard, but the most important thing to her was to be nice to people. So I think I got a combination of that early on. Then, yeah, I used to play a lot of sports, so I played football and hockey and baseball, and my coaches were influential as well as some of my teachers certainly along the way. But I would have to say that that dean of the medical school at the University of Minnesota, Dean Galt, was very influential, right? He completely changed me from being the owner and operator of a construction company to be choosing to go into ophthalmology. And so that was my main mentor that moved me into medicine. And then certainly my main mentor in my training years as a resident was Don Dufman because I continued to work with him in the laboratory while I was a resident. So I think people are well aware of your leadership role at Minnesota Eye Consultants, a private ophthalmology company in Minneapolis that enters segment focus, glaucoma focus. But you shared here, this bridge the cab then for people that didn't know this piece of history, Dr. Doofman sent you away for training and then brought you back. So you were at the, share with us how that bridge happened between being a doctor at the University of Minnesota and ANSEG and eventually owning a private practice. What was that journey? Yeah, so at that time the chairman of our department's name was john harris and it was a small department and john harris practice he did cornea cataract a little refractive surgery mainly correcting astigmatism and corneal transplants and and glaucoma he did all of the above and he was going to retire and so don dufman's plan for me was to get training in those three areas so i did a year cornea fellowship at Minnesota. Then I went down to Dallas, Texas, and I basically did a microsurgery fellowship with a very high volume cataract cornea glaucoma surgeon. And then I went to the University of Utah on a HEAD fellowship and did a glaucoma fellowship. Again, not everyone knows that I did that as well. And I came back to Minnesota, and that was my practice, basically, cornea cataract refractive and glaucoma. And then a couple of years later, we recruited John Peterson from Baskin -Palmer and Wilmer to join us and take over the glaucoma. But I continued to do glaucoma my entire career, and so I went into private practice after a decade. I was also the chief at the Minneapolis VA, one of those rare times where in those days you could do that. You could be director of the cornea service full -time, equivalent, if you will, at the University of Minnesota, meanwhile be the chief of a service at the Minneapolis VA. And we were very integrated with the university program at the VA in those years. Most VA's still are, but even more so, I think, at that time. All the faculty were part-time. I was the only person that was on a salary, and mine was part -time salary. You had to be five-eighths, and so I had to go out there three days a week, which I did. But we worked, you know, more than a typical 40 hours, right? So I did that for a decade, and I liked it, And I built a very large surgical practice. And then I chose, after a decade, to go into private practice. And I'd always enjoyed doing academics. I'd always had fellows, actually. One day I was a fellow, the next day I was training fellows. And so I wanted to continue to train fellows. I wanted to do academic things. I wanted to work with industry. I wanted to do clinical trials. And in those days, private practices rarely did that. And I couldn't find a practice in the Twin Cities that wanted me to do that. And so I decided to start my own. So I basically went out and hired seven employees. And I had a fellow and contact lens fitter and went down next to the Phillips Eye Institute in Minneapolis and started a solo practice. And I think at some level that was sort of the beginning of the academic private practice. and since then it's become quite common for private practices to be engaged in teaching and research but it used to be just service pretty much, you know, the tripod of academics teaching research and service was usually at the institutions but now many private practices can do that as well so I did that and just like I hired John Peterson to join me at the university and take over glaucoma I then hired Tom Samuelson to take over glaucoma for me at Minnesota and then continued to grow. We're now five offices with five ambulatory surgery centers with 36 doctors. I have a question about your transition from academia, the VA, and then eventually to private practice. So clearly you're well-trained, three fellowships, a lot of amazing mentors. but getting into clinical trials for the listeners here who want to potentially venture out into something new potentially new technology new innovation clinical trials writing patents whatever it is something new how what advice would you give to someone who like needs extra training how did you get that training is it all through mentors did you do extra you know i don't know courses kind of walk us through how you got that experience sure i get I get asked that a lot so young young doctors will will look at me or my career and say how do I do what you did and what what I suggest is that number one you get really high quality training you know the more education that you have the better off you are so I encourage every resident to take a fellowship and and not to be in a hurry because careers are careers are long I didn't I did you know two years of fellowship internship three years residency two years of fellowship. And I encourage people to take at least one year of fellowship because that extra training really does separate you, I think, for the rest of your career. Then the next thing you have to do is actually go out and become a clinician. And so I tell everyone, you need to build a busy practice. Nobody wants you to do a clinical trial or to teach them how to do something if you don't do it, right? And you don't do it frequently and you don't do it well. So the first part of the story is to build a large clinical practice in the area that you're interested in. And then you find something that you're passionate about. And once you find something that you're passionate about and you have a busy clinical practice in that area, it's actually relatively straightforward to get involved with the clinical trials or research because you can get introduced either by mentors or even by reps to companies and and they'll come and visit your clinic, and if you look like you're busy and you'll be a good recruiter, they'll give you a chance, right? Often the best thing to start with is what I call an investigator-initiated clinical trial. So you'll say, I'm interested in this. You'll go to a company, say, I'd like to do a clinical trial. You know, they'll help set it up for you. And then once you do that a few times and you do it well, they'll start to invite you to basically be involved in their clinical trials. And then you build, and once you're the first person trying something new, then people want you to teach them about it. So then you start to get invited to give lectures. And then if you like it, you get invited to participate in leadership positions in societies. And it just continues to cascade however far you want to go. And some people want to go all the way into leadership. Some people want to work more with industry. Some people just want to stay and be a busy clinician but do some clinical trials. And there's nothing wrong with just being a really high-quality, busy clinician. But those people that want to go that route, first thing you need to do is be that high-quality, busy clinician. Over your career, you've been known for being such an innovator, and we talked about in the introduction whether lens design, pharmaceuticals, surgical instruments, your exploring and expertise has shaped various aspects of surgical practice today. When you look back and think of all the clinical trials, because some wonderfully work and some don't, some take off even if it was a nice device, and others, you know, don't get sold. But when you look back and think of the things you were involved with that were the most meaningful on patient care, what would they be? Well, for me, the original research we did in cornea preservation led to a solution that's called Optisol GS, which is still the leading solution for preserving corneas prior to transplant, now almost 50 years later. And that whole journey was interesting. That's what got me sort of engaged a little bit in the whole innovation cycle. I'm going to go back, though, and say it's the doctor who's in the arena that's seeing the problems and the problems that don't yet have good solutions that I think is especially well-positioned to look for a solution or to at least realize what solutions need to be investigated, right? And so I'm a big advocate of the clinician scientists, you know, and those are the ones that see what they need better for their patients, right? And so they need to be a core part of innovation. But that is an interesting challenge from there on out. So we developed these corneal preservation solutions at the University of Minnesota, originally working with Don Doofman and a cell biologist, Deborah Skelnick, who I had in my laboratory, and we had it going at Minnesota, but then how do you get it to others, right? And so the only way to get it to others is then to actually commercialize it, right? And I went through the whole technology transfer thing at the University of Minnesota. The University of Minnesota said the idea is not big enough for us to invest in. so well does that mean it just dies and they said well no we will we'll release it to you but you have to go through a meaningful process so i went through that process that involved the department chairman approving it and a dean and a vp of health sciences and even the president of the university and then then i was given the opportunity to uh to basically commercialize it myself to do that you need to get intellectual property so the first thing if anyone wants to do that is You have to protect the idea, make sure somebody else hasn't already done it, and then you need to raise some capital, which we did, basically friends and family, myself and my parents. And then we had to start a small business, and I did that. I created a little company called Orion that basically sold this product to other iBanks who then adopted it. And then we were bought by a bigger fish, Chiron Ophthalmics. Bill Link was the CEO, liked the idea. And then Chiron Ophthalmics was bought by Bausch & Lohm, and the product's still sold today by Bausch & Lohm. But it is a whole project. And, again, I get invited and asked a lot, you know, how do you do this? Number one, make sure you've got an idea that is an important idea. Make sure that it's unique and hasn't already been done, and protect it with intellectual property. Much easier to find a company to collaborate with than to start your own company, but several of my fellows through the years have started their own companies and made it work. But also realize that it takes longer and costs more than you think it will, and that it's a meaningful commitment if you decide to do that. What was the biggest setback through all of that? There are a lot of moving parts to get to commercial product. So anything? Well, the first part is to do the basic research to see that you have something that works. And there it's very helpful, actually, to have an academic institute. Or today you can collaborate with an industry partner sometimes to work with. and then ideally the easiest thing for a clinician inventor to do is to find an interested party and license their idea to them. I think that's the easiest thing to do. Easier than that even is to work with a big company on their ideas but if you have your own idea then you have to go find someone who's interested in also investing both financial and human capital to bring it out into the field But, you know, ophthalmology has had all kinds of major inventors. If you go back to Charles Kelman or even Harold Ridley or whoever you want, there's illustrious examples in every field of clinicians that have brought great new ideas to fruition. When you think about bringing things to fruition, everyone's equipped differently. I think it's striking, your mix of interest in health care, mentorship in ophthalmology, but also this business aspect. And obviously, the stick-with-it -ness, the hard-working nature of your dad, to stick with getting a company created, seeing that develop. And through that, you learn the skills on how to incorporate innovation into practices. One of the things, I was trained at the same institution, as **** Lindstrom, I can say. And I remember going through, and people might complement one resident or another. And I had a very notable mentor of mine, Bob Letson, who was a pediatrician at the moment, the first in Minnesota, share with me that no one had hands of gold like **** Lindstrom. That whatever **** Lindstrom touched, you'd see one surgery and you ask, you know, see one, do one, teach one type mindset. But generally, there's a learning curve when you do the first one yourself. And the comment was made that, you know, you had gifted hands. And I know that throughout your career, people watching your videos and understanding how you've complemented surgical cases with innovation and approaches. But Brittni asked about challenges in the journey of innovation. I'm curious about just, so you have these new devices. All of us bring with it a skill set to the OR. We're going to try something new. I guess two questions for you. One is, as you're introducing a new lens, a new glaucoma device, whatever it is, how did you, despite your hands of gold, how did you prepare or how do you recommend preparing as you bring a new device to a patient care situation? And then number two, how do you recommend doing it in a practice where some people may have varying skill sets surgically? So thinking about bringing innovation, you decide a new technique. But keeping it safe for the masses. Keeping it safe for patient care. How did you approach that preparedness and safety, and how do you recommend where you're not the one necessarily in the oar yourself? Well, I can just describe, I guess, how I personally did it and encourage others, I think, to do something similar, and that is that you need access to a laboratory surgical training center where you can actually access either eyes, human eyes, from an eye bank, or we used eyes a lot from Hormel. And so Hormel was a great source for us of pig eyes, which are a good facsimile for the human eye. And then we used rabbits and the like. to practice in the lab so but we we you know we slash i we would always do a lot of a lot of animal surgery before we did human surgery i was the chief medical officer at three and vision care for 14 years and they also had a large veterinary ophthalmology group two full-time veterinary ophthalmologists we did a lot of animal work there as well and then also cadaver and and pig eye work. And so I think you need to be, and that does make your skills better in general. So that's quite a compliment. But I mean, I did a lot of practice surgery in the laboratory through the years and a lot of research projects where you'd have to do corneal transplants and mice and rats and the like and rabbits. And obviously that enhances your surgical skills. You're in the OR, if you will, all day in the laboratory, and so you basically do enhance your skills that way. But I think anything that's a surgical innovation should first be well-established in a laboratory setting. And then usually as you're moving into clinic, you're going to go through clinical trials, right? And so participating in those clinical trials, you do get experience with new procedures. And the issue there, and I think you can speak about it too, Eric, because you mentioned that you have that role here a little bit, is that we have to do everything in an ethical fashion with appropriate approvals and really very significant informed consent for patients. Patients need to know that they might be the first patient. And you can tell them that I've done a lot of surgeries like this before, and I've done 100 in the laboratory, but you're going to be my first patient. And there are patients who support innovation, and they are altruistic in a sense as well, looking for others to have better treatments than they had in their lifetime. So besides doctors doing it, there actually are patients that are committed to being helpful in that regard. But once you have a patient who's willing, then basically using all your other surgical skills and all the practice you've done in the laboratory, often if you've done, you know, 100 in a rabbit, the first one in a patient sometimes doesn't seem that difficult because the animal model is sometimes more difficult than the human eye to operate on. So that's the way I think it's best done in a surgical setting. Usually, so we've got a big practice of multiple surgeons. Usually there's one surgeon who will be adopting a new technique, right? and then the whole group doesn't adopt it immediately. There's usually a surgeon that's particularly interested in that. The ideal way besides having a place to practice either at a university center or at an industry center is to basically go visit the pioneers and watch them and spend a few days there. And then eventually you do have to come home and do it on your own patient. And again, it's all about proper informed consent, I think. And then patients where you really believe that this new innovation would be beneficial. So I think you have to believe that what you're offering them would be at least as good as and preferably superior to the standard of care that you might otherwise offer. So there are a lot of advances in our field, as you know. Every year is something new and new options. And honestly, it's hard to keep up. and i am a retina surgeon so i don't know all of the fancy new lenses and probably even the new tools that are being used so i'm curious from your standpoint what are some new technologies and innovations that you're really excited about that's coming potentially to the clinic yes i think so we we would need to go a little bit uh field i guess field by field uh if if we do cornea i'm quite excited about endothelial cell therapy endothelial cell transplantation and i've been involved in with a company called orion which is now owned by alcon which is a pioneer in that in that area i think that is going to be the next step you know beyond dsec dmec which was a major step beyond penetrating keratoplasty that type of cell therapy is also going to be helpful for ocular surface disease. It's going to be helpful for limbal stem cell deficiency and certain types of alkali burns and patients that have severely compromised ocular surfaces. It's also going to be helpful in every other field, right, in the field urine as well. So I think cell therapy is pretty exciting opportunity in the cornea. The other thing that I'm excited about in the cornea is synthetics. So there's a lot of research being done to develop a synthetic cornea. If you look at the 20 to 30 million cornea blind, most of them have severely vascularized corneas from infectious disease in the emerging countries, and normal transplants are all going to fail. You know, human transplants are all going to fail. We need a synthetic cornea, And I think that's an area that deserves meaningful attention. And then, of course, all kinds of things in the pharmacology field, et cetera. But on the surgical front, those are two areas that I'm engaged in that I'm excited about. On the cataract front, I'm pretty excited about robotics. So I'm working with a robotic company, Horizon Surgical Systems, which is a spin-out from UCLA, Joel Stein. and they're applying robotics to cataract surgery and the the goal is to make the operation if you will safer and more more reproducible robotics obviously has had a big role to play in many other fields and it's also being looked at in retina and glaucoma etc I'm excited about I'm excited about robotics I'm excited about AI I think we need to get more engaged in AI and in ophthalmology We've been laggards in AI, I believe, in our field. And I think it's important, especially in a visual specialty like ours, that we should be using AI more. I feel like each of these, let's talk about each one. Each one is worth a long discussion. It's going to be its own podcast. I know. I think we can go on and on. And I actually would support having you back to do another podcast here soon. On all of those, yeah. So stay tuned for maybe a version two of this podcast. Let's talk about, as we talk about things coming, as you look back and as we wrap up in the last minutes here of this podcast, when you look back at your career, is there certain patient stories or teaching moments that come to you that have stayed with you the most, that you look back and think this kind of encapsulates the joy of why I've been able to do or enjoy doing what I do? Yeah, the most memorable part of my career has actually been training fellows. And training residents, valuable. I still have some participation in that as well. But I've always had fellows. I think we're now up to 84, 85 fellows that I've been involved in training. You have a lifetime relationship with the fellows that you train, and you both had fellowship training, and our training fellows, so you can appreciate that. But I think that's the most valuable contribution because it just continues to multiply everything that you do. We still have two fellows at Minnesota Eye, and we also have two optometry residents from the Illinois College of Optometry every year. And, you know, working with those young doctors, I still find that the most rewarding thing I've done. I've been involved in all kinds of new verticals from minimally invasive glaucoma surgery to early ***** emulsification to intraocular lenses etc cornea preservation as I mentioned was certainly critical critically important area that is memorable in my regard but again it's really working with the young doctors and then working with interested practicing doctors as well so I really enjoy So when people ask me what am I passionate about, I tell them I'm passionate about supporting innovation, investment, because innovation doesn't happen without investment, and education. And so I've always felt that way, and I think that's the most rewarding part of what I do. Okay, I have to ask. So you talk about getting out there and having a super busy practice. Yep. You are more active than anyone else I know at bringing innovation into a clinical practice and modeled that through your leadership in your private group and then you've been talking about teaching so one of the things that we wrestle with at an institution that has three shields you know patient care education and teaching is balance and how do you balance in life so before we just in the last minutes here how have you balanced at all and prioritize your time yes i'm very interested you know i we came from a different era right i mean you're a little younger than i am but we we didn't think much about balance when i was going through through medical school and rather residency, we were, you know, pretty much career -oriented, patient care-oriented, and so we expected to work 60, 70 hours a week. So, I mean, in a sense, you have more hours when you're in that setting. So when I first started, I ran the cornea service at the University of Minnesota, had a big, big practice, and had a laboratory there, was chief of the Minneapolis VA at the same time as chief medical officer of 3M vision care and and then also trying to travel the world and do some teaching and I think each of us seems to put our own boundaries on it so I would say I'm willing to go abroad you know in those days once a quarter I'm willing to go out and be a visiting professor you know once a month and you know for for me I found that I was seeing patients in my home base three weeks a month and out somewhere one week a month and that worked for me or someone else might do it one day a week for teaching and four days a week in the clinic or, you know, everyone has their own set of balance. And then it is really important to still have a family and children. And, you know, I think medicine is, I describe medicine, any specialty as a very demanding mistress. And, you know, it's basically, it takes a lot of time, but you have to, meanwhile, take care of your core family as well. And it's not easy. I think it's a continuous battle. But I think most of us can feel it when we get out of balance. And when we get out of balance, you have to stop and sit down with your family and get yourself back into balance. I'm going to give one more thought because it's one that I share with my fellows a lot, and that is that I'm a big advocate of what I call five-year plans. And I'm actually on my 12th five -year plan in medicine. But if you think about it, you know, medical school internship is sort of a five-year plan. Getting yourself trained and yourself especially is sort of a five-year plan. I did two five-year plans at the University of Minnesota. And then, you know, I went off and did another seven in private practice. And now I'm in my first five-year plan since retiring from practice. And along the way, what you want to do and what your family and you want to do changes. And so I think you can plan ahead one, three, five years, and then sit down and make a new plan. And so if you plan, usually what you plan happens. So what is a day in the life of **** Lindstrom now and the current five -year plan? Yeah, my current five -year plan is to support investment, innovation, and education. So I'm serving on boards. I'm actually on 15 boards, three of them public companies and 12 private companies. I also serve on medical advisory boards. I serve on the board of a couple of venture capital companies, and so I can support investment and innovation through providing capital. I consult with several companies on their ideas. And then I stay involved with the major societies. So I would say of late I'm most involved with the ASCRS, but through the years I've been very involved with the Cornea Society and with the American Academy of Ophthalmology. and European societies and Asia -Pacific societies. Right now what I do is I get up every morning, actually seven days a week, and I go in my office. I work until about noon. And so I'm working four hours a day, seven days a week, 28 hours, doing support of investment, innovation, and education. I'm still the chief medical editor of Ocular Surgery News, so I'm writing an editorial every two weeks. That takes some time. But now I have more time for family. So I've got a son and a daughter. I've got five grandchildren between the age of 12 and 17, and they all live close to me. And my wife and I enjoy sports, and so I get out and play tennis and golf. And I live on the shore of Lake Minnetonka, so I can enjoy boating. And so I have more time for that. I used to see patients 40 to 50 hours a week plus do that. That was the 70. that's what you're living maybe that's the 70 hour lifestyle but now now i just uh i don't have the 40 to 50 hours of uh of seeing patients that i used to i know we need to wrap up i have one more question so if we go back to the five-year plan but your first five-year block if you could give your advice to your younger self to to **** lindstrom or to someone who's like starting out their career now would you do something differently or is there something that you would put in different priority how how do you look at that phase of someone's career now that you've gone through it so i want i want every uh everyone who's coming into ophthalmology but any other field i think the same is to take a little extra time in their training because you never get that chance again right and so instead of rushing through and going right under practice you know spend a year or two of extra training it'll make your life more rewarding for your whole life so that five -year plan if it's a three-year residency in ophthalmology i made it five and and i think that was a good investment first five years be a busy be dedicate yourself to clinical practice basically the first five years now if you join an academic center they're going to make you do some teaching and they're maybe going to make you do some research and then you have to sort of decide exactly how you're going to do that. Most academicians will see patients three, maybe four days a week and then do their academic things one or two days a week. I always say that the academic ophthalmologist works six days a week typically because they have to to get all the things they do done. So they actually have to work a little harder than a typical private practice ophthalmologist, but it's basically depending on your setting, but I think the base for all of us is a busy clinical practice, so first five years, just focus on that, and actually I did focus on that in my first five years, although I also had to run the VA, run the cornea service, and be a chief medical officer, so I started out with sort of three very long days, you know, three 12-hour days in the clinic, so NOR. Well, this is inspiring and just rewarding to hear your story and hear your just reflections and motivation. We're going to have you back for a podcast number two because we're not done with our questions. So thank you again for joining us today and tune in next time for a conversation with Dr. Lindstrom. Thank you.