Breast cancer does not discriminate. Any woman of any race can get it. But what many might not know is that minorities such as African-Americans, Latinos, and Asians tend to develop breast cancer earlier and often have more aggressive tumors than white women. And too often, minorities aren't diagnosed until after the disease has spread. More on breast cancer and minorities from Mayo Clinic. Two, three, four, and five. No, I don't want to buy that. Artha Rogers may be losing this game of Monopoly, but she's winning her battle against breast cancer. I kept my faith. My family, you know, kept praying and and I kept looking at the goal. There was a goal, you know, that was going to beat this, and we did. Artha endured a lumpctomy, chemotherapy, and radiation. Her goal now is to educate other minority women about breast cancer. She started by reaching out to friends and family. It was at the family reunion. Um some of the um the cousins and my sister, we all went in the rest room and I said, "I really need you all, you know, to get educated on this and I want you all to feel what of um a lump in the breast would feel like." You see, African-Amean women tend to get breast cancer less frequently than white women, but when they do get the disease, they're often younger and the tumors tend to be more aggressive. Dr. Amber Eley says another issue is that minority women often don't seek medical care as soon as they should. They will go at a later stage and next thing you know it's more advanced and then their opportunities for treatment are limited. As Artha knows, breast cancer is curable if you catch it early. I was grateful that I took action when I found the lump. One, two. Area continues to encourage other minority women to take action, too. You know, it's okay to check your breasts, okay doctor, okay to talk about it. She and Dr. Eley want all women to learn about breast cancer so they too can be survivors. For more information on breast cancer, log on to mayoc clinic.org. For Medical Edge, I'm Vivian Williams.