Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology [music] podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your co-host Dr. Brittney Scrugs >> and I'm your co-host Dr. Eric Bothan. We are here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. Today we are joined by Joan Joerger to discuss Hadley, a nonprofit that [music] provides free practical and emotional support to older individuals with acquired vision loss. Tune in to learn more about Hadley. >> Joan Joerger is a Midwestern native from Milwaukee with a background in international relations, business, and brand strategy. She earned a double major in international relations in Russian language from the University of Wisconsin and an MBA and master's degree in Russian and East European studies from the University of Michigan. She began her career at Johnson and Johnson where she was selected for an international development program and lived and worked across Eastern Europe building global consumer brands. She later served as chief marketing officer for the Cradle, a child welfare agency specializing in infant placement. Joan joined Hadley in 2016 and helped lead the organization's relaunch to focus on older adults adjusting to uncorrectable vision loss due to age related eye disease. She now serves as executive vice president of organizational impact focused on maximizing Adley's Hadley's realworld impact. Welcome Joan. >> Thank you. It's really nice to be with you guys. >> Yeah, it's nice to have you here. And so for the listeners who may not be familiar, can you really share what Hadley is and who do you serve today? >> Absolutely. So um Hadley is a hundredyear-old organization. Uh it was started by a gentleman named William Hadley and his opthalmologist by the way. Um and William lost his vision as a a side effect actually complication due to the flu epidemic of 105 years ago. uh and um he you know he was a uh he was a school teacher actually in Chicago and so over the course of a weekend he he uh went blind and his opthalmologist happened to be his neighbor um did three really good things for for William Hadley and really for the world as it turns out the first thing he did is he made sure the neighbors the friends in in the neighborhood didn't ignore William simply because he lost lost his vision and because he saw it so frequently with his other patients that the the dis disability isolated them from their community and he knew how harmful that could be and so he just encouraged the the neighbors to continue to stop in and chat with Bill and keep him in in the loop of things. So that was the first thing he did. The second thing is he listened to Bill and understood what was you know how what was bothering him, what he wanted to be able to do with his life going forward. And the main thing um Bill was grieving at the time was he couldn't read anymore and he was a learned man. He had amassed a library of books none of which were useful to him anymore. And so um what his of themologist uh Dr. Brown said is Bill why don't you learn a new way to read? It's called Braille. Um and so he did. He he taught himself Braille. I like to think his wife had a little something to do with that. Um because there are pictures where she is involved in in helping William uh learn some braille. And from there um once again in conversation with Dr. Brown is opthalmologist. Um, Hadley got the idea that he could use not only his skill with learning Braille, but uh, also that he's an educator and he could reach out to other people like himself and teach them that new way to read so that they wouldn't feel so a drift that they could get back to to meaningful um, you know, literature and and reading again. And so that's what he did. and and that's how Hadley was formed as an organization. Um as a as a group, the two of them reached out to local philanthropists uh got some money together and launched what was then the Hadley Correspondent School and and so that's how the organization was founded. And if you know funny little first tagline, as I am a marketer, I love taglines. It was it was basically called Braille by mail because he was teaching people at a distance how to how to read Braille. And so really from the very beginning um you Hadley was founded on this principle of helping older adults like William Hadley himself um get back to living a life of purpose and meaning. I'm struck by that beautiful combination that the neighbor had as an opthalmologist to help introduce hope through particular mechanical help and reading aids. But >> very much parallel to that is this neighborly emotional connectivity support. >> I I think there's a lot that come what I understand about Hadley you do beautifully in both arms. Could you share right now from an opthalmologist perspective? I think we hope that we're being the neighbor to our patients, but where do you see opthalmologists and for the eye care community listening? >> Where do you see us as we try strive to be neighborly, be physician caring to them, where do we let go, stop not or maybe not aware of the opportunities to help our patients with vision loss? It's a really good question. Um, and I love the idea that because you have such an opportunity. You have a unique opportunity. Um, that to to intersect in that moment um when when folks to a person are feeling feeling that loss, right, or feeling a drift and to just be a little bit of that hope for them can make all the difference. And so I I think oftentimes and this is I'm I'm going to quote some of our the members of the Hadley community here. Um and and it's natural you're focused on the medical aspect and you you by by nature of your job you you likely have time constraints and how much time you can spend and so of course you you are spending the majority of of every moment uh you're with a patient on the medical aspects. But if you even just take a moment to understand that there is a person uh um connected to the eyes and that um they are grieving something that they used to have. Um just even knowing that that person that that that physician understands that they're grieving something will make a a big difference because it'll change a little bit of of your interaction. Um, and it will be more likely that they would say something to you. They might even say, "I'm really struggling with this." And you will have that opportunity um to then be there for them and make referrals, which of course, and I I know you you all know this, but referring to help outside your office is how you extend your help. >> So, I love that you started with that story and I love that you, Eric, kind of brought in the neighborly aspect because we are in a smaller town, right, in Rochester. I can't go anywhere without seeing a patient and I would like to think I'm one of the very few eye doctors in my neighborhood and I see a lot of neighbors and so we are treating our friends and our patients are really important to us >> and so when they are sitting there our patients and we are trying to treat them like family >> um and they are dealing with this potentially new vision loss this new experience that they weren't expecting and it's uncorrectable. What are some of the common challenges that you hear that are common at the early stages? Yeah. And then how can Hadley help? >> Yeah, really really important to know that for most people they are it is something they hadn't expected. This is a huge shift in their life. Um and with any of us when when something unexpected could happen or life seems to be shifting the the tendency is to be in denial. um to assume to hold on to the fact that well maybe okay they they might have mentioned this this disease and maybe I don't even want to Google that. Um I don't want to know how what that what could happen there because in my case I it probably won't be that bad and so there there can be a tendency to just assume that it's all going to work out and they're going to regain the site they once had. oftentimes I will hear um members of our community say early on they didn't even want to ask a question to the doctor because they didn't want to hear the answer right um and so they were so much in denial that um they just kind of kept to themselves and pretended nothing happened and it was only with time when it wasn't getting better and in fact their eyesight might might have been deteriorating that they started to do some more research on their own or they may have been asking uh more questions questions of their physician and hearing um the more um you know the long longl lasting impacts of the of the impairment and that's where it can then lead to you know desperation or isolation or depression. Um it's hard for many of us to give up roles that we've held to you know our whole lives. We might have been that person that everybody turns to when the going gets rough and all of a sudden we're supposed to ask for help. That's hard, right? It's hard for us to recalibrate and to admit to ourselves, much less to others that we're going to have to find new ways to do things. We're going to have to adjust the way we feel about some things. um we're going to have to um you know share maybe feelings that we never you know we might be very private people and sharing how we feel about things can be really hard. Um but what we hear amongst our community over and over again is once once people open up a little bit uh maybe get matched with a peer also going through something similar it can make the world of difference. they can feel so much less alone and so much more supported and then they're a little bit more open to try maybe the latest gadget. Um or you know learn different techniques about you know that that don't rely on vision so much but for many those early months maybe even up to the early year they can be stuck. >> So you said the word match can you just share with our listeners what that means in this setting? >> Yeah. So, so at Hadley we have we so we have two arms and I think we alluded to this already. Basically two arms to our services. One is very practical help. We'll help you um you know learn how to use that latest app to to read the menu in the in a restaurant or technique to put your toothpaste on your toothbrush if you've lost some central vision and that that simple task is all of a sudden not so simple. We can help you learn all those things and we can um we we have a staff of social service professionals a asking um answering our 800 number um who will take the time to understand what's difficult for you and connect you to whatever help looks like for you. And so for some it is just pointing them in the direction of that practical help but for others um it is connecting them with a peer. So it might be that um you have advanced macular degeneration. You used to love to read and to garden and um you're kind of a private person um and you know maybe um you live alone. So we we gather all that information. We use a database um that is rather sophisticated um because it helps us then in the background um comb our database for others who might share those similar uh uh qualities. And so we have by the way about 200,000 members of the Hadley community. And so it it um we can reasonably quickly match people um for you know in a peer relationship. And what that means is basically calling on the phone. Maybe it's once a week, maybe it's once every other cup of weeks. Um just to touch base how's it going? Um I know you had a wedding coming up and you were a little nervous about interacting with your family. How did that work? It gives them just a chance to share what's difficult for them, but also what what's just life for them. um and they may share tips and tricks about vision aids and what have you, but oftentimes people move beyond that to just become friends. >> I think it's be great to dive into both the practical support side and certainly the emotional side. Just for the listeners understanding this opportunity with Hadley, can you share when is the right time to introduce that with patients >> and and through that then what are the encouragements or to for patients being introduced what are the barriers that um challenge patients to make that first step >> financial you know intimidation what would it be that you see that you'd want to communicate so first from a physician side when should we be suggesting it. And number two, how do we help equip them that they get through that barrier to make the first call? >> Both really good questions. And to um I'll tell you I would say um early and often because uh some people won't be able to hear the first time something is said to them but if you mention it a few more times if it's just becomes part of a conversation and that almost assuming that some things are more difficult listening for that and then making that referral saying just you know give Hadley a call. It's as easy as calling an 800 number or going on to our website at headleyhelps.org. And either way, we'll we'll connect you pretty quickly with with some help and and and accommodations to your needs. And so, um there's never a perfect time. You're not listening for exactly one phrase someone says that's going to trigger a referral. I think it needs to be early and often because it matters. It it it's it's not going to be um as I said that that one perfect time at at diagnosis. It might be overwhelming the number of things that that are given to to a patient. It might be overwhelming as we already talked about to you might be in denial and say that must be for someone else not for me. Um but with time and repetition um that's where where uh different resources can become you know that just basically sinks into your consciousness and you're like oh yeah I remember that. >> So I'm a pediatric opthalmologist I just would be curious is there certain visual field or visual acuity or diagnosis? >> You know it's a really good question doctor because there's not and and and here's the difference. There's many things uh that are similar to Hadley versus like a state services um for for people with visual impairment and then there's differences. Um so the similarities are we can help you with practical things um and teach you what tools are out there. We don't sell any of the tools at all though. Um we're just going to you know tell you what's out there, what what we think of them. we can um but where's there where the differences lie is um in the state services because there are limited resources of people and their time um there's thresholds right you have to have you know a certain acuity level or worse or certain visual field or um narrowness in order to qualify for services and you don't need anything like that with Hadley we will require no doctor's notes at all there's no waiting lists at all. Um there's no need to come to our service to our offices here um at all. Our help comes to you and everything is free of charge. So that's just important to know. Um and with physicians working with children, what we um see often is their parents come to Hadley. their parents come to Hadley and they learn um some of the things that are out there, some tips and tricks on how to approach daily life um so that they can be sitting alongside their their um child as they're learning those things in school, too. >> That's awesome. So, you said that there are about 200,000 members currently at Hadley. Um we do have many patients who have just raved about, you know, Hadley and the peer support group. So much so that we actually had your team come in person and do a grand rounds for our entire department a few months ago and that was an amazing lecture where we've all I think learned a lot about the resources and how we can do a better job as opthalmologists and optometrists um to share a little bit about your organization. Um but I wanted to just kind of share a few things that I learned from that grand rounds. One is that 9 million Americans have vision loss and one of your goals is to increase the membership of Hadley to at least a million by 2030. Is that correct? >> That is exactly right. >> And so since that grand rounds, I think we have actually improved our potentially improved your membership because every patient we feel like um would would benefit from it, we give them a handout that has the website and the information and their phone number. Um, and I think maybe we should put put up the website um, so people can see it for those who are watching YouTube and for people who are just listening. The website has these large text buttons that you can click and it says practical tips and I've gone to this website many times because I want to know what I'm what I'm offering patients. Ter. >> And if you click on the practical tips button, it has daily living, adjusting to vision loss, recreation, technology, braille, and working. >> And then the next button is social and emotional support, which has peer-to-peer discussion groups, which we talked about. And then adjusting and coping together groups, which I think we should talk about in a second. And then community voices and expert opinions which has so many videos of people who understand what it is like to have vision loss and potentially experts who can guide and management and teach in a different way. So I just wanted to share kind of what the website looks like with our listeners and open it up to you to maybe add to that. >> Yeah. No, and thank you for that. Um, and so yeah, uh, on our website itself, you'll see what something we call workshops. They're basically little video tutorials that cover the gamut as, uh, as you were talking about practical, you know, daily living tasks, um, technology tools, um, you know, websites, um, that might be helpful for folks. Um, you could also still learn some Braille with Hadley and and doing that all from the comfort of your home. And if you're not online, we will send that information to your home either in large print or in audio format um or in braille for for braille readers. And so that's just important to know as well. Um and and as far as the podcasts are concerned, we have two of them. One is called Hadley Presents. And there we we welcome experts in the field um to to let our community know about maybe um a new service that's out there or an old service that is just not known very well. Um or you know um we'll have our community members get on often to share things they've learned and the way they've like for instance organized their kitchen the kind of tools they're using to to make cooking easier for themselves. And so that's Hadley Presents. And the other podcast we have, it's called Insights and Sound Bites. Um, and this one uh it came um as a very very simple premise which is um help help our community have the opportunity that I personally Joan Jagger as u interviewing many of our our community members give them the opportunity that I have because I get to hear the stories from each of them. So I wanted to share their stories with them so that so it's a community generated show. Um and so they and it's the idea to call in say a little bit about yourself where you're from um a little bit about your eye condition what you might be struggling with and then what one thing has helped you. And um it it has been tremendously successful. Um, I can hear over and over and over again the messages from our community of people saying, "Finally, I'm hearing people like me. I' just listening to that one episode, um, I feel like I'm not alone anymore." It's it's been a tremendous uh, feeling of satisfaction on my part to hear that that people find hope in listening to those podcasts. It's striking how complimentary these are and that goes back to our neighborly feel that we had before. So much of what I've learned about Hadley appreciate uniquely is not the practical support but it's what you're touching on now. the interpersonal storytelling that's therapeutic not just for the teller because of the journey they've carried and struggled through and found hope through but then what that means for someone else hearing and as you're testifying and sharing the website the podcast these peer-to-peer connections um it's just striking how much the stories are helpful both the stories for rising up and making an effort, but also the stories about which tools help the most. So, can you share how does your social work team from the the phone call comes in? What what would a patient experience to get plugged in to start hearing those stories? How do you launch them as they're doing their investigative work >> and then coaching encouraging? >> Yeah. Well, you know, really it it's down to the individual. So ev every call is unique of course because every caller is unique and so what what the what the um social support team does is really just try to understand the person get them to un you know explain a little bit about kind of like what Bill Hadley's opthalmologist did ask what's been what's been difficult for you now what are you struggling with um and for some it becomes then pretty clear um on what kinds of of of support they need very practical support and for others we may need to do a little bit of probing and and you know digging underneath that a little bit more um and understanding you know well when you when you say you just can't get out anymore what what does that mean? What used to what what used to give you joy in going out is it that you you're afraid about movement or is it that you're embarrassed because you can't read the menu anymore? so that we really do take that time to really understand what somebody is truly struggling with so that it's not superficial, right? Not just we're going to send you a large print out on the latest gadgets and all will be done. Um instead really taking that time to understand the person and what will help them uniquely. Um and then as as we get to know someone more, we'll invite them to be in the peer-to-peer program. We may invite them to be in a support group, whatever is going to work for them and um we we will plug plug into that resource for them and then with time we absolutely do suggest that people consider sharing their stories because you never know when somebody is going to resonate with exactly your story. >> Um and so we encourage every community member to share. Um, and then for some where they're they might be shy and saying, "Well, I don't know what I'm gonna say." I'll say, "Well, let's just jump on a phone call. Why don't we just jump on the phone call?" Because I just had a delightful time chatting with you. Um, we can just record the call and trust me, I can edit it. And so many of the episodes end up that way, too. >> I have a question about the support groups, uh, discussion groups in general. So, one thing that I heard from patients and also from the grand rounds experience we had recently >> and I thought this was pretty unique. So, I would love some clarification, but you know, sometimes it's hard for patients to either remember that there's going to be a specific time for a discussion group. Um, and sometimes it's hard for them to even find on their calendar and like and click the button and join. So, it seems like you've kind of decreased barriers. uh one of which you know they just get a potentially a phone call that they just accept and now they're in the group. It's like at that time they got the call >> and so maybe share a little bit about that and how you've decreased barriers for the patients to get them the best care. >> Absolutely. So you we do have a host a whole host of discussion groups on for instance cooking or gardening or or what have you. Um and those are every month uh for an hour and they're basically Zoom calls. They're audio only. Um but be because we know for many um of our community members technology isn't their friend. At least it isn't right now. Um so we don't require you to go on a website and click on a link. Um in fact you could just um ask us to call you um 15 minutes before that monthly group. We'll call you. All you have to do is answer the phone and you're in the group. And so we learned that um you know relying upon technology only was never going to serve the number of people that we knew could use our help. So we added that call out feature. So all you would have to do is pick up the phone. And we do the same for our um emotional support groups. And they're slightly different in nature than the discussion groups. The discussion groups are on things like as I said on technology, it might be on cooking, but the the emotional support groups are a dedicated time, a dedicated cohort um that are going to meet eight weeks in a row at a certain time. So it might be Tuesdays at 10:00 for eight consecutive Tuesdays. And those are led by social workers and it's a small group. Discussion groups might be up to 50 people in the Zoom room. the the support group is going to be usually like 10 people uh because you want each and every participant to have a chance to share um and share things about like how difficult it could be to ask for help for instance, how hard it might be to um realize your relationships are changing a bit due to your vision loss. And so those groups are smaller in nature and and and basically facilitated by a social worker. but also we will call you to to have you join into the group. You do not need to be, you know, on on a device of any kind other than using a phone. >> And in hearing more about Hadley, too, I understand there's a new series called Adjusting and Coping Together. Can you share a little bit about this series and who it's designed to help? >> Absolutely. So, the adjusting and coping together uh video series is based upon really founded on those those um emotional support groups that I mentioned just a bit ago. Um but we we know how very powerful those groups are. We get tremendous feedback where people will say things like, "Finally, I've had a chance to share something that has been on my heart for years." Um and feeling unbburdened by having done that. Um, and so we knew though, you know, as we talked just a bit ago, that that Headley's northstar goal is to reach a million members by 2030. How are we going to do that 10 people at a time in these groups? And so we wanted to find a way to scale that that help. And so we uh committed to um finding member stories that match each one of the categories or the themes for for the different topic areas of our adjusting and coping together uh support group. [cough] And then each one of the the the videos in the series highlights a certain topic and then gives some therapeutic advice afterwards. So for instance on grief and loss or um emotional triggers and asking for help or feeling like a burden or relationships or isolation and loneliness or and self-esteem. Those are topics we cover in that support group that we were then able to to um amplify it to to many more people via this video series. So before we move on, let's go ahead and share a short clip about Hadley's upcoming series that we just talked about the adjusting and coping together. Before we watch the clip, could you just give the listeners a little heads up of what they're about to hear? >> Right. So, you're going to hear from one of our um the members of the Headley community named Ron Peterson. And he's going to share a little bit about himself and a little bit about um his his challenge with vision loss. Um and specifically how hard it was for him to ask for help. He's one of these guys who who just, you know, that doesn't come naturally or and many of us are like that. Um, and then he shares about how he learned new ways to do some of the things he used to love to do. >> My name is Ron Peterson. I went to school and studied engineering and had a successful engineering career and retired about 10 years ago and I began working as a volunteer at the Tijana [music] estuary. Then about five years ago, I lost my vision to glaucoma and it kind of surprised me. I wasn't really prepared for it. I guess I was in denial and I wasn't able to work at the estuary. [music] It just became harder and harder and finally I just couldn't do any of that sort of thing anymore. That was very disheartening to me and I was really in a funk there kind of in a V pole for a few months. Losing your vision can throw you into a bad place. But one of the things you learn when you're blind is you need help. And I learned places to go to for help. And so one of the things I did was I talked to the staff there at the estuary said, "I want to continue to volunteer here and I love I love these plants. what can we do [music] and uh how can I help and together we came up with this perfect solution that I would become a dosent and I would guide visitors in sharing the beauty of these native plants using the other four senses besides [music] vision turned out to be a big hit. What it did for me was amazing. It gave me a sense of meaning and that was a very important part of how I climbed out of that hole to regain my life to develop a full life once again. For me, it worked. It's inspiring to watch these stories and just think about the impact on individuals listening to them and having as you mentioned earlier resonance over the concerns, challenges and things that they miss doing in their life. Can you talk about the reduction and isolation in particular because I would imagine the world gets smaller and then they see these videos, they see these stories and suddenly they have opportunities. But what how how do you hear from your customers and so and and patients that you support about how this changes their life? >> Yeah. Um you know sometimes it's just the little thing that can make all the difference in the world. And so I remember um hearing from one of our community members where she was just feeling like life was over because she couldn't work anymore. She felt like she couldn't even leave the house anymore. She felt so isolated. Um, and I was saying, you know, yeah, I've heard that from other people that they're they're feeling like they they it's hard to imagine leaving the house even for the first couple of months. She said, Joan, I didn't leave my chair for the first few months. I was just so nervous. I was so worried um that I AI was worried I was going to fall, but worried that what others would think of me now. Um and so those that the pressure of that is not small. And so um what she what she said is that it came to her that she couldn't just sit in bed. She couldn't just stay in her chair. She needed to push herself just a little bit. And what she did is turned on her computer. Um typed in to to Hadley or to Google, you know, who could help me. Um and she ended up on Hadley listening to our insights and sound bites and she said ste tears were just streaming down her face and she's like yes there are other people going through this um there is hope for me and that is priceless. So I think all of us as clinicians want our patients to feel feel supported and have that experience of I'm not alone. Um, as as clinicians, we might not be the best people to relate in that way because we haven't experienced vision loss and sometimes it does require that connection with someone who's experienced what they've experienced. And so, what are some simple things, practical things that we as clinicians, opth opthalmologists and optometrists, what can we do? >> Say it. There's someone listening and they want their practice to start, you know, talking about Hadley. Is there a pamphlet or a handout? what can you offer? >> There is and and I think within within the mail um ecosystem um there is a specific brochure now that's even in your um your short codes or your dot codes that you can your smart codes [laughter] like tried to learn your lingo but didn't know it. Um so that you can hand hand that that um one pager out to your to your patients or you know hadleyhelps.org or um that is the the one uh website that they could start at. And by the way, the people that answer our 8800 number will also connect them to in-person help. So no matter where in the world they live, um we could we could find um a state agency that they could also call in order to get help that comes into their home. So it you know we connect people with all sorts of resources including Hadley's. Any other advice for clinicians listening on how to speak to patients going through this? You talked about awareness, but any other tips or advice on things? Try to avoid saying those words or please consider adding these words in your vocabulary. >> I actually do have some and I was thinking I'm wondering if they're going to be open to this, but I'm going to go there because I think it's helpful. >> Sounds great. >> So, there's several things that I've heard through my years here. um that I think that would be helpful if you heard. So first thing was um that what what is distance making between a patient and a doctor is when they hear something that sounds something like well you're lucky because you know a few years ago decades ago you would have gone blind and and we were able to save a lot of your sight so you're lucky um or you're lucky because today there are so many tools and gadgets out there that can help you. And you know back in the day there weren't any um because the patient is not feeling lucky >> right and so yes there is that I mean reality is uh many more patients will keep a fair amount of their vision because of today's medicine and your care that's that's reality and that's wonderful. Um but but the other the other part of reality is they're not feeling lucky and so it it does have a tendency to create distance. Um another phrase that um our our members repeat back to us over and over again is hearing from a physician whether it was said this way or not, right? But this is what they're hearing and playing back is there's nothing that can be done. Mhm. >> And so when they hear there's nothing that can be done, likely that's in the context of, you know, the the medical situation of the, you know, the physical nature of the eye condition, but what they're hearing is roll up the sidewalks, climb into bed because this is it. You're it's over. And so to just be thinking that that that's how it's being played back to to patients. Um and and a third area um that that that can be tricky is you may be um equating the visual acuity or or visual field um to the impact that is having on the patient. So, so for instance, a patient where you're thinking, well, you know, it's really it's rather moderate vision loss for them emotionally, it could be hitting them extraordinarily hard um because of for a whole host of reasons, whether that's a practical in nature or emotional, right? Just the nature of the person. And so I would say be you be careful not to just equate the the level of impairment with the impact on someone's life. Um, and another phrase that I've heard over and over again is just to remember there's a person >> connected to those eyes. >> Yeah. >> Um, and and so taking that extra step really could make all the difference. And then just, you know, connecting them to the kind of help that that might be needed that's beyond your specific lane, but that is very adjacent to the needs that they're going to have. >> More than you were thinking for. Wonderful. >> I think that's really helpful for all of us to remember. I think everyone who's listening can gain a lot from listening to that. So, thank you. Is there anything else that you have on that on that table there that we need to hear? Well, um, you know, I think I I alluded to this before, which is that, you know, saying something once is likely not going to be remembered, but just if you're saying it to every patient every visit, it becomes part of your routine >> and they're more likely then to remember it um or to go to just have it resonate with them. Um, and then there is a certain pressure that some some um of our community members feel to move on. Okay, start using that smartphone more. Um, you can read now and and just feel like that pressure to move on because you've learned some tips and tricks. It is still an emotional journey. It is um and and feeling that pressure and then starting to just pretend that nothing nothing is u mattering anymore that it just know that that's oftentimes in the background for the patient sitting in your chairs. I have a question about that. >> Yeah, please do. >> Okay. >> So, I think you can answer this better than we can, even though we see patients with vision loss all the time. How long does it take through that grieving process once they lose vision to the point where they feel like they can start offering advice as a mentor and being a part of the leadership of this group? Kind of walk us through the timeline there. >> It, you know, the the answer to that is it really depends. some people and it, you know, it's because of the way they're wired and perhaps the way they're supported outside um uh either by family and friends or or others in their community. They can um you know, they go through the process with relative you know relatively short period of time. Maybe it's only a year and let me tell you a year would be I would say a minimum right for others it's years that that it takes for them to work through this um because remember also I had mentioned this some get stuck in denial for a good long time or they're stuck in just this feeling of depression um for a good long time and so working through anything else it just um It it can vary and it can take longer than you might expect. Um and and we oftentimes and I feel this way with myself. I I am much more impatient with myself than I am with others. So you can start to think like, oh for goodness sake, I should be over this by now, right? Everybody has their thing and this happens to be mine and I just need to get on with it. Well, that oftentimes isn't very helpful, right? to to have the kind of patience with yourself that it takes some time and to to give yourself time to work through. >> And sadly, just thinking about that too is the chapters of this, so many of the blinding conditions in adults have progressive components. >> And so even if they've adapted to one level, their disease state, one or both eyes may be progressing and it's just making the journey even harder, which adds another emotional component. >> Exactly. True. Uh Ann, who shared her story in our episode on grief and loss said, "It's just emotionally exhausting. As soon as I feel like I've got my footing, then it changes." Um and and you have to adapt and and um you know, readjust all over again. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Well, I just want to say thank you from my perspective for helping us gain sensitivity to this ongoing supportive opportunity that we have for patients and appreciating how much Hadley is there to partner with us in supporting outside the clinic. And so, I just thank you for the gift you are to our patients and our community. >> Thank you. >> I want to thank you and your entire team. Thank you for what you do. The work that you're you're doing is very meaningful. Um, so thank you for being on this episode. >> It's an honor. [music] Thank you for having us. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast on our website, YouTube, or on most podcast platforms. [music] >> Thank you for listening, and we definitely look forward to sharing more on our next podcast.