When we think of the hallmarks of aging, people think of gray hair, wrinkled skin, um poor bone health, um they think about a failing cardiovascular system, Alzheimer's disease. But one of the earliest hallmarks of aging is a loss of skeletal muscle. So unfortunately, we achieve peak muscle mass by our early 40s. And after that point, we have a progressive deterioration. In some that might equal up to 50% by the time they reach their 80s or 90s. So most of us will lose about 30% of our muscle mass over the course of our lifetime. And that's really a shocking figure and a striking figure. Um part of it is a loss of muscle volume. So we see a decrease in size of our individual muscles. Um and that's particularly concerning. But in addition to that, we see a change in the composition. So instead of just having very healthy muscle in our legs, we see that fat tissue is starting to surround the muscles and actually even developing and building up within the muscles themselves. So we're we're particularly interested in um emphasizing the importance of skeletal muscle health as we age uh in a few different contexts. One is muscle is a very fundamental organ in maintaining physical function in the context of aging and disease. And those are simple things like um our mobility, our ability to walk, climb stairs, get out of a chair, lift objects, um things that really limited a person's ability to live independently. Um the second element of muscle health that's important to emphasize are the metabolic implications of having healthy skeletal muscle. So we think of the um the burden of obesity in today's society, the burden of inactivity and type 2 diabetes is a very prevalent problem that we're thinking about ways to counter and address and we think that skeletal muscle is a primary organ to target um in that situation. The third element that we will emphasize in in the context of muscle health and aging and disease is this notion of frailty that um particularly as we get older we're less resilient to a number of different stressors whether it be surgery or infection uh chemotherapy uh different ways that you might stress the system and that a certain number of percentage of individuals are unable to tolerate that stress. They're they're they're stressed their system and body breaks down and they're not able to get back to that level of baseline that they were at before. And we consider this um as a syndrome of frailty. And frailty can be um operationally defined as poor muscle strength, poor mobility, uh low physical activity, poor endurance, and a history of weight loss. And if you think about those different components, improving muscle health is one strategy to improve someone's resiliency or to counter frailty. And the fourth important uh element of muscle that we think of now and this is a new and exciting area is muscle as an endocrine organ. So how is muscle communicating with other tissues? And what we're learning is as we u provide interventions such as exercise that improve muscle health, we see other organ systems u improve in terms of their health and function as well. And uh example that I like to use is a beautiful study showing that exercise interventions in older persons with mild cognitive impairment result in improvements in the size of a a portion of their brain called the hippocampus, which is important for learning and memory. And we're really curious about how muscle might be communicating with other organs to deliver health benefits. Yeah. The most powerful determinant of our muscle health as we age is physical activity. And what the data is quite clear that 60% of individuals over the age of 65 are either insufficiently active or overtly inactive. And we um you know I try to be very careful not to use the term exercise too much. I think for many of us there's a stigma to exercise where you automatically think of bright lights and mirrors in a in a gym with young healthy, you know, kind of muscle heads. And and the truth of the matter is right now we know that even moderate increases in an individual's physical activity level, and that could be walking, gardening, taking care of household chores and tasks, um has really a positive effect on our health status. and and that's something that we can't emphasize enough. Um what's unfortunate um but we all benefit from is the fact that we've almost engineered physical activity out of life. You know, we can do so much now without uh exerting any effort or force. And you know, most people think of the obvious things like the garage door opener or the elevator, but even simpler things um we're just making more and more uh industrialized and and processed and we just don't need to do much. Um, so we just uh we really encourage people to just try to increase their habitual physical activity levels. If you can um take part in more moderate intensity activity most days of the week, even 30 minutes, that's 3% of your day. Um we strongly encourage that too. Without question, exercise is the most powerful uh intervention uh that we have to improve muscle health. Whether it's in the context of advancing age or in the context of uh chronic or debilitating acute diseases, um exercise is really the the the powerful magical silver bullet uh for muscle loss. However, there are certain populations that could use a little bit of help in terms of um improving muscle health um as they're aging or with a disease process. Um some of the patients that we see at the clinic might be bedbound for a number of reasons and finding ways to improve the health of their skeletal muscle is very important to us. So, we're looking at ways um pharmacological therapies uh to disrupt uh muscle loss or to augment muscle growth. Um so, there's a couple um therapies that are are particularly promising right now. Uh one that we've spent a lot of time studying and shown the merits of targeting is is is a protein called myostatin. And myostatin is a negative regulator of muscle mass. So the idea is that if we can disrupt myostatin in the body through a drug um we can have a powerful effect on muscle health.