My name is Nathan. I'm a nurse here at Mayo Clinic. I came to Mayo eight years ago and I have worked as the swat nurses, so I transport critically ill patients to procedures. And as of late, I'm going out of that team leader of our central transport department. I started here eight years, eight years ago as the swat nurse. And I've loved that job, wonderful coworkers, great supervisors and bosses. And it was a unique opportunity to form relationships all over the hospital for nursing staff and technical staff came to develop my career in another position for another organization. I decided to give that a try. But what was wonderful as my supervisor here at Mayo stayed in contact. I continued I couldn't leave mail together to continue to come and do PRN shifts and just stay in touch. And my my boss reached out to me, have an opportunity arose to take on more of a leadership position here and our transport department and really made this pathway for me to come in and to continue that journey into growing my profession more into that administrative area where I want it to go but to do it home here at Mayo and then my transport role, which I guess I'm very familiar with. And so it's been a wonderful transition. It was a good learning opportunity to leave and come back. It really gave me a deeper appreciation for Mayo Clinic, Emily for the hospital in particular here in Phoenix that I worked for and how personally, how meaningful the relationships I've built are here. And the enjoyment I get at working here with the individuals, but also from a professional side as an organization. Other organizations I worked for. Wonderful, nothing bad to say, but there's something different about Mayo Clinic. The emphasis that's placed on professionalism here. In particular, the respect across the board that everyone receives. I've gotten nothing but support and respect and that's a shared all across. Doesn't matter if it's from administrators, from physicians, from bedside nurses to any and all staff, the expectations to treat one another with respect and dignity. And that really just flows through and how the culture here at our hospital is. And that's something that really struck me that I missed and I really do appreciate here, appreciate here now.