Our session will be a ticketed session for people interested to know how to use hypomethylating agents in myeloid neoplasm specifically myelodysplastic syndrome as we say MDS and acute myeloid leukemia or known as AML hypomethylating drugs are Drugs that are thought to be working on the methylation of the DNA With time with aging, it looks like our genes become solids by getting those methyl groups on them which makes them less functional and then it makes the other genes likely the oncogenes, which are bad genes take over this balance between those genes that are usually lost and these medications usually restore that balance so many times people are calling this chemotherapy Although they could behave like chemotherapy, in the doses that we give they're usually not. In fact age by itself is not a predictor of how how tolerable is the therapy we've given it for example at Mayo Clinic to age of 91 with actually remarkable response So these therapies works differently They have been only approved for myeloid disorders, although they have been tested in many other cancers I also want to mention that there are actually several other formulas right now under trials for these hypomethylating agents we have more potent hypermethylating agents that has been tested in multiple diseases including MDS and AML we also have oral formulas of both azacitidine and decitabine some of which may be considered for approval as recent as end of this year. As we know hypermethylating agents both azacitidine and decitabine have been approved for more than 10 years Since then several papers have shown that we can give them in a different way, different dose in fact in a different frequency I think this is an important session for us to share our experience and knowledge on how to do that For example, when to use less treatment, when to use more treatment, is the really data that supports one versus the other We will also be talking about how to combine this therapy with multiple new drugs Over the last 10 to 15 years. There's been so many trials trying to combine pills or infusions with the standard therapy to improve the response, duration of response, and even survival. We will also be talking about combinations that were thought to improve clinical outcome and in fact, it did not and what are the lessons that we should know from these important trials? In addition to that we will be talking about the role of using those drugs after bone marrow transplantation. Can we use them? Should we use them? Or better said, when do we use those drugs? From the patient perspective, this is an important session so that we spread the knowledge for community and oncologist who really treat those patients most of the times and to try to tell the community doctors how we can pick the right schedule of these treatments Some of the people will only use the standard regimens which is correct and good in many cases But there are several cases that you might need less drug or even more drug I think this might be helpful for the care of these patients who are really in need for these treatments. Some of these treatment approvals are so new that some providers may not be even aware of it. So we want to make sure that people are aware, providers aware, patients are aware and are involved in trying to pick the right options for their diseases You