- Welcome back to Mayo Clinic cardiovascular podcast series, interviews with the expert. I'm your host, Sharonne Hayes. I'm a non-invasive cardiologist and vice chair of faculty development and academic advancement for the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine here in Rochester, Minnesota. Today I'm joined by Dr. Drew Rosenbaum, who's assistant professor of medicine, director of our heart failure clinic and a transplant cardiologist here at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Dr. Rosenbaum will share with us contemporary approaches to both the inpatient and outpatient diagnosis of myocarditis and highlight the key components of early recognition and accurate diagnosis. He'll give us pearls on the evolving strategies for treating myocarditis as well as a conceptual framework for which patients may benefit from anti-inflammatory therapies and which may not. So welcome, Drew. - Thanks so much, Sharonne, for having me. - So tell us, let's just start with what is the spectrum of manifestations of myocarditis? What are, what should we be looking for and what might we be missing? - Sure. Yeah. So myocarditis is a sort of a very broad term and it reflect, it implies any sort of inflammation that's occurring in the heart and that can cause a presentation from anywhere from mild palpitations due to a few extra PACs or PVCs all the way to fulminant myocarditis with cardiogenic shock. And so it's really a huge spectrum of disease and you often see it in the outpatient setting in someone who's describing something as simple as palpitations, like I said, or someone who has new onset heart failure. In the inpatient side, it can be something as, as sort of routine as non, you know, non coronary artery disease related myocardial injury pattern or you could see it as ventricular tachycardia in the hospital. - So when, I mean that's a pretty broad spectrum. So when should we be thinking about is this myocarditis or, and yeah, and and what might early on confirm or make us think that? - Yeah, so in people who come into the emergency department with chest pain, sometimes we can see myocarditis as in that, in that role. And sometimes they'll see, they'll have elevated biomarkers and a cornea angiogram will be obtained and they'll have a negative cornea angiogram. And that's kind of in the Anoka category of things. So sometimes that can be a presentation and what you can identify is inflammation based on cardiac MRI is the most useful modality. Now on the other end of the spectrum, in the inpatient side, people can come in, as I said, in cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure. And if somebody has a new onset decompensated heart failure, and again, you do an ischemic workup and that's not ischemic and you find evidence that there may be myocardial injury, that sometimes, especially in fulminant myocarditis, an endomyocardial biopsy can be obtained that can help achieve the diagnosis because there are, there can be specific findings on endo biopsy. - You know, I think a not uncommon, you, you've got a patient, they come to the ed, they get admitted, they might even be taken directly to the cath lab because of a troponin elevation, which we later may see didn't have the usual up and down right. Or maybe it did. cardiac MRI has increasingly but not consistently been used in those patients. And, and, and I think what is, what is kind of the timeframe and what are your, should all of them get an MRI and when do we lose a timeframe for diagnosis? - Yeah, it's a good question. It, you know, it depends on the risk factor. So generally people with acute myocarditis might have not, might not have very many risk factors. It might be young people without the sort of vascular things. We think about hyperlipidemia, hypertension, smoking, et cetera. And if someone's coming in with acute myocardial injury pattern or even a chronic myocardial injury pattern, one should suspect myocarditis in the, in that, in that setting. And now the chest pain scenario might reflect more on the para myocarditis or myo pericarditis, but that's still on the spectrum of myocarditis as well and is treated differently from other forms of myocarditis. But importantly, if somebody has vascular risk factors, then you might wanna think more about small vessel disease or something along those lines causing their acute presentation. - So does cardiac MRI reliably differentiate? - Generally it can because people presenting with really significant myocarditis can have a mid myocardial or epicardial enhancement pattern on MRI often with elevated T two values reflective of acute inflammation in, in a myocardial, in a non sub endocardial distribution, which is more typical for ischemic diseases. - So you've talked about MRI. Are there other things other than biomarkers and MRI that we want to make sure we do once we're thinking strongly about, like how do we start the next step of the workup? - Yeah, so in somebody who's presenting with a more fuller presentation, a biopsy is very helpful, but you wanna look for some clues to the diagnosis. So for example, myocarditis can occur in the context of other autoimmune diseases. So if someone has eosinophilic gray mitosis, polyangiitis as a rare example, or something like a peripheral eosinophilia might trigger you to go down the route of eosinophilic myocarditis workup. Somebody presenting with an acute complaint and on biopsy has lymphocytes within the myocardium. That might be something as simple as acute lymphocytic myocarditis, which is kind of the most common that you'll see in the hospital in somebody presenting with complete heart block or ventricular tachycardia, especially if they have a history of pulmonary sarcoid. You might think about myocarditis and the workup for that could also include a PET scan. So if someone comes in with, with, you know, a complete heart block who's relatively young, the differential is primarily composed of sarcoid myocarditis and some genetic cardiomyopathy. So assessing the genetic, the genetic pattern, large gene panel testing for, for inherited genetic cardiomyopathies or, and looking for a pet looking at the PET scan for active inflammation would lead you down a treatment pathway for sarcoid myocarditis potentially, - Once you've made the diagnosis. And we're assuming that you've got the pathologist support and, and all of the radiology support to to, to get there, right? Where where does treatment start? When, where what, - Yeah, who, good question again, the spectrum of disease within the hospital is variable. So people presenting with chest pain syndrome, myop, pericarditis, then typically anti-inflammatory therapies used in pericarditis are used. And again, this is, there's not a lot of data supporting all this, but that's what is typically used colchicine and NSAIDs as we do in pericarditis and people presenting with a fulminant form of myocarditis, this treatment is quite a bit different. You want to get corticosteroids on board in the context of fulminant myocarditis or if you've identified on biopsy that they have either giant cell myocarditis or an eosinophilic myocarditis because those are very steroid response of it's important to get therapy started early to prevent progression of disease and to sort of improve the inflammatory phenotype. So those, so basically for any form of myocarditis, if you identify it in hospital treatment can be initiated then for more rare forms like eosinophilic micro, you want to get the consultative services that are involved in those processes involved. Like if there's a primary hypereosinophilic center, we might wanna get hematology involved. If there's other autoimmune disease, you might wanna get the rheumatology team involved to treat the underlying disease. - What kind of doses of steroids are we talking about for these individuals with fulminant myocarditis Lymphocytic or, or whatever? - Yeah. In fulminant myocarditis we typically use up to a gram of solumedrol. Some dosage adjust a little bit, but it's somewhere between 500 milligrams and a gram of solumedrol. We use very heavy immunosuppression for people with giant cell myocarditis, somewhat less for people with say sarcoid myocarditis with an acute presentation we, we'll often start with some methylprednisolone methylprednisolone but use prednisone as a, as the next agent to get as oral therapy to get them bridged to the outpatient setting. - I was just gonna ask you, would there be any, because theoretically it seems like it, there might be harm one in not giving proper treatment, but if you gave, if you blasted somebody with NSAIDs and Colchicine who had an active, you know, autoimmune condition, you know, may maybe you also harm their kidneys. I is there, how important is having that diagnosis? Or do you just throw everything at somebody who's got T myocarditis - In the T setting in the, you know, dramatic setting in someone with cardiogenic shock, you're gonna wanna throw the kitchen sink at them. You, you wanna start empirically with steroids and get your biopsies soon as possible. That's really an important thing. Assuming you have access to cardiovascular pathologists and if not informant myocarditis meaning people with significant cardiogenic shock and potentially requiring inotropes or mechanical support, you wanna get to a place where you have cardiovascular pathology available so that you can make the diagnosis so you can start to treatment appropriately. But in someone presenting with fulminant myocarditis it's not wrong to empirically treat with high dose steroids because although there's some toxicity with that in the longer term in short term, it's probably better safe to do so than not. Yeah. - So let's say you get 'em through this tough time, what can you give us just a sense of natural history with treatment, assuming you've made the right diagnosis, you've got 'em on appropriate treatment, are there a percent that don't recover myocardial function? Can you give us just some ideas about prognosis for these really sick folks? - Yeah, so on the sicker end of the spectrum, the giant cell microtus, we get triple therapy on board. We get the steroids actually eventually calcineurin inhibitor and the anti metabolite. And is assuming that people don't need transplantation early, meaning you can get them outta shock and onto good medical therapy and immunosuppression therapy, they can do pretty well. It's that early, it's that early timeframe that matters so much for the prognosis in sarcoid myocarditis is, which is sort of, let's say the younger cousin of of giant cell, the prognosis is a a bit better. So we, we start with anti-inflammatory therapy. Sometimes we'll add on a steroid sparing agent up front. We tend to do that in our practice here. But they can also do very well too if you get on top of the disease and then she got on direct medical therapy if they have a low ejection fraction. Both of those have been demonstrated to be important. - What, let's just shift gears. We talked a lot about the really, really sick patients, but you see people in the outpatient clinic where, you know, they present with heart block is an outpatient, right? That maybe they've got their pacemaker, you're seeing them, you've got a little more time there. What's your approach to, gosh, does this patient have myocarditis? - Right. So with any presentation of low EF heart block vt, if there's no extra cardiac manifestations of disease at all, you have to have such a low threshold to get genetic testing because there are so many mimickers of myocarditis among the genetic etiologies and some of the genetic E cause an inflammatory phenotype both on advanced imaging and biopsy. So for example, the A RVC genes overlap significantly with a lot of myocardial disease. And so getting genetic testing is critical in people presenting to our cardiac sarcoid clinic. We often get a whole body PET scan. And the reason for that is to identify also, you know, to identify if there's disease outside the heart, which is more amenable to biopsy, which gives us a tissue diagnosis and confirms the diagnosis. But also to some extent stages disease. And even if we don't get diagnostic tissue certainly suggests that this is a systemic process. 'cause there are a lot of cardiac isolated processes, the genetic diseases for example. But if there's inflammatory uptake outside the heart that's supportive of a sarcoid myocarditis, for example, being the etiology. So we get a PET scan, we have low low threshold for genetic testing, we do ambulatory rhythm monitoring as well, which is important. It turns out that PVC burden and non sustain VT can be kind of a disease activity marker for us in many myocarditis scenarios. So for example, in the most common form of myocarditis, which is lymphocytic myocarditis, generally that disease process is self-limiting. And we don't treat empirically at all with any anti-inflammatory therapy unless with a couple of caveats. But you should see those disease activity markers decrease over time with that disease. Whereas in sarcoid and giant cell myocarditis we use those type of biomarkers to understand whether disease activity is low because we're suppressing it adequately with anti-inflammatory therapies. - What's on the horizon? Research treatment? What, what are you know, or diagnosis, what are some of the things we should be looking to you as an expert over the next year to five years? - First of all, the pathologists are working on refining the Dallas criteria, which are the initial criteria that that allow them to diagnose officially on endo biopsy specimens, myocarditis. So there's gonna be updates on that. And what we really need, just like in many cardiovascular diseases, we need deeper phenotyping. We need to understand what are the inflammatory processes, how it's occurring, and then, then we can translate that into treatment strategies. So there's good, there's reasonable. So for example, in cardiac sarcoidosis, there's reasonable models of sarcoid, systemic sarcoidosis in in animals and we know many of the pathways involved. So what we're working on and others in collaboration are more targeted therapies for this disease because corticosteroids are a broad gun. Yeah. That targets everything. And so we're really looking at more targeted therapies for this and we, we borrow concepts on that from rheumatologic disease, from transplant actually, and try to try to provide more targeted therapies so that this adverse effects are minimized for therapy and we get good, good results. One thing that we don't have, an one thing also that we're a little limited on is imaging. So cardiac MRI is fairly nonspecific for what type of myocarditis, even if you think it's myocarditis. And PET scan is also very limited too, because we're looking at radioactive glucose uptake, which is taken up maybe more by inflammatory cells, but can be taken up by normal myocardium. So we really need a targeted radio tracer and there's work that's been done in our nuclear lab and others to develop novel radio tracers to identify different forms of inflammation within the heart. So that's all, that's all things on the horizon and we're actively investigating some of that here at Mayo too. - Well that's, I I mean that's exciting because it's on the diagnosis side and on the treatment side and reducing the burden of illness and burden of treatment if, if any of these pan out. Exactly. Anything else you wanna share about, about this? What, what is a take home nugget for us general cardiologists who wanna know when to get 'em to you? - Well, a couple things. One is advanced imaging is becoming almost universal in our world. It's someone presenting with a non a CS syndrome or you know, with new onset heart failure or ventricular tachycardia or complete heart block. Think about myocarditis as in etiology. Get the advanced imaging, but don't let the advanced imaging and the report mislead. You. Think broadly about the differential, think about genetic cardiomyopathies always important. The sicker the patient, the more empiric treatment until you render a diagnosis. The less sick, the more time you have to sort of think about the differential and do the appropriate testing. And then if you are, you know, if you have a disease diagnosis established, there are evolving guidelines and we're happy to also be involved in, in the management of these cases since we see quite a few of them. - Of course. Thank you so much. So this was great. It was great for me and thank you so much Dr. Rosenbaum. Thanks for - Having me. It was a lot of fun. - This wraps up this week's episode of interviews with the Expert and I'd like to thank again, Dr. Rosenbaum for joining me today and discussing this important topic. We look forward to you joining us again next week or another interview with the expert. Be well.