Welcome to Mayo Clinic Sleep Medicine Podcasts, a series for physicians, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other health practitioners treating sleep disorders or interested in learning about state -of-the-art advances in sleep medicine and sleep health. I'm your host, Dr. Michael Silber. And I'm your co-host, Dr. Mithri Junna. We are both consultants at the Center for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. The symptoms of narcolepsy most commonly start between the ages of 10 and 20 years, with some patients actually developing the disorder even in the first decade of life. Because most sleep medicine providers are adult physicians, it's sometimes uncomfortable for them to handle patients who are younger, and yet narcolepsy is so common starting at a younger age. To discuss the special problems of children and adolescents with narcolepsy, my guest today is Dr. Chris Matarese, a board-certified pediatric neurologist and sleep specialist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Chris, thank you for coming on today. Narcolepsy can present in somewhat different ways in children from adults. Can you comment on those clinical differences, especially the way in which cataplexy may manifest? Hi, sure. Thank you for having me. So yes, narcolepsy and cataplexy can present differently in children. I think in general, narcolepsy can have more of an abrupt onset in children than it does in adults. cataplexy particularly can present differently I know in adults people usually think of cataplexy as just affecting the legs - loss of muscle tone in the legs, weakness, knees buckling with associated with positive emotion like laughter or telling a joke saying something funny and while that all can be true in children with cataplexy, cataplexy and children can also involve muscles that are not just the legs. So for example, facial muscles, neck extensors, like you can have facial muscle weakness, you can have your head falling forward, like head drops, you can have droopy eyelids or ptosis, you can have your mouth opening, you can have tongue sticking out. So it can involve weakness in muscles other than the legs. I think also in adults, cataplexy is typically a loss of muscle tone, like a lack of movement. But in children, particularly in the facial muscles, you can see positive motor signs or extraneous movements. So for example, you can see like facial twitching, you can see chewing-type movements with the jaw, you can see the tongue sticking out. It also can present very abruptly, like the cataplexy can be very severe and very abrupt onset around the time that the excessive daytime sleepiness appears. So the ptosis and the mouth opening and the tongue protruding may not always be just a brief acute episode, if I understand it correctly, and may even look like a myopathy. Is that correct? Correct. And also in adults, it's typically precipitated by laughter or happy, feeling happy. But in kids, it can present more randomly so that there's not necessarily a direct correlation between laughter and then the cataplexy. Or it can be more repetitive or more subtle but present. So it can look, you know, it can look like the episodes are lasting longer. And the sleepiness, is that also a little different in kids? I understand sometimes it may not be so overt, maybe they are more hyperactive or failing in school performance rather than overt episodes of sleepiness. Is that correct? Yes. So anything that fragments children's sleep, whether it be sleep disordered breathing or sleep fragmentation, can present with daytime symptoms of sleepiness, but more commonly in children, it can present similar to ADHD symptoms. So, difficulty with attention, difficulty concentrating, difficulty focusing, more hyperactive behavior, or difficulty with behavioral and emotional control. So, symptoms that you would typically attribute to ADHD can actually be due to sleepiness, a manifestation of sleepiness in children. Well, this is a good segue into my next question, which was that a recent European study suggested that the median time between onset of symptoms and diagnosis of type 1 or type 2 narcolepsy in children is currently four to five years. Is this rather atypical presentation the reason? Are there other reasons why it's still with increased awareness of sleep disorders is still, at least in Europe, so long? I think that's true. I think it's multifactorial. I think even in adults, the delay to diagnosis for narcolepsy is a couple years. I think that's especially the case in children. And I think that's for several reasons. So I think sleepiness, deciding if sleepiness in a child is typical for age, like normal sleepiness, or atypical or more pathologic, I think is more difficult. And that's because children take naps, right? So if you have a child that is, say, five or six years old and just started school and maybe used to take naps that summer, but now in school, they're not allowed nap time, but they take a nap when they get home from school, well, that may be totally normal for age. But let's say you have a 10-year-old child who stopped taking regular naps at age 5, and now all of a sudden at age 10 is starting to take daytime naps after school. I think that's not normal, and that should raise concern. So I think daytime sleepiness is harder to pick up in children because they have different degrees of sleeping, napping, different nocturnal sleep durations. So how do you necessarily know, or how does a parent know, are they sleeping too much at night, are they not? And also, like I said, you can see more behavioral and emotional and attention manifestations. Yes, and of course, primary ADHD is far commoner than narcolepsy. So, yes, I'm sure it can be very hard to pick out that subset of children who actually have narcolepsy. Well, let's talk about diagnostic tests. ICSD-3 requires a mean sleep latency on a multiple sleep latency test of less than eight minutes for the diagnosis of narcolepsy, but it has been suggested that that may not be accurate for children and that perhaps 12 minutes should be the cutoff for children. This is very different. Is this correct? What is the reason that this difference has been suggested? So I don't know if the 12-minute cutoff, I don't think that's correct in and of itself for everybody as a general overview. I think, you know, the diagnostic, the MSLT diagnostic criteria for narcolepsy, according to the ICSD is the same in children and adults, but that there are no age specific MSLT diagnostic criteria for the different age groups. So that really hasn't been established. So meaning if a child or teenager has a mean sleep latency of greater than eight minutes. Whereas in an adult, you'd say, okay, that's normal. But in a child, it's not that definitive because they can still have excessive daytime sleepiness, even if their mean sleep latency is greater Dr. Mary Carskadon and colleagues in the 1980s did work with establishing or observing normative data for MSLTs in the different age groups. And it's it's related to pubertal Tanner staging. So they came up with a range of approximately 15 to 18 minutes as a typical mean sleep latency ranging from pre -pubertal to older adolescents like about to enter college. And they found that the mean sleep latencies were longer in the pre-puberty or younger children than they were in the older adolescents. So it's really a range and it's in flux as the child is developing, which makes it much harder, in my opinion, to interpret MSLTs in the pediatric population. So, would you pay more attention to the sleep onset REM periods than an absolute cutoff of sleep latency in a suspected child with narcolepsy? I would, but I think also MSLTs are harder to interpret in the pediatric population because there's more confounding factors. So, for example, if the child or adolescent has a circadian rhythm disorder where they have a delayed sleep -wake phase disorder and they're not normally falling asleep until, say, 1 a.m. at home and then they're waking up, you know, 6 a.m. for school, they're chronically sleep -deprived. So, in that situation, you may also see sleep-onset REM periods. And that's not necessarily because they have narcolepsy, but that can be seen in the setting of sleep deprivation. Right. So to make it even more complicated, studies have suggested that the full neurophysiologic picture of narcolepsy in younger children may not emerge on the first MSLT and that repeated MSLTs may sometimes be necessary to demonstrate sleep onset REM or short mean latency. is this also your experience? And if so, is it because of the factors you've just described that it's difficult for children and sometimes it's also difficult for young children to conform to the requirements of the test or do you think the disease itself evolves slowly over time? In other words, is it a feature of our artificial diagnostic testing or is it actually something specific to the pathophysiology of the disease that the whole manifestations neurophysiologically don't come immediately, but evolve? Yes, and both, or all of the above. So I think, yes, I think narcolepsy type 1 or narcolepsy with cataplexy, that in general is easier to diagnose both clinically, but also with an MSLT. I think children with narcolepsy type 1 tend to have a shorter mean sleep latency than say narcolepsy type 2, which can help with the MSLT being more diagnostic at earlier ages. But that's not always the case. And there's, in general, pretty poor test-to-test reliability with MSLT, meaning if you do one one day and do one a few weeks later, you can get different results. So I think definitely, yes, there is a value to repeating it over time in patients where you have a strong clinical suspicion, but the objective testing isn't diagnostic. I do think the disease evolves with time, so I think you can have more diagnostic features as time goes on. The psychosocial consequences of narcolepsy for children and adolescents can be really profound. Please tell us how you counsel children and their parents and what adaptations you might recommend for school or for college. Sure. So I think just in general, or putting first things first, narcolepsy can be a life-altering diagnosis. It can have effects going forward on learning, jobs. So I think having psychological counseling after diagnosis, just in terms of coping with a new diagnosis that is a chronic disorder, is very helpful. I think narcolepsy support groups for the patient and family can also be extremely helpful, just knowing that you're not the only person that this is affecting and hearing from others what has helped them that may also help you. But then in terms of suggestions for improving symptoms, I think sleep hygiene is extremely important. So keeping a consistent bedtime, a consistent rise time, not really varying by more than two hours between weekdays and weekends, and making sure that you are obtaining the recommended nocturnal sleep duration. So for 6 to 12-year-olds, 9 to 12 hours of sleep is recommended by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine, and then 13 and up age group, 8 to 10 hours. So actually obtaining that as a priority is important. I think daytime naps during the day, scheduling short, like 30 minutes or less naps can be very helpful in preventing the sleepiness for a couple hours after that. In terms of school and work, I think children may need accommodations in school. So it's going to be easier to fall asleep if you're sitting, listening to somebody talk in a monotonous situation as opposed to up and moving. So taking breaks during classes where the children are allowed to get up and walk or have a stretch break for a couple of minutes rather than prolonged sitting can be very helpful. I think for tests or standardized tests, it's important to allow extra time to accommodate those breaks or also to just accommodate extra time for testing. In two specific situations, let's say you have a 16 year old just diagnosed with narcolepsy - how do you address the driving issue? So driving, I'm glad you mentioned that, is also a huge safety concern. So drowsy driving, falling asleep while you're driving is more likely to happen in patients with narcolepsy. So I think avoiding drowsy driving, taking precautions if you're going to be driving, you want to aim for shorter distances to try to avoid that monotonous driving straight on a highway, no red lights, no turns for however long. You're going to be more likely to fall asleep in that situation. Some patients find it helpful to take a nap before they, say, drive home from work or drive home from college. Also, if you're using, say, immediate release stimulants, sometimes low dose before a long drive can be helpful. But with a new diagnosis, narcolepsy, until you're under better control, you should not be driving until you know that you are safe in those situations. Another thing that comes up sometimes when I see younger people who in college or going to college is the question of dorms. Do you recommend any accommodations? Should they, you know, say they should have a room to themselves or they have undisturbed sleep, this type of thing? Is this an issue or not really? I think it can be. I have had several requests from patients for college accommodations, requesting a single room. And I do think that is very, can be very helpful. So, you know, in college, if you have a roommate and they're up studying or being loud or listening to music and you're trying to sleep, that may not be compatible. I think having a room to yourself also allows you to nap or schedule your classes so that you could maybe sleep in in the morning or your schedule, a scheduled nap where you know you have a place to go where it's quiet and you would be able to sleep if you tried to. Good. Well, let's move on then to pharmacologic treatment. Most children with narcolepsy seem to be treated with the traditional stimulants, methylphenidate or amphetamines, but now both low-sodium oxybate and pitolisant have been FDA-approved for children. Has this changed your approach? How do you do it? In what order do you put people on drugs? Do you use the other ones that aren't necessarily childhood approved, such as Modafinil or Solriamfetol? What's your approach to it all? I think it's great that there are more treatment options available now for children with narcolepsy, but I really can't say that as of yet, it's altered my approach to treatment. I feel that, well, I target the most problematic symptom first, which is typically the excessive daytime sleepiness, potentially followed by cataplexy. So I typically go with a, with methylphenidate first. I also think patients and parents of patients are more familiar with the stimulants than they are of some of the newer medications or like sodium oxybate or the mixed salt oxybates or pitolisant. They typically have friends whose children are on a stimulant for say ADHD. And I think that makes people just more comfortable with starting a new medication. I also think those are also kind of more tried and true in terms of side effects, tolerability from their use in children for a long time for ADHD. So I typically do start with methylphenidate as first line. I think it's important to consider though, you know, what's the most problematic symptoms. So if somebody is having cataplexy that is more problematic than the excessive daytime sleepiness, then I would consider the oxybates because that would cover both excessive daytime sleepiness and cataplexy. I tend not to start with Modafinil or Armodafinil basically because they're not FDA approved in under 17. I have used them off-label on occasion, but I typically start with the medications that are approved. Good. Well, Chris, thank you so much for your expertise. Are there any final messages you'd like to leave with our listeners? Sure. I think narcolepsy is a challenging diagnosis to make in a patient of any age, but I think that's particularly true for children. I think it can be something that's very disruptive to daytime functioning, learning, and it can very well be a delayed diagnosis for several years. So I think it's really important to have it on your radar for children presenting with daytime sleepiness or other symptoms that could reflect sleepiness. well thank you so much you are welcome thank you for having me we hope you enjoyed this podcast if so please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in sleep medicine and sleep health, thank you.