The cost of health care is a concern for many people living with cancer. Millions of people in the United States do not have insurance, and more people are now underinsured. The out-of-pocket cost of cancer care and treatment can be high and unexpected. Knowing what your insurance covers and what you need to pay is very important. This can reduce your financial toxicity during cancer care. Financial toxicity refers to the financial stress caused by medical costs, especially in cancer care. Expenses from medical bills, transportation, lodging, and potential lost income. This can lead people to skip treatments, medicines, tests, or appointments, all lowering your chances of getting the best treatment results. This video will show you three ways you can reduce the financial impact of cancer. First, I will talk about why it's important to understand your insurance. Second, how to respond to insurance denials. And third, learn who is a member of your Mayo Clinic support network. But I'm assuming when you're the insurance company, you're just like a number, so they don't really see you as a whole person. and but then when you're the patient it's like you're fighting kind of fighting for your life against this company and they don't seem to realize that so it's probably the toughest part and it seems like they just have so many weird phrases that they would use I think to try to shut you down or um like make it seem like it wasn't important but when you're you're thinking that it's it's kind of um like you don't really have a choice to get that treatment and you're just like, well, I have the choice of either the insurance covers this or like a million dollars in debt just to live. It's kind of, it's kind of a really intense feeling. As Sarah shared, health insurance can be complex and hard to understand. Knowing how your insurance works is one way to reduce financial toxicity. Here are some key things to know about your insurance during cancer treatment. First, do not let your insurance lapse. If you are worried about losing your insurance, please let your Mayo Clinic care team know right away. Acting early helps us identify insurance options available to you. It also prevents any gaps in your coverage. Acting quickly allows you to get the treatments and medications you need. Second, be informed before making changes to your insurance plan. It is important to talk with your Mayo Clinic care team if you are thinking about changing your insurance plan. Changes can affect your insurance coverage, which health care professionals you can see in your out-of -pocket costs. Talk to your care team before you make any changes so you can continue your treatment plan. Third, know the difference between in-network and out-of-network health care professionals. This can significantly impact your medical bill cost. In -network health care professionals have agreed to lower rates with your insurance company, reducing your out -of-pocket costs. Also, they usually have a set out-of-pocket maximum. Out-of-network health care professionals don't have these agreements, so they can charge higher rates and your insurance may cover less. Always check your healthcare professional's network status to avoid unexpected expenses. Understanding your health insurance can be confusing. Many insurance plans provide a case manager who can help explain your coverage. Contact your insurance member's services to find out if they offer this kind of support. You know, we have no knowledge of how to deal with insurance companies because we never had to. The bills just got paid. We paid our co-pay, our deductibles, and so on and so forth. I learned the mechanism to follow up with the insurance companies and to get, frankly, what you deserve. You might get a denial from your insurance company, but as Tom and Lynn shared, you can follow up with them. Many patients are surprised when this happens, but it's important to know that insurance denials are common in cancer care. A denial happens when an insurance company decides not to pay for a medical service, a certain treatment, or medicines that your doctor has ordered. This means the insurance company won't cover these costs and you may have to pay. Denials can happen for several reasons. One reason can be because your health care provider didn't get a prior authorization. This means that your insurance company needs to get approval for medical treatment or service before you can get it. A second reason can be because the health care provider is out of network. Another reason services are considered new treatments or not medically necessary. It is important to point out you have the right to appeal. Your insurance company must tell you how to appeal and what is the period of time you have to appeal their decision. If you receive a denial, notify your care team immediately. We have experience with denials and can assist you in filing an appeal to your insurance company to find a solution. At Mayo Clinic, you have a care team led by your doctor, along with nurse practitioners, physician assistants, nurses, social workers, patient navigators, financial representatives, spiritual care providers, and many other specialists. But they did put us in contact with a social worker and with a patient navigator. So they sort of became part of our team, of our care team, just right off the bat. um and i want to say that that's another thing that we well there's many things that we appreciate about uh the mayo clinic but that in particular being able to have a full team that we can rely on if we had any specific questions we could really go to one specific person was huge and the patient navigator um was crucial in in the in the team for us No recuerdo haber pedido ayuda financiera, no recuerdo haber hecho preguntas de si me pueden ayudar financieramente, pero la navegadora de la clínica hizo las preguntas por mí. Al comienzo no me sentía cómoda y era como una barrera que no podía atravesar para pedir ayuda en frente de ella me di cuenta que si necesitaba porque hablar de tus finanzas es como algo muy personal pues tenía que decirle cuánto gana mi esposo y en qué gastamos el dinero y cuánto gastamos en la electricidad y cuánto gastamos en la comida así que era muy Your Mayo Clinic Care Team is ready to listen, answer your questions, and provide support and resources during your treatment. If you have concerns about paying bills, medication costs, or insurance concerns, there are resources and programs available to help you. Reach out to your cancer team, financial navigator, social worker, or patient navigator to discuss your concerns and find the resources that may be right for you. You know, don't be, try not to be scared, you know, don't be afraid to ask, not really, I mean, I really didn't, to accept help. You know, I wasn't afraid to ask for it, I was afraid to accept it. Beyond Your Care Team, the Cancer Education Blog on Mayo Clinic Connect is an online resource providing free education and support to cancer patients and their support network at all Mayo Clinic sites. It is also an online community connecting you with people facing similar health challenges. Your care team may suggest other ways to improve your financial health, such as planning ahead and managing debt. It's normal to feel confused about your health insurance coverage and your care team understands your concerns. After listening to this session, our hope is that you can be an active partner in your cancer care by asking questions about your insurance and sharing any concerns that affect your care. Remember, your Mayo Clinic care team is here and ready to help every step of the way. Thank you for trusting Mayo Clinic with your care.