 subjected to subjected to light that I actually had this disease called PPFE or pleuroprancomal fibroelastosis and it's a very, very rare and I believe newly discovered lung disease. By July of 2025, I had to go back into Phoenix Mayo Clinic because my breathing and my shortness of breath, my fatigue were at an all time high. That's when they decided lung transplant was the only viable route. They put me on ECMO in Phoenix. I got flown on a private medical jet Rochester. My name is Sahar Siddugi. I'm one of the lung transplant surgeons here at Mayo Clinic in Rochester. Anybody that is on ECMO support, that's critical. If you stop that machine, the likelihood of that patient surviving is very, very small. So I had Pectis to activate him for my entire life. It's a chest wall deformity where your chest wall is sunk in. I had surgery to correct that in 2023. They put two metal bars into my chest to correct the shape of my ribcage in my chest wall. That was one big reason why other hospitals had denied me for the lung transplant because it was too complex to have to deal with those bars plus putting in new lungs. I really don't think another hospital could have done what Mayo Clinic did. That's the beauty of Mayo Clinic. We take on these types of challenges. Obviously, there were certain intricacies of the case. One, he was pretty sick and impatient out in Arizona. Two, he had previous surgery on the chest, which always makes surgery more difficult from a lung transplant perspective. And then three was the sort of how he was born with his chest deformity. So my wife is Isabella. I call her Issa. We met in college. We had been together for five plus years, staring down the barrel of a very serious surgery and we figured we wanted to go through that as husband and wife. The night nurses came in early for the shifts and they decorated this atrium for us as a little impromptu wedding chapel. They made these cute little rings out of beads and that's pretty much like we alone. Not quite a chapel in Vegas, but it's the next best thing. So we got married on July 26 and the transplant happened on July 31. We were in the operating room at least eight times during a two week period. This is the beauty of the magic, I would say, of Mayo Clinic. Truly in this case because it's beyond one surgeon or one part of a team. It really involved a huge multi-disciplinary team and also the support from Arizona to get him here and to help us postoperatively as well in his care. The care I got was just unparalleled. It was amazing. I know that the job's not easy, but they make it seem easy. They're so good at what they do. He had the fortitude. He had the fight in him to get through all of this and that's a big part of these things. For the first couple weeks I would keep getting surprised by how deep I was able to breathe. Being able to do the dishes without getting tired, do the laundry. It's just little things and it just feels incredible. I would like to thank the donor and the donor's family. They gave me another chance at life and that's something that I'll forever be grateful for. To know that he has that bright future that we wanted for him, that that plan that we tried to execute worked out, I mean what better joy. Dr. Suddi is a complete lifesaver the way she took a chance on something that other hospitals, other doctors said, no we can't do this. She said, yeah, watch me. And she nailed it. She knocked it out of the park. Now that I can function, the world's our oyster. We can do anything.