The new cholesterol guidelines are a major improvement from the old ones. The old ones um basically took your cholesterol numbers and decided what you should do on the basis of those without ever having enough uh science behind them. Um they ruled us for 10 years and I I think got many people on medicine to lower cholesterol. Uh medicine that may may lower cholesterol but perhaps had not been guaranteed to reduce cardiovascular risk, the risk of a heart attack or a stroke. The new guidelines uh make it very clear that uh you start by figuring out what is your risk then um if your risk is judged to be very high you might want to uh take some medicine to reduce that risk and then we should use only the medicine that has been shown to reduce that risk which in this case is statins. Uh that's a major advantage or measure of progress from the previous guidelines. The part where the new guidelines uh may fall short is that they basically set a artificial boundary. So if your risk is more than 7 and a half% uh in other words if if your risk is say 80 in 100 or more that you will have a heart attack in the next 10 years you you should be on this medicine. But this 80 in 100 comes out of nowhere and reflects the guideline panel's sense of the balance of risk and benefits uh involved in this. Why leave it to them? They haven't met you. Uh why don't why can't you make that decision? And it turns out that for almost as long as we've had cholesterol guidelines, we've had decision-making tools that help patients look at their cardiovascular risk uh consider statins and decide whether they want them for for their life. And so what we would recommend is that instead of clinicians and patients sheepishly following the guideline that they should engage and figure out if for this patient at this point in time uh taking a statin is the right decision. It used to be in medicine that appropriate care uh high value care was defined on the basis of science. So if the science said that more people benefit from doing A versus B then um the to the extent that you are doing A you're doing appropriate care. Um that is completely insufficient today. You need to not only consider what the patients need from a science perspective but you must also consider what is it that they would want. What is it that they would choose if they knew what we health professionals know about the science. If they knew what we know, would they choose this kind of medicine for them or not? Only those interventions that they would choose for themselves if they were well informed now become appropriate. But that's not enough because people might want things in their life, but they those things may not be feasible given their situation, their circumstance. And so appropriate care again no longer just science. It has to consider also the values and preferences of the informed patient and their context and circumstance. So we're moving towards a much more sophisticated practice of medicine, a much more patient centered practice of medicine in which we also have to do a something completely new, which is to move the decision maker from the scientist in the room to the patient who is going to suffer the consequences and the burdens of these interventions and whose um uh goals we must uh put uh front and center in our decision-making process.