I'm uh Terry Rosenberry. I'm a professor here in the department of neuroscience at Mayo Clinic Jacksonville. These agents have been around since World War II. Uh they were an extension of some of the old chemical mustard agents that were used in World War I, but they turned out to be much much more toxic. Uh fortunately, they've never been used even though several countries, including the United States, have stockpiled large amounts of them. Currently, we're trying to reduce our stock piles, but there's still quite a few floating around in the world. And the concern is they might fall into the hands of terrorists and be used against either military or civilian targets. Not long after these agents became known and and their toxicity became apparent, uh, for example, they uh cause flaccid muscle paralysis and they cause seizures in the central nervous system and, uh, they can cause death too if a sufficient amount accumulates. There's a couple of examples of where these have been used. uh one was in the 1980s when Saddam Hussein used these weapons as part of his war with uh with Iran. Uh and it was these types of weapons that were included in the weapons of mass destruction that were so uh important in uh in that uh uh effort to go to war with Iran. But they also can be used by small terrorist groups. The most outstanding example is the Am Shamriio group uh which used uh these chemical weapons in the subway attack in Tokyo in the early 1990s which resulted in the deaths of several passengers on the subway train during that attack about 60 years ago. uh and and one antidote was found that worked to some extent with some of these chemical warfare agents. They would actually reverse the blockade of the enzyme that caused uh the problem. And uh it's currently part of a soldier's chemical weapons protection kit. But these uh these pharmacologic agents are not useful for some organo phosphates. they simply don't work and they also are only able to work after the individual's already been partially poisoned. So they can reverse the toxicity but they can't prevent the toxicity from forming in the first place. Uh the target first needed to be identified and that turned out to be an enzyme that's very important in uh the transmission of impulses between muscles and nerves and between some nerves themselves. uh this neurotransmitter is called acetylcholine and the target uh was of these chemical warfare agents was an enzyme called acetil colon eststerase which breaks down acetylcholine as a normal part of neurotransmission and when this enzyme is blocked the acetylcholine accumulates and it causes these adverse physiological responses that can result in death. What we're trying to do is to design new strategies that would block the chemical warfare reagents from ever inactivating the acetyl colon eststerase and not have to depend on reversing the toxicity once it's already occurred. It's important to have protection available and we'd like to think that the the kinds of drugs that we're hoping to develop would provide additional protection. So if there is some use of these agents uh it could be uh it could be useful. Time frames are difficult to predict. How quickly would would we be able to go through this step-wise process and actually reach a practical drug. Uh we're probably talking five to 10 years. But when you view that in the perspective of not having any new drugs for the past 60 years, uh we think it's an effort that's well worthwhile.