Hypoplastic left heart syndrome or HLHS is a rare congenital heart defect where the left side of the heart is severely underdeveloped. Here at the Todd and Karenvonic family program for hypoplastic left heart syndrome, we're working to find a cause and a cure for this congenital heart disease for all ages of people affected by HLHS. Unfortunately, people with HLHS may develop a weakening heart muscle with age and may need to decide how to manage new heart problems. Regenerative medicine and cell therapy may offer options that could delay or even prevent heart failure by using stem cells from within one's own body. Our program has ongoing clinical trials using cell-based products delivered into the heart muscle to provide research option for those with congenal heart disease. One of our current clinical trials uses cells obtained from the person's bone marrow. These cells come from the spongy tissue inside certain bones and are the most commonly used stem cells to either directly differentiate into new tissue or to stimulate damaged tissue in the body to accelerate the healing process. Once the bone marrow is collected, it is processed and mixed with compounds to prevent clotting of the blood. The blood is then separated using a special machine or centrifuge. In the machine, the different types of cells are separated into layers, allowing for the stem cells to be collected. The red blood cells spin to the bottom and the monuclear cells or stem cells are closer to the top. These stem cells are put into a syringe and taken to the hospital in a sterile environment. Once in the hospital, the cardiology team inserts a catheter into a large artery in the leg and inserts the concentrated stem cells into the coronary blood vessels. The coronary blood vessels bring fresh blood with large amounts of oxygen into the heart muscle. The stem cells enter into the smallest blood vessels, migrate out of the bloodstream, and release growth factors to the heart muscle. These growth factors act as fertilizer to stimulate new heart muscle cells to grow bigger. The impact of the new cells will hopefully make the heart stronger for years to come. This clinical trial is for children and adults with HLHS or other congenital heart diseases with single right ventricles. If you're interested in participating in the clinical trial or would like more information, please email hlhs mayo.ed. edu. Thank you for your support.