Dr. Kyle Klarich: Welcome everybody to interviews with the experts. And I am Kyle Klarich. I'm one of the cardiologists at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. And today our topic is novel mitral valve therapies. And we have two experts with us today, Dr. Mayra Guerrero, who is an interventional cardiologist with over 15 years of experience, professor of medicine at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, along with me and has a very inter, a very unique interest in mitral valve transcatheter replacements. She has also been a PI for many clinical trials, but more recently some of the structural disease trials that have had these novel therapies actually approved now by the FDA. So we'll have a very interesting conversation about catheter-based interventions for mitral valves. And Dr. Arman Arghami MD, MPH, who is also a cardiac surgeon, associate professor of medicine at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. He has a lot of interest and he does surgery, and I can attest to this 'cause I do a lot of the intraoperative echocardiography that we do at our clinic and every kind of heart surgery. But he is especially adept and enjoys structural heart disease surgeries and is great at robotics and minimally invasive procedures for patients with mitral valve or any kind of surgery for that matter. But today our topic is, as you know, novel therapies for the mitral valve. And one thing I found in common about both of them, they both like the mitral valve and they both joined the Mayo Clinic staff in 2018. So I'll get right to it here. We have all these novel therapies and many of us are still struggling with what are available for patients with minimally invasive interests. And if you are, and maybe I'll turn this one to you because the minimally invasive world really started with a surgical approach, what a minimally invasive surgical interventions are out there for patients with mitral valve disease. Dr. Arman Arghami: Thanks, Dr. Klarich. Yeah, as, as you mentioned, mitral valve repairs started with surgery and, and actually Mayo Clinic was obviously one of the pioneers in this, but over time the traditional open sternotomy approach started, you know, patient not wanting it too much. So a surgeon started looking for more or less invasive techniques and they started performing this through a mini thoracotomy, they're called mini mitral. And, and more recent years, the robotic platform has allowed us to offer the mitral valve repair, the standard mitral valve repair that's been done nearly 50 years now through a much, much smaller incisions that allows us to provide the same gold standard repair techniques through a much smaller incisions and less invasive that allows the patient to recover in almost half the time, less time in the hospital and less time off work and return to a normal life pretty quickly. This has been shown over and over, mostly by our center and by many other places who do this procedure to be not only equivalent to an open surgical repair, but in some aspects even somewhat superior. For example, less blood transfusion has been associated with the robotic mitral repair. The other one is less atrial fibrillation and you know, less opioid use. We've shown a lot of these benefits in a minimally invasive approach, which makes intuitive sense, but it's nice to see it in, in data and published material as well. Dr. Kyle Klarich: Wow, that's very interesting. So really quicker recovery, less pain, less opioid therapies and less transfusions and less atrial fibrillation. That's, that's pretty high high standards now for our surgery. Great. But we have the new kid on the block that is the transcatheter based procedures, and as I mentioned before, Dr. Guerrero has been leading the trials, the clinical trials in these. And maybe Mayra you could just give us an overview of what transcatheter therapies are currently available to patients with mitral valve disease. Dr. Mayra Guerrero: Thank you very much. Well, you're right. The, the, the new kid on the block and, and it's getting popularity because it's the least invasive way to treat these patients. That means transcatheter means we just utilize a catheter, a plastic tube that we place in the vein or the artery usually in the, in the femoral area, in the groin. And through that small plastic tube we can introduce our equipment to either repair or replace the mitral valve without any surgery at all. So it's completely percutaneous and the recovery is even faster. Patients can be walking same day and many times they're discharged the following day and occasionally even the same day with a completely percutaneous transcatheter repair or replacement. Dr. Kyle Klarich: Well, it sounds like we have great options on both sides of the equation and the transcatheter would be the quickest recovery if all goes well and it usually does and it, but yet at the same time as a general cardiologist, we're faced with all these choices and it typically at our institution, I know many institutions around the country, it becomes a very important conversation in the heart with the heart valve team. And in fact, that's really why we have both our surgeon and our interventional cardiologist talking with us today because that's the typical way we approach referrals. And maybe we'll start with Mayra on this one and say, which, you know, patients is, is if we refer a patient to the heart valve team at Mayo Clinic, what are the patients who benefit most from less invasive catheter based procedures? So the transcatheter based procedures you just described, Dr. Mayra Guerrero: Thank you. Well, in general would be the patients with the highest surgical risk, the ones who would benefit the most from non-surgical approach. And in that we can divide the patients that we see in two main categories. Patients who had already a prior mitral valve replacement with surgery with a tissue valve, or patients who had prior repair with a surgical ring. Those patients, when those devices fail to control the stenosis or the regurgitation of the valve, and if they don't, they don't need to have any other intervention than other than the mitral valve. They, most of them could be treated with a 10 catheter mitral valve replacement. And that has been already, has already received FDA approval. So in summary, patients with prior surgical repair or replacement, they may qualify for a trans catheter mitral valve replacement that is already FDA approved. We call that mitral valve in valve, which is approved for high risk and recently approved for intermediate surgical risk patients or C treated with mitral val in green for patients who had a prior repair for high surgical risk patients. So that's one main category. Patients who had prior surgery. On the other side, we have patients who never had a prior surgical intervention of the mitral valve. Those patients, sometimes they require a repair and there are FDA approved therapies for transcatheter repair. However, when they're not good candidates for repair and they require a replacement that's only available currently under clinical trials. So there's no commercially approved device in the US as of today for transcatheter mitral valve replacement. It would be only under clinical trials. But fortunately we have several clinical trials for transcatheter mitral valve replacement for those patients. Dr. Kyle Klarich: If there's, if they've had prior surgery, either a repair or replacement, that's FDA approved for transcatheter in intermediate and in high risk patients, Dr. Mayra Guerrero: Yes, for mitral valve. Dr. Kyle Klarich: For valve and valve. But if they have a native valve disease, then you can't replace the valve. Right now it's only available through trials. And we'll see how that that comes out. Dr. Mayra Guerrero: That's correct. And that, and those are general research for patients who have high surgical risk because those we the one who would benefit the most from an early device that has not been proven to be safe or effective yet. Dr. Kyle Klarich: Maybe I'll turn it back over to Dr. Arman Arghami what, you know, which patients do you think benefit most from less invasive procedures in your practice? Dr. Arman Arghami: Thanks, Kyle. I think the, the most important thing you said earlier was, was the team approach, the, the heart team approach. And as you mentioned, there's so many options that sometimes for patients and some, some providers, it's hard to decide what's the best approach for the patient. And here we sit down together often or call each other often and go over each of these approaches that that has been mentioned and come up with the best. You know, if you have a patient who has a degenerative mitral valve disease and you know, low to medium surgical risk, first time surgery, we have shown for decades now that mitral valve repairs has such a good outcome. Long-term results, you know, low surgical risk and we did such a good repair that the patient have improved survival, you know, back to normal, you know, general population levels. But at the same time, when you get to the other categories, you know, you have a high risk patient that's really not good for surgery, then, you know, then we turn out and turn to Myra and like, well, well let's think about other options we have. We have, you know, clips that we can offer. You know, many of the, you know, transcatheter approaches are novel techniques. They're sometimes, not all of them are based on anatomical repair, but you know, they, they, they get the job done. So I would say the most important part is having a team that can understand all sorts of different approaches. They're not, you know, biased towards one or the other. Makes a huge difference to offer the right technique for the right patient. And in terms of the redo, as Dr. Guerrero mentioned, I think some of these will fall into, you know, high risk and intermediate risk that would definitely benefit from such a small non-invasive, almost non-invasive, I would say approach that will save them at redo surgery. But some eventually require redo surgery. And again, outcomes of redo surgery in most cases are not terrible either. And valve re-repair or re-replacement can be done. Dr. Kyle Klarich: So I think if, you know, to summarize for the general cardiologist and me that we really have to rely on the experts of the field. It's a very rapidly evolving field with a lot of changes almost daily. I think we, you just mentioned that the paper was just published two days ago that Mayra was mentioning to me earlier before we started the recording. She be, we wanna talk about that for intermediate risk valve in ring or valve in valve, I think that the, you know, interaction between our interventionalists and the surgeons is essential. But of course at, at at at Mayo Clinic, we always involve the patient in these decisions as well. So I don't know, I'll stop there and maybe if Myra or Arman wanna say the more about that, otherwise we could move on to when and how to refer your patient for a mitral valve intervention. Dr. Mayra Guerrero: Yeah, a few words about the rapidly evolving field, because when we talk about repair in general, in prior years we mostly we're talking about a, a clip, a type of repair, put in a clip. But there are ongoing clinical trials, for example, one in which we participate in where we can place artificial cords. So transseptal cordal repair, so it's not just a clip anymore, now it's a, it's a place in cords. So the the field is moving, is moving fast. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: That's a very innovative field and, and it really does take people that are on the forefront to be able to offer the spectrum of options and try to put it in the context of an individual patient. And we all know that our patients don't just come with mitral valve disease, they come with a lot of other things that are also in the background that have to be weighed in these decisions. So that is, I think the heart valve team is an incredibly important part of the entire workup and assessment of these patients. And ultimately the intervention that's appropriate for that particular one. Well, we now have one of our, you know, I'm a general cardiologist and I wanna refer a patient. When, when do we refer what patients are gonna qualify for these types of interventions? Maybe Mayra I'll start with you. Dr. Mayra Guerrero: Thank you. I think the when is very important, we shouldn't wait. So if a patient has severe mitral regurgitation or stenosis and symptoms, that's very clear. The patient should be referred as soon as possible. Sometimes patients have symptoms and the echo may show that the severity of the mitral regurgitation or stenosis is only moderate. I would say even those patients should be evaluated by a heart team, where we also have advanced imaging experts, you know, yourself and your colleagues. What, because sometimes we may have to do a stress echo on those patients to better understand how severe the regurgitation or the stenosis is. So I think if they have symptoms, they, they should be seen for sure. And also if they, if it's really severe and there's no question about it, but the patient does not have symptoms, there may be a role for early intervention, not with transcatheter because none of those are approved for patients who don't have symptoms yet. But I will let Dr. Arghami maybe answer that question in the surgical area because, well, I'll let you answer that part. You know, for what do you do, Dr Arghami, if a patient presents with severe val clear severe mi regurgitation or stenosis, but there are no symptoms yet. Dr. Arman Arghami: As you mentioned, you're absolutely right. If there's severe mitral valve regurgitation, and now we're talking about degenerative mitral valves for, for the time being, we'll set aside functional mitral valve regurgitation, but in degenerative mitral valve regurgitation, a severe mitral valve regurgitation, you can find a re any, you know, if there there's any symptoms obviously, but some echocardiographic finding like the size of the ventricle, the end diastolic and systolic dimension, or if the patient has a new onset atrial fibrillation, any other thing that you can add to that or decrease ejection fraction. But more importantly, even in completely asymptomatic, none of these criteria are met if you truly have a severe regurgitation because, or when we can offer a a, a proven track good repair, even in those patients, early surgery has been shown to improve survival. So I think if you have severe mitral valve regurgitation and the patient is a reasonable risk patient, even in the absence of symptoms or any other specific criteria in a, in a highly trained center that has good track record of repair and low risk of surgery is still surgery. Is, is, Dr. Kyle Klarich: Yeah. So better outcomes in survival in earlier intervention is really important. And I would throw in my 2 cents or thought Dr Arghami mentioned the exercise echo. And I think a lot of times when patients tell me they're asymptomatic, oftentimes I looked at the spouse or the, the partner and they'll be rolling their eyes and then you put them on a treadmill or an exercise treadmill and you find out that they really are symptomatic. But that all being said, I think the, the, the bottom line here is that we can do really well with either surgical or catheter based interventions. And we know that if we get involved sooner than later, that patients will have better outcomes to both in morbidity and mortality. So I think that's a, the take home point from that conversation. Let's see, we, we kind of already talked a little bit about the patients that have had prior mitral surgeries. I think that's a really nice topic that you've discussed very clearly. But is there anything else you wanted to add? You know, we usually think they've had a breakdown of their valve or their repair or some other problem, whether their surgical repair that we have to go back to surgery. But now we, I've already heard from Dr. Guerrero that we can do transcatheter. Is this, is this kind of a complex decision too with these patients? Or how are we gonna approach patients that have already had surgery? Maybe I'll let Dr. Arghami go first this time. Dr. Arman Arghami: Sure. Again, I think it comes back to the heart team approach. There are so many things that, that fall into this dec- this decision making, whether that valve can be re-repaired is one thing. You know, that that percentage goes down significantly after the first repair, but it's not zero on the second time. The second, the other thing that our patient's status, comorbidities risk of sur- reduced surgery if prior bypass surgery was present makes, you know, challenging entry or whatnot. And whether there are transcatheter option available, you know, as Dr. Guerrero is gonna mention, I'm pretty sure there, you know, there are many times that she and her team can, can offer transcatheter. But you know, not everything can be done on every patient. Sometimes we don't have the alternative option and we still have to resort back to the surgery. Dr. Kyle Klarich: Myra, do you wanna Dr. Mayra Guerrero: Yes. Dr. Kyle Klarich: Reemphasize some of the things you've already told us or I think it's a, I mean I think it's a complicated, I think a lot of us are, you know, struggling to keep up with the speed of the advances in this field. So it wouldn't hurt to repeat some of the things you've already said, but I Dr. Mayra Guerrero: Thank you. No, I completely agree with Dr. Ami. First of all on the heart team approach and the multiple factors that are taken in consideration. Also age, for example. So from the interventional point of view, if a patient to that, to us it comes down to two ingredients, the surgical risk, and then naturally. So if the risk is low, there's no FDA approved therapy yet for mitral val valve or val ring. In low surgical risk patients, if they, if they're young and otherwise healthy, they should have repeat surgery. But if the surgical risk is intermediate or greater, you know, for mitral valve valve for example, or high risk in a patient with a prior repair and the anatomy is favorable, I think the best approach would be to offer them a mitral valve in valve or a mitral valve ring because it's the least invasive. And I mean, if it fails, they can have surgery, but you know it, with good anatomy, there's more than 90% chances of technical success. And I just would like to throw one more thing. Now it can be done without anesthesia. You know, with the advances in e echo, intracardiac echo with 3D, there are some patients when anatomy is very favorable, they, they could be treated with intracardiac, echo, mitral valve band and fluoroscopy, just conscious sedation like we do tavr. So not only we don't open, we don't need to open the chest, but they don't even need to have the risk of general anesthesia, just conscious sedation. It is almost like a same day procedure, you know, even more, less invasive than, than a regular mitral valve bar. So the, the field is moving fast and streamlined into the minimalistic approach, - But it's very helpful. So I think this has been a fascinating conversation and I think the take home points that I would have as a general cardiologist is number one, really rapidly growing field needs an expert team of people to help guide patients that may have mitral valve disease, either prior surgery or de novo surgery. We didn't have a chance, and we won't confuse things by talking about the, the, we're just talking about degenerative processes here are not functional. But I would say that it's a really overall great review of what we need to know and who we need to refer to. And it needs, regardless if it's at Mayo or other places, it needs to be a very well developed heart team that helps guide patients through these complex decisions. Thank you very much for your attention and joining us today for interviews with the experts. It's been a great pleasure to have such a comprehensive overview by Dr. Mayra Guerrero and Dr. Arman Arghami. Thank you both.