I think you need to enjoy your life just in moderation. Yeah. And I love pizza. I love cheese curds. It's okay. This is On Nutrition, a podcast from Mayo Clinic, where we dig into the latest nutrition trends and research to help you understand what's health and what's hype. I'm Tara Schmidt, a registered dietitian with Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. This episode, Alzheimer's and diet. Dementia is the sixth leading cause of death in the U.S., and the most common form, Alzheimer's disease, is on the rise globally. Although some factors are out of one's control, there are some diets proven to reduce the risk. So what should we be eating to improve our brain health? Is it all about the omega-3s or some secret superfood? Here to explain is Dr. Brian Neff, a neurologist at Mayo Clinic in Dr. Neff focuses on the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and researches how to improve memory through diet and other interventions. Hi, Dr. Nath. Thanks for joining me today. Thanks, Tara, for inviting me here. So to start, what is Alzheimer's and what's its link with food? There's still a big question mark here. We think we certainly have a lot more insight than we did 20, 30 years ago. There's many researchers all throughout the world that are studying Alzheimer's disease, and we've made, again, big advancements. However, most Alzheimer's disease and other degenerative diseases, things like Parkinson's disease and Lewy body dementia, these processes are sporadic, which means they just kind of happen. We do understand that there are some genetic risk factors, but for 97 to 98% of things like Alzheimer's disease, it's not purely genetic. It just increases your risk if you carry a copy of a gene for Alzheimer's disease. But there's a lot of factors. This is a category of diseases we call complex diseases. There's many different things that likely go wrong for you to develop these diseases. And there's a specificity. So there's different parts of the brain that are affected in each of these diseases. And that part can change based on individual patients. And we don't know why. but there's some like vulnerability to specific patients to have more left-sided symptoms than right-sided symptoms. And there's so much that we don't know. The good thing is obviously our funding agencies and companies and researchers realize this is super important. And there's a lot of really excellent research ongoing in this space. For a long time, Alzheimer's has been known in the public as this incurable, unpreventable, kind of horrible disease, if we're being honest. When did science or research start to make this connection between diet and our cognitive function? Yeah, some of the understanding of the relationship between diet and Alzheimer's really came also out of Alzheimer's being sort of a chronic age -related disease, which is associated with other age-related diseases, things like high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes. And certainly, in my view of literature, in the 1980s, 1990s, we started to get some sense that lifestyle, whether diet or exercise or potential therapies, could help improve cognitive aging. And that sort of picked up in the early 2000s and the early 2010s as well. But a lot of it came from observational work, largely late 80s, early 90s, and then picked up steam in more recent years. I was just going to say, I don't know if this is actually the first one, but the first one referenced that I saw was in 1993. They called CHAP, Chicago Health and Aging Project. This was an observational study looking at the risks of what impacts cognitive decline, dementia, and eating patterns was one of those risk factors or lifestyles that they were studying. Yeah, there is a lot of these big aging studies, and we have one at Meroclinic, study of aging. And when you have these studies where we're following people over time, they provide a lot of good opportunities for us to look for other factors that contribute to cognitive aging, including diet, including exercise, including other sort of cognitive physical activity engagement. So now working in neurology and learning about this in your education and your practice, has this influenced your eating patterns or your families? We both I have very small children at home, so might not get to do this perfect Mediterranean-ish diet, but do you feel like you're practicing what you kind of preach to your patients? Yes, but I'm biased because I have a background in studying diet and Alzheimer's disease. In my day-to-day life, I do eat more Mediterranean-like, so sort of whole foods, fruits, vegetables, as much as I can. Obviously, with little kids, it's really challenging. Sometimes you might need to go to the chicken nuggets, so it's not perfect. but for the most part, I try to gravitate towards less ultra-processed foods. I've experimented in the past with intermittent fasting, but it's largely more in the Mediterranean style. I love olive oil. I love avocados and nuts and berries and that sort of thing. So I've certainly integrated a lot of that. Rather than Mediterranean diet, I actually like to call it like a Mediterranean pattern of eating, right? Because this is not food that was assigned to people. These were not people in research studies being fed specific food. You're right. It's a lifestyle. It's sort of gathered from Greece and Spain and Italy, where they eat whole foods and less processed. Because from my understanding, the Mediterranean diet is mainly a food of people who might not have had as much funds back in the day, and they were growing a lot of these foods. Yeah, isn't that interesting? So let's talk about some of the foods or food groups that we would see in a Mediterranean pattern of eating. Yeah. So in general, this is, again, a whole food type diet, less with the ultra processed packaged foods, high in fruits, vegetables, nuts. Fish is one meat source that's commonly used, but also you try to stay away from red meats. So leaner meats, sort of chicken and turkey are commonly used. And then the good, healthy oils like olive oils are also quite plentiful. We get the sense, at least in the United States, that some of these foods, it can be more expensive to buy fresh fruit and vegetables because they go bad rather than a packaged can of something that's been sitting on the shelf. Olive oil is super expensive, especially real olive oil, because a lot of oils are sort of flavored or might be colored in a certain way to look like olive oil. But it's really canola oil, which has different fat components. I tell patients to look for a green, typically, so a colored glass bottle that says either first press or extra ******, which mean the same thing to my knowledge. Correct. So the Mediterranean diet is you have large bowls of vegetables and you cook it in olive oil. You want to have the essential whole foods and then sort of do all the combining yourself. And I think that's a principle of the Mediterranean diet. Yeah. When people bring up the concern of cost about Mediterranean, especially because there's been a little bit of pushback, I'm going to say, in the dietician world to stop promoting only Mediterranean because it can exclude people who don't have the means to have this olive oil in a glass bottle salmon type deal. So I argue that you can still eat tuna that's in a can, which is real cheap, even frozen vegetables if they're flash frozen, and that's it. You can still have any kind of fruit. I don't care what kind of fruit it is. You can have whole grains, oats, super cheap, beans, super cheap. And it doesn't have to be olive oil if you don't like that or can't afford that. That's okay. A big thing with the Mediterranean diet is just decreasing saturated fat. Like butters and red meats. Less red meat, high-fat dairy, tropical oils. But also not being afraid of other fats that are found in the nuts and avocados and the unsaturated oils that we take. There are a few main diets that are proven to support brain health. First, there's the Mediterranean diet, which emphasizes whole foods, fish, olive oil, nuts, and fewer processed foods. And it's not as fancy as it sounds. You can eat Mediterranean -style on a budget, with canned tuna, frozen veggies, beans, and oats. It also involves movement and social connection, so feel free to do more walking, cooking with family, and sharing meals too. That said, we all like our snacks here and there, and restriction isn't always sustainable. So focus on what you can add to your diet instead of what you're cutting out. So we've covered the Mediterranean diet, which most people are familiar with. Next, let's talk about the other two major diets that experts point to when it comes to preventing and delaying Alzheimer's disease. There's DASH, which stands for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension. It's low in sodium and high in nutrients like calcium, magnesium, protein, and fiber. Again, it's focused on whole, nutrient -dense foods. And then there's the MIND diet, which Dr. Nath and I will get into now. MIND is actually a combination of the DASH diet and the Mediterranean diet. So they combine the whole long list of words and it spells out MIND, M-I-N-D, Mediterranean and Dash Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay. I had that written down on a piece of paper. I did not just pull that out of my brain. It's too long. MIND. It's long, but it's a beautiful acronym though. MIND. I mean, that was... Yeah, how cool. That person deserves a raise to design that. Can you break down the differences between Mediterranean, MIND, and Dash? So there's sort of similarities between all of them, but the least restrictive is Mediterranean. The most restrictive is probably the dash. And then the mind is in the middle of those, I think. It's a mix. I think one distinction is that the Mediterranean diet versus the mind diet is Mediterranean diet is a little bit more open to things like more lax. Yeah, more red meats are OK, a little more butter, which in the Midwest, a big favorite is something that is actually kind of frowned upon more in a mind diet, unless you're doing like a part skim mozzarella. But it's more the full fat dairy products. And in a Mediterranean diet, they're more lax with that. So I think the mind really focuses more on taking some of the good aspects of the Mediterranean, but then being a little bit more restrictive than the Mediterranean. The DASH specifically, which is the combination diet, is more focused on lowering like sodium. Because of hypertension. But also incorporating a lot of good vegetables and stuff. Yeah. And I think that you've mentioned green leafy vegetables and blueberries multiple times. I'm just going to say berries because eat all the berries, everyone. But those actually are pretty specific foods, like individual food groups, let's call them berries and dark leafy green things that we have the most research on. When people ask me, like, what should I eat for brain health? We talk about the mind diet and we talk about plants, but I do bring up green leafy veggies and berries. Leafy greens, obviously you get the fiber and other aspects, but looking at the micronutrients, I think it is some of the antioxidant vitamins like vitamin E, which has, from my understanding, the most evidence supporting it in Alzheimer's disease and cognitive aging as well by itself, But more so in the specific foods where vitamin E is found in. So one aspect of doing these dietary interventions is you get these very robust nutrients, but you get multiple versions of them that your body may need. With blueberries, you have some of these chemical compounds that give blueberries or... Anthosions. Anthosions. There you go. So you give the deep, dark, rich blues and reds and purples. Those colors also produce antioxidant type effects, which has, again, looking at reducing the inflammation, same thing with a vitamin E would do. And then the fats and such that are included, again, provide the omega-3s that are important for brain health and blood vessel health. I like that you brought up kind of the benefits of fat and actually the fat cells in our body. And so when I talk to patients about fatty fish actually being better and using olive oil and nuts and seeds and avocados, sometimes they kind of freak out. That's correct. And part of the study that I helped design, our controlled diet was the American heart diet, which is a low fat diet, really an opposite of a ketogenic diet. But I'm very biased, again, because I'm a neurologist and love the brain. Good quality fats are absolutely fundamental for brain health and the health of the cardiovascular system. I grew up in the 90s, and certainly I remember we went from you're eating butter, and then there was a war on eggs, and then we switched to margarine because that was better than butter. But it turns out it was probably worse than butter. And now people don't know what to think. And then butter was on Time Magazine, right? I feel like butter is back. That confused the heck out of everyone. Yes, it did. And you can see people and patients in clinic when they grew up, those really developmental years, a lot of their food preferences can even be based on what they were being told by the government or the food pyramids of the day. And it's quite interesting because it changes quite often. And that's kind of a blessing and a curse of nutrition, right? It's fast moving, which can be overwhelming for myself, even as a dietician and you as a physician. And if it's overwhelming for us, let's think about the rest of the population who's just trying to understand what healthy dieting means the only other one i'm going to bring up is fiber which is a big whole group of whole grains and fruits and vegetables and beans there's not a specific food but fiber which is going to come from plants likely exclusively right that can provide us with more antioxidants more anti-inflammatory processes has been linked to kind of protecting our brain against age-related neurodegenerative conditions, so Alzheimer's and Parkinson's included. Yeah, I think it's really fundamental, again, going more towards those whole foods, because I can eat a strawberry or I can take some strawberry and juice it. I don't know if we do that. But, you know, you want to eat the food in its natural form because the fibers are important. There's nutrients and such in there. It actually helps slow digestion. It affects the gut microbiome, which has been linked to different brain diseases and brain health. So the gut-brain connection. Hugely popular right now. What are the most essential nutrients we need from our foods if we're trying to target good brain health? There's a couple things. So if we think about proteins, but they also have a lot of nutrients in them. When we look at olive oils and some of the omega-3s, particularly for brain health, which is really made up largely of fats and oils and cholesterols, it's important to have the good quality fats that make up the cell membranes in the brain to have good brain health. There's also some micronutrients like vitamin E that might be present in some of those fats. And that's where you get to the vegetables and some of the fruits, which have a lot of good fibers, which can help some of the insulin spikes when you're eating some sugars as well. But they also have a lot of the micronutrients, the vitamin E's, some of the vitamin A's and other stuff that have been studied. And the MIND diet, which includes the Mediterranean and a DASH-type diet, focuses more on those micronutrients that is coming from green leafy vegetables and things like blueberries and other dark fruits. Yeah. DASH, we're looking at calcium. We're looking at potassium a little bit more than Mediterranean. Yeah. Because that was intentional, right, for high blood pressure, hypertension. As you said, to start out is Mediterranean is like a lifestyle. It was more organic and it was more of a way of living and way of enjoying food. And there's a sociability aspect to that as well. That's quite important. So you're eating meals with others when possible. Preparing meals with others. Preparing too. I know exercise is technically part of it and not like, hey, everyone has to go to the gym, but you're taking a walk with your family or you're walking to the farmer's market with a friend. So movement, I would say, is part of that big picture as well. You'll see a lot of diet studies and in the MIND diet, they're also looking at adding on an exercise component, but it is all related. We can't look at any of these sort of lifestyle interventions in isolation. It's quite important to make sure that we're focusing on the whole health and not one specific area. I completely agree. But the good thing about some of the diets is that they're not overly specific. They're just kind of this general, healthful, there's lots of plants, there's fruits and veggies, there's whole grains, so it doesn't have to be overly scientific. Absolutely. We briefly mentioned high blood pressure and diabetes. How does treating those comorbidities with diet affect our risk for Alzheimer's? Do we get a two-for -one where lower blood pressure equals lower risk for dementia? A lot of risk factors for brain diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and the other degenerative dementias are a lot of cardiovascular and metabolic conditions. So having high blood pressure, having diabetes, these have all been related time and time again with age -related degenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease. So if you're having these diets that also can have a beneficial effect, treating blood pressure, lowering blood pressure, or decreasing insulin resistance, they could potentially decrease your risk for the development of these age-related diseases. So we talked a lot about the good foods and I like to focus on the beneficial things. I don't like to use the word bad, but let's talk about foods that potentially put us at higher risk for these conditions. You have mentioned ultra -processed foods. Yes. Yeah. So ultra-processed foods is big. So essentially anything that, I've heard this from other sources, but anything that like your grandfather or great -grandfather wouldn't recognize if they saw it in front of them. So that's where we get the whole food. So ultra-processed foods, and most foods are processed. Even if you get an apple at the grocery store, someone touched that apple. And that's fine. But it's really changing the form and then really manipulating the food, decreasing the fiber, but manipulating the food in order to make it taste better and probably fly off the shelves and shelf-stable. There's also some benefits to it. stay on the shelf as well. But it's typically fried foods. So deep fat fried foods are something that's more frowned upon. Saturated fats come from there. A lot of pastries and donuts are also something that's frowned upon in all these diets. Because again, saturated fats have been one of the types of nutrients that time and time again has been shown to be harmful for brain health. But you can't go too far one way. Because if you go on a very restrictive diet where you're not eating any fats, you're going to have cravings because your body is craving some level of fat. So there's always a way to improve what you're eating, but we're not going to pretend like this is black and white. So the biggest thing you've mentioned is saturated fats and added sugars, I would say, both limited intentionally in the DASH mind and Mediterranean diet, which is exactly why red meat, which is pigs and cows, things that walk on four legs, they have saturated fat. So red meat, high fat dairy is obviously going to be saturated fat as well, or mostly saturated fat. And then you don't typically get a donut or a pastry or a sweet without some like butter in there. And again, I will not make my very famous chocolate chip cookies without butter. I'm not going to do the applesauce thing. That freaks me out. They're not going to taste the same. We're going to eat the very good chocolate chip cookies and eat one and not make them every day. Right? Absolutely. I mean, I think you need to enjoy your life just in moderation, particularly sort of highlighting the social aspect of it. Unless you have specific health concerns such as celiac disease where you can't eat gluten and such, having some pizza even just once a week. Or you can have one or one and a half or two slices rather than four or five with your salad to fill you up and get your micronutrients. But I think that's certainly the life and dietary habits that I have and will continue to have. we still want to enjoy our lives. And I love pizza. I love cheese curds. It's okay. But you can't eat a whole bag of the curds. Like the squeaky ones? Like cold cheese curds? Fresh, squeaky. No one ever knows what that means. Not fried. They are cold from the fridge and they squeak. Well, that's when they're fresh. If they're not fresh, they don't squeak. But we live close to some good cheese factories. How strong would you rate the evidence that diet and Alzheimer's are linked. I do think a lot of diets, high in saturated fats and more the typical Western diet has time and time again been shown to be worse for cognitive aging and higher risk for Alzheimer's disease. So we see multiple studies over multiple different locations throughout the world show that. I think that we have to understand that there's probably a link. But again, it's not in isolation. It's not like the diet is leading to the disease. It leads to increased risk for all cardiovascular, metabolic conditions and other age -related degenerative diseases. So we have to kind of think having diabetes is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease, and we can't just blame it only on poor diet. The diet sort of leads to a lot of other changes and other lifestyle. You might not be exercising as much. You might not be as social. You might not have other aspects that are seen or other lifestyle aspects that are important for brain health. So it's not direct, right? Poor nutrition doesn't cause Alzheimer's, but it puts us at risk for it and especially puts us at risk for the other illnesses sometimes that precede Alzheimer's. Correct. What about the opposite, the evidence that a healthy diet can decrease the risk of Alzheimer's? What studies have been done? So there was a recent study, the MIND diet, the team from Rush University in one of the Harvard programs, large study, I believe there There were 600 patients enrolled in that study, following them for three years, where they actually tested MIND diet, including supplementation with berries and, I believe, nuts and olive oils, and they compared that versus a controlled diet. Both of these diets were mild caloric restriction with a goal, I think, of a little bit of weight loss, but the MIND diet had more focus on those nutrients. When you look at the individual data, it looks like both diets, and this is following people who had no cognitive impairments, but they had risk for Alzheimer's. We saw that there was initial improvement in a global thinking score, cognitive score, and 12 different tests associated with it. And then there was a little dipping, but they still were higher at year three than they started. The study from 2015 from the Rush group also showed that there's a slowing of decline. But the best direct evidence comes from that MIND study, which again, improved cognition to some extent, but it wasn't more than the controlled diet, which is actually something that we see in a lot of diet specific studies. And I think it's because you have people that were focusing on their health. And when you focus on your health, regardless of diet, I think that's quite important because you're a lot more in tune. Even if some diet studies are caloric restriction to lose weight, some are caloric neutral. Almost everyone loses weight because you're actually focusing on what you're eating and probably exercising more, even though we tell you to stay the same and all this other stuff that has some effect on the brain health. And one thing that I have seen in terms of delaying the progression of Alzheimer's is just this plant -based diet, which we've said a million times, because that has been shown to improve blood sugar, insulin resistance, like you said, and cholesterol. Now our blood vessels are more protected. And now we have a lower risk of ****** and dementia. And again, now we're talking about the health of our brain tissue, which is associated with Alzheimer's. That's correct. There's an entity in the cognitive aging and imaging world. It's called white matter hyperintensities. And there's these little white spots that you can see on some of the brain images. And this is related to risk factors like high blood pressure. But these are changes that happen over really years or decades of life. But we know seeing these little spots, even though someone might not have any symptoms from it or no memory loss, that's a risk factor for many brain diseases. And by focusing on some of these dietary interventions, which could also impact blood sugars and blood pressure, you'd have the likelihood of decreasing even those types of spots, which are important for brain health. When patients have Alzheimer's, sometimes depending on their symptoms, there's actually some nutritional risks there or changes to their nutritional eating, drinking patterns. Do you want to talk about some of those? Yes, it depends on Alzheimer's and other dementias. It depends on what parts of the brain are affected by some of the symptoms that you get. But certainly we ask about and are aware of patients who have changes in food preferences. I personally see a lot of patients that crave sweets more, simple sugar type sweets. So you'll see a lot of snacking throughout the day. But there's also the whole other side of the spectrum where people won't remember to eat. So you need reminders. And that's when you go into a nutrient deficiency. So you can have patients that gain 20, 30, 40 pounds because they're snacking and eating sugar. Or the opposite, where people start to become frail and nutrient deficient, which is probably even worse. because we know that frailty and not having the adequate nutrition, particularly that protein and micronutrients is quite bad for mortality, for longevity of life, even if you have Alzheimer's or otherwise healthy. It tends to be a U-shaped curve, right? Where patients who are very underweight or low weight have higher risk, right, of mortality, morbidity, and then it kind of slows down. We've got these moderate, typically like a BMI of 27, 28, tends to be the lowest part of that U. and then we get into diagnoses of overweight and obesity and it goes back up so not that you have to be a perfect way but it tends to be a u -shaped curve it is and we see that a lot throughout medicine as well there's a sweet spot and you kind of want to be in there you want to be robust right because you're talking about like falls and other sometimes you trip if you fall down you don't want to break a hip but if you have a little cushion there you go that's a good version that's what very thin, which largely could be a nutritional problem. For solid brain health, experts point to the MIND diet, which stands for Mediterranean Dash Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay, which encourages leafy greens, whole grains, and berries. Research shows they're packed with nutrients like fiber and vitamin E that support brain health. All three of the diets we mentioned, Mediterranean, Dash, and MIND, share the same core idea, prioritizing plant -based dishes with lots of unsaturated fats. While a poor diet isn't directly linked to Alzheimer's, we know that foods that increase your chances of diabetes or heart disease, like ultra-processed foods and red meat, also increase your chances of neurodegenerative disease. After a diagnosis, Alzheimer's patients may face nutritional challenges. Some people develop stronger cravings for sweets and gain weight, while others forget to eat and become frail or malnourished. Getting enough protein and essential vitamins is super important for overall health and longevity. Lastly, let's discuss the impact and importance of supplements and medication, and whether there are any other brain-healthy diets out there. What's the role of caregivers when it comes to patients with Alzheimer's and their eating patterns. Caregivers play a very active role, and that includes family, friends, but also sometimes nurses and other team members who come in to help. It's important just to be aware of some of the limitations and changes that could happen and to make sure that patients are eating good food, even if it's not a Mediterranean diet, but just eating a good amount of food, including all the major groups. Yeah, I think there's a big risk of dehydration. Absolutely, absolutely. As well as, like you said, inadequate nutrition, sometimes can the medications impact appetite? Certainly some of the stimulant medications can. We don't use that too much, but I think it's more of just not being aware of even the internal signals. There's this term we use called anasognosia, which means I'm not even aware I have a problem or a brain disease, or I might not even be aware of sort of the internal feelings that we're experiencing in our body, the hunger signals or the opposite. Like, oh, I forgot I just ate. And we see that in medication. So some people can just, it's a Monday, I take my medication. Then a couple minutes later, it's Tuesday, take that medication. Wednesday, it's still Monday, but you're taking the medication. But you can see that with obviously eating as well. And this is individual and the caregiver is likely aware of this, but there's even some suggestions like don't have a crazy octagon patterned tablecloth because that can be distracting. Or serve one food at a time instead of multiple. Make sure you're checking the temperature because they may not. Making sure not to rush the patient. So there's a lot out there just to support caregivers in terms of this may work to ideally decrease the stress around mealtime, but also make sure that the patient is getting adequate nutrition and hydration. And, you know, even smaller meals are having options. I'd rather have someone eat something that they like, then nothing at all. And so finding out the things that your loved ones actually want to eat will be quite important. Say, I'm walking down the aisle at my local supplement store, and I see thousands of supplements, some which actually refer to brain health right on the label. I know you said vitamin E works. Are there any other supplements that are helpful? So this is a question we get in clinic at least 10 times a week. And I can tell you, but in general, the answer is we don't know, okay? Because these supplements or even things that are marketed towards brain health really haven't been studied in randomized clinical trials, which is really the gold standard of level of evidence for us to kind of talk about in clinic. When we're looking at nutrients and supplements, certainly everyone talks about vitamin B12 and folate and other nutrients. Vitamin D is something that's commonly discussed. in general unless you have a clear deficiency it's not something that we can recommend on mass scale other than something like a vitamin e which has at least probably the strongest evidence in the space and even you know omega-3s you can have fish oil i think it's good but might be just as beneficial just to eat some olive oil or some fish and probably more and something that was brought up in the mind diet but most big diet studies is that there's benefits to whole foods more so than the individual nutrients themselves. So you get the fibers, you get other versions of these vitamins that we're not getting if we're isolating one specific vitamin in a pill. I think you mentioned keto before. So let's talk about other diets. Keto, intermittent fasting, and those are not only trendy, I'm going to say, but they also sometimes are used clinically. So if you had a patient come into your office and say, should I do keto or should I do intermittent fasting to prevent or decrease my risk of Alzheimer's, what would your answer be? Tough question. Again, I'm biased and ran a study I'm still publishing in the ketogenic diet. I'll tell you based on personal experience, but also just being a human, I think being on a ketogenic diet, particularly for long term, is too restrictive for me to comfortably recommend unless the evidence is better. Being on a ketogenic diet for a year probably is not something you want to do, but there could potentially be benefits if you go on a few weeks at a time, even like three or four weeks, twice a year. So every six months you go on these short stretches because that will actually improve some of the insulin signaling pathways, improve the balance of the lipids as well. But obviously the ketogenic diet is very restrictive. So it's something that probably too restrictive to recommend. Intermittent fasting is interesting. I don't know of any large studies, but essentially the only thing that's restricted in intermittent fasting is time. I like it more and something that I actually do myself because it doesn't restrict food groups. You still have to be cautious for two things. One, you need to get all your nutrients. You need to get your calories unless you're trying to lose weight. But two is, particularly if you're not eating lunch and breakfast, is binging and overeating. And when your stress hormones are up because you haven't eaten all day, particularly when you first start, you overeat and you overeat the bad stuff that is going to be counterproductive to this. So you still have to have a healthy diet, even if you're doing intermittent fasting. There's no perfect diet in that sense, which goes back to really the Mediterranean type diet, which I think is probably best overall. So I think that evidence has concluded for us that the MIND diet is beneficial for prevention. Am I supposed to go on the MIND diet when I turn 18? I don't have to worry about it until I'm 50. When should we start to really focus on this style of diet, if that's a risk in our family or if it's a personal concern? It goes back to the lifestyle, especially in the Western world. In America, we think of diets as restrictions, but also something you're going to do just for a short amount of time because you want to get ready for summer. Right. I think if you integrate a lifestyle or some routine where you're changing the way you eat, it doesn't have to be all or nothing. And it's probably the best way to think about diet. it. It's a lifestyle sort of thing, more so than a specific time period. When someone gets a diagnosis of Alzheimer's, is it kind of too late or should they change their diet immediately? How large of changes should someone really make and can they make now that they have that diagnosis? Yeah. With Alzheimer's disease, it's a degenerative disease of the brain. It's not curable. And we have new medications now that help, but it still gets worse over time. So I think this has to be any advice that we give is in that context. So certainly when you come to Mayo and see us, we're going to talk about diet. It's important to talk about brain health and lifestyle and other interventions. And we do talk about Mediterranean diet mainly, these whole food type diets, because that's where the literature as we just talked about lies. But I'm always frank with patients and say, look, if you enjoy having a ball of ice cream, I think it's fine to have a ball of ice cream. There's benefits to these diets, but you have to enjoy your life. You need to enjoy every single aspect of it, including eating things you enjoy. Yeah, my 85-year-olds in cardiac rehab, if they have drank whole milk their whole life, I'm not going to ask them to stop. Yeah, we shouldn't. We're good. And if we get to 85, that's... They're doing pretty good. They're doing pretty good. something went right. I feel like I need to go eat like a salad with salmon and olive oil and something very Mediterranean tonight. I really appreciate your time and your expertise. So thank you, Dr. Neff, for being here today. Yeah, well, thanks for having me. If you're caring for someone with Alzheimer's disease, it's important to keep a close eye on their nutrition and hydration. They might forget to eat or lose awareness of their hunger signals. It's crucial to be patient, minimize distractions during mealtimes, and offer foods the person enjoys. Any nutrition is better than none. And when it comes to supplements, eating whole foods is far more beneficial than relying on pills. Above all, life should be enjoyed, and food is part of that joy. Diagnosis or not, there's nothing wrong with the occasional treat, like ice cream or a little cheese curd. That's all for this episode. But if you have a follow-up question, leave us a voicemail at 507-538-6272. We'll answer it in a future episode. For more On Nutrition episodes and resources, check us out online at mayoclinic.org slash onnutrition. And if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us on Apple Podcasts or your favorite podcast app. It really helps others find our show. Thanks for listening. And until next time, eat well and be well.