- Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Hello, I'm Dr. Steve Kopecky, a preventive cardiologist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. And I wanna welcome you to another one of our interviews with the Experts Prevention Series. Today it's my great pleasure to introduce my colleague and friend, Dr. Affan Irfan who's assistant professor of medicine. He is a very involved in our prevention clinic, in our Echo lab, in our outreach treatment efforts. So welcome Dr. Irfan. - Dr. Affan Irfan: Thank you, Dr. Dr. Kopecky. Thank you for having me. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: And today the title is Obesity and Hypertension, risk Factors in terms of Prevention and Decreasing the Risk for HFpEF or Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction. So Dr. Irfan what is HFpEF and and what are its risk factors - Dr. Affan Irfan: That, that Yeah, that's, that's a really good question. To start off with, what, what I would do is I will go back to the basics just just to remind everyone that, as you know, the heart has four chambers. So we have two top chambers, the atria, two bottom chambers called the ventricles and the right and left side. So typically with every heartbeat, each of these chambers is supposed to contract or squeeze, and that is a systolic phase. But then each chamber also have to relax, and that's the relaxation phase or diastoly. So the cardiac function or the ejection fraction. When we talk about, we typically refer to the left bottom chamber, which is the left ventricle, but there's so much other things going on as well. There's three other chambers and there's diastoly part as well. So that ejection fraction, typically the number that you look for is about 50%, slightly above. 50% is considered normal. So that 50% is the percentage of blood that is pumped out from the left ventricle with every heartbeat. So the rest 50% remains in that fill with the next heartbeat. But what is interesting is what many people don't realize is the diastoly part or the relaxation part is also equally important. And that is where actually most of the en energy is actually spent. So if there's any problem either in the systolic phase or diastolic or the relaxation phase, both of them can lead to heart failure. So with that background, now, let me talk about the heart failure itself. What is heart failure? The term heart failure refers to the inability for the heart to pump blood effectively to meet the body demands. So I'll come back to this about what does it mean at rest or with exercise, but it could be either, it could be just at rest, which is much more later forms of the disease, it could be early on as well. It could just manifest with physical activity. And this then typically leads to the classic symptoms that we know, which is shortness of breath, getting tired, easy and swelling. Swelling is typically in the legs, that's the extra fluid or overload. So way back in the past, we just focus on the heart failure subtype, which was the cardiac function or the ejection fraction. If it was less than 50 or less than 40%, when now it is called reduced heart function. But now we know that heart function, even though normal or preserved, if it stays above 50%, can still have heart failure. And that is the preserved ejection fraction. So the way the heart failure is now subdivided is less than 40%, it's reduced more than 50% is called preserved, and 40 to 50 is is the mid-range or mildly reduced function. And the important thing is that the risk factors between the two is also different. So typically for the reduced ejection fraction, the more common risk factor is coronary artery disease or heart attacks. But with the heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, we have this growing burden of chronic conditions, namely hypertension, obesity, chronic kidney disease, other metabolic disorders. And all of these are, are growing in burden and so is as these risk factors are growing, so is the burden for HFpEF or heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. In fact, now we are seeing that of all the heart failure types, the HFpEF accounts for 50% of all heart failures. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: It's almost a a, a term we use loosely, but probably wrongly diastoly calling it relaxation. It really isn't relaxation. It takes more energy than, than systole. That's, that's fascinating. So the risk factors for, for HFpEF, you mentioned obesity, hypertension, how common are those, you know, in the general public, and then how common are they in people with HFpEF? - Dr. Affan Irfan: Well, yes. Well, yeah, those two risk factors are known to be the most common, most prevalent, strong risk factors for HFpEF. Obesity itself, as you know, are nearly half 50% of US adults have hypertension. And this is the strongest risk factor for HFpEF. So those patients with HFpEF, we see hypertension up to 80% among them. In fact, as you know, HFpEF was first recognized as a cardiac disease for hypertension. So the same, same findings that we see either symptoms or signs or symptoms we in, in patients with chronic hypertension and cardiac manifestations, we see that in HFpEF, but we know hypertension is not the only cause for HFpEF. So, which is now it is more rightly caused HFpEF rather than hypertensive heart disease. So, so 50% of US adults have have hypertension, and among HFpEF, 80% of them have hypertension. As for for obesity, almost again, 40% of the adults have have obesity and almost double, again, 70 to 80% patients with HFpEF have obesity. So it's almost doubles the risk with obesity and almost two to three times with hypertension. One of the reasons why hypertension and also obesity contribute to the development of HFpEF is because of the excess body mass and fat and the blood pressures that the heart has to pump against. So this then eventually leads to thickening of the ventricles. It causes more stiffening it, and then eventually leads to problems in the relaxation and, and filling problems. In addition, these chronic conditions, hypertension, even obesity, they also lead to chronic inflammation and metabolic changes and that further increases the likelihood of HFpEF. So these factors are, are growing with time and so is HFpEF as well. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Very good. So how do you diagnose this? - Dr. Affan Irfan: Diagnosis of HF is not as straightforward as you can imagine for reduced ejection fraction. We know we can rely on a calculated number if it falls less than 40%, we, we call it reduced ejection fraction. But HFpEF, the term itself has a normal value. So a preserved ejection fraction, that means the ejection fraction itself is in the normal range or more than 50%, but that is a systolic phase that we're talking about. So the diastolic phase or the relaxation part of it more appropriately called if that is abnormal, that will lead to the classic symptoms again. So it is more of a presence of symptoms together with a presence of risk factors. So again, I would, I would specify again the symptoms that we look for is the shortness of breath, feeling tired, easy or fatigue, and then swelling and together with the other risk factors, diabetes, hypertension, obesity, all this. And there are some clues on the echocardiogram and some lab testing that can suggest some stiff ventricles, but there they can be missed, especially if it's early part of the disease. So that's why in certain cases we might have to move forward with a cardiac stress test. So when we stress the patient in, in systolic or diastolic, those conditions can be unmasked. The filling pressures can be normal at rest, but with exercise or physical activity, the filling pressures may be higher and that is the ineffective blood pumping, and that also can cause the heart failure. But typically those symptoms o only occur with, with exercise or physical work. And in, in certain conditions cases, we might have to reach out for the gold standard test, which is the right heart catheterization. That is when we are going with a catheter up to the heart chambers and measuring the pressures. And that way we can find out about the stiffness and the capacitance of the heart. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Do we ever see elevations or do you generally check NT-proBNP - Dr. Affan Irfan: NT-proBNP if even if it's normal does not mean that patient might not have it, especially if it would be at rest. We have this HFpEF score that again, has, has a combination of things that we look for and it includes BNP as part of that, but again, none of these parameters, presence or even absence of it would mean that the patient absolutely have HFpEF. So having positive biomarkers does not mean that they absolutely have it, it just suggests that they might have a higher likelihood of having the disease. But yes, we do check BNPs in them. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: So you mentioned that that, you know, weight loss or, or overweight, does weight loss help? You mentioned hypertension. Does controlling hypertension help? You mentioned exercise or lack of it, does exercise help treat HFpEF? - Dr. Affan Irfan: Yes. Lifestyle changes is the cornerstone for, for HFpEF and in preventing the disease, managing the disease. So since, since I've just talked about obesity and hypertension, these are the two most prevalent and modifiable risk factors for HFpEF. So lifestyle changes significantly lowers that risk. We know from many studies that losing as little as five to 10% of body mass can lower the blood pressure and in fact improve the relaxation f phase of the, of the heart. Certain diets such as the Mediterranean diet, particularly those that, that lower sodium, which is the dash diet, they're effective in lowering the blood pressures and reducing chronic inflammation. Both these two diets, they focus on having plenty of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, healthy fats, and at the same time, the more important thing is also to limit processed food and excess sodium. So diet is, is is a really important thing and, and preventing and managing this disease, of course, more the salt, more fluid overload and more will be the symptoms, regular exercise and, and avoiding sedentary behavior is also very important and it has to be a combination of exercises. So, and some Arabic exercise strength training. In fact, one of the type of exercises, which is the HIIT training, high intensity, high interval training seems to be also really helpful in patients with HFpEF, especially early on in the disease. So simple lifestyle modification, even just walking to work as a key, parking a car far away from, from your office, taking a a, a staircase if possible. All those things will help reduce the sedentary behavior. And it's, it's important. So it is not only exercise, but also avoiding sedentary behavior. And together with diet, all of them are important changes to, to help reduce that risk. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: And then what about SGLT two inhibitors? - Dr. Affan Irfan: Yes, so, so again, I would, I cannot emphasize enough how important is lifestyle and that is always the cornerstone. So, so always that is helpful in preventing the disease, managing the disease. So after lifestyle, whatever can be done, now we know we have this new class of medications, which is the SGLT two inhibitor, which is a sodium glucose core transporter inhibitor. This was just approved a couple of years ago by FDA and, and which is why there's a bigger push on making this HFpEF awareness because now we also have a treatment available as well. So as you know, like I mentioned, for the longest time we thought of this as just a hypertensive heart disease. And so the treatment options were limited to medicines for, to treat hypertension. One of those were also the diuretics, which is the water pills. And these water pills, as you know, they work on the kidneys and prevent it from absorbing sodium. So you pee the sodium and the water goes with it. So these SGLT two inhibitors are very similar. They work on the kidneys, but instead of only sodium, they also block the glucose as well. So that's how they, they have really a large beneficial effects. In fact, they were first approved and still being used as, as the first range of medications for type two diabetes. So it helps in controlling diabetes in, in chronic kidney disease as well. And in heart failure in both subtypes may be systolic or the relaxation preserve ejection fraction and also helps improve the relaxation part of as, as well. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Now what, what, you know, medical and, and public health strategies can help reduce these factors and, and reduce health hef. - Dr. Affan Irfan: So the biggest thing would be awareness and, and educating the public at large. So just like this podcast that we're doing, getting the word out, also making sure our primary care offices understand this as well, that the growing burden of this disease. So, so education is, is the, is the primary thing. Also at the same time, focusing and promoting physical activity, awarding sedentary behavior, improving nutrition is the, is the key. As you know with time, there's increased burden of these chronic conditions, which is namely obesity and hypertension. And it is still growing. Even childhood obesity is still growing. So educating our, our public at large, teaching them about how to limit these added sugars, saturated fats and excess sodium and processed food in general should be avoided. So those things are important. And at the public level, - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Well, this is very interesting and, and great information, Dr. Irfan. The, and to me it's, it's very interesting that, you know, obesity and lack of exercise are also risk factors for cancer, but the treatment is not, you know, losing weight and, and exercising more. But in HFpEF it's both a cause and it's a cure to, to lose weight and, and start exercising more. So that's a very positive, that's, that's a disease that we can deal with individually. - Dr. Affan Irfan: That's right. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Well, this has been great information and we greatly appreciate you taking the time to talk to us about HFpEF, especially obesity and hypertension. This will be great, great information to give our patients and to give our referring providers any last words of, of wisdom for, for our providers today. - Dr. Affan Irfan: For our providers, I would say especially this disease can be missed on if, if it's not on your radar. So early part of the disease would be easily ignored and would be chalked out to say, just being obese. And that's why you're not working out enough and you're not pushing it enough. But to keeping in mind that these risk factors are very common in HFpEF. So early diagnosis detection is really, really key. And then also emphasizing lifestyle changes and, and, and reinforcing the importance of healthy lifestyle is really important. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Dr. Irfan, thank you for spending time with us and educating us today. And thank you to all our listeners for listening us to today. We hope to see you again soon.