Uh my name is Dr. Tom Joerger. I am a consultant in the division of primary care internal medicine here at Mayo Rochester. Uh I've been on staff here since 1989 and one of my duties here at in Rochester is I'm medical director of uh anti-coagulation for employee community health and um what I want to talk about is um some options for uh using warfin anti-coagulation. Um, we've used warfin as a blood thinner for decades and it's really by far and away the most effective and um, it's really the standard of care in terms of of of anti-coagulation. However, it's it needs a lot of monitoring and this has always been the challenge for patients on warfin. There's always apprehension about uh, oh am I going to have to get my blood tested and and this is going to be burdensome. The reason of course for the m for the blood testing that we do for patients taking warin is well if your blood is too thick you might again have a clotting problem. If it's too thin you may well have a bleeding problem. So we do also always need to keep the um the blood thinning within the range that we uh that we anticipate or that we desire. And so there are a number of options for patients that I'd like to kind of summarize. First off, the the usual um process for monitoring the blood thinner uh would be um uh to have a blood test called an INR or proton. The INR stands for international normalized ratio. There's a group of nurses that are dedicated. This is all they do. They just do anti-coagulation monitoring. They're outstanding at what they do. They'll take us a little blood sample. Uh it's kind of like getting your blood tested if you're going to donate blood. It's very easy. I've had it done. They'll have a result on the INR within a minute or two. So right away we know what the what the blood test result will be. And they'll ask a number of questions about a patient's health status. And then when they when they're done, they're actually given a written summary of of what the dose of of of antiquagulin should be. And the next appointment is then made. Now, um, how often is this done? Well, when a person first starts on Warframe, it there's more testing necessary, sometimes twice a week for the first week, then weekly for a few weeks. After the first month, it could be as uh could go as long as four or five weeks even uh if the if the dose in the test result are stable. But that still is a challenge for some patients. Um, so there's a number of options that I want to uh kind of go through. One is just to have a standard blood draw. Um we used to do this exclusively to have all the tests done by blood draw. Um and the advantage there is while it's easy you can do it at any any lab uh certainly throughout the Mayo campus and even outside Mayo. Um the results then can be communicated either by fax if you're outside Mayo or if you're within Mayo uh we can get the the result. That's the way we've been operating for a long long time with either a finger stick or a blood draw. But there's a number of newer options now that I think uh patients would want to be aware of. Um and uh the one that I'm kind of most excited about, I guess, is the uh possibility that patients test their own blood uh with a little meter. Uh this would be very analogous to a diabetic testing their blood sugar. Um and although there's a little bit to learn how to do it, um in our experience, it's it's actually not hard. But the main advantage of course is that you don't have to go anywhere. You test yourself. And what we would normally uh expect if a patient was going to be testing themselves that you would do this test once a week and then communicate with us about once a month with how the tests are going. And if patients get that information on a weekly basis, they sort of intuitively uh uh do their own um stabilization of their dietary uh um uh patterns. And so we've actually found that patients that do elect to do their own testing, they do very well. They get uh on a stable dose. So that's an option that we think more people uh might want to consider. The other alternatives to the traditional warfin anticoagulation that patients may want to consider uh again if the the whole process of monitoring uh is felt to be too cumbersome. Now there's two medications that are available. They've just been released within the last couple years where if you take the prescribed dose on a consistent basis, blood thinning effect is very consistent and um there's essentially no testing required and we would u expect that your blood would neither be too thin nor too thick and you just keep taking your pill. Right at this point in time, the only indication for using the newer anti-coagulation anti-coagulants would be if you were taking uh warfin for atrial fibrillation. We do expect that that the indication for the the newer uh uh antiquagulants will expand. Why not everybody use these medicines? Well, um first off, because they're new, they're more expensive. uh upset stomach and nausea has been a reason some people have stopped the newer one of the newer anticoagulants. And there is a a theoretical uh issue um or concern with the newer medications and that is that if you did have a bleeding event, there isn't any known antidote. If you're unlucky enough to have a bleeding episode, well, that can get a little bit dicey. Uh this is always a concern for any blood thinner and quite honestly with the newer ones we're still kind of learning how they work and so there is a little bit of theoretical concern of what if uh and can we control the bleeding satisfactorily uh if it should occur. That's a little bit of an issue uh for most people. It's not going to be um um a direct complication, but if one is kind of leery about uh the worst case scenario, well then, you know, Warfin probably is going to be your best bet because we're very familiar with how that works.