Our program has a rich osteopathic culture and history. We have many strong osteopathic physicians, but many, many allopathic physicians that are also credentialed in osteopathic manipulative treatments that can serve as supervisors and trainers for our residents every day in clinic. When I was looking for a residency program, Mankato really stood out in how people were talking about the strength of its osteopathic program and the variety of settings that we're allowed to practice in. They routinely bring patients into the clinic and we're able to practice in the hospital and with a variety of specialists also who all know what we do and encourage us to practice osteopathic medicine. All of the faculty know what osteopathic treatments are, even the MD faculty. We're able to precept with them and they encourage us to think maybe there's an osteopathic treatment that would work for this patient. Both here in the clinic and in a variety of different settings like when we're working with a specialist or in the hospital with our preceptors there. I think that this program just has so many opportunities to, you know, practice OMT and to grow in OMT. I mean, the opportunities, the educational opportunities for OMT here is just a lot, and I think that's very unique. Our osteopathic principles and practice really serve kind of as foundation to our education, and we're really committed to that whole person holistic care. It's nice that it's integrated into the education and so right within the clinic day and the continuity clinic, osteopathic manipulation or osteopathic evaluations will be part of your everyday practice. It's really nice to have another modality to be able to offer patients. It's not just a referral to another specialist. It's a way to build on the trust that I already have with my patients and it often helps them. Getting to see them recover right in front of face is really rewarding for me too and they always seem really happy that they're able to do a treatment here with me instead of having to go somewhere else. This program really has shown me so many different ways to use OMT in practice and so I just picture myself continuing to use OMT and in the clinic and I'm hoping to maybe do some nursing home and maybe some newborn nursery essentially OB and I'm just using OMT in all of those settings and continuing to improve my skills but also use them to improve patient care. I think that the osteopathic program here is one that stands out above and beyond any other residency that I was looking at and that's something that I want to make sure that everyone knows that we're really good at osteopathic medicine here. We're passionate about it and we want to keep sharing it.