- Dr. Paul Friedman: Hello, my name is Paul Friedman. I'm chair of the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine in Rochester, Minnesota. And I'm delighted to be joined by my colleague Dr. Jeremy Thaden, who's an associate professor of medicine and the practice chair for our echocardiography lab. And today we're gonna talk about the growing role of interventions for structural heart disease, percutaneous and surgical both. So, Dr. Thaden, Jeremy, thank you for joining me. - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: Hey, thanks Paul. It's my, my pleasure to be here. I'm really passionate about this topic, so I'm happy to, happy to be here. - Dr. Paul Friedman: Perfect. Well, let's just start with a, a very basic level for broad array of clinicians, kinds of symptoms and kinds of patients who we may be seeing, who they may think about for interventions, often percutaneous. What symptoms would they have? What would be the lesions to look for? - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: Yeah, great question. So I also spend a fair amount of my time in the valvular heart disease clinic. See, seeing these patients, I, I would say it depends a little bit on the valve lesion. I mean, if we're, we're, if we think about aortic valve or mitral valve lesions, left-sided symptoms seem to seem to be a little more predominant. So these patients often early in their course, will present with shortness of breath. Patients with aortic stenosis may also present with symptoms of ischemia, so chest discomfort, chest tightness with exertion or reduced cardiac output. So they may have, you know, presyncope or syncope. And in more advanced um stages could even have decompensated congestive heart failure, mitral valve lesions, because it's an upstream valve compared to the aortic valve, often present earlier with heart failure and symptoms of high left atrial pressure. So these patients may present with, again, shortness of breath, left-sided heart failure. And then if we work our way farther upstream to the tricuspid valves, to, to tricuspid valve lesions, predominantly tricuspid regurgitation, these patients often again, have shortness of breath, but they'll often also have more predominant right-sided heart lesions. So a right, right-sided heart symptoms. So whether that's peripheral edema, sometimes they'll, they'll present with symptoms of, of, of a high venous pressure in the gut. So reduced appetite, even ascites, these types of things are more common in tricuspid valve regurgitation. - Dr. Paul Friedman: Now, maybe we should start there because in many ways the tricuspid therapies are the newest kid on the block, and historically the treatment would be a diuretic, but we have a lot of new options now. So how do you approach the evaluation of the patient with serious severe tricuspid regurgitation, and when do you decide that it's a lesion that warrants an intervention? - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: Yeah, so this is a great, a great question. So tricuspid valve, and we now have two uh FDA approved tricuspid valve devices. We have a repair, an edge repair device and a transcatheter replacement device. And then we also have access to a, a few investigational devices here as well. So the advantage there is that it allows us to treat a variety of pathologies, and I think increasingly in the tricuspid valve space, and then in the mitral space for that matter, we're moving towards a more patient specific treatment mod treatment strategy where we're looking closer at anatomy and, and tailoring the specific device, the specific patient, which is nice. So that's good for patients. But to your, to your question, the first step is, is figuring out who, who's gonna benefit from therapy. And so really the, the strongest indication for therapy are symptoms. So some of the symptoms we described would be the strongest indication for, to treat these patients with, with a device. The second, I think, significant, you know, strong indication would be significant, right? Ventricular remodeling or dysfunction. And so one of the things we're working at very hard here in the valve clinic and as imagers is to better quantify right ventricular size and function. 'cause when we see the right ventricle start to dilate decompensate and decomp, you know, decouple from the pulmonary vasculature, we know that these patients don't do as well long term. - Dr. Paul Friedman: So I, for complete clarity what we do, when you're saying devices, you're really talking about now percutaneous treatment for tricuspid valves because obviously surgical interventions have been done for eons, most commonly in conjunction with other surgical procedures. - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: Yeah, thank you for that clarification. So that is absolutely right. So in a patient is referred for tricuspid regurgitation, we think of the whole breadth of of, of therapies and, and surgery that includes surgery. So we work in conjunction with our, our cardiac surgeons and our interventional cardiologists as a heart team to make the really help the patients make the best decision for, for therapy. And so to take a step back, you're absolutely right. Still the gold standard for, for treatment for tricuspid valve regurgitation is surgical tricuspid valve repair. And so that really gives the patient the best option to leave the operating room with minimal regurgitation. And in the vast majority of cases, they'll keep their own valve, right? So repaired valve and, and, and is, and there's good data showing long-term outcomes, durable repair, surgical repair. And what I mentioned previously was kind of the ate on the block as, as you mentioned, which are the transcatheter therapies which are reserved for symptomatic high risk patients. - Dr. Paul Friedman: Got it. So before we talk about the, some of the different valve types of, of interventions, percutaneously, how do you assess, and, and I we're focusing a little bit on tricuspid now, but how do you assess whether a tricuspid valve is a bystander lesion versus a primary problem where a repair would help? That is, is it due to pulmonary hypertension or is it the valve itself? Because often that can be a challenge for the clinician. - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: Yeah, absolutely true. And so these patients that we're seeing with tricuspid regurgitation, frequently they have other comorbidities. So more often than not they do. And so the, I think there is a proportion of patients that will go to right heart cath, and so we'll directly measure the pulmonary pressures, look at pulmonary vascular resistance. And so it's, it's really important to put, to put, especially for these tricuspid valve patients, to do a comprehensive workup, cast a wide net, and identify those patients where we think tricuspid regurgitation is the predominant lesion causing their symptoms. And so a lot of these patients will end up going to right heart cath to help but tease out how much of this dyspnea is left sided versus right sided. And then that also helps us optimize these patients pre surgically. So even in those patients where, you know, we're, we're still thinking of pursuing a tricuspid valve surgery or tricuspid valve procedure, the right heart cath really helps us to optimize their hemodynamics beforehand. And, and so we rely quite a bit on an invasive testing for, for that purpose. - Dr. Paul Friedman: Tell me about the TRIO score or, or your preferred method of assessing patients as well, where, where we could get some guides to say, oh, this is one where we really could help. And if we're giving diuretics, we may just be postponing and letting a problem fester and worsen. What are your thoughts on that? - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: Yeah, so TRIO score is a, is a, is a, a great score. I mean, I'm biased, I'm, I'm, it was developed here, but it's a, it's a really a nice simple score that was validated in a huge group of patients from here at Mayo that was largely managed non-operatively. And so what they did was they took simple parameters from the chart, some of which were, you know, kidney function, age, LFTs. There, these are objective parameters that are simple to gather. And they looked at outcomes based on these parameters. And there was about five, I believe, five or seven parameters, something like that. But using these parameters, they were able to risk stratify patients with tricuspid regurgitation. Well, some of these were were cardiac related, some of them were probably not cardiac related. Others, you know, for instance, AST came out as a predictor of, of mortality, which I suspect is related to liver congestion. So while it's a liver parameter, probably was related to severity of, of right atrial pressure elevation. And so we can use that score to look at patients and their outcomes. So the higher the score, the worse they do. And so it's, it's a good indicator of patients that we think are, should really be referred for surgery or, or, or transcatheter interventions. And, and I will say as a follow-up to that, we also looked at, at a, a group of about 500 patients and add added quantitative markers of right ventricular function. So the original trio, TRIO score did not have quantitative markers of RV function, but in this follow-up study, we, we added quantitative markers of our right ventricular function and that also appears to be, to incrementally improve risk prediction in this group. And so we use a combination of the TRIO score in conjunction with right heart function to help us gauge when patients should go for, for procedures. - Dr. Paul Friedman: And I'll just add that for those of us who are not valve experts who will never keep scores in our head, I just google TRIO score and I know there's a webpage where you can type it in and it's a very simple clinical, really scoring system as you put it out. And yeah, no, it, it kind of helps us sort out who really should be referred to the valve and structural practice. I have a couple more questions both about the valve types, but the other questions that come up sometimes is a fair percentage of these patients have atrial fibrillation, and there's this question as to whether we should try to get normal rhythm first versus doing a valve procedure first. And I'd be interested in your thoughts on that. 'cause the technologies in both spaces are rapidly changing. On the ablation front we have pulse field ablation, which is faster, easier, more due to, with a safety profile that makes it more accessible to patients who might not have treated in the past. But the same is true for the valve, where now it's percutaneous. Thoughts on when you would choose one over the other. That is this question of is the atrial fibrillation causing annular dilatation and tricuspid regurgitation, or is it tricuspid regurgitation causing the AFib where to start? - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: Yeah, this is, again, these are great questions. So I think this is an area of rapidly expanding knowledge base. You know, I think there are great studies now documenting long-term atrial fibrillation and the risk of worsening tricuspid regurgitation. And ultimately the majority of the patients that we see for tricuspid regurgitation are functional tricuspid regurgitation, and many of those are atrial functional. And so the, in my own practice I have, I have increasingly looked at restoring sinus rhythm as a first step. And in particular, those patients where the timing of, of onset of persistent AFib, for instance, overlaps with worsening tricuspid regurgitation or worsening symptom status because it's very difficult to tease out if you have a patient who a year and a half ago went from paroxysmal AFib to persistent AFib, we see con, you know, concurrent worsening of the triggers of regurgitation and worsening of the symptoms. In my mind, it's very difficult to tease out which is causing witch. And so in those patients, I, I have a very low threshold to refer to, to, to your group, to electrophysiology. And I, what I've seen in my practice is often that these patients will perhaps get an amiodarone load or some type of antiarrhythmic load and at least a trial at sinus rhythm. So a trial at sinus rhythm with an interval follow-up in three to six months to see how they're feeling. And I think based on, particularly in studies that have come out recently showing this correlation between chronic AFib and worsening tr I am, at least in my practice, I have increasingly looked at restoration of sinus rhythm to see if that helps patients before going the next step, the more invasive step of, of, of tricuspid valve repair replacement. - Dr. Paul Friedman: That makes a lot of sense. It really does. And I think we will learn more soon hopefully about which, which one to do first and how to approach these complex patients with multiple interacting pathologies. Now once the decision is made to perform a, say, transcatheter approach, the patient doesn't otherwise need cardiac surgery or is felt to be high risk for cardiac surgery, tell us about the kinds of transcatheter approaches and what biases you to pick one versus the other - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: Good. Yeah, and so right now we have two FDA approved devices. We do have access to, to investigational devices as well. But perhaps I'll, I'll kind of focus on the two FDA approved devices now one is called the tri clip, and that is a tricuspid valve repair device. It's an edge to edge repair, meaning we, we essentially take two edges of the tricuspid leaflets and we uh oppose those to reduce the amount of leakage. The other device is, is a, a tricuspid valve replacement. It's called the evoke valve. And that is simply a, a replacement device that relies on the annulus and some fixation on the leaflets to provide anchoring for a new bioprosthetic valve. And so each one I think has pluses or minuses. I think that the, the, the edge to edge device, one of the benefits of the edge to edge device is it's probably less prone to, less prone to thrombosis long term. And so with the edge to edge device, I think that's one benefit. So in, you know, in this group, most patients are on anticoagulation, but if you have a patient that's not on anticoagulation or has a contraindication to anti, anticoagulation, probably there's gonna be less risk of needing anticoagulation in the future with an edge to edge device. We also, I would say anecdotally have seen less, less rife ventricular dysfunction after edge to edge repair as, as opposed to the replacement device. I think. So in patients where there's some degree of pulmonary hypertension or right ventricular dysfunction, it's something that we think about now that probably needs more studies to, to validate that. But it is certainly something that we, that we think about. One of the challenges with edge, edge repair with the tri clip is if, you know, if you have a patient with a pacemaker lead and you think there's significant pace maker lead impingement, or if the leaflet anatomy doesn't fit for that device, meaning they're short or significantly tethered, or there's a large gap between the, the leaflets, those are some of the anatomic things that might push us towards replacement as opposed to repair. And so replacement so far, the studies would indicate that with the evoke device, there's probably more complete resolution of the tricuspid regurgitation as opposed to repair. But I think we do see a little bit more RV dysfunction if the patient's not on anticoagulation, there's probably a, a little more risk of, of thrombosis with, with that valve. So those are some of the ways that we think about individualizing therapy for specific patients. - Dr. Paul Friedman: That's very helpful. And so again, for someone with a pacemaker, you think about replacement without it, then maybe it might be the clip depending on RB function and other considerations. Now if you're the referring physician, a couple of thoughts. The first one is anticoagulation, warfarin, doac, doesn't matter. And does the choice of clipping versus replacement impact which anticoagulants used? - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: Yeah, great question. A so a lot, you know, again, a lot in this space, a lot of the patients with precusor regurgitation that are referred are on anticoagulation for different reasons. And so that will likely dictate generally what we do, but there are some that that aren't. And so with the tri clip, with the edge edge repair, there's no specific requirement for anticoagulation afterwards. So these patients, if it's only the tri clip or only edge to edge repair, they don't need long-term anticoagulation with the evoke valve, again, we're kind of early in the experience, but generally I think the recommendation is at least three to six months from our practice standpoint, three to six months of anticoagulation. And typically we use warfarin in these patients and that's kind of a standard treatment for, for post bioprosthetic valve in any position in our practice. But I think some of us worry a little bit about the tricuspid, the tricuspid position. It's a, it's a lower flow system, it's lower velocity. And so we've seen with surgical valves that they probably are a little bit more prone to thrombosis. And so my suspicion is, is we may see the same thing as we gain experience with the evoke is that it's probably gonna be a little bit more prone to thrombosis than, for instance, the mitral side or definitely the aortic side. And so in patients where there's, and we do see these on occasion where there's a contraindication to anticoagulation, I'm much more likely to consider an edge to edge repair effect can do that in those patients as opposed to a transcatheter tricuspid replacement where I think they, there is very likely gonna be a longer term need for anticoagulation. - Dr. Paul Friedman: A patient is already on Eliquis, we'll say for example, or some doac for atrial fibrillation or another indication, and the decision is made to replace the tricuspid valve as opposed to do an edge to edge repair. Would you switch them to warfarin or keep them on their current anticoagulant? - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: Yeah, I, I would not necessarily switch them. Now this is again, another area where I suspect we will learn more as, as we get more experience with this device, but I, I wouldn't necessarily switch them. The nice part about this device also is, is that we're imaging frequently, so we're, you know, we're getting, you know, immediately post procedure 30 days, six months in a year at this point. So, and, and typically you can see the leaflets reasonably well in the tricuspid position. So with, even with a careful surface echocardiogram, transthoracic echocardiogram, you can all often see the leaflets. And so the benefit here is that we're screening fairly frequently, so I wouldn't necessarily in my practice switch them, but I think if there is any indication of thrombosis at, you know, at at, at certainly at discharge or 30 days, six months, I would've a low threshold to switch 'em over to warfarin. - Dr. Paul Friedman: So in terms of follow up care, then you mentioned imaging and then anticoagulation at least with the valve replacement for three to six months, edge to edge may not need it as long, if at all. And then other things for follow up that referring physicians should be aware for the care of these patients? - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: You know, I, I think those are the major, those are the major things. The, you know, I think other things are, are fairly similar to other transcatheter valve procedures. Probably the key point is we are imaging more frequently in these patients in part because the, you know, we're sort of following the trial, the clinical trial guidelines intervals for imaging imaging and, and it's a relatively new device. And so I, I think we're, for that reason, we are imaging a little more frequently than other, you know, for instance, tavr, where we may not do a six month echocardiogram. - Dr. Paul Friedman: Sure, sure. And then I'll, I'll just add that for patients who have a pacemaker already, we always check them afterwards because it can be disrupted by the valve. Obviously you mentioned imaging and clearly there's a lot of collaboration between interventional cardiologists and imagers and imaging is a big part of the procedures. And I think maybe we could just conclude with a little discussion around the team involved in making these procedures happen, these very complex procedures and image and any comments you have about imaging before, during, and after and during, whether you prefer intracardiac, echo, trans, esophageal echo, transthoracic echo, and then imaging before and after the procedure. - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: Yeah, so the success of these procedures, you know, it's, it's been really interesting being involved in structural heart procedures for now 10 to 15 years. It, the, it, it seems the number of devices and honestly the complexity of the devices is ever expanding, right? So TAVR was kind of the low hanging fruit. It's a very mature procedure now, LA appendage closure, a very mature procedure, mitral procedures, when we started doing those seemed complex, but, you know, again, we gained experience and I think is, is has really developed into a mature procedure. Now tricuspid procedures are the new kid on the block. And so there is definitely a learning curve in having an experienced kind of collaborative team that communicates well has been a key to success because really every member of the team, whether it's the surgeon, the interventional cardiologist, the, the, the inter interventional echo physician, the support staff all really bring their own expertise to the table. And so having an, you know, open conversation and dialogue for procedural planning within the procedure and, and post-procedural assessment is really key. And so we've seen a lot of these really complex structural procedures. We've seen the imaging actually co-evolve. So that's been pretty interesting. So, you know, seven, 10 years ago, you know, we were doing 3D Echo, but we couldn't take that three dimensional volume and really align an infinite number of planes, which is multiplanar reconstruction. We can now do that live, right? So with live imaging, we can take that three dimensional volume and we can slice and dice it really to see in any of, in an infinite number of in imaging planes. And these tricuspid procedures really wouldn't be possible without that. 'cause often the tricuspid valve lies in a plane that, that it's really difficult to recreate the imaging planes with standard 2D views. And so it's really 3D echo that has, has facilitated really the safe performance of these procedures. And so we can now do that by t or we can do that with ice. And I think each of them have their, have their place. So I think three DT its strength is, is, is that it's a little bit more in the far field. And so it provides this wide field of view. And so in some patients, and I would say probably for us right now, for the tricuspid procedures, probably 75, 80% at this point can be all be done by T. Now we see everything well by T, but there's about probably 25%, 20, 25% where we can't do the whole thing by t we just can't see the images well enough. Or the patient might have a contraindication to T, they may have esophageal pathology or esophageal resection. And so in those patients we're lying more, more on ice or occasionally exclusively on ice. And so I think the benefit of ice is that it's, it doesn't require, it doesn't require general anesthesia, but it gives us really high resolution images, particularly of the leaflets in the annulus for tricuspid valve procedures. And so the way that I see these two kind of playing together, they're complimentary where T gives us a little bit wider field of view. We probably don't have quite the same resolution as the tricuspid leaflets, but it's, it's great for a roadmap. So if we're, when we're, when the device is going in and we're looking at device trajectory and position T is probably a little bit better because it's in the far field. And then with T we can often see the leaflets. But when we can't, that's where ICE fills in for us. And so that's where ICE provides us really high resolution images for grasping or to make sure the device is in the right position. So they're really, really complimentary. And we're using, I think, tea only, I would estimate probably 75% of the time in a combination of tea, ice or occasionally exclusive ice in about 25%. - Dr. Paul Friedman: Hmm. Fascinating. It's remarkable to see how these technologies really are co-developing. And when you think about what historically had required, opening the chest, holding the heart in your hands, repairing a valve, versus now imaging from different projections and using percutaneous tools, it is remarkable. But as always it requires a very specialized team that's tightly coordinated and selecting the right patients for the right procedure. And it is important that a cardiac surgeon is part of the team to determine who's best treated surgically versus percutaneously. And indeed we have a member of our team who is a fully trained surgeon who's also percutaneously trained, who participates in these. So wonderful, thank you for all the work you're doing and for a very informative session. - Dr. Jeremy Thaden: Thank you. It was a great conversation. I, I appreciate it.