- Announcer: Welcome to Mayo Clinic's ECG segment Making Waves, continuing Medical Education podcast. Join us for a lively discussion on the latest and greatest in the field of Electrocardiography. We'll discuss some of the exciting and innovative work happening at Mayo Clinic and beyond with the most brilliant minds in the space, and provide valuable insights that can be directly applied to your practice. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Welcome to Mayo Clinic's ECG segment, making waves. In this episode, we explores supraventricular tachycardia or SVT, a rapid rhythm from the top of the heart that can be disruptive, anxiety inducing, and sometimes life altering for patients. Fortunately, effective treatment options are available and there's a slew of them. And today we're gonna explore those further. Joining us is a very established, someone we know very well, Dr. Christopher DeSimone, a cardiac electrophysiologist at Mayo Clinic here in Rochester, Minnesota. Dr. DeSimone is an associate professor of medicine in the Division of Heart Rhythm Services. He specializes in complex ablation procedures and has authored over 400 publications, including 210 peer reviewed manuscripts. He's also named co-inventor on more than 50 submitted patent applications, several of which have been licensed. His research focuses on translational innovation and ventricular fibrillation with the goal of mapping and ablating the critical substrate necessary for maintaining these rhythms. As Director of Heart Rhythm Services research and director of Marketing for the Mayo Clinic cardiovascular enterprise, Dr. DeSimone continues to shape the future of electrophysiology here at Mayo Clinic and beyond through his innovation, research and education. Dr. DeSimone, thank you so much for joining us again today. - Dr. Christopher DeSimone: Thank you, Anthony, and thank you so much for doing this. I see a lot of patients with SVT and they're really looking for something that could give them some idea of SVT, what they're in for, what they could expect, and really some hope to improve their quality of life. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: No, and and you're the perfect person, you know, to talk about this, you know, from myself getting the chance to work with you in the lab. But, you know, for someone coming to you, a patient with SVT, what usually brings them to you and what's your general approach of, you know, how you manage them and, you know, talk to them about this? - Dr. Christopher DeSimone: Definitely. So what really brings them in, they've either come to see me from cardiologist or sometimes from their family medicine doc, or even sometimes because they were seen in the emergency department, you know, this super ventricular tachycardia. We use this big long term, but what is this? This is really something going on with the top part of the heart, and it's utilizing muscle and the electrical system, and it kind of goes off rapidly for patients. They could develop a lot of symptoms, and it's scary because it's the heart, right? And no one knows what's going on with your heart until someone tells you what's going on with their heart. But patients feel crummy from this. You know, they feel their chest racing. Some people feel like they're gonna have a heart attack. Some people think that they get really lightheaded and short of breath, and they can't even stand up. Some of them, they have to sit down or they have to lay down in bed until these episodes pass. It's really quality of life disturbing. It can be debilitating for a lot of patients. So when we bring someone in to talk about SVT, we try to tell them what to expect and what options do they have. And the mainstays for these are drug therapy. That could be medicines called beta blockers or calcium channel blockers. Those, again, are working at the middle part of the heart to try to stop what's going on at the top of the heart from getting onto the bottom of the heart and making things even worse. There's other things called valsalva maneuvers. Some of my patients will blow into a straw or they'll bear down, or they'll throw some ice on their forehead, whatever they could do to try to stop this rhythm from going on. Now, the tricky part is the drugs aren't always perfect, and sometimes patients hate taking these drugs because these could be young patients, they could be very healthy patients. Sometimes athletes, runners, people that aren't used to taking medicines. And some of these medicines, especially the beta blockers, can make them feel poorly. You know, they could be slowed down or tired and and fatigued. The other option, or I would say in, in conjunction, if the medicines don't work and or if they can't tolerate the medicines, we can offer them a chance of cure by performing something called catheter ablation. Basically what we bring do is we bring these catheters from their vessels in the groins, bring it up into the heart, and we're able to locate where the rhythm's coming from. We do some maneuvers to figure out what types of the SVT the person has. Some are more likely than others, and that helps us determine where we could go ablate the tissue. And usually we'll use radiofrequency heat to kill off these tissues. And sometimes in certain areas we have to use cryoablation or freezing to kill off these areas. But the nice thing for these patients is when we do find where these rhythms are coming from, and some have their characteristic locations, there's a very high success at giving them a chance for cure, where they don't need to take medicines or worry about have one of these a rhythms for the rest of their lives. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Wow. It, it's, it does sound, and I know we see patients where this could be really disabling in their life and never knowing when it's gonna come on. And, you know, sometimes it's hard to know what it is. And we always know medications, and sometimes you're right, medications is, is not always the best option. Or if they're young, you know, giving them another chance of maybe ablation. But let, so let's focus on that, A ablation. You said potentially a way to get rid of some of these really disabling rhythms. What can a patient say they want to go that route, expect to experience? - Dr. Christopher DeSimone: Great question that that's what a lot of patients are fearful of proceeding with the procedure. And, you know, I don't blame 'em. I would be the same way. We, you and I, we do this every day. We're comfortable with this. We see what goes on during these procedures, but to that patient who doesn't know, the fear of not knowing sometimes is even worse than the disease. Well, we bring the patients into the lab. It's an electrophysiologic laboratory, catheterization lab, whatever you call it. And what I've been doing as of more lately, patients are afraid of this rhythm, and I get it completely. They don't want their hearts to be in this rhythm. They don't wanna have that feeling when their heart's in this rhythm. But when we bring them into the electrophysiology lab, exactly what we want to do is put them into this rhythm so that we can understand it, and then that'll help guide us in where we need to ablate it. And I would say the last six to 12 months, I've switched over from using just sort of a moderate or monitored anesthesia route to putting patients under complete general anesthesia. This way, the patients, it, it has many, it helps many avenues of this procedure for the patient. The patient's not awake, they're not experiencing this. They don't feel the heart's pounding or racing when we put them through these procedures. And it also keeps their breathing very regular. So when we're, when they're moving, when they're moving around, it kind of changes the map, what we're trying to make of the ablation procedure. It also changes where our catheters that are in the heart are going, and we wanna keep them very stable. So I think general is a nice approach. It makes it nice for the patients, and it makes it nice for us, the operators, in order to have more stability and safety with the catheter experience. Now, it's much easier to keep the patient comfortable with this anesthesia because they're not moving around. Sometimes they get in between this anesthesia planes where they're kind of waking up and then about. So I think this has much made the procedure more safe for them and more effective because we're limiting their motion and controlling their breath breathing rates. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: And, and so kind of just to, to recap, you know, I come in with this rhythm, Dr. DeSimone diagnosed me with an SVT, still unclear of, you know, what type, and there's different forms of that. I, I know medications can work and maybe I've tried them in the past, but you know, I, I'm interested in this ablation procedure and, you know, general anesthesia, you know, scary, you know, maybe upfront to hear for the first time. But it helps with the comfort and just getting controlling, breathing and limiting motion during the procedure. What other risks can I, as a patient expect, you know, from this? Okay, you have me calm, I'm ready for the procedure, but what risks does we know all procedures carry risks? What are those that the highest that come to mind from your end? - Dr. Christopher DeSimone: Yep, great question. So all procedures carry risks, right? There's risks and benefits. We wanna make sure the benefits far exceed the risks. So we're in the heart and the heart's moving, and we're putting catheters in it from the groins to move things around in the, so indeed risks. Key is to take your time, go nice and slow, be as careful as possible, but even despite your best efforts and being as safe as you can, still, there's untoward events and complications that could still happen. They're relatively low. We usually quote an order of one to three or two to 5% range of something happening during the procedure. But the things we need to be really careful about, especially with SVT, is we're very close to the electrical conduction system of the heart. So there's risk, it's small risk, but a risk for putting a patient in a heart block and them needing a pacemaker. So we're always close to these areas when we're in the heart, but we're extremely close to 'em with these SVT procedures. And again, we wanna make sure we do it as safe as possible. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Hmm. And, and going about that, you know, certainly heart block and needing a pacemaker, another procedure is something and still relatively low. But how do you go about, you know, talking about this ablation procedure and you know, what are the benefits that someone coming out on the other side can expect? - Dr. Christopher DeSimone: Definitely. So to me, I always discuss with the patients that this is all geared to towards improving your symptoms and your quality of life. It's critical because some of these patients are really debilitated by these SVTs and they're extremely effective, scary. With the successful catheter ablation, I've seen a tremendous impact in their quality of life, tremendous impact improvement in their symptoms. When I see them back a couple months later in the office, they've really, really, they have this new appreciation about what they can do and how debilitated they were and how excited they are in moving forward. Really, it's a tremendous turnaround in their lifestyle that they're getting. They're more confident, they're less afraid, and they're less scared about going places and needing to go to the emergency department if they get stuck into the one of these SVTs and they feel extremely liberated. You know, a lot of times, many, many times, it's almost like we're abl part of their anxiety because patients get diagnosed. That's misdiagnosis that, Hey, this is all in your head. And why do I, why, why do I see this happen to my patients? A lot of times if they're not in the rhythm at time, they show up to their doctors or to the emergency department, then usually they get told, everything's fine. This is all in your head. The patients could feel them going into this rhythm, but if they're not there, if it's not caught on a recording, an ECG, you can't definitively diagnose it, you know, patients describe the symptoms, but still could be a lot of things. And sometimes it's akin to those patients having the sort of the same symptoms as when patients have anxiety or even panic attacks. I love telling my patients, this is real and telling their families they have real disease. This was out their control. There's nothing that they've done. And being able to deliver that good news for them, having a successful, to me, - Dr. Anthony Kashou: And, and it, and it sounds, you know, the, the medicines don't work and, and we can go this route for ablation. It sounds like this can really solve a lot. But let's say, you know, and before we end here, you know, I, I'm not in, in Rochester, Minnesota or you know, where you are, Dr. DeSimone to, to get your, but I, I'm in, you know, Maine or I'm not even in the United States, but I'm having these symptoms and they're really bothersome. What advice would you give to a, a patient in, in that, in their next steps that, that they should consider? - Dr. Christopher DeSimone: Yep. I tell all my patients, you are the one really deciding what, and when we do something about this, again, this is quality of life threatening. Generally, these aren't life threatening rhythms for the most part. These are benign rhythms, but they're extremely debilitating. So they're not life threatening, but they're quality of life threatening. So I tell the patients, you decide, you know, you could trial a drug. Some don't wanna trial a drug, they wanna go right to ablation. We could go right to ablation. It's really based on their symptoms, the risks they're willing to take the response or aversiveness to drugs, intolerance to drugs. And when their desire is to proceed with catheter ablation, I tell my patients, it's the mindset they need, you know, the mindset. 'cause they need to prepare for themselves for the procedure, just as is. I'm preparing myself for the procedure. And the nice thing is, there's a really high chance of curing them of this AVNRT. Really what you wanna do is empower the patient to be in control and dictating the next steps in their health. And I think that's an important point that all physicians need to respect when dealing with patients with SVT. So my recommendation is have this discussion with your family members, your friends, go through your symptoms, the frequency, the duration, has it been getting worse and worse over the last couple weeks or months? And then discuss, walk yourself through what would a trial be? Do I try the drug? How does it make me feel? Do I wanna do the ablation procedure? What does that look like? You know, I hear Dr. Kashou and DeSimone talking about this thing. Let me watch this a few times and see if I'm on board with what they're telling me and how does that jive with what my physician's telling me. I think once you have a good suspicion or if you have a good sensation of what to appreciate, then you feel comfortable enough to go in and speak with an electrophysiologist that could talk to them, guide them through this step-by-step approach and make them more comfortable. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: And I, I think having that comfort and knowing that, you know, you have someone on your side that can help direct you. I, I think you're right. And as you mentioned, not life threatening, but certainly quality of life threatening and, and that's I think, the key takeaway that you know, is such a challenge to so many of our patients. In today's episode. We explore the journey many patients face when living with SVT or supraventricular tachycardia from the challenges to diagnosis to potential therapy options, whether it's medical therapy, trialing, drug therapy, proceeding to ablation. Dr. DeSimone walks us through his management approach, including catheter ablation. That was really neat to see what his approach is with anesthesia, the potential risk, and how this can really bring significant relief to many patients. Dr. DeSimone, thank you again for joining us. Your insights, sharing your compassionate approach. I always love hearing from you and working with you. We appreciate your time and hope you'll come back and continue these important conversations with us. - Dr. Christopher DeSimone: Absolutely. Thank you so much, and I'm really glad you're doing this. The patients really need this and I think they'll benefit from seeing your awesome podcast on this. - Announcer: Thank you for joining us today. We invite you to share your thoughts and suggestions about the podcast at cveducation.mayo.edu. Be sure to subscribe to a Mayo Clinic cardiovascular CME podcast on your favorite platform, and tune in every other week to explore today's most pressing electrocardiography topics with your colleagues at Mayo Clinic. This has been a Mayo Clinic podcast at Mayo Clinic Learning Fuels World Class Care. I'm Dr. Peter knows we're the chair of the Division of Cardiac Electrophysiology. I hope you enjoyed today's episode, and I wanna let you know about the full courses that we have available. Head over to cveducation.mayo.edu and explore our live and online programs, quick on-demand modules and CME accredited master classes. Join the thousands of clinicians who've already turned their curiosity into expertise at cveducation.mayo.edu.