At Mayo Clinic, when it comes to pediatric cancer, I think what I want people to know is that we're a partner and we're here to help to make sure that kids get all of the top of the line care that we can provide. Families need to think about many things when they're looking at places to go for their child. Location, proximity are certainly important things, but sometimes traveling to a place that has a very, very comprehensive care is important. The benefits of our multidisciplinary team are that everyone is in one place to take care of your child and to come up with a plan quickly. And we are able to assemble a team of experts in a relatively short amount of time to care for patients with even the most complex of conditions. Pediatric cancer, by definition, is uncommon and rare. We treat anything that is a cancer in a child, so there's nothing that we don't see. The one thing that I wish I could impress upon, especially my teenagers, is they're not alone. It feels very much like you're on an island when this happens because you may have never known somebody who was diagnosed with cancer at a young age, but there are other people out there who know what you're going through, who have been through it, or on the other side, or in the midst of it. And I think that's really important for kids and teenagers. Nobody wants to feel alone. We know that surgery is scary, and it's normal for children or teenagers who are going to have cancer surgery to be nervous about it. We understand that. We want you to know that we are here for you, that we've thought of everything, and that we're going to take great care of you. The main reasons why people may want to consider coming to Mayo Clinic for treatment would be things that they can't get at their home institution, but they may need to come here for specific parts of their treatment like proton radiation or special surgical procedures or special imaging where we do anatomic modeling and 3D printing. Those might be the key points where it may be in their benefit to come to a place like Mayo Clinic. The technologies and treatment options for children with cancer are constantly evolving and it's important for children and their families to see a team of experts who's keeping up with these things. If your child has a complex situation where you need special surgery, well thought out chemotherapy, highly specialized radiation, a place like Mayo Clinic provides that. And then oftentimes when they're done with that portion of their therapy then we do a transition of care back to their home oncologist and their home treating team. When children and their families come to Mayo Clinic for surgery we want as soon as they're able to be able to get home and get back to being a kid and be with their family and friends. Not only are we thinking about curing your cancer but we're also thinking about your long-term quality of life and getting you back to feeling healthy again.