Inflammatory bowel diseases are disorders where the immune system is actually causing damage to the gut and in some cases other parts of the body. Currently there are about 1.6 million people in the U.S. with inflammatory bowel diseases and that includes about 80,000 children. Here at the Mayo Clinic we have a lot of experience in children. We have gastroenterologists that are on the cutting edge of technology. They're using all the latest medications and when those medications don't work or if they're not right for that child, then we have all the latest technologies in surgery. The American College of Surgeons verified the Mayo Clinic Children's Center as a Level One Children's Surgery Program and level one is the highest level. So that provides some assurance to families that every person that they come in contact with at the Mayo Clinic's is providing the highest quality of care. A big advantage of Mayo is we have dedicated pediatric specialists. We've created a child -friendly environment, but we also have the advantage of the entire organization. It's not something I've encountered at any other institution that I've worked at, and it really allows people to come and see multiple specialists with a coordinated itinerary and get all of their questions answered and get a coordinated plan. You come and you see all of us. Inflammatory bowel disease is a complex disease. There is no one thing that it really is, you know. In and of itself, it's Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis. The textbook notion of what the symptoms are of this disease doesn't apply to everybody. And so the symptoms really relate to what area is affected and how. But the disease can really behave in a different way in different individuals. At the Mayo Clinic, we've been doing inflammatory bowel disease surgery since the 1980s. In general, the vast majority of surgery is minimally invasive, which speeds recovery, decreases pain, allows kids to get back to what they're doing much more quickly. Longer term, meaning months after surgery, we start to see their nutritional status improve. We see a lot of catch-up growth after surgery for inflammatory bowel disease. And when you look at their outcomes as far as participation in sports and daily activities, those sorts of things, those outcomes are excellent for 20, 30 years. What I really love about my job is meeting some of my patients after they've grown up and seeing how they thrive and seeing the kind of people they become. The spirit of a child is almost unbreakable most of the time. So it's really invigorating to go see a child that all they want to do is go home and play. So to come to a center like the Mayo Clinic's Children's Center, you're receiving the highest level of care from people that have a strong interest in taking the best care of your child.