Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today, I'm so excited to be speaking with my co-host for the show, Dr. Eric Bothan. Dr. Bothan is a pediatric ophthalmologist and adult strabismus specialist here at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. He served as the medical director of the Minnesota Lions Children's Eye Clinic and past president of the Minnesota Academy of Ophthalmology. Dr. Bothan's clinical and research interests include pediatric cataracts, retinopathy of prematurity, and complex adult strabismus. We're actually currently working together in the Mayo Clinic thyroid eye disease clinic, for which he is the adult strabismus director. doctor. He's heavily involved in multiple pediatric cataract registry efforts, including TAPS and IATS over the past two decades. So I'm really excited to talk with Dr. Botham today about pediatric cataracts. Hey, Eric, thanks for being here. You bet. This should be fun to do together. Yeah, this will be great, just to chat between the two of us. So can you just kind of take us through some info on pediatric cataracts, kind of just in general for the general ophthalmologist and the pediatric ophthalmologist talk about kind of the ideology, frequency, just give us an overview. Sure. So ophthalmologists recognize that lens opacities or lens anomalies can happen in any age. The frequency of that has varied over descriptions in different populations. Oftentimes we think one in every two or 3 ,000 kids may have a pediatric cataract. It's sort of grouped in the new baby congenital developmental cataract phase of etiologies. A good part of those are genetic that have to do with family histories or another subset is significant ocular anomalies in one eye. And then there's the whole group of kids that get them at an older age, whether related to a medical condition or a steroid use, radiation, or a trauma. So as a pediatric cataract surgeon, it's a joy to change and reflect on the different phenotypes and the different surgical approaches for different age groups within the context of a family. Because so much of our success in pediatric cataracts are magnified if you have an engaged, informed, and activated family around the care unit for a child. So much of our outcomes are going to really be less dependent on the surgeon and more dependent on the family success for the longitudinal care. When you see these patients with congenital cataracts, if there's not an obvious kind of clear-cut reason, do you have a set workup that you get for everybody or does it really kind of depend? It depends. So there are, I'd say that we quickly separate children into unilateral cataracts versus bilateral i and i i tell families and i encourage any eye care provider to stop and discuss that difference because if it's a unilateral cataract only it's typically a developmental anomaly that happened or a structural issue that doesn't involve the genetics of the child if the genetics of the child are involved when the child is made it would be typically manifest, even if it's asymmetric, in both eyes. Unilateral problems oftentimes are persistent fetal vasculature or something that's a sort of how that eye developed as a baby or as a fetus. We don't work up too much. There are rare exceptions, but typically it's a unilateral cataracts. We address the cataract and move forward. Bilateral cataracts more and more are being worked up, I'd say less for the common things that ophthalmologists are trained about, galactosemia, that spectrum of metabolic diseases you might pull out from residency, most often because a lot of those things are detected in perinatal screening at birth, galactosemia in particular. However, as we've gone along, the thing that's changed, especially in the last 10 years, is our genetic profiles have gotten so much more robust. Years ago, we didn't have that many genetic conditions to look for. And many of them had phenotypes that we would be able to say, this child, we could identify what might be going on even beyond the cataract. Nowadays, there's just more and more layers to the genetic understanding of pediatric cataracts. And so a bilateral child, I have gotten to the point where it's gotten so complex, I need to partner with our incredible pediatric genetics team here at Mayo. And I, my care is dovetailed with seeing the geneticists and they come alongside me in my care to do not only that medical workup, but the genetic piece and engage families and inform them on the etiology and the implications for future children or the future implications for their child's health. Yeah, that's such a nice segue in terms of how much our screening and diagnostic abilities have changed over the years. How has the management changed over the years? Because I feel like it's been huge in terms of surgical management and then everything we're able to do for these kids kind of perioperatively. Can you kind of take us through maybe the past 20 years, the evolution of management? So around 2000, there was, we were at a point in adult and pediatric cataract care recognizing that the surgical and vitrectomy instrumentation had meaningfully lowered or improved and it meaningfully lowered complications after a surgery in the 1960s. Pediatric cataract was a common cause for children in blind settings or educational settings. And a lot of that was because their instrumentation was so poor. IOLs, surgical improvements, most people recognized in the 70s and 80s and 90s made great strides. And so around 2000, by that time, the use of IOLs were common in children down through about age two to four. It was recognized that it worked beautifully in teenagers and mature children. At that time, though, we didn't really understand whether or not we should be putting in lenses in children less than age four, less than age two. And then over the last 20 years, what's really changed is our understanding of whether a lens helps us or hurts us at different ages, whether it makes life more complicated to get the vision outcome or it doesn't matter and i i can tell you when i had 20 years ago the conversation was an intraocular lens that gets the vision really close might help strabismus and keep the eye straighter it doesn't it doesn't seem to matter an intraocular lens might help glaucoma because it might stabilize the anterior chamber in some way it doesn't it doesn't seem to make a difference the strabismus is extremely frequency it happens in an extremely high frequency and incidence in these kids glaucoma it's all about age so the use of a lens has what originally we thought it was going to be a help and unfortunately in the kids less than six months in particular we found that it was an added complexity and even more reoperation so we backed away from using intraocular lenses in the first six months of life. Some people even say the first year of life, and that's largely based on some big registry data. One that was called the Infant Aphakia Treatment Study that was a prospective NIH study enrolling children with unilateral cataracts. 50% were randomized to Aphakia, 50% were randomized to IOL, and we follow those children are now beyond age 10. And the glaucoma, it's all about age. It's not about lens choice. Beyond that, there have been more and more now registries. We have one here at Mayo that we put together and I helped to lead on the called TAPS, the toddler, aphakia, and pseudophakia study. So instead of looking at the infants, we looked at the toddlers and we define that as six months to two years. And it's been fun to appreciate that lenses in that age group did not add complexity in IOLs. The outcomes were quite good. We have different reflections on vision and nystagmus in that cohort, and we're still learning about the refractive change. But what's really, I could say, improved. Techniques continue to improve all the time. But the improvement in the last 20 years is to hone in on the use of an IOL and really which kids are at greater risk of glaucoma and other complications and how we moderate that differently. It's amazing all the different changes that have happened over the years and how these registries are really helping us. Are you finding anything with kind of the perioperative management too, like managing amblyopia, managing IOP and glaucoma issues or nystagmus, strabismus? I mean, there's so much that goes into it. So what, what all do you have to consider with that in addition to the cataract? So immediately postoperatively, the biggest thing we worry about is inflammation and pressure. There can be transient pressure things, but those usually are managed pretty well in our typical topical or systemic ways. Inflammation can be a big deal, and I'd say we're still learning about that. Many people use oral steroids, additional to topical in kids. That might be in part because some families aren't very good at putting drops in. Currently, I'm beginning a study here, but others around the country are starting to try implants in the punk doll. or in the canaliculus for steroid delivery. I think one dream or hope, whether with intracameral antibiotics, which I currently use, and or other steroid delivery systems is could we get to a point in kids and even in adults where we use dropless surgery. I think it's a benefit for everybody, especially in complex kids. If there's a way of moderating that early risk, um it would it may really help outcomes and quality care for kids going beyond that acute post-op window you bet strabismus i i it's a long-term journey and certainly we we do wait often years to realign eyes after we've established vision it does not appear that realigning their eyes earlier helps their vision develop it's very much work on vision with glasses and patching And as that phase backs down closer to socially important times like school, then we work on the alignment. One challenge that's long-term is the refractive error. So when you put a lens in, you usually aim for hyperopia and let the eye grow into that adult lens. And or a fake, you do contact lenses and maybe do secondary lens implants later. and that's AI would say that's the biggest sort of discussion over how we manage the child is continuing to meet the refractive needs the older they get and early on it might be contacts or thicker glasses and later on hopefully our refractive target's getting easier and all along the way up until about age five or six we do a lot of patching and cheerleading visits are about being a good cop and a bad cop to just celebrate what they're giving you but try to work on encouraging all the more because certainly our vision outcomes are largely based with unilateral cataracts on patching. With bilateral, that's less of an issue because their brain experiences a symmetric vision challenge and amblyopia is less of a factor. I would imagine there's so many challenges with having adequate communication and expectations with the family because it is such a long road. Have you learned, are there good ways to kind of communicate what this journey is going to be like if you're seeing a six -month-old that needs cataract? How do you counsel these families and form those relationships? What would you recommend for other pediatric ophthalmologists to kind of help? We all hope we do a good enough job with that. It's always humbling how down the road there's questions that come up or things we've talked about. I, from the get -go, I hand-hold, sort of extend a relationship opportunities with them that go probably beyond a lot of my other patients. I reach out to them individually. I give my cell phone, I personally, to a lot of my post-operative cataracts families because it's such a long burden and because the concerns they have are usually a little bit more significant or can be. I greatly rely on my incredible orthoptist team. Pediatric ophthalmologists are, you know, we work with the team, the family as a team, but having a team ourselves in the other specialists that might be involved, whether it's glaucoma or retina specialists for given eye complications, but in particular in my hallway, it's my pediatric ophthalmology partners called orthoptists, and they help to assess vision. They help to encourage patching. They are advising families and engaging them when patching is not working. And I'd say is that if the whole care team at each visit and even in between visits shows the family, it's a partnership with them. I think the care in the long run works well. It works better. Yeah, that makes sense. What do you see just in general, kind of down the pipeline, you talked a little bit about maybe droplets, cataract surgery? Where is the future taking us? What can we look forward to seeing? What are the new trials or what can we kind of get involved with? Yeah, there is a lot of curiosity about making the life of children easier with droplets or in the perioperative window. That's one thing that's currently on discussion and being used. Amblyopia care continues to be studied. I don't think we quite have the best, most reliable way of getting vision better. We rely on patching so much, but there are a lot of families that simply fail. I share with my unilateral cataract families at the beginning that about a third of kids get that highest level of vision in the affected eye. I always reassure them about the other eye. But in the affected eye, the spare tire eye, about a third of kids get that highest level of vision that's very functional driving vision potential. A third of kids have, I consider walking around vision that's very functional, but not the detail that you'd want it to be more in that 2080 to 2400 range, 2060 to 2200 range. You'd love it to be better, but it's still important vision. And then about a third of kids are quite poor in their vision outcome. And the determinant for that is amblyopia on the success of our management so going back to your question what are we what is the the forefront we continue to rely on efforts like pdig the pediatric investigator group and other aspects in terms of whether patching or wearing glasses that have stimulation that has some sort of occlusion involved other creative ways of gaining better compliance, but still getting the brain to use that challenged eye better. And we all hope that we would find better ways of doing that in the future. And then additionally, it's refractive change. I think we're pretty good with contact lenses for the group of kids that fit that ability. The contacts are, and those formats continue to improve in terms of permeability for oxygen, risk factors, and use. But ultimately, most of these eyes we'd like to have with an IOL, and the real challenge is some children shift marginally, and other children can shift greater than 10 diopters in their young life. So if you're putting a lens in a one-year-old, it's a big challenge to know what optics are we aiming for. Do we leave it a plus six? do we leave it a plus 10 some value that then we are over refraction correct or over correcting and it's less and less the older they get oftentimes in the young years people have used numbers that the age plus the residual refractive error should equal about eight should equal about seven should equal some numbers similar so if they're a two-year-old you might leave them a plus six and the older they get to age seven eight ten the more there's a tail you leave a little bit because they might change about a diopter in the teenage years the ultimate hope is that in the future we have lenses that would and they're coming out in different formats that would be able to be optically adjusted either with light exposure and be able to change the optics as the child grows at least once, or there's formats that would put some sort of docking station in the capsule bag with an optic that would lock into that, or you can rotate out and take the optic out, but put a new optic in over time in that docking station. So different ways of making it less traumatic to change the optics of the IOL well and match the refractive growth of the eye. Sort of fun. I love those ideas. That's really cool. That's super cool. Well, Eric, I am sure that our listeners or viewers who have been listening to this podcast know that you're just full of joy and full of life for what you do. So can you tell us why you have joy being a pediatric cataract surgeon and why you do what you do? So I, I have sympathy for everybody out there that doesn't get to experience kids every day. You know, you, with the children in my clinic are the spark and the joy and the fizzle that you go into a room and you get to find ways to draw out what we need in a vision and pressure in an exam in a playful dynamic way and certainly experiencing how we do that as the child ages it starts out by knowing most Disney characters or songs of the frozen to sing and then by the time they're six or seven you're talking about their ballet or hockey experience and then someday you're getting these pictures and they're graduating from high school and venturing off and their college essays are influenced by their eye care. So all of us have a joy of longitudinal care of patients, but there's something that is a deeper rooting in our care of children when it's fundamentally changing their visual experience. And we know that visual experience will be lifelong, that depth of meaning to what you're doing and purpose, married to this just joyful engagement of what, how to do that over the life of a challenging child is what makes being a pediatric ophthalmologist full of joy or being a pediatric ophthalmologist full of joy. So thank you. Wonderful. Well, thank you so much. That was great. Yeah. It's been fun to do together. Yeah, it has. Exactly. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology podcast on our website. Thank you for listening. And we definitely look forward to sharing more.