Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. In today's episode, we are chatting with Dr. Greg Gripentrag, an oculoplastic surgeon and new surgeon here at Mayo Clinic. We're going to focus on one of Dr. Gripentrag's areas of expertise, pediatric oculoplastic surgery. We'll talk about challenging cases of pedstosis, orbital, vascular, and lymphatic abnormalities that all terrify us as ophthalmologists, and touch on some craniofacial disorders today. Dr. Greg Gripentrog is a board-certified ophthalmologist and senior associate consultant in the Department of Ophthalmology here at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Following completion of an ASOPERS accredited fellowship, he joined the Orbital and Oculoplastic Service at the Medical College of Wisconsin in Milwaukee, Wisconsin in 2011, and was an Associate Professor as well as Senior Medical Director of the Ambulatory Practice at the Frederick and Medical College of Wisconsin. Dr. Grippentrog joined the Mayo Clinic in 2024, and we're thrilled to have him today on a subject that I think we can all kind of have a great dialogue over, which is pediatric oculoplastics. So thank you for being here. Thank you so much for having me. Thank you. It's great to be back at Mayo. This is where I trained, graduated in 08, and then I was on staff for one year as a cataract surgeon, actually, instructor of ophthalmology prior to matriculating to the University of Wisconsin in Madison for fellowship for two years, and then back to my hometown, actually, in Milwaukee. But now I'm back to my medical spiritual hometown here in Rochester, and it's wonderful to be back. Well, we're so happy to have you, and I'm selfishly the most happy to have you because I hate PEDS oculoplastics. You do, though. I do. It is the worst, and you are a true expert and really have a great background in PEDS oculoplastics, and I think it is one of the most challenging areas of our subspecialty. I think pediatric cases are really, really hard across the board, so kudos to both of you, but I'm so glad you're here so that I can send them all to you. Before you answer, I need to say, I love our current Oculoplastic team with all four of you. But even before he came, you guys were doing great. No, my colleague, they do amazing. Not me, though. So, no, it's really wonderful to have a close dialogue between our services and for you to come in and have that be a champion interest of yours and Forte. It's a treat. So we get to talk about today a number of kind of what's new, but also what's challenging in our practice. And let's just start on a pediatric ptosis, because I'd say for me as a pediatric ophthalmologist, it's one of the more common presentations, whether it's mild or severe, that gets us worried about vision development, refractive error, and whether or not the lid should be elevated. Obviously, I think we all know there's some that are so mild, we can just watch them and be conservative. But we so appreciate having, you know, your forte. Okay. When the lid is too low, what do you do? And I just thank you for that presence here today to talk about that. Absolutely. Just let's start out. I mean, I think before we get to complete ptosis, there are some cases that are borderline that maybe have some levator. How often are we doing levator or more non-sling work in kids versus how often do slings get involved where it's more severe? In your practice, what's the balance? Or even when to refer, because I feel like as a comprehensive ophthalmologist, you know if it's obscuring visual development, but if it's just mild, moderate, when is the right time to do surgery? Take us through all of it, if you don't mind. Yeah, I think it's an area of significant interest and a bit of controversy of how and when we should be doing these procedures for kids. Because I'm not a pediatric ophthalmologist, I actually often rely on my pediatric colleagues to help determine really when surgery should occur. So we know, for example, that complete obstruction of the lid or in cases of amblyogenic causes, maybe from obstruction or, as you mentioned, perhaps from anisometropia, these are things that I still really rely on that discussion and that collaboration with pediatric colleagues. But by the time the patients are typically referred to me for consideration, oftentimes the pediatric ophthalmologist or the referring physician has said, yes, this is a concern. And really, it falls into two major baskets. One, it's a vision concern. Or two, as equally important at times, is it's a parental concern. And that's something that we take into consideration as well as we're just determining what procedure and when. In terms of the when, as a pediatric ophthalmologist for the listeners out there, certainly I think we can all recognize when a lid is totic enough that we don't think that the vision development is likely normal. But there's plenty that have some facial subtle abnormalities, mild ptosis, lid crease irregularities that are asymmetric. And when you are in a practice that is used to examining children, having a team that's able to look for preference in vision, whether with prisms or with other fixation tools, another one is just making sure you get comfortable with either an auto-refractor or a retinoscope. Because typically if it's a borderline case there can be astigmatism that's really driving the amblyopia and so picking up an autorefractor can be a big tool and if it's spherical or minimal astigmatism symmetric on both sides and you're not impressed with the lid it may be one you could watch a little bit But certainly the more the astigmatism ramps up or is more associated the quicker a referral would be appropriate. And certainly if you're questioning, it's always reasonable just to send on for an evaluation. Absolutely. I think part of my job is to really talk to parents about a journey of congenital ptosis. Because for many of these children, it may not just be one procedure their whole life. This is something that may need revisions, and there's going to be pluses and minuses of doing these types of procedures at particular ages. And then fortunately, we also have kind of newer surgical techniques that we're now using, and we can, you know, touch upon those as well, that give us different options. So the types of surgeries that we have available to offer to patients and their families help to drive some of our decision making of when this is going to occur. I would say in general, the vast majority of patients that come to see me are usually going to be around school age, so in that maybe four to six-year-old range. We know that perhaps it has not been embryogenic in these types of cases, but it's getting to the point where other children may begin to comment or notice this on the playground, these types of things. Or the kid might be experiencing some psychosocial negative thoughts about themselves because of the droopiness of the eyelid, something they certainly did not pay attention to when they were younger. And those would typically be a levator -type procedure or something. You have, if it's gotten to that point, usually the lid is moderately up enough that you're usually augmenting its own architecture. Share with us, are those approaches pretty similar today than what they've used to, you know, has been in the past in terms of levator work, or what's changed? Yeah. As you mentioned, a lot of the determination of the surgery that we're going to recommend is based on really two factors. One, the absolute height of the eyelid measured in the margin reflex distance, but also what is the actual levator function. And then there can be other associations such as jaw wink that we may need to take into consideration for certain select patients. But for, you know, good levator function, that being, let's say, eight millimeters or greater, we have the greatest range of options, perhaps, and a lot of the techniques that we might use in adults. So that might be a congenital meelorectomy. That might be a levator advancement. That might be the further we go down in levator function, we start to add kind of more and more aggressive types of procedures. So levator resections for moderate function, anywhere, let's say, from four to eight or so. And there's also certain types of on -block resections of tissue that can be used as well. And then, of course, for the lowest or the poorest function, we have traditionally used slings, frontal slings, either autologous fascia or types of xenographic types of materials, graft materials, most commonly silicone. But more recently, perhaps in the past few years or so, there's been really a shift towards using autologous frontalis flap advancements. So essentially going through an eyelid, dissecting to the frontalis, bringing the frontalis down, and helping attach it to the tarsus to give it that power to lift it up. This has a number of advantages most importantly it doesn't have an outside xenograft which could extrude or even an allograft from somewhere else in the body which might have secondary morbidity or have difficulty let's say with closure lid closure we don't know the long-term results in a lot of these patients but it's promising now typically in a traditional sling whether it's fascia or a silicone you know tubing you're making multiple incisions above the brow and you're you know that's the height elevating section and then they drop down and they connect to the tarsus itself this fascia technique are you just share with us a little bit just how that's done because normally you're tunneling some sort of sling material that when you raise the brow the lid goes up so when you describe this newer newer approach does it involve one incision multiple incisions And then are you generating, is it a free flap? Are you pulling the frontalis along its course and making it bend in a new direction? Share just a little bit more about that procedure. Sure. Essentially, we're going through a standard lid crease incision and then dissecting up to the frontalis muscle. And we have to release some of the attachments. The frontalis is going to have attachments to the kind of sub-brow region, which allows it to exert its force. So we have to release some of those attachments. And then actually it can come down. It can come down and we can use a permanent type of suture or to basically attach it to the upper edge of the tarsus. And I think maybe conceptually for oculoplastic surgeons, we probably would have thought, wow, that's a pretty far way to bring a frontalis muscle down. Maybe we're going to end up with a lot of eyelid retraction or problems with closure afterwards. But kudos to the early pioneers in this area. We haven't really seen that. Fullness to the upper lid? Because you're bringing extra muscle tissue down. You can have some fullness to the lid. And I think one of the other questions that we might have is that it's a slightly different trajectory than the normal levator. So one of the issues we could encounter, for example, with sling materials is that it could pull the lid off of the globe, potentially. And this is also a consideration, I think, also for a frontalis flap. And there have been some of my colleagues as well who will include a levator advancement, described as almost a sandwich technique, where you're not only generating the lift from the frontalis muscle, you're also having this additional vector almost pulling the lid back towards the globe with the advancement or resection of the levator muscle. One thing, Greg, I'm so glad you mentioned that you initially talked to the patients about how this is a journey and how revisions are common, needing surgery multiple times down the line are common. I remember at the, I mean, I'm still early in my career but like maybe my first year out a mentor told me you know these kids usually have two or three on average surgeries for their ptosis it's not a one and done and you have to make sure that the parents are on board with that and they understand that do you have any like great tips or tricks for optimizing these surgeries because sometimes you get the lid height perfect but say the tarsal platform show is a little asymmetric and that makes the whole lids look totally asymmetric even though the height's perfect or lid crease asymmetry or some ectropion or dry even even handling ocular surface which to me that's one of the biggest challenges especially in adults with congenital ptosis is dealing with ocular surface do you have any like little amazing tricks to optimize these procedures i you know everything that you've said Andrew is correct. I'm not sure that I have one golden nugget that can solve everything, but I think in time you become more and more comfortable on the table estimating in your own hands what works and what does not. So for example, with a frontalis sling, right, we might almost crank it up as high as we can because we know as soon as that patient wakes up, it's going to look low, But it is very disconcerting on the table to see that. I think with frontalus flaps, it's probably a little bit less lift because you really probably can't generate it up as much, right? But I wish I had some golden tips for you, but I think there's a little bit of surgeon dependency and learning what works for you in the end. I've started always doing a little baby bluff, almost always reforming the lid crease, just things I've learned because if I don't do them, it tends to not look as great, but I find these to be very nuanced and very challenging. Yeah. And I think the other thing, too, is when you look in the literature, of course, there's a lot of ways to do the same thing, which already tells you there's no gold standard to what we're talking about. And as Eric mentioned before, there's a lot of different positions that you can place the incisions, for example, when you're doing a sling. I do like it, though, with a front house flap that you are you know sparing the child from kind of multiple smaller incisions potentially in the brow region so there is a potential cosmetic advantage as well even beyond not having a foreign body in the yeah and need for a vision because those materials whether you use myrceline or a sling or fasciolata or whatever they don't last forever yeah and you As time goes on, too, you mentioned adults with congenital ptosis, and there's been really a greater push now of extending this type of technique into patients, for example, with paralytic forms of ptosis later on in life or perhaps forms of apraxia of eyelid opening. And the more that we use these techniques throughout a wider range of patients, the better our outcomes will become. Wonderful. let's switch gears a little bit another topic that or another patient scenario that we send your way is hemangiomas or vascular abnormalities in children and certainly there are comprehensive ophthalmologists and pediatric ophthalmologists that may have a history of being comfortable treating some of these you know historically steroids were used and other local treatments but you know it's changed the whole platform of treating local disease with even systemic drugs has really changed as we treat orbital and eyelid lesions. So let's talk about vascular things and hemangiomas. Talk, share with us kind of what's changed in the last 20 years in terms of treating visually significant amblyogenic or structurally deforming hemangiomas of the face. Sure. Yeah, I think I would even take it one step above hemangiomas and say vascular anomalies as a whole, of which there's going to be vascular malformations and vascular neoplasms. Neoplasms doesn't mean malignancy, but we might put the hemangiomas more in that category. And it probably was about 20 years ago or so when there was a groundbreaking case report using beta blockers for treatment, if I'm not mistaken, for a child with a heart Like pulmonary hypertension. Yeah, cardiac output issue, beta blockers were used, and incidentally, rapid, impressive improvement to the facial hemangioma. And it was that single case report that really switched us in a whole different direction. Often now, I see much less of these patients today than I did at the onset of my career at the Medical College of Wisconsin in 2011. These patients mostly go now to very well oiled vascular anomalies clinics, which there are at many different medical centers around the country. And it's become the purview perhaps of dermatologists or perhaps the purview of pediatric oncologists to use some of these medications such as beta blockers, as you mentioned, to manage this particular form of angioma. But of course, the oculoplastic or the pediatric ophthalmologist still needs to have a role in the care of these patients to make sure that there isn't amblyopia developing underneath at all. So these kids still need to have a connection to us, but as far as injection of steroids or surgery, much, much less. So if we look at then, you know, we have these kind of vascular neoplasms, let's say. We also have vascular malformations. That might include things such as lymphangiomas or lymphovenogenic types of malformations. Not only in hemangiomas has there been a sea change of treatment changes in the last 20 years, but also with these lymphaticoveno malformations, there's been a change. The first change was probably sclerotherapy so for example in a lymphangioma we have you know thin-walled endothelial lined usually a cystic channel component plus or minus of a venous vascular component some of these cysts were large enough that actually sclerotherapy can be used and so sclerotherapy directly going into the cyst, using a scleral agent to shrink the cyst was a much better way of getting around this than, let's say, surgical intervention, which has a very high risk of bleeding and potential of significant morbidity to the vision. But not all of these vascular or lymphatic malformations have such large cysts that are great targets for sclerotherapy. So what's happened over time is we've tried to use medications to try to treat some of the microcystic components of these malformations. And this has really changed a lot, I think, of how we think about it. There are particular targets. So for example, the mammalian target of rapamycin or mTOR is a target to use for medications now. And children can go on these particular medications and we don't know the long term again how long we need to keep these kids on this but I've seen a number of patients over years that we would have chosen different directions who are now really being treated medically in ways that we probably wouldn't have thought possible 10 to 15 years ago what's exciting about this I think as well is not only do we have new medications to treat these malformations we're also discovering that we We can perhaps even further tailor the treatments based on the underlying genomic, the genome of the actual vascular malformations themselves. So with biopsies, we can obtain genetic information. So for example, if the patient isn't responding well to, you know, medication A, well, we might have medication B available, and this is the reason why. I think this type of targeted treatment or targeted care is going to be the direction that we go with many of these malformations in the future. Individualized medicine. Love it. It's the future. I think some of the most challenging, and you're talking about looking back 10 years, 15 years in practices, lymphangioma was always one of the worst diagnoses for me to share with the family in light knowing how facially disfiguring and really your hands were tied. They might look better for a while, and then they're going to get a new viral illness, and it'll flare up again, waxing, waning, and just extremely frustrating. They'll feel like you couldn't do anything. It is a huge paradigm shift to now be able to say we have options, and they're tailored, as you're saying, patient custom approaches that can dampen the morbidity of these things in an orbiter in a child's face. It's remarkable. So I thank you for coming and sharing that. I have to ask, in light of the hemangiomas, as we talk about those first, when is there still a role for surgery? Because there are some that still, even despite reduction on beta blockers, which is, again, these are seen more often in our practices than lymphangiomas, some don't respond completely. And obviously some are more superficial, that strawberry look to the skin, and others are more deeper and more lobulated. But when should people, in the midst of caring for them systemically, say, I still think Dr. Gripentrog needs to see this? Yeah, I think really the earlier the better, because the sooner that we as oculoplastic surgeon have a touch point with the family, then we normalize that if we only have a certain amount of improvement medically, guess what? We've already established a relationship that we can now proceed kind of surgically. So I never really fault a referring physician or a doctor for getting into patients earlier rather than later. And maybe it's just to put a face, you know, to the treatment of your child. But at the end of the day, you need to have a certain amount of trust when you're going to be taking a child to surgery. And if the parents are coming in quite frustrated or scared that this first medication therapy has failed, they're already in a tough position psychologically. biologically. So the more that we can kind of put them at ease earlier on and say, hey, if this doesn't work, you and I are going to work together. We're going to help your child. I think from my standpoint, there's never a too early time to refer a child for this. Yeah, agree, agree. The last thing we wanted to just quickly touch on is some of your work with craniofacial anomalies. And since you've joined Mayo, I think you're jumping into some of the teams here that do craniofacial work. What role is there for ophthalmology, for oculoplastic surgery in some of these bigger craniofacial anomalies? Sure. I think one of the, you know, true testament to the resources that Mayo has and how it deploys those resources are some of the multidisciplinary types of clinics that we have. So there's a fairly well-established craniofacial multidisciplinary team that I've almost been worming my way into I would say it's led or I should say organized by our plastic surgery colleagues and they've been doing this for a number of years and I've had the privilege of going to some of their noontime conferences where you go around the table after the patient has already seen maybe plastic surgery maybe they've seen pediatric otolaryngology social workers speech development, or whatever other services may be necessary for that job. Yeah, periodontics, absolutely, dental. And then there is a role, obviously, for ophthalmology, but we're a little bit of an outlier. We tend to not be as formally involved or have not been as formally involved in this particular clinic in the past, But I'm hoping to have the opportunity to change that to some degree. But, of course, I also need the help of our trusted pediatric ophthalmologists who can answer questions sometimes that I can't. But not only is it great, I think, for patients, there's also a wealth of potential research here. And one of our plastic surgery colleagues, Dr. Waleed Jibril, has helped to organize and corral some of these physicians who had been doing this work for a long period of time. also now harnessing the power of us looking at really large databases of patients over many, many years. And of course, as all of us know, at Mayo Clinic, we keep some pretty good records over a very long period of time. I think we now have the chance to unleash some of that power and learn more about pretty rare disorders at times where there's limited patient series or smaller series we can now have the potential to to look at these at new larger ways i love that i mean and certainly the team approach to unpacking the conditions and really having a multi-faceted platform for caring for them is you know perfectly fits you being part of that team and the teams here at Mayo and other centers do that on that note for the comprehensive ophthalmologist that's sitting in a practice that is a little bit further away from us I understand there are apps now that will you can take a picture of the patient adult or child and this the ability for the app to pick up unusual genetic conditions and tell you what the condition is is has really become advanced are you aware of those and is it worth us all putting an app in our let's see what do i have today oh yeah you don't turn it on yourself that would be the wrong uh i think i am aware and um i would say yes this is really going to be a great tool we live in such a large country right where there's going to be patients who don't necessarily have access to large let's say academic or large medical centers and you might be a pediatrician in the middle of nowhere wondering what's going on and so you know apps like this we'll see how it develops but I think it'll be useful in particular for screening tool and I would also say you know ironically enough there are also these types of tools being developed in let's say thyroid eye disease and this can also be useful as screening tools to know when should we be sending these patients in vouch for any of the apps myself, but no doubt that it is in all of our futures. I don't have one on mine, but someone was just sharing with me how nifty it is. And then one other thing, I just did the National Academy and was reviewing a paper regarding the U.S. database for unusual diseases. There's an abbreviation for it. So, you know, at anyone's medical center, wherever you're listening to this, there's always diseases that still are not known yet. And there is a national database for those to be patients put in their medical records and then these are collected and sometimes reviewed and discovered with successes that sometimes help individual institutions that may not have craniofacial teams or systemic teams behind them. So it's just another resource that's out there. Great plug. Yeah. Well, thank you, Greg. This was tremendous we really appreciate all your expertise it was great to sit down with you so glad you're here so glad to have you as a colleague it's just the best thank you it's a pleasure to be with you both this afternoon thanks again you can find all episodes of the mayo clinic ophthalmology podcast on our website thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more