Janice Olsen thought she had it all. She was young, in a great marriage with baby number two on the way. Then she got the bad news. A rare cancer had formed in her pelvis. Getting rid of the cancer would mean not only removing part of her pelvis, but also part of her spine and her entire left leg. For treatment, Janice went to Mayo Clinic, where doctors performed a first ever reconstructive operation in hopes that she would walk again. Janice Olsen first noticed the pain when she was 32 weeks pregnant with her second child. Pretty cruel, pretty brutal pain. It started out um like I guess what probably a lot of people have in pregnancy, but it got worse uh very very quickly. The pain was caused by a cancerous tumor in her pelvis called a condro saroma. Surgery was Janice's only option, but to save her life, Janice would have to lose a lot. part of her pelvis and her left leg. And there was no guarantee her remaining leg would function normally. Their goal was, you know, for me to survive, to see my babies grow. But Janice wanted to do more than just survive. Her family went from their home in Canada to Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. There, a team led by Dr. Michael Yazki removed the tumor and performed a first ever pelvic reconstruction in hopes that Janice would walk again. My colleagues and I went to the anatomy lab and designed this reconstruction and she was the first person we tried it on. The procedure was done in two different operations. During the first operation, Dr. Yazki and his team removed Janice left leg, half of her pelvis where the tumor was located, her tailbone, and part of her lower spine. In the second operation, they took the top portion of the leg that was removed, rotated it, and secured it to her pelvis. Then they shifted her right leg and remaining pelvis and secured it to her spine. The reconstruction allowed Janice to maintain function of her right leg. It also provided a foundation for the possibility of a prosthetic left leg. Janice husband Daryl remembers the first words Janice spoke and she asked me if she was dying and I said, "Nope." It was a complete success. Recovery takes time. I'm in the wheelchair most of the time when I'm at home. But Janice is learning to walk with crutches and is not letting her physical limitations slow her down. I'm driving, so that's a sign of my re rehabilitation. Every day, Janice says she's getting better, stronger, and she's looking forward to a long and fulfilling life with her family. Janice continues to be cancer-free. She's proud to have been the first person to benefit from this reconstructive surgery, and she hopes her experience will help others in the same situation walk again. For Medical Edge, I'm Vivian