This is Aging Forward, a podcast from Mayo Clinic about the science behind healthy aging and [music] longevity. Each episode, we explore new ways to take care of our long-term health, the health of our [music] loved ones, and our community so we can all live longer and better. I'm Dr. Christina Chen, a [music] geriatrician and internist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. And this episode, we are talking about pelvic floor health. And while they don't get a lot of attention, our [music] pelvic floor muscles are always at work keeping our pelvic organs healthy. Today's guest is Dr. John Okino, a eurog gynecological surgeon who specializes in pelvic floor disorders. [music] He is internationally recognized for his work in minimally invasive surgery, pelvic organ [music] prolapse, incontinence, and regenerative medicine. And in this conversation, we will talk about the pelvic [music] floor, how it changes as we age, what causes dysfunction, and most importantly, what [music] can we do to strengthen and restore our pelvic health. Welcome, Dr. Okino, to our podcast. >> Thanks so much for having me. >> Yeah, we would love to get to know you if you could just tell us about yourself. How did you become interested in this field of eurog gynecology? >> So, I grew up in Northern Ohio. I am the youngest of four. So I have three older sisters and a mother. So four mothers kind of. Um and so you know women were always part of my life. As I went through medical school I liked caring for women and that's what drew me towards obstetrics and gynecology and then as we went through residency training there. I ultimately >> liked the surgical aspect of the pelvic floor and that's what led me to do fellowship in eurog gynecology and here we are. Mhm. Nice. So you had a lot of influence from your family. Yes. Yeah. And >> so as a pelvic floor reconstructive surgeon for those who are unfamiliar, can you elaborate a little bit more about what that means and what types of conditions that you treat? >> So when we talk about the pelvic floor, you know, first I think talking about what is that because a lot of people don't understand what that is or don't know what that is. And so I think about the pelvic floor as the connective tissue, muscles, ligaments, and nerves that [snorts] control and support the pelvic organs. So that's bladder, vagina, bowel, uterus, and adjacent structures around there. So that's kind of what the pelvic floor is. And that includes again the muscles which I describe to patients usually is like almost like a cereal bowl of muscles >> that coat the inside of the pelvis and the bladder and the vagina and the bowel kind of poke through the bottom of that bowl of muscles. >> I'm just curious how many muscles are there? I'm just imagining the the bowl covering the pelvic floor and there's a group sort of in different angles like how many are we dealing with down there? So you know we think of that mainly as four muscles but three of them are altogether. So the levator or ani muscles a three muscle structure and then the pubo rectalus is a muscle that kind of goes from the pubic bone around the rectum and then back to the pubic bone. And these are pretty thin muscles especially the levatori kind of almost like sheets of muscles not like your bicep or something that's bulky like that. So they are pretty pretty thin as far as muscle structure is. And why are these muscles so essential to healthy aging? >> So just like anything else you talked about earlier, you know, you talked about big muscle groups, you know, back, >> thighs, >> y >> arms, and people routinely try and keep those healthy, right? They're exercising, they're going to the gym, they're doing cardiovascular weight training. And you know, this is a group of muscles that also needs attention >> just like anything else. And you know, the goal is to have good pelvic floor health hopefully before anything develops from a disorder perspective. And sometimes you talked about those are preventable things. Sometimes they're not preventable. But the healthier the pelvic floor is usually the more likely you are to get back to a state where you're comfortable with whatever >> symptoms you're having. >> Right? So women kind of go through different pelvic floor issues compared to men. And just sharing a personal story, my second child was nearly 9 lb. And after I gave birth to him, to to say it in the most professional way, he sort of ripped me a new one. And things have not been the same down there for me. So women, I mean, they go through a lot more changes in their pelvic health, not just with child birth, but also also menopause. For women, what are some of the most notable changes that you've observed besides weakening of the pelvic floor? What what goes on in that space? >> So I think about risk factors for problems with the pelvic floor. And so you mentioned one of them, child birth. Even pregnancy is a risk factor. >> Constipation is a risk factor for pelvic floor problems. Genetics likely a huge component of that that we don't have a gene for prolapse or a gene for incontinence that's been identified. We just know that it seems to be a family history. My mother had this, my three aunts had this, those types of things. And so those are kind of some risk factors, but we're seeing that dysfunction manifest itself in different ways. So we talk about PFDs or pelvic floor disorders. And that's a spectrum of disease that includes most commonly urinary incontinence, so involuntary loss of urine. And sometimes that's with an activity. So stress incontinence is coughing, sneezing, exercising, leakage versus urgency incontinence is I I have to go to the bathroom and I can't make it there >> or I leak before I can get my pants down in the bathroom and whatnot. And so those are both ending with urinary leakage but have different causes and different treatments often. Pelvic organ prolapse is another common pelvic floor disorder and that's really relaxation of the support of the bladder, the uterus, the vagina, the bowel >> and that can lead to a bulge of tissue kind of coming from the vaginal area. >> Right? Other pelvic floor disorders are, you know, sexual pain, eurogenital atrophy, which is thinning of the vaginal epithelium or the vaginal skin that can lead to changes of dryness and those types of things as well. >> So then are pelvic floor changes, would you say it's an inevitable part of aging? Does it happen to all of us? Because a lot of things that you're describing here seems like it's like an impact from gravity and loss of estrogen, dryness. like is this something that we're all going to go through? >> Likely some. >> Okay. >> But I you know and this is where we talk about risk factors just like anything else. You know I have seen women who have had 12 vaginal deliveries and have no prolapse minimal incontinence and they just have some discomfort with intercourse due to dryness. >> I see women who never been pregnant before who have prolapse and incontinence symptoms. So >> interesting. you know there's there's some component of whether it be environmental or genetic or some component of both working against people and I think that puts people more or less at risk for these problems but they are very common >> and when I talk about commonality as we'll talk about incontinence a lot of women confuse normal with common >> so is it normal to leak urine it's not normal to leak urine >> right >> is it common for women to leak urine? Absolutely. Yes. And so getting that out of the this is just normal after you have a delivery or this is just normal as you age. That often times I think prevents women from seeking care or evaluation for this cuz they've always been told this is >> just normal. It's a normal part of aging. It's a normal part of your life. Your mom had it, your aunts have it, your sisters have it. It's normal. But again, it's a common symptom, but >> those things can be treated to improve your quality of life. And a lot of the pelvic floor disorders that we manage have non-surgical treatment options as well as surgical treatment options. >> And that's where, you know, the nomenclature of you're a pelvic reconstructive surgeon gives people the idea that, okay, if I go to this person, I'm going to end up with surgery or that's all they're going to talk to me about, >> right? >> And that's not the case. A lot of pelvic floor problems will start with a non-surgical treatment or at least offer them a non-surgical treatment. If a patient chooses to seek surgery, then that's, you know, something that we can provide them as well. Got it. Let's talk a little bit about the incontinence bit cuz you mentioned so many people think this is just part of aging. It's it's okay to leak as long as it's not something they have to wear undergarments for all the time. So when is the shift from like okay this is observable to we need to get this treated. >> Sure. Most pelvic floor disorders are quality of life problems. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> And so if the incontinence for example is impacting your quality of life. It's preventing you from doing things that you want to do. I can't chase my kids around. I can't >> go to the trampoline park and jump on the trampoline with them. which is why you see a lot of women standing off to the side while their kids are all jumping at the bounce house, right? And they're like, I obviously can't do that or else I'm going to have a problem. So, if it's impacting your quality of life, >> I think seeking evaluation is appropriate. >> And that's very individual. I'll have women that, you know, leak every time they exercise, but they say I wear a pad and I'm okay with that and great. And I have people who leak, you know, much less often than that that say this is impacting my quality of life and I don't [snorts] want this and what are my treatment options? >> And I I suppose it's the same as the issues with prolapse like some people they may have some symptoms but not have it bother them as much and have it more worked up if it's symptomatic to a point where it needs >> exactly if it's impacting their quality of life. If it's symptomatic, if it's bothersome to them, then I think that's when they should seek evaluation. We talked a little bit about constipation, which is often underestimated, but is closely linked to pelvic floor dysfunction. Can you explain why the bladder and the bowel are so closely connected >> from a straight anatomic perspective? Yeah, >> they're adjacent to each other almost, right? So bladder, vagina, bowel are all within several inches of each other. And so the nerves that are controlling all those are coming off the lower portion of the spinal cord like the sacral nerves are the most common for managing those things. And so when patients [clears throat] are constipated they will have a rectum that's fairly full >> and sometimes their body or their brain can't tell what's full down there. They know there's something down there. They know there's pressure down there and so that ultimately makes them have urgency of the urine or frequency of the urine because they're going to the bathroom because they feel like they have to go. >> And so managing that constipation can both improve bladder function and also decrease risk of prolapse because if you're straining over years and years on the commode, that's going to put you at some risk for developing prolapse. And when we talk about pelvic floor dysfunction, I often think of it as the weakening of the muscles. Is there a situation where the muscles are too and tight and cause bowel bladder issues in the opposite direction? >> Exactly. So can be same symptoms, urgency, frequency. And that's why I think evaluation by somebody who's skilled in the pelvic floor is important because the treatment for somebody who has tightness of those pelvic muscles. >> The treatment for that person though might be physical therapy but >> the exercises are going to focus on stretching, relaxing versus strengthening. If somebody's got weaker pelvic floor, you're going to work on strengthening those muscles. But if somebody's got that tight pelvic floor and they're doing these hard keal exercises, that ultimately can be detrimental and worsen their symptoms overall. >> Interesting. So, it's it's better to get the accurate diagnosis first before identifying the best treatment and management options afterwards because like you said, it's the complete opposite of what should be done that would treat the actual problem. >> For sure. And I try and use analogies when I talk to my patients. So I say, you know, like we live in Minnesota, so you know, I'm out shoveling snow and I pull my back. Yeah. >> Right. So that's a muscle. So they're not going to tell me go to the gym and work it out, right? They're going to say heat, stretches, anti-inflammatory medicines. That's what's going to help with that kind of tightness or that spasm of the pelvic floor, which is going to be a different treatment for somebody who's got weakness of those muscles. And then there's symptoms that can overlap with other conditions like for people who struggle with long-standing say constipation predominant irritable bowel syndrome. When these symptoms overlap, how do you determine if it's a pelvic floor issue or a true bowel issue or a bladder issue? How do you sort those two out? >> So, the easiest way is to treat both of them and hopefully they get better. Um, [laughter] you know, but the reality of it is it's probably multiffactorial, >> you know. Um, and if you get assessed by a pelvic floor specialist and they say, "Hey, I think your pelvic floor is healthy. I think most of your bowel dysfunction is probably related to your irritable bowel syndrome." Then you check that box and things are working well. But it's pretty uncommon that somebody would leave an appointment with a pelvic floor specialist and not learn anything about their pelvic health, about things they can do in the future. So, it's an educational opportunity, I think, for somebody [music] to invest in their own future. Can you explain what types of tests or evaluations that you would typically perform initially for people at your first visit and then how do you guide them through additional testing if needed? >> So, I mean, most visits with myself or or somebody similar to me is going to start with a history. What's going on? you know, usually assessing at least four main areas, which is vaginal prolapse, urinary symptoms, including incontinence, bowel dysfunction, and sexual dysfunction. Okay? So, getting a history there. Most often, a physical examination is going to be part of that evaluation. And then there are other tests that can be done based on what symptoms you're having. Some of those people will hear is called a eurodnamics test which sounds bad and big but it's essentially these are tests on the bladder looking at the function of the bladder how well you empty the bladder what's the capacity of the bladder what's the sensation in the bladder those types of things and that helps determine >> potentially next steps if somebody's not emptying their bladder that can be a reason why they might be having incontinence compared to somebody who is emptying fine and there's an additional reason. So it helps as a piece of that puzzle to identify what's going on, why is it going on, and then how how should we address it? >> You mentioned a little bit about the genetic influence. Can you talk about some of the other factors or behaviors that make individuals more prone to pelvic floor problems than others? for for example like the child birth history but anything else that makes people more at risk of pelvic floor dysfunction. >> Sure. So I have my you know presentation that I go over with people and you know we start going through again pregnancy delivery >> you know being overweight >> can impact maturing age somebody who has chronic heavy lifting. So not you know I'm a weekend gardener and I carry some big bags. These are people who I think of as I work at a factory and I'm lifting 50 60 lbs 8 hours a day, 5 days a week. >> Those people are more at risk again just because lifting puts strain on the pelvic floor which then can ultimately put them at risk. Now, does that mean everybody who works at a factory is going to have pelvic prolapse or pelvic floor problems? Certainly not. And that's why we still don't understand that kind of genetic aspect or there's something else that's putting people at risk, not just these things. >> I'm doing a little bit of weight training myself and I wonder sometimes should I be engaging my pelvic floor core before I start exerting pressure and lifting more than I should, you know? >> Absolutely. And this is kind of what pelvic floor physical therapists will work with patients on. And similar to what I had said about seeing a pelvic health specialist for evaluation, I have very rarely seen a patient leave a pelvic floor physical therapy appointment without gaining any knowledge. Even if it's just this is what I do before I lift something. This is what I do before I'm doing squats. And squats, [clears throat] as much as every personal trainer loves them because they get every muscle, quads, hamstrings, glutes, it does put a lot of pressure on the pelvic floor. So, if you're feeling a lot of that pressure, you might seek other exercises that might get those same structures. So, I especially in the post-operative period, ask my patients not to squat down and and, you know, or [clears throat] do the golfing, kneel down with one knee and bend over to pick something up, that type of stuff. Yeah, I think most people are the most familiar with Keele exercises, which is something you can do while you're sitting and no one knows you're doing it. But are there any other exercises that we can do without having to go to a physical therapist that work the pelvic floor? >> So core exercises, again, a good healthy core is going to be important. And especially as we age, mobility is super important. So anything we talk about that is attached to the pelvis. So hip mobility, your glutial muscles, core, lower back, all those are really adjacent and important for overall health between your belly button and your knees. >> And when function is is lost or weakened, is it possible to use all that to retrain it back to its baseline again? or perhaps even better than baseline. Is it is it possible to get that function back even after perhaps multiple surgeries or pregnancies and there's been obviously things damaged in that area. Can you get that back? >> So you can typically function for sure >> when we talk about restoring that function >> I think about things in two different ways both anatomic >> and functional outcomes. So anatomy sometimes we can get things anatomically back to where they were at baseline and whether that's with surgery or with therapy or something like that. >> But that can also be distinctive from function. So despite anatomy maybe being restored, you may still have to work on the function of the bladder or the function of the bowel on those types of things. >> Okay. So it sounds like there's a spectrum of interventions we can do starting with the most simple things lifestyle exercise physical therapy and then there's the wide variety of different treatment options which that's probably another topic in itself but just broadly speaking what are some surgeries that you do do for refractory say urinary incontinence prolapse what types of surgeries do you do? >> Sure. So when we talk about stress incontinence, that's the laughing, coughing, sneezing, exercising type leakage. We think of that more as actually a problem with the urethra, which is the tube the urine comes out of. And so over time, childirth, pregnancy, genetics, the support underneath that urethra can weaken. >> Okay? >> So most of our interventions for stress incontinence focus on the urethra. Mhm. >> And the most common one in the United States is called a mid urethral sling, which is a strap of mesh that's placed underneath the urethra. And again, we need another hour to talk about mesh and why there's risks with it and why there's benefit from utilizing it. You can utilize your own tissue instead of using an external piece of mesh to make a sling underneath. >> There's materials you can inject kind of around the urethra to help decrease that. So, there's a lot of different options versus overactive bladder, which is urgency and frequency, and I can't make it to the bathroom, and I get up six times at night to go pee. That is typically out of the gate non-surgically managed. So, that's again dietary modification. So, avoiding things that can irritate the bladder like caffeine, nicotine, chocolate, acidic foods, those types of things. followed by physical therapy, sometimes utilizing some topical estrogen in the vaginal and urethral area. Those are kind of [clears throat] that firstline pretty lowrisk, high reward treatment options. There are medications you can use to help with the bladder. And then there's things beyond medications that are like a Botox injection into the bladder or a kind of a pacemaker for the bladder. those things are a little bit further down the line. But as you get through the early treatments, again, physical therapy could improve both stress incontinence and that urge incontinence or overactive bladder, but the further you get down your treatment pathway, things are typically going to diverge a little bit. >> Yeah, thanks for giving that that overview. I'm always a little bit nervous about prescribing bladder medications to the older adult population just because of the negative cognitive side effects. I typically see where they get real dry and yes, it helps with the bladder spasms, but then as a consequence, they may develop constipation or more confusion or just more cognitive problems. So, I appreciate that there's a lot of other choices to consider if medications have been tried and and hasn't worked well. >> Sure. In a pretty recent guideline put out by the American Urologic Association reclassified overactive bladder urge incontinence treatments. It used to be kind of step one, step two, step three. And step two really was thought of as those medications. You had to go through step one to get step two. You had to go through step two to be eligible for step three. And now again, we know there's cognitive side effects. We know there's cost associated with some of the newer medicines and the AUA guideline now says you can talk to patients really about the spectrum of treatments and let them really choose. So if they say I don't want to try a medicine and I'd like to do Botox injection in the bladder. We have a little bit more of that freedom >> to not necessarily make them try a medicine. >> I still think it's beneficial to start with the easy stuff. you know, estrogen, physical therapy, dietary changes, cuz >> any of those things are going to progressively make any additional treatment function better. >> So, earlier you mentioned the impact of weight as well. How much weight would someone have to lose in order to make a difference in their bladder and pelvic floor health? >> That number is smaller than one would expect, you [clears throat] know? So some studies have shown 5% of excess body weight and so you know even 10 pounds can significantly improve somebody's bladder function. >> Could you briefly explain how regenerative medicine which is essentially getting the body to repair itself how that is coming into play in your field of medicine? >> So it's slow and steady just with any new emerging technology. A lot of the earlier information focused on stem cell therapy, right? >> So obtaining stem cells from either the patient or exogenous stem cells, usually reconstituting, injecting them into an area to hope that they're going to develop into whatever you're trying to create. And we're exploring other opportunities for regenerative therapies outside of stem cell. You know, part of the challenges with stem cells, difficult to obtain, fairly costly in general. So, we're exploring utilizing what's called exoomes to help with tissue regeneration. You know, the mechanism for these exoomes, they're kind of messengers. Okay? So, they're put into a place and they're telling the cells in that area to regenerate into whatever they are, cardiac tissue, skin, >> muscle. >> I see. So, as we're talking about prevention, healthy aging, and kind of the future of pelvic health for all of us, you know, we talked about weight and staying active, avoiding the foods that seem to aggravate our bladder, but what is your best advice or perhaps top three things that we should be prioritizing every day as part of our pelvic health wellness? I want to be my 90s and not have to leak all [laughter] the time. you know what can I do now to be more intentional about that because I don't think about that area much >> sure >> until I have to [laughter] >> so I think doing pelvic floor exercise now you want to make sure you're doing them correctly I certainly have seen women who say I do my pelvic floor keal exercises every day religiously for 40 years >> and when I'm doing their examination I ask them to kind of contract their pelvic floor muscles and nothing's happening >> so I'm believe that they've been doing something for 40 years on a daily basis, but probably not what they needed to be doing >> and avoiding risks that you can avoid. >> Okay, constipation is an avoidable risk factor for pelvic floor problems. You know, genetics not necessarily an avoidable risk factor for pelvic floor problems. So, kind of trying to minimize your exposure to those risks that we know about. >> So, I have a fun request to ask you right now. You mentioned Keele exercises earlier. Would you mind guiding our listeners through how how do we do a proper Keele exercise for both men and women? >> Sure. When I instruct women to contract their pelvic floor, sometimes you know saying contract the muscles around the vagina is a tough concept for people to understand. >> But in general, squeezing the muscles around the anal canal. So like you're in an elevator and you don't want to pass gas. That's the same kind of pelvic floor musculature and everybody knows how to do that, right? So doing that would be kind of a way to contract your pelvic floor and do a keal exercise. So that's oftentimes how I relate to patients because it's everybody knows what that feeling is. >> Mhm. Thank you for sharing that. Do you have an example of a patient that you helped over the years dealing with pelvic floor issues and dysfunction and how working with that patient really led to a a successful outcome or a better quality of life? Any any stories or cases that stand out to you? >> Sure. I'd say, you know, some of my happiest patients are women who we treated for stress incontinence because that's something that has usually >> impacted them for a duration of time and it's usually like slowly over time, right? So prolapse of the vaginal organs are going to happen slowly over time. It's not like one day everything's going to be perfectly well supported and then the next day everything's falling out. So similarly with urinary symptoms, it's something that's developed over time. It's prevented them from doing things that they want to do and they've, you know, changed their lifestyle typically. Well, I don't run anymore. >> You know, I don't do this activity. I don't play volleyball anymore. I used to play in a pickup league. Those types of things. And giving them that quality of life back >> is great. And a lot of those are surgical treatments, some of them not. But the end result whether it was surgery to get them to that point or physical therapy to get them to that point or you know a pesery is a non-surgical kind of an insertional device to get it to that point. No matter what the treatment is those patients are typically the ones coming to me and saying I wish I did this 10 years ago. >> Yeah. That they're able to get their life back and do the things that they wanted to do and just couldn't and lost those years. >> For sure. I have one last closing question that we like to ask our experts. The mission of our podcast is to help empower everyone to live well, to live their best, and we just want to know what what does aging forward mean to you and how do you personally age well? >> Yeah. So, aging forward, I like the concept of this, you know, nomenclature because I had not heard it before, you know, we were chatting here, but I think a lot of people look at aging as a decline, right? A negative. and even myself looking at how am I aging forward myself. I think there's the you know healthy aspect, nutritional aspect, physical aspect of exercise. There's also this mental wellness aspect of things >> and so you know connecting with people connecting spiritually with whatever you choose to do. >> You know I've been exploring Buddhism as a practice and that's been very helpful for me. Thank you for that. And thank you so much for this conversation about pelvic floor health. And it reminds me, you know, don't forget the little guys, right? They're important down there and they may not hold up your whole skeleton, but they hold up your organs. So, it plays a powerful role in how we age. And like you said, it influences everything that we that we do when it comes to our bladder control, bowel control, and it does lead to more comfort and mobility, more confidence and independence. And that is what aging forward is all about. So, thank you again. >> Thank you [music] for having me. >> So, that's all [music] for this episode. Hopefully, you're feeling a little bit more informed, inspired, and empowered. If you have a topic suggestion for a future episode, [music] you can leave us a voicemail at 507-538-6272, and we might even feature your voice on the show. For more Aging Forward episodes and resources, head to mayoc clinic.org/agingforward org/agingforward. [music] And if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us on your podcast app. It really helps others find our show. Thanks for listening and until next time, stay curious and stay active.