Hi, my name is Dr. Deborah Setter. Welcome to my peripheral neuroanatomy course. This video covers the foundational neuroanatomy of the leg. I'm going to present the information relevant to a basic neurological exam. Let's get started. Let's draw the foundational peripheral neuroanatomy of the leg. Let's start by listing the nerve roots. L2, L3, L4, L5, S1, and S two. These nerve roots combine to form the lumbosacral plexus. We don't need to memorize this anatomy. So let's just focus on what nerve roots form which nerves. Let's start by the femoral nerve, which is supplied by L2, L3, and L4. Next, we'll draw the obturator nerve, Next is the superior gluteal nerve, by L4, L5, and S1. Then last is the sciatic nerve. I draw a dot 451-2 because all of these are part of the cyatic 451.2. These form the cyatic, which is actually two nerves in one. This is why I made the cyatic purple because it divides into read, the tibial nerve. And blue, which is the fibular nerve. The fibular nerve was previously called the peroneal nerve. In the late '90s, the federate of committee on anatomical terminology had a meeting and published the official terminology for anatomical structures. These experts decided to choose fibular nerve as the official name to avoid confusion between the peroneal nerve and the leg. Peroneal nerve and the groin. It also appears nicely since you have a tibia and fibula bone in the leg, it makes sense to have a tibial and fibular nerve. Now, let's add our muscles. The femoral nerve innervates the iliopsoas and the quadriceps muscles. The obturator the thigh AD adductors. This is a little confusing for my brain. I would think that the obturator nerve would innervate the abductors. Not true. It's actually it's superior gluteal nerve that innervates the thigh AB doctors, specifically the gluteus, medius and minimus. But it's actually the obturator innervates the AD adductors. This is a group of five muscles. You don't need to memorize all their names. So for the leg, I just remember that it's, the leg is tricky. There's lots of opposites. So obturator innervates Alright, so we already mentioned that the superior gluteal nerve abductors of the thigh. These sciatic nerve innervates the hamstrings. The tibial nerve innervates the gastrocnemius muscle. And the fibular the anterior tibialis muscle. This is another confusing area, the leg, I would think that the tibial nerve would innervate But that's not the case. You have to think about what journey this nerve is going on. So here's a leg, Here's the thigh. There's the gastroc. Here's the foot. We're looking at the posterior aspect of the leg. So this is our nerve roots 451 into coming to form the cyatic nerve. If we imagine that sciatic coming down, what's going to happen is the tibial is going to branch off and travel down this posterior aspect of the leg. The fibular nerve branches off, wraps around the head of the fibula and innervates the anterior compartment of the leg. So that's the memory trick there to remember that the fibular nerve innervates the anterior tibialis muscle. And there you have it. The foundational peripheral neuroanatomy of the leg. Now let's organize this information into a table. I encourage you to take handwritten notes during this portion of the talk. This material is dry and the act of handwriting helps keep you engaged and improved memory. Recall. When we're done, reorganize the information in the way that most makes the most sense to you. Unless download this PowerPoint and use it to quiz yourself. I have my table organized by the action that I'm testing. The muscle that performs that action, the nerve that supplies the muscle, and then the routes that comprise that nerve. When I'm doing an exam, I start by testing hip flexion. This test, the iliopsoas muscle supplied by the femoral nerve, l2, 3.4 nerve roots, primarily L2. And three. Next t-test hip A-B duction. This tests the gluteus medius and minimus muscles supplied by the superior gluteal nerve, L4, L5, and S1. Next day test hip A-D duction. This tests the thigh AD adductor muscles. This is a group of five muscles supplied by the obturator nerve, L2, L3, and L4 nerve roots. Next I test knee extension. This tests the quadriceps muscle femoral nerve, Next, I tasked knee flexion. hamstrings muscle sciatic nerve, L5, S1 and S2 nerve roots. Next, detest ankle dorsi flexion. This is the anterior tibialis muscle fibular nerve, L4 and L5 nerve roots, primarily L5. And then last I test ankle plantar flexion. gastrocnemius muscle tibial nerve, L5 and S1 nerve roots, primarily S1. Alright, now let's see this in the context of a neuromuscular exam. Will demonstrate the exam under ideal conditions for someone who can walk and sit on the exam table as well as demonstrate the supine exam for folks in the hospital. When I'm assessing an ambulatory patient, ask them to scoot to the edge of the bench and cross their arms and then stand up without using their arms. This is a great test of the iliopsoas, quadriceps, and gluteus maximus muscles. Alright, now for the walking exam, when a neurologist is watching someone walk, there's a lot of different components that we're gonna be looking for. So first I'm gonna be watching the patient walk away from me. The first thing I want to think about is, what's their base to do this, draw imaginary lines from the hips down to the ground and see, do the feet stay within those lines or are they outside those lines? That's how I tell if it's a narrow based or a wide based gait. Next thing I'm gonna be looking for is looking at how far the feet are apart from each other when they're stepping. A normal stride length, I should be able to see about a foot length between their feet. If the feet are close together, that's a shortened stride length. So this is kinda what a shortened stride length versus normal is going to look like. I'm also going to be watching the arms of my patient. Do they have normal arm swing? In my Parkinsonian patients sometimes you'll see that decreased arm swing as well as that resting, tremor can come out. I'm also going to look at how does my patient do on turns. Normally it should be a step pivot. Step, pivot, keeping their balance. Sometimes with patients with Parkinson's or normal pressure hydrocephalus, you'll actually count and see how many steps it takes to them for them to make a turn. Or in Parkinson's you have that on block turning, that very blocky turning. I'm also going to be looking at the foot falls, heel-toe, heel-toe, heel-toe. Think about patients with a foot drop. They're going to have that step edge gate rather than heel toe. They're gonna be picking up that leg quite high. And then it's toe, heel, toe, heel, toe, toe, heel. A step edge gate, my empathic gate, it's going to affect that hip girdle. One of the important muscles to think about is that gluteus medius muscle, it keeps the pelvis stable. So when I watched the patient walk away, does that pelvis stay nice and level or is it falling? Remembering that my right gluteus medius, when I transfer weight here, if it's week, I'll fall to the left. So that myopathy, that gate is going to have a waddling quality to it. Also think about our stroke patients, one of those mental shortcuts, they're going to have exaggerated flexion of the arm because the extensors are weak. It's the opposite in the leg extension at the hip, knee, and ankle. When you watch someone with a stroke walk, you'll notice that because of that spastic tone on their leg, they end up circum ducting that leg to help when they're walking. So that's just an overview of the things I'm gonna be looking for as a neurologist. To put it together. When I'm examining someone, I ask them to walk away for me. Just the normal walk click there, walking down the street, turnaround, come back towards me. God, I'm watching that that arm swing and then come up on your tip toes as high as you can keep those heels off the floor and then walk down the hall. This is the absolute best way to test the gastroc muscle. When they come back towards me and want to watch them walk with their toes up in the air. This is testing the anterior tibialis muscle. Last is going to be tandem gait. That's where you ask them to watch. Walk heel-toe, heel-toe. Like they're walking a tight rope. This test the cerebellum. So once I'm done watching the patient walk, I'll have them change into a gown and take off their socks and shoes so that way I can inspect the muscles of the leg and the feet. Alright, now to do the manual motor testing of the muscles of the leg in a seated patient. So first I'll ask the patient to take their arms and stabilize themselves yep. And lift this knee up to the ceiling. Go ahead. Yeah. That's testing the iliopsoas muscle, femoral nerve, L2 34. Again, I need to think about which muscles am I using, VS, which muscle in my testing. I don't want to use my little wimpy wrist flexors sometimes when I'm really testing in LEO. So let's go ahead and lift it up. I'm putting my body weight and not just my upper arm muscles, but my back muscles into dusting. The iliopsoas. Same on the other side. Next are the thigh AV doctors, That's the gluteus medius and minimus muscle, that's the superior gluteal nerve, L5, S1 and two. So next I'm going to test the hip abductors, the gluteus medius and minimus. That's the superior L4, L5, S1. For this, I like to use fist. You can use fists, you can use your hands. I like the fist because that way some patients are a little sensitive to an open hand on their legs. Put your hands on the outside of their knees and ask them to push apart. Push, push, push. Again, I'm using that firm constant pressure so I can pick out subtle weakness. Those are the thigh AB doctors, the glute medius Now I can come in here, push in. That's testing the thigh AD adductors. That's a group of five muscles are all innervated by the obturator nerve, L2 34. Next is the quadriceps muscle. For the quadriceps, I like to put my hand on the distal part of the leg to give myself the most leverage as opposed to here, go here, stabilise across the knee joint and ask the patient to kick out. Again. I'm pushing my whole body weight into that quadriceps muscle because they really want to pick out that subtle weakness. Go ahead and kick out again. That's the quadriceps muscle, femoral nerve L23 for testing the right and then testing the left. Next is the hamstrings muscle. This is the sciatic nerve, L5, S1. And two. For this, I grabbed the back of the leg, stabilize at the knee, ask the person to pull trying to break that It's very strong. Again, I'm using my whole body. Alright, next I'm going to test the tibialis anterior, how the patient dorsiflex the foot. And I'm going to apply pressure here. Again, I'm going to be using my whole body tibialis anterior is an extraordinarily strong muscle. This is deep fibular nerve, L4, L5. gastroc muscle. I put my hand underneath the ball of the foot and ask them to step on the gas. Perfect. That's the gastroc muscle, the tibial nerve, L5, S1. So that's the manual motor testing in the leg. So to review, put it all together. Iliopsoas, go ahead and lift up That's femoral and kick out quads, both femoral L2 three for our abductors, glute medius minimus superior gluteal nerve. And this by 80 doctors, That's obturator nerve, sciatic nerve, that's L5. S1 to sciatic is gonna do the hamstrings. And then the sciatic here is going to branch into that fibular nerve. Go ahead and lock that toe up. Fibular, That's the tibialis anterior specifically the deep fibular branch. And then the tibial yep. Step on the gas, that's the gastroc L5 S1. Now let's test the reflexes. For the patella reflex, you want to look for the patellar tendon and then do a tap right there. This is testing the quadriceps muscle L23 for the femoral nerve. Whenever I'm testing, I want to look if there's crossing cross A-D duction is L23 for that covers both the the quadriceps and the ADD vectors on the other side. Next is the ankle reflex. So for this, I like to support the ball of the foot and then tap on the Achilles tendon. And I'm feeling for that plantar flexion in the leg. This test, the tibial nerve L5, S1, and S2. Last and the leg, I want to test the plantar responses, commonly called the Babinski. I'm going to stand on my soapbox for a minute. So Babinski specifically refers to an extensor plantar response. That's the abnormal findings. When you're testing a plantar response, you'll get flexor that's normal or extensor that's abnormal. Some people will go and say all the Babinski is negative. That's not technically grammatically correct. When you're checking the plantar response, you want to lift up the foot and trace a j along the bottom of the foot. You can use a reflex hammer, the, the handle M. You can also use a little stick. Sometimes the stick is a little bit hygienic. I'll even just grab one of those sterile Q-tips with a wooden stick. Trace that J on the And then I'm looking to make sure that the yup, that I have a flexor plantar response. If someone's positive where they have an extensor plantar response, you'll also see fanning of the toes. So again, I'll do this on the right and then compare it to the left. Alright, So the neuromuscular exam of the legs and the supine patient, starting with the iliopsoas, what I'm going to ask the patient to do is bend this knee. Yeah. Perfect. And lift this heel up off the bed. Good. Push that push that leg into my hand. Push it up. That's testing the iliopsoas muscle. You can also test it too. With the legs extended? Yep. Keep that keep that heel off the bed. Whenever you test it this way, makes sure that you push just above the knee, knocked down here. Then I'm testing across multiple joints. So that's the femoral nerve, L2 34. Good, relaxed. And then this side lifts it up and bend that knee. Bend it in my hand. Good. Yep. And keep that heel off the bed. God, that's the iliopsoas. Relax. Next is the thigh AB doctors. I can just put my hands here. Yup. And push out the thigh av Directors, glute medius and minimus superior gluteal nerve, L4, L5, S1. Then again coming in here. These are the hip abductors, obturator nerve L2 34. Next is testing the quadriceps muscle. For this one I'll do yep. I'll have the patient just relax for me for a second. Actually. I'll pick up the leg at the knee, pick it up and then ask the patient to kick into my hand. Kick. This gives me the leverage across the joint as well as I can use my upper body when testing that Go ahead and kick again. That's L23 for femoral nerve. Relax and then pick up the other leg, kick out. That's the quads on the other side for the hamstrings. Similarly, I'm going to have the patient bend their knee. Good. Keep that heel on the bed, keep that heel there. I'm placing my hands to stabilise across the joint and I'm pulling again, I'm using my whole upper body because this is a very strong muscle to try and see if I can break that hamstrings. That sciatic nerve, L5, S1, and two, same on the other side. There's the hamstrings. Next in a supine patient, since the legs extended, that gives me a little advantage. They aren't using accessory muscles when I'm testing ankle plantar flexion and dorsal flexion. So go ahead and lift up those ankles for me. Keep it up there. Again, that's the tibialis anterior. I can pull in like this. This is a really strong muscle. You can even wrap your arms around it and hang your body weight off that muscle tibialis anterior. This is the fibular nerve L4 five, same on this side. And then next yep. Step on the gas. This helps isolate that gastroc muscle, tibial nerve L5, S1. Now to check tone in the legs, what I do is I pick up the leg at the knee, make sure that they're nice and loose. And then I want to pick it up again, make sure that it's nice and loose and then do quick movements. What I'm looking for is I'm watching this heel, seeing if it's dragging along the bed, That's normal tone. If someone has increased tone, you'll see that he'll actually pop off the bed. That's spastic tone. Go ahead and relax, checking both sides. So getting that limb nice and loose. And then the quick jerk to really test for any spasticity. Next we're going to check for reflexes. So in the supine patient, what you wanna do is pick up that knee and just ask the patient to go loose. I'm just wiggling to make sure that she's nice and loose. Again, looking for that patellar tendon and tapping like this. And again, I'm always looking to see is there any crossing activation of the adductor muscles. So this is how I test the patella reflex. In a supine patient. Just like that. For the Achilles reflex, There's a couple of different ways to test us. One option is you can actually stretch the foot like this and tap on the ball of the foot that's still gets that muscle stretch to test that reflex. Alternatively, one of the best ways is to have them then just like that, then did the knee and cross the leg. It's a little awkward here on the exam table. It's a little easier in the hospital bed. But this gives me good access to that Achilles tendon for tapping. Same for the plantar responses. I can just go in here and scrape on the bottom of the foot.