Hi, my name is Dr. Deborah Setter. Welcome to my peripheral neuroanatomy course. This video covers the foundational neuroanatomy of the arm. My goal is to simplify the information and highlight what is relevant to a basic neurological exam. This video is specifically tailored to those in the early stages of their training, such as medical students and interns. I'm going to present the same information in multiple different ways. First, it appeals to different learning styles. Second, to keep you engaged, and third, to use repetition to help you remember all of this information. I'll begin by drawing a simplified diagram of the anatomy to give you a roadmap to follow. Then write out a table organizing the information, then demonstrate a neuromuscular exam. I'll give you lots of tips and tricks for how to properly perform a neuromuscular exam and coach you on the neuroanatomy we're testing along the way. Let's get started. All right. Let's draw our diagram of the brachial plexus. To draw the basic fishbone diagram, you start with a V, then a line, a line, and a V. And a V and a line. Over here on the side, you draw a sideways W. In the middle, you draw an X and half of a lie. And there you go. That's the basic diagram. Over here on the left are the nerve roots, C5, C6, C7, C8, and T1. Over here on the right. These are our terminal nerve branches. The acronym to keep these straight is Marmot, M, a, R, M. The first M stands for muscular, cutaneous nerve, a, axillary, radial, median, and ulnar. Those are the terminal nerves. The muscles they enervate. The ones I want you to know what those foundational level is that the musculocutaneous nerve innervates the biceps muscle. The axillary nerve deltoid muscle. Radial enervates the triceps, the wrist extensors, extensor, carpi, radialis and ulnaris, as well as the finger extensors, the extensor digitorum communists. The finger flexors. The flexor digitorum profundus is innervated by both the median and the ulnar. So the median innervates the flexor digitorum profundus to the second and third digits. These ones, the ulnar innervates the flexor to the fourth and fifth digits. These ones, the median, also innervates the abductor, pollicis brevis in the thumb, and the ulnar innervates the OCI, the muscles that do finger spread, and the abductor digiti minimi. And there you go. The basic diagram of the brachial plexus. Let's organize this information into a table. I'll be honest, this portion of the talk is a little bit dry. So to make it a little more engaging for you, I encourage you to take handwritten notes as I go through this information. And then once we've built the table together, feel free to reorganize the information in the way that makes the most sense to you. Last, feel free to download this PowerPoint and use it to quiz yourself to help solidify this information. Alright, so on the top left corner I've drawn out the brachial plexus. And here's my table. I have it organized by how I do a neuromuscular exam on the patient, starting with the muscle action I'm testing. Then which muscle I am testing with that action. The nerve that innervates that muscle and the nerve root that supplies. First. When I do an exam of a patient, I test arm A-B duction. This tests the deltoid muscle, which is innervated by the axillary nerve, C5 and C6 nerve roots, primarily C5. Next day test elbow flexion. biceps muscle, the musculocutaneous nerve, roots, primarily C6. Next I test elbow extension. This is the triceps muscle innervated by the radial nerve. C6 78 nerve roots, primarily the C7 nerve root. wrist extension. This is a this is the extensor carpi radialis and extensor carpi ulnaris muscles both working together. These are supplied by the radial nerve and the C5, C6, C7, and C8 nerve roots finger extension. This is the extensor digitorum communists muscle supplied by the radial nerve, C7 and C8 nerve roots. Now for the finger flexors, there's separate innervation to the second and third digits compared to the fourth and the fifth digits. It's the same muscle. It's the flexor digitorum profundus muscle. For the second and third digits. This is supplied by the median nerve. The fourth and fifth digits are ulnar nerve. Both of these are supplied by the C8 T1 nerve roots primarily CA, fingers spread. This tests the inner OCI as well as the abductor digiti minimi. These muscles are supplied by the ulnar nerve. C8, T1 nerve roots. Thumb, A-B duction. This is the abductor pollicis brevis muscle median nerve, C8 and T1 nerve roots. So this summarizes the neuroanatomy you need to know at the foundational level, one of the convenient things about the arm. As you can see, that there are very specific muscles you can test to test specific nerve roots. So deltoid is C5 biceps, C6, triceps, C7, finger flexors, C8, and then the hand is C8, T1. Alright, I'm gonna also go over the reflex and strength scoring. There are two reflex scales. There's the standard reflux scale and then Mayo, we have our own special scale. I've also included here a description of what those numbers mean. So in a normal patient on the Mayo scale, they're gonna be as zero. If you're outside of mayo and normal set of reflexes you graded as two-plus. We call it two plus, because back in the day of paper charts, you would literally draw this little stick figure of a person. Here's their arms and their legs. And you would draw plus signs to indicate this would be the biceps, triceps, brachioradialis, patellar, ankle. And then the plantar responses whether or not they were flexor or down or extensor are up. So you would summarize it by saying that reflexes are two plus, you would literally count the number of plus signs. On the outside scale. If someone's decrease, then they just get one plus sign. If they're absent, then they get a zero. On the flip side, if they're increased, There's a three-plus or if there's very high than there are four plus. Some of the differences is things that are a three-plus are increased. And in the patella, e.g. you could see something like crossed A-D duction. Meaning that if I'm tapping on the right leg, I see the left leg AD duct as well. If I tap on the reflux and I elicit clonus, That's how I grade things at the top of the scale. For the male scale, normal is rated as zero. All the way at the top of the scale is a plus, is plus four. And then they'll plus one to three is grading if it's mild, moderate, or severe. This is a judgment call based on the examiner and your collection of normative data based on how many patients you've examined, how do you feel that these reflexes fit on that spectrum? On the flip side, if someone has reduced reflexes, you can also grade it as mild, moderate, or severe reduction and reflexes. And a minus four indicates that there's absent reflexes. Sometimes people feel that this is a little bit tricky. So I also encourage you, when you're documenting your exam, to just write what you see and not get hung up on assigning an exact number. For grading strength. There's the MRC scale, the Medical Research Council scale. This is where you grade strength as five slash five or the Mayo scale which goes from zero to negative four. So a normal patient, if you're using the MRC scale, that's gonna be a five, then you need to think of three as Canvas patient, overcome gravity. And then four plus 4.4 minus covers that spectrum in-between. They can overcome gravity, but they're mildly, moderate or severely week. On the Mayo scale, we grade a patient who's normal as a zero, and then we assign a minus one for mild weakness and a minus two for moderate weakness. Then we go to the three is for whether or not they're severely week, but whether or not they can overcome gravity. You can use a plus or minus G to indicate whether or not they can overcome gravity, where they can't, they cannot overcome gravity. Or you can use these little decimal points. -3.25, meaning that they can overcome gravity, but that's it. -3.5, meaning they cannot overcome gravity, but if you eliminate gravity, they can still activate that muscle appropriately. That's a two on the MRC scale. -3.75 means you just get a trace of muscle activation. That's a one on Or a minus for that indicates that there's no muscle activation whatsoever. That's a zero on So that's how to great strength. Alright, let's move on to the demonstration of the neuromuscular exam. So we've drawn out the diagram of the brachial plexus, organize that information into a table. Now let's see it in the context of a neuromuscular exam. Thank you to my volunteer, Dr. Hannah cell Fleming for helping with today's demonstration. There are many acceptable variations when performing a neuromuscular exam. Today's demonstration is based on consulting with multiple members of the Mayo Clinic Department of Neurology, as well as this book. This is the aids to the examination of the peripheral nervous system, a fun history fact. This book was compiled in the 40s by Dr. George redact, a Scottish Brigadier General, who compiled this in World War II to help soldiers with peripheral nerve injuries. Alright, some general principles when doing a Us neurologists state organized. We do our exam top to bottom, one muscle at a time as much as we can. Right side first, then the left side. Unless if the right sides week, I'll start with the left. Okay, let's get started. We'll start with the deltoid muscle. Go ahead and lift up your arms like this. I want her arms at 90 degrees is not too high, not too low. And then when I'm testing the deltoid muscle, I want to apply pressure on the distal part of the arm. The idea is I want to give myself leverage. It's a very strong muscle. Apply firm, consistent pressure. Sometimes I see people bounce like this. I really want to pick out subtle weakness. So I want that firm constant pressure. This is the deltoid muscle, axillary nerve, C5 and C6 nerve roots. Next, I'll test the biceps. It's important I want to make sure that this arm is at 90 degrees. If she's too flexed, that biceps is super contracted. She's going to have an advantage on the flip side if that arms extended. Now she's at a disadvantage. I can use this if I'm looking for subtle signs of weakness. But in general, I want to keep things consistent between patients. So I want that arm at 90 degrees. I'm going to stabilize here at the elbow and apply pressure again, I want to apply pressure to the distal end of the forum to give myself leverage, not on the hand. Then I'm testing across multiple joints. I don't wanna do that. So for testing the biceps, apply here, yep. And pull. I like to give one word commands to my patients to keep things straight forward. Testing the right pull and testing the left pole. This is the biceps muscle, musculocutaneous nerve, C5 and C6 nerve roots primarily C6. Next is the triceps muscle. Arm stays in that same position 90 degrees and then push out. When you're doing a neuromuscular exam, think about what muscle am I testing and what muscle am I using. So e.g. I don't want to use my little wimpy wrist flexor muscle that's not very strong. What I wanna do is put my body into the testing that muscle. Go ahead and push. You see how I'm using my whole arm and my upper body to really look for subtle signs of weakness and that triceps muscle testing the right side and then testing the left side and making sure that I'm stabilizing across that joint. This is the triceps muscle, Radial nerve, C6, C7, C8 nerve roots. Alright, so next I'll test the wrist extensors. For this, I ask the patient to put their arms out straight and **** the risks up. It's important to stabilise across this wrist joint. Again, applying pressure distally. These are the wrist extensor muscles, radial nerve C5, C6, and C7 and 85678 tested on the right and then test it on the left. Now as the finger extensors. So for this, you want to make sure that the hands are flat like a board. Sometimes patients will have their hands like this. You need to coach them and make sure that they're perfectly flat. Stabilize the patient's hand, and then make sure to apply pressure to the proximal part of the finger. I don't want to test across multiple joints like this. So keep those fingers nice and flat. Testing the right side, testing the left side. Those are the finger extensors, radial nerve C7 and eight. Next, while they're in this position, how the patient's spread their fingers wide. This is going to test the interosseous muscle as well as here the abductor digiti minimi. All of these are ulnar innervated by ulnar innervated by C8 T1 muscles. Keep those fingers spread. I want to test like against like what that means is I want to test my second finger to hers and my fifth finger to hers. Keep them nice and spread. Again, testing on the proximal portion of the finger. The same on the other side. Sometimes I feel I see people go in with their whole hand like this and squeeze with their thumb. And these are your finger flexors. Those are very strong. I don't wanna do that for this patient. Testing like against like that's testing fingers spread. Next, flip over your hands and curl the fingers. These are the There's a neat little trick here. These two digits are innervated by the median nerve and these are innervated by the ulnar nerve. So with this movement, sometimes people will just go in and curl them in Parliament. They'll test all the finger flexors together. But you can go in, curl these two. Curl those two. Good. I can test the median and the ulnar side-by-side. So these finger flexors, this is the flexor digitorum profundus muscle, median, and ulnar C7, C8, and T1 nerve roots. Last, I want to test the abductor pollicis brevis. For this, I'll have the patient put their hand flat on their lap and take this thumb pointed up towards the ceiling. That's how I isolate that abductor pollicis. Sometimes I'll even hold my hand on the patient's hand to isolate that muscle. I'm applying pressure here to the proximal portion of the thumb and having them keep it pointed Testing the right and then the left. This is the abductor pollicis brevis, median nerve, C8, T1. So let's put it together and use them little memory tricks to help us. First remembering that the deltoid muscle, this is our C5 nerve root or biceps muscle. This is our C6 nerve root and our triceps. This is our C7 nerve root, 567, and then everything in the hands is eight, C8 and T1. So that's a little trick for keeping track of the nerve roots as you're doing the exam. Also for the specific nerves, the deltoid, this is our axillary nerve, biceps, musculocutaneous nerve. The radial does all the extensors, triceps, wrist extensors, finger extensors. That's all radial nerve. Then fingers spread. This is our ulnar, flipping it over, remembering that these two digits, these are our medium, this is our ulnar, median, ulnar. Then last, popping up the thumb, there's our median. So those are just some memory tricks I encourage you when you're doing a neural muscular exam. Quiz yourself what muscle in my testing, what Nerva, my testing, what route are you testing? That'll really help solidify this information. There are also some shortcuts for those of you on the stroke service. So an upper motor neuron pattern of weakness will commonly affect the extensors of the arm. So when you're doing the NIH Stroke Scale, you have the patient hold their arms outstretched like this and you'll see that weakness and the finger extensors and wrist extensors. It'll be important on your stroke patients to test those finger extensors, wrist extensors and triceps muscle. Another tip for neurologists at the bedside will also check for something called pronator drift, where we'll have the patient hold their arms outstretched and close their eyes. And you can see the arm fall into pronation like this. That's another subtle sign of weakness. A last trick is something called satellite sign. So you ask the patient to roll their arms over each other like this. And if one side is weak that week are and will stay in the middle and the strong arm will orbit around it like a satellite orbiting a planet. That satellite sign. Next for neurologists, we always like to check tone. There's a couple of different ways The way that I tend to do it is I start here at the wrist. I asked the patient let their arm go heavy, go loose, go limp. And then I'm supporting the forearm and the hand and I'm twisting it around. This is how I check for cogwheel rigidity. Next, I want to check for tone across the elbow. So you have the patient just relaxed that arm and then I bend it into flexion and extension. I do a couple of slow movements to make sure they're nice and loose. And then it's important to do a quick movement. This is how you check if there's spasticity. Again, always checking on the right, checking on the left. I really encourage you while you're on or neurologist services to check tone on as many patients as you can. You need a lot of experience doing this to be able to pick out if someone has flaccid tone or increased tone. Next is checking reflexes. Have the patient relax their arms in their lap like this. You want to use your fingers to palpate for that biceps tendon. And then you'll tap Mayo here we use the trauma center hammer. It's designed so that you just let the weight of the hammer do the work for you. You don't need to tap like this, like you're hammering a nail, pick up the head of the hammer and just let it fall on that This is testing the musculocutaneous nerve, C5, C6 nerve root. And it's important I want to check the right and then come over here and check the left for symmetry. Next is the brachioradialis reflex. For this, you want to be sure that you're on the distal portion of the forearm. If you're tapping up here, you're actually tapping the brachioradialis muscle. So make sure that we're tapping the tendon down here. Again, just letting the weight of the hammer fall. Testing right and then left. Last is the triceps reflex. This one can be a little bit tricky. Wrap your hands around the back of the elbow and you feel for that triceps tendon. And you can tap like this. If there's a patient where it's really tricky, you pick up that arm and ask them to dangle. That helps identify that triceps tendon right here above the elbow. And then you can tap like this. Again, always testing the right and then testing the left. Those are the reflexes in the arm.