Hello. Welcome to the PGY2 Clinical Pharmacogenomic Residency Program Overview. Today, we are really excited to share and provide a little overview about our Clinical Program here at Mayo Clinic. My name is Eric Matey. I am the Residency Program Director, and Ashley Ebenhoh is the Assistant Residency Program Director. Like I said, we're going to give a program overview. Each year, we do accept one candidate for our program. And this past year, we are excited and honored to have Kevin Nguyen as our 2026, I'll say 2025 to 2026 graduate. Kevin is going to be graduating in June. Time really flies when you're having fun. It feels like just yesterday that Kevin started in July and we've already, I'll say, done more than and a quarter of his program. But with regards to our clinical pharmacogenomic program, the goal here is that our PGY-2 clinical pharmacogenomic residency program is to build on your doctor or pharmacy education, as well as your PGY -1 residency programs. That way you'll be able to contribute to the development of clinical pharmacists in specialized areas of practice. Now, the PGY-2 residencies provide you, the candidate, with an opportunity to function independently as a practitioner by conceptualizing and integrating accumulated experience and knowledge and incorporating both into the provision of patient care and other advanced practice settings. Residents who successfully complete an accredited PGY2 pharmacy residency are prepared for advanced patient care, academia and other specialized positions along with broad certification if available and with the word if available there's a lot of push for board certification when it comes to pharmacogenomics so there's a lot of work being done in that space. With our PGY2 clinical pharmacogenomic program here at Mayo Clinic, the required rotation starts with obviously an orientation to make sure that you get to meet your co-residents, understand some of the basic framework here at Mayo Clinic, understand the Mayo Clinic culture, share with you the resources that will be instrumental in ensuring that you're successful in your pursuit of the PGY2 program. And then it's followed up after the orientation with the PGY, the pharmacogenomic and nine-week program. Why do we here at Mayo Clinic think that nine-week is a good time to ensure that the residents is well equipped with not just the clinical aspects but the required knowledge to ensure that the resident is comfortable in the i'll say meeting with patients writing of notes how to really integrate with other practice sites So the nine -week program duration that our team here selected is to ensure that our residents, by the time they finish that time period, are very comfortable and be successful in every aspect of the residency. The other required rotations that we have here include our HIV clinic. And majority of the time, you know, past residents who say, Eric, I don't want to be an HIV resident. But by the time they finish the HIV rotation, they come back to say, I learnt a lot. I'm glad that I was able to actually apply the drug gene of significance that I've studied during the PGY, I mean, during the PGX clinical rotation. Remember, during that rotation in HIV, you are not being expected to be an HIV specialist. It is how do you apply the pharmacogenomic principles in ensuring that you're improving the medication experience of those patients. The other required rotation is the psychiatry clinic, followed by pediatric oncology clinic. And I think the concept was all the same, but then you're getting a good experience of applying the drug gene guidelines and improving these patients' care in those clinical areas. The elective rotations, and usually the one on here that I think we say is elective but has become quite noted for being required is the pharmacogenomic lab, which is a four-week residents in the past, including Kevin, has stated to me that they're really enjoying that experience, getting that opportunity to meet with our top pathologists and lab directors in understanding that workflow when it comes to when a sample is taken from a patient, what happens to it, right? And I'll leave some of the details out so that when you join us, you get that opportunity of experience and the journey of the sample all the way to discrete information coming back into our EMR okay we do have a transplant transplant clinic as an elective rotation pharmacogenomic clinical informatics you hear more about that shortly and this year we are offering the autoimmune disease state and which is an outpatient clinic and you get an opportunity when you join us to experience some of these elective rotations. You see that we also have advanced pharmacogenomic clinic. From time to time, our residents will come back through the year in the pharmacogenomic clinic where you, the resident, will then own that clinic and manage it you know, as an advanced practitioner. Now, although I mentioned the word you manage and own the clinic, your preceptors are always going to be a step away to ensure that all your questions are addressed. I'm going to talk about the longitudinal rotations. My name is Ashley Ebenhoh. I'm the ARPD with the program here. Of our longitudinal rotations, students will do one research project that runs throughout the duration of the year, but they do have a dedicated month block to work and further develop that research project with their mentor, and Jessica will talk about that in detail later. Students will also be assigned a quality improvement project, and this is often suggested by pharmacy leadership for a particular area that That involves pharmacogenomics and also looks to improve either implementation or adaptation of pharmacogenomics into practice. Students also have the opportunity for professional development and leadership rotations. We currently have our residents meet with our pharmacy, chief pharmacy officer at Mayo Clinic, where they can discuss various topics involving leadership and career development and get some professional guidance from that particular preceptor. There's also teaching and education, various ways that residents are involved with teaching and education throughout the residency year. They will complete a pharmacy grand rounds presentation that they get to select and present on. They also have various opportunities to do education with genetic counselors and other professionals that they'll encounter throughout the residency year. The translational and implementation project sometimes can be paired up with our quality improvement project. It's a way for us to look at implementation science, learn the skill set behind implementation, and skills that help make implementation more successful. uh we've had various projects throughout residency year and Kevin can talk to you about what his project is that he is going to be working on this year for that yes I can jump in real fast talking about the quality improvement my project for this year is going to be looking at CYPP2C19 testing and seeing how we can improve the rate of testing for patients that have cardiology disease states associated with clopidogrel and improving the rate of those testings before being given clopidogrel makes that help with that. And then Kevin, what's your translational and implementation project this year? Oh, yes. We're going to be putting that together with that QI project, having that with the translational implementation, finding aspects of that to be put together with the quality improvement. The next requirement for the rotation is staffing. Our residents do staff clinics 24 hours per month, and the time is spent between two different clinics. Residents will staff the pharmacogenomics clinic, and they split 16 hours in that clinic. That involves doing virtual patient visits, e-consults, answering question in baskets, and doing patient education regarding pharmacogenomics. They also will staff eight hours in the general internal medicine Clinic. This is an opportunity for residents to practice outside of the scope of pharmacogenomics exclusively. The patient population is quite diverse in the GIM clinic and offers very complicated patients and opportunities to complete e -consults and chart reviews and face-to-face visits or virtual visits, doing medication reviews for that particular patient subset. And then talking again on the teaching and education opportunities, residents will complete a teaching and learning certificate workshop if they have not already completed that in their PGY-1 year. They will have the opportunity to precept other learners throughout the rotations. We do have a variety of learners that will rotate through in the PGX clinic, so they'll have the opportunity to work with both APPE students as well as PGY1 residents or other PGY2 residents coming through to observe in the clinic. Mentors, the PGY2 will serve as a preceptor for PGY1 students, also help writing reviews and giving feedback for those students. They participate in pharmacogenomic roundtable presentations. Also, like I had previously mentioned, do presentations for the genetic counselors. We've had some opportunities to be involved with the PA school here at Mayo, doing some content development and working on coursework with those students, and as well as the Pharmacy Grand Round presentation, which has a variety of clinicians that attend, pharmacy, pharmacy students, as well as other practitioners for Mayo Clinic. Ashley, thanks for that in-depth information. Before we go to the next slide, Kevin, would you like to briefly tell us why you chose Mayo Clinic as a place to learn more about pharmacogenomics as well as a little bit about your short-term and long-term goals? Yes. The reason why I chose Mayo Clinic as my choice of doing my PGY2 program was one for the plethora of specialties that are offered here at the institution. This gives me just a robust opportunity to see where pharmacogenomics can really be implemented in different specialties finding out how to best collaborate with other specialties and working together with other colleagues is how I feel really expand and foster a great growth for the field itself and additional institutions that may have similar specialties as well and along with that the numerous amounts of resources and well-versed mentors slash preceptors here at the institution just made Mayo Clinic one of those top institutions that I had my eye on when looking at different options as a candidate. And talking a little bit about my short and long-term goals, short-term goals being one, finishing this residency year, and hopefully right after residency year, being able to go back to my home state of Texas and really be able to foster and expand the use of pharmacogenomics down in that state. While I was a P4 student in the Houston Medical Center, I saw that not that many, the institutions that I were rotating through didn't have the service line, as well as any real experts in the field. And so I really wanted to be one of those experts and clinicians that can really help foster its growth in the Texas Medical Center and long -term hopefully continuing to broaden the understanding of pharmacogenomics and really inspiring future pharmacists that may be interested in the field that may just not have heard about it in their curriculum at the time throughout Texas. Thank you. Thank you very much for that information. You know, when it comes to professional development as well as networking and recruitment, residents here at Mayo Clinic do get that opportunity to attend the ASHP media clinical meeting and usually get an opportunity to present your work as a resident at a BCN conference. Our residents also do have the opportunity to attend the Minnesota Society of Health System Pharmacists MSHP annual meeting. We do encourage that. And we also do encourage our residents to attend a specialty meeting applicable to pharmacogenomics within the pharmacy policy. And usually this conference is, you know, in the past has been CPIC, the Clinical Pharmacogenomic Implementation Consortium, meeting. In some years, when the CPIC conference is not held, we still do ensure that our residents do get the opportunity to attend a conference that is applicable, again, based on Mayo's policy. Next, we will be talking about our longitudinal project and have Jessica Wright, who is the preceptor for the residency project, as well as our quality improvement project, share a little bit about the practice. Jessica. All right. Thanks very much. Well, for our research project, we have research workshops that the resident gets to attend. So this is a workshop that is attended by all the different residents throughout Mayo Clinic. And again, it gives the basics of how research designs are conducted and sets you up for all the things that you need to do in order to get your research project started. But what I think is the coolest thing about the research projects is that you get to choose it yourself. So if you have a really burning, a highly burning desire to go ahead and, you know, research a particular area, you will get to do that as long as, of course, it relates to pharmacogenomics. And if you're not sure of an area, don't worry about that. We have plenty of ideas that are listed for you. And we have different, you know, doctors or pharmacists or clinicians that chime in with their ideas throughout the year. And we just add that to the list so that these are real projects that have good clinical impact if you were to choose those. So choose wisely, but I think it's a really great opportunity to get to pursue what you want to do. As far as mentorship goes, it'll be for sure myself as the research preceptor, but then you can work with other pharmacists that may specialize in that particular practice area, as well as any interdisciplinary team members. So it is required to have a physician on the project, which is very helpful to provide their perspective, too. So a couple of recent projects. We want to start from our first resident. That was on HLA toxicity and any HLA-positive patients who have received a corresponding medication to see if they have developed a skin toxicity. And then another Another research project was looking at weight gain with dolutegravir and UGT-1A1 phenotype. So those are just two examples, and I could keep going on. But in the interest of time, I'll just mention that there is $2,500 for available funds, and we're excited that we'll be able to use that too this year with Kevin's project. And the statistician is covered and does not require tapping into that $2,500. So that's also very nice that that the funding is on top of that. So if you need any kind of additional support for it, that's there for you to use. Next slide, please. Now, for the Quality Improvement Project, this one is not something that you can choose, but it is something that we have determined as a department that's a very important topic. And so, I just wanted to give some examples of what you would get to achieve with this Quality Improvement Project. So, at Mayo Clinic, we have a quality academy, and there's different levels of achievement. So there's a bronze certification. And this is something that you would achieve through going through the required online learning. And this is something that you can then put on your CV or other programs to recognize for you. So if you do stay at Mayo Clinic, though, there are more certifications that you can achieve, and it's something that we recognize at this institution. There's enterprise -wide projects that I'd say are the most common projects that get selected. So you will have impact across the nation and all the different Mayo Clinic sites. So that's really nice. And also, there's an opportunity that some of the projects do involve multiple residents so that you can work together with others. And so, a couple of recent projects that have come up were looking at improvement of allopurinol. And really, it's the testing of HLA for new starts to allopurinol or those who have received allopurinol in the last three months. And that was something that a previous resident, Tiffany Nguyen, had done for her project. And so really looking at improving that acceptance rate of the alerts to get the HLA testing was the objective. And then I already mentioned how the projects are assigned in the program. And so you'll find this out in your orientation about what project you're assigned. Next slide. Kevin, do you want to give a few highlights about the resident resources that Mayo Clinic provides based on your experience so far? Yes, I'll highlight a couple of ones that have been really pretty significant to me and that I find very useful. Just going down the list, first one I do see is a personal laptop. That was one of the things I was worried about coming into the institution, just need to have a way to access the EMR and EHR system but you have you'll get a personal laptop to be able to work either remotely or on site in order to keep all the information you may need for different projects and or working on staffing for patient visits. Aside from that you'll also have uh access to the plethora of electronic resources that mayo offers through the same laptop where that has been a very great benefit in looking at information for background for the research project uh uh qi projects and other topic discussions that may be asked during a rotation may have been has extensive resources available to you and they can always find some through the intranet and also using this search information there to find maybe different resources you may not know how existed as well such as a natural medicine is one that I found out about this year along with that same line one other one I didn't want to highlight was the Dan Abraham healthy living center this is one that I personally use as well it is 25 a month that you can sign up to through a pretty easy process once you get your LAN ID and with that it's just an on-campus gym that is very robust has many different machines and free weights for to promote your health while being here for the year and I find that it's pretty convenient when I'm on campus if I need to go and to do a workout during maybe a lunch there are drop-in computers there's a meeting that you may have to go to right after lunch that you may be able to do there as well as being able to be a short commute away just because there is a parking garage associated with the the healthy living center as well that you can park at if you may not be on campus that day and you want to go to the gym later in the day you'll be able to park at for two hours and then after you're done with your workout go right back home and not have to worry about fighting for parking with other Mayo Clinic employees. So with regards to the resident benefits and Kevin, thank you for highlighting some of the resources that you found beneficial. When it comes to the resident benefits, most of this information that is on this screen will be shared with you, who is interested in our residency program when we have from our HR department. You know, but some of the important things to highlight here is the medical insurance, the dental insurance. One thing that a lot of people sometimes do not even utilize here is that you are protected against identity theft, so there's an identity theft insurance. If you're moving from out of state, Mayo Clinic will provide you with a $500 relocation assistance. there is a Mayo Clinic discount I think it's called Perks where you know if you have you have vacation coming up you want to know see if there's a way that you get a discount on air travel you want to see if there's any discount on car rentals and the list goes on that would be a really great I'll say suggestion or sites that you should be looking at anytime you want to spend money right Mayo Clinic has a lot of discounts for its employees I think one of the areas to highlight on this list is the child, sick child care. Personally, I used that when my kids were a little younger to ensure that I had that peace of mind, knowing that my kids were being cared for by Mayo-certified nurse practitioners, and I had the ability to then take care of my patients. And so when you join Mayo Clinic, all of these, you know, resident benefits will be available to you including you know the 21 day time paid off for personal vacation holiday and sick leave something that i strongly encourage that our residents utilize during their time here you know when it comes to resident well -being just weighing up on what i had just mentioned And one of the perks for our residency PGY2 pharmacogenomic program is that there's no staffing on weekends or evenings. It's a straight 8 to 5 shift. There's a dedicated time block, usually December, for residents to really hone in and complete a majority of the research when that needs to be done. there's an access to employee assistance program and this is strictly based on the employee and let's say I'll give you an example if there's an employee who has you know a need to meet with let's say a counselor they can you know there's no you don't have to talk to the residency program director about this this is something that you can have one-on-one within the employee assistance program and there's a very very good supportive environment there you know one of the things that i think is also highlights for our program is that you know once a resident the pgy1 is you know matches with our pgy2 there are times where i feel like that pgy1 coming into our pharmacogenomic residency program is embraced by the current residents to a point where it will help you with regards to what is steady for the boards what is steady for the law what if what is steady how to ensure that if you're interested in what to do in rochester how to do it what are some of the places to go in what are some of the places to go shop the ins and outs of rochester i think they've done the residents over the years have done a really great job of creating a supportive environment you know jessica myself and ashley that you heard from today we do ensure that we do check in with our residents i check in with kevin at least once a week um and and we make sure that you are well cared for and your questions are addressed throughout the residency program But I always say that we also expect that by the time January comes around, or sometimes even sooner, we ensure that we provide you with the right resource, the right environment, that you'll be confident in managing and handling the clinic yourself. And with that, that brings us to our last slide. You know, the Mayo Clinic, Clinic Alpha Makujulamik Residency Program, this is our national match service number. When that time comes and you are, you know, you've looked at our program and you're really interested, remember this number, 620-170. And as always, you know, all the class we presented today have shared an insight to our program. If you have any questions, please reach out to us. And with that, thank you for taking time to listen to and learning more about our residency program. Thank you.