Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. In today's podcast, we're doing something special. We're talking about the end of a podcast co -chair with my friend, Andrea Tooley, and the beginning of a new podcast chair with my friend, Brittany Scruggs. So for me, I just want to share this time with both of them as a unique opportunity to talk about being podcast hosts and what it means to share in the podium and what it means to say goodbye and say hello to a new voice at our table. So in today's podcast, we have the opportunity to wrap up a season after two years of podcasting with myself and Dr. Tooley and transition to a new voice at the table with Dr. Brittany Scruggs. And as the lone voice, I just commented here before the podcast started about how this is like the morning show of changing faces. You're like, wait, wait, you can't do that. But also just the joy and emotion in that. And I just have to say, we're going to start, we're going to talk about you, and then we're going to transition to Brittany, and then we're going to talk about you again, I think. So this podcast has been going on now for two years. And it's just been amazing to look back at every two weeks, sending out messages, stories, testimonies. And I have to say, behind the scenes, I was sort of crazy nervous about what in the world am I doing when this young whippersnapper of a doctor. and now I need to say that differently. No, it is not. I love being young. I'll be young forever, please. When this rather new colleague of mine with a lot of passion and a forte in social media said, would you sit at a desk with me and interview people? And I remember thinking, I have no idea what to do other than to talk a little bit, but I have no idea what that means. And you, it's just been a joy these last two years of my career of fulfillment in ways I didn't know that I could be part of. And I just have to say thank you for bringing me along on this ride. Oh, wow. That's been so fun. We've had a lot of interest. So people that haven't seen or tuned into all the podcasts in the past, look back at the library. Sitting next to this host has been a blast because she has brought energy, passion, creativity. Things just flow in a beautiful way when you podcast with this Dr. Tooley. But it's certainly been fun to interview so many hosts. I just say thank you for all that energy you bring and wisdom and perspective and leadership. So it's been good. Thanks, Dr. Bothan. It's been a true joy. You know, a few years ago when I was newly at a fellowship, our chair, Dr. Sophie Beckery, came to me and said, I want you to start a podcast. and at that time Mayo was the only academic ophthalmology center hosting a podcast and we were really excited to share the voices of Mayo Clinic share our expertise and get to interview people all over the country and world and I said well only do it if Eric Bothan is my co-host and so you were the non-negotiable there and I've just loved interacting with you and your energy and joy and i think our combined dynamics been super fun and so um it's a major transition but i am so excited for dr scruggs you are the absolute best person to take over this spot i could not imagine a better voice i think i'm coming in or i'm leaving the same way i'm coming in like the only person who can replace me is dr scruggs and so i'm so excited for the two of you to take it over but um Brittany let's let's introduce you to the podcast sphere tell us who you are your background all the things so that we get to know your voice we've podcasted with you before so you've been on episodes before but as a host like tell us all the things okay I'm quirky we love it we love quirky yeah sounds good so I'm Brittany Scruggs I am from Louisiana born and raised from New Orleans and I from the oldest of four children my family they're all dentists everyone my dad my mom was his dental hygienist my grandfather was a dentist my sister's a dentist and she's my dad's partner so I am not the favored child but I became an eye dentist so here we are. Exactly. Yeah. Um, yeah, I went to Tulane for med school. I did my MD and my PhD there and never thought I was going to do ophthalmology. Yep. I was a hundred percent in for neurosurgery. You're, I could see that for you so much. You're just a glutton for punishment in every way totally um so i did a phd in neurosurgery and did like regenerative medicine stem cell gene therapy work with different animal models of neurodegenerative diseases then when i went to medical school when i went back to medical school um year seven is when i decided oh wow ophthalmology has a lot to offer and retina is still brain tissue it's exactly it's just like neurosurgery yeah yeah and i can you know wear the hat that i like to wear which is do research and do um surgery clinic teaching all those all the things that i thought and now definitely need and want um so i ended up switching to ophthalmology kind of last minute um and i'm glad i did it's been a beautiful career um i went to the University of Iowa for residency and had wonderful mentors and did a lot of research as a resident learning what gene therapy and stem cell therapy looks like in the eye which I really didn't have experience until that point then I realized I love pediatrics like I love being with children and I love retinal pathology so I was a little bit torn like what do I do I love kids and love retina like how do i make sense of this and some of my older mentors um they aren't old they're just prior prior mentors said you know well you should do peds retina and inherited retinal diseases you can kind of combine you know everything that you love into one and so um the rest is history i decided to go to a fellowship that had a really strong peds retina Foundation. My mentors there trained me both in adult and pediatric vitreo -retinal surgery. I've had a lot of inherited retinal disease work, both in residency and in fellowship. And then in the summer of 2020 is when I was applying for a job. Perfect time to apply for a job. It's a hard summer to apply for a job when you are so niche, right? Like I am peds retina, inherited mental disease and there was like a hiring freeze on every right yeah like nobody doors closed yeah no traveling no visiting no hiring it's over exactly so there was one opening anywhere and it was mayo clinic yeah um so i'm thankful i've been thankful since the day that i interviewed that this is the the perfect job for me it allows me to be a clinician a surgeon, a scientist. I have protected time for research. I operate on pigs mostly. So every other week I'm doing pig surgery every three or four weeks, depending on the season. And then I get to do pediatrics and adults. And then I have protected time for inherited retinal diseases as well. So clinically I'm very satisfied and very happy. And truly it's an honor to be sitting next to both of you. Over the years, you know, doing some podcasts with you, I've been amazed at how, you know, the following and the impact of this podcast. And so truly, you reaching out and saying that you thought I was a good fit means so much to me. So that's a little bit about me career-wise. It's wonderful. It's interesting hearing your story because you made it sound like, oh, this was the one place that worked. I remember interviewing you and just going, whatever we do we have to no we have to i was gonna share britney scruggs is like you can see it then she was gonna be a superstar yep in ways that just change our field and change our department and we thought i hope she'll come no we all felt that way we all felt that way and now you know fast forward a number of years it's just been wave after wave of appreciating how whether in the lab or on our department meetings or inpatient care um you've just you've been phenomenal and so yes as this chair opens up going um who would be that right fit with not just the academics um the clinical forte but truly what we both appreciate about you is you bring joy you bring um creative communication styles you bring empathy in situations uh you you're curious you bring you're curious i love that um the interest in peds which i share in that you know karenich um there's just this family nature to what our team tries to be together as we bring in hosts and so you're perfect and so we're just excited to have you um as our new as my new co-host and for this podcast um going forward it's exciting it's funny that you shared that eric how everybody really really wanted britney because i was going to say the exact same story we're we're one year apart um and so i was brand new on staff because i started in 2020 right when you were applying and i think this was my first staff meeting ever was the staff meeting when we were discussing whether or not we should hire you it was pretty heated no because i will never forget this staff meeting because it was the best staff meeting i'll never forget it and i don't remember this is the only staff meeting i ever remember i don't even remember our last staff meeting a week ago but um we were discussing you and the faculty was obsessed with you and every single person fighting over who's going to be the one to drive out there and help you pack well exactly everyone was like we have to get dr scruggs we cannot miss this opportunity like whatever we do we can't not get dr scruggs but then we also had another applicant at the exact same time dr star who's been on this program before or been on this podcast a million times before and is also phenomenal like michael's fellow also retina we had one retina thing and the faculty's like but it has to be dr scruggs but it has to be dr star but like and like you're both so phenomenal and um we hired you both and so finally dr backery said well why not both of them and i think it was just this applause like everyone was like yes that's the best idea ever and it was the best because we hired both of you and but i'll just never forget how much um Not hiring you was just simply not an option, you know, and you have just gone above and beyond with every initiative that you do. You are a workaholic in the best way. I mean, that is a compliment that you are so passionate about everything you do. So I know you'll pour your heart and soul into this podcast and connect with people and bring new great info about ophthalmology to all of our listeners. So we are all, I transitioned to the Mayo Clinic after 13 years of being at the University of Minnesota on faculty and then I've been here going on 10. We've all had transitions when you think back in the last years. So just as I've, you know, first want to hear about yours, but even comment, you know, I'm thinking about for listeners out there, they're getting to know us, they're getting to know Brittany now, Dr. Scruggs in a new way as our host but let's talk about transitions if we can just because we've all been through that of how you talked about deciding how you you know knew this was gonna be a unique spot but for listeners realizing either a should I move locations which you just went through or fellows graduating or someone that's just recently moved let's just talk about little pearls tips from what you've been through and you're fresh off that. Before we do, let's just say, Brittany just shared kind of how she came to Mayo a number of years ago. Share to the audience what your steps are because they're just hearing now, we're changing podcast hands. So share where you're going. Sure. So I'll publicly announce, this is Dr. Tooley speaking. I am sadly leaving Mayo, which I never ever thought I would do. I thought I would die here. And my family and I are moving to western Kentucky we're moving to Paducah Kentucky in December I'll start my new job in January of 2026 and it's been a crazy whirlwind past six months making this decision I think that coming from residency and fellowship we really see mostly academics you know we don't see private practice but ophthalmology truly is a private practice dominated field about 80 percent of ophthalmologist from private practice we know this and it just never even crossed my mind to consider private practice I loved Mayo I loved residency I loved resident education I like publishing I like research I like the whole thing all of it I like the complex cases and I was just a academic girl through and through I thought that was going to be my forever life and absolutely adore my job here at Mayo dream job 100 my dream job but life changes and my husband and I have three kids we long to be closer to family when I think about I've said this before but when I think about truly what I want in life it's a big table full of family and friends like that that's really really what I want and we have that big table in southern Indiana and we're just away from it and more and more it was weighing on us you know what everyone is is down south and why we're not we're the only ones not there and so I started investigating what life in private practice would even look like because there's not an academic center there that's that's close to home there's just not one that's close and honestly I think it'd be hard to go to another academic center after Mayo because Mayo truly is the best and my heart is here so I just started putting out little feelers like what what would that even look like and everyone in oculoplastics said oh you have to go solo that's the only way you can't join a multi-specialty group oculoplastics isn't well suited for that you got to go solo and the thought of going solo was just seemed so daunting to me I didn't want to do that I think it's exhilarating to some people really energizing to some people but I was thinking no way I don't want to do that I don't want to hang a shingle and then out of nowhere this beautiful practice in Paducah Kentucky which is about an hour 45 from our whole family just kind of fell out of the sky and it's a solo comprehensive doc and she's built an absolutely beautiful practice and she's ready to retire and so another solo comp doc and myself are going to hopefully buy her practice and live out her legacy as partners and really I'll be bringing oculoplastics to an area that does not have oculoplastics so it's it's like starting solo light I'm you know I'm solo oculoplastics but entering an existing practice so um it took away all the fears that I had about building from scratch but we but I am hopefully going to serve a community that has not had my services and I hope I can do good real work for people who need it I know it's going to look really different but I'm excited and that's what we're going to do and it's been really tough to leap into a total unknown and leave something so comfortable and so familiar but we're going to do it and you know if it doesn't scare you you're not doing it right or something something because this really scares me uh and it's it's super hard to leave such wonderful friends um but that that's my my update that's what we're doing i remember somebody once said if you're in a hiring process it's always um there's a red flag that should go up when you find someone that's either running away from something or running to something meaning no place is perfect right and if you if a person's running away from a job what really is the dynamic or if they're running to a job they think is the holy grail which maybe we can say mayo has been for us but um you're likely the expectations aren't there and so this sort of i don't want to leave but i think i need to and i'm excited to go even though it's may not be it's sort of that every job is probably a mixture of elements that are not perfect but are perfect in both places and as long as if you have that balance it's probably a healthier move and that's what you know it resonates so much whenever I've talked to you about this like what are you doing but yet at the same point that's so cool you're doing it for a family yeah yeah um share I mean just in your own perspectives and you know coming out of fellowship looking there is insecurity you talk about fear for people that are looking right now or thinking about moving thoughts on framework of walking through that and it's something you go to work every day and you're trying to do your jobs whether it's fellowship or and you can't always talk to people about what you're thinking and worrying about or praying about or just perspectives on that yeah well one thing that i appreciate about your story is that you listened not only to yourself but to your family right your your partner your immediate family um but also your extended family and you realize that that's something that you were really missing and then your priorities change over time especially when you start having children and you build a family and those priorities change how we make decisions and i have realized that through all transitions in life that my husband my daughter my family i have to listen to the people i love and who have you know either raised me or who have gotten me through training because they're very very important we no longer can be selfish right um so for me transitions and like where do i where do i go where do i become a consultant um it also is like where can i raise a family where is my husband going to be happy um my husband clearly is thriving in rochester he's leaned in hard to you know volunteering and you know being involved in the community he's so awesome i think he's cool he's so cool um um so but yeah for you I'm actually really proud of you I can't imagine the hard conversations that it took to get to where you are right now over the last six months hard conversations you never thought you were going to have but when you re-evaluate priorities sometimes it's really important right I think one thing I I remember you know on with academy with the yo committee and with the residents, we always say, you know, your first job is never your final job. And I totally did not listen to that. I was like, yeah, but not for me. I only have to find a job once. And, you know, I just never thought I would have to go through it. And what is the percentage? Oh, it's, it's like, it's super high. It's way more than 50%. Like nobody stays at their first job. And so to know I'm in good company, and then to also reassure people that you don't have to stay at your first job even if you think that it's perfect and it might be perfect but things can change there's seasons in life there's different seasons in life just because you're doing something now doesn't preclude you from doing something different later and you can always build you can always change you know you're not in this lockdown forever and which I really thought like this is it I'm going to be here for 40 years and this is what I'm going to do until I retire and now I'm going to build something totally new and I'm going to have to learn so much about the practice management side of things and all these things I've been shielded from by being under a big academic institution and that's scary and exciting and I think I'll grow and I hope I'll be able to contribute to other people who are going to make a big change or like what does it look like to go out in private practice when I have no idea what that even means. I don't know anything about bill. I mean, I know a little, but about billing and coding or like even running my own clinic. Like there's so many new things that I'm going to have to learn. Do you have a mentor through this process? Someone who can help you with that transition, but also the private practice voice of what does it look like practically? I have so many people who I've reached out to, to hold my hand through this, to say, what does this look like what am I doing what do I need to learn there's actually it's amazing how many people are really willing to help I've had two or three people who helped me in the contract negotiation phase which I'd never negotiated a contract I didn't know what that was like I had no idea there are no contracts at Mayo Clinic yeah there's it's not even a handshake Mayo's like come and you work and that's like there's no contract um and so I didn't know anything about what that looked like what salary or how a reimbursement or any of that looked like how to structure we you know we looked at we did kind of a market analysis because there's nobody there doing oculoplastic so to say is this even a viable practice are there enough patients there and who is we the the existing practice that I'm joining and then me on my own I had a couple medical consultants who really helped me names that I got through academy through friends what what I was so surprised with is when I called some but some people and said help me everybody's like yes I will help you and the amount of people who've helped me it's just crazy everyone oh I'm so excited for you let me tell you this think about this like really amazing people have just gone out of their way to look at this pro forma do these numbers add up to you well yeah but ask about don't forget to ask about this and look at this the valuation of the surgery center and how how am I going to buy into it? And what should that look like? And, you know, all these things that I'm having to learn. So, yes, I've had incredible mentorship from people that I thought we were in total polar opposite careers. And now they're guiding me so much. And I hope that I can help them. And there's groups, you know, there's like the solo IDOCs group. I don't know if anybody listening knows about these groups. There's really wonderful groups of people in the same areas of life who are helping each other out. And I love that about ophthalmology. Ophthalmology is the best. It really is. In your time of need, people will rally behind you, no matter what it is. If you're in an academic center and your kid is sick, your friends rally behind you. I had that experience, and I was like, man, Mayo is the best. Like, everybody just rallied behind me when my kid was in the emergency room. And then it's like when I'm leaping into the unknown, everybody's like, let me help. So I think the best advice is don't be afraid to ask for help. And don't do it on your own because you don't need to reinvent the wheel. I don't know if you have you felt that way, building a research practice and finding mentorship. It takes a village. Right? So I have an executive coach. Love. Which I think is wonderful. I meet with this person every other week. Through Mayo? Yeah. Fabulous. Yeah. it's been a game changer actually could be as simple as you need to send that email Brittany we have to do hard things but yeah and just you know priorities my priorities four years ago when I started are different than they are now as I've been building my lab and mentoring people and you know I have a PhD student and a master's student and technicians and people who rely on me not only by salary but to-do lists and getting out and defending their dissertation yeah that's on me right um so i need to make sure that i am transitioning as a staff like i'm not staying stagnant right i'm being creative and thoughtful i'm getting better at time management so that i can invest time in other people because now it's less about me and more about my my team in my village and that takes change and hard conversations and asking for what you want not doing the surgeries that no longer bring you joy whatever it is like there's there's something that's probably in whoever's listening if there's something on your schedule every month or every week that like it's hard right that you really really is not bringing you joy anymore and maybe it's taking the place of something that you could fill it with joy and i've realized that there are some things that if i just exchange it then my life is is still full um but it's bringing me close it's getting me closer to my my goals um chris camp was here on a podcast recently and on the human optimization project and just speaking to you know the that person that all the different areas of her life there's there's so much on our plates but how do we um intentionally think about and prioritize and that you're asking her about mentorship is phenomenal because Because at each stage, whether it's making a practice transition, building a lab, or entering into leadership in ways that are new to you, those resources and communities around you. And oftentimes just being intentional to ask for the help or the engagement. In this case, a life coach is a beautiful piece of teamwork. Executive coaches are awesome. And how are you combating burnout and filling all the things? I always say I feel like time expands to put to fill what am I trying to say time expands to fit what you put in it it's like a purse if you have a big purse somehow it you end up filling it with stuff for sure that if you have a small purse then you fit all the same stuff in it it's like it just expands and that's been my experience and as long as the things are filling your cup and energizing to you then I think that combats burnout but how do you see like you're adding podcast on now that's a new thing that you're adding so how are you gonna fit that into i have a big purse it's the barney bag um all good questions so when i'm talking to my executive coach and i say something about burnout he says that's for your therapist i think that's really important the boundaries i also go to therapy i think that's important to share yeah right i do that every other week as well and so i'm taking care of my mental health love and i'm taking care of my work -life balance and i'm being honest and i have my husband come every once in a while we do like marriage counseling so good and we don't even have problems right now it's more of like thinking ahead like what eth is you know like let's let's problem solve on a problem we don't have right now um i love that and i think that's important not just for a marriage but for your clinical practice and um making sure your technicians are happy and that clinic is efficient these are all problem solving things that change every year is different right because you're going to get new people and new problems so anyway all that to say is i'm very intentional with my time at home as well when when it comes to coaching and therapy i also think it's really important for me to play music so i'm a musician phenomenal one thank you um so i am a cellist and i play cello every day um most days and i play with um an orchestra here in town i'm in the pops orchestra and we have rehearsal every week and i'm in a trio with your your colleague yeah and tomo one of our optometrists and we practice on the weekends at greg's house um and yeah it's just that brings me a lot of joy to be challenged in that way and to give back i play at church um for fun and so yeah it's wonderful to hear those all the different multi -faceted way in which we have you know bring joy to your practice and bring joy to your personal life and in that regard i'm we're just so excited to have that you as part of the joy of this podcast going forward but um joy over what has been to share it in the past and so as this episode ends i just we just look forward to new beginnings when um with britney but also just ongoing friendships and your new adventure as you're heading to a new location. Thank you so much. We're going to miss your voice. Excited for Brittany's. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast on our website. Thank you for listening, and we definitely look forward to sharing more.