[Music] Have you ever wondered where all these new products, ideas, and inventions come from? Hello, my name is Leo. From sports cars to smartphones, we are always striving to find ways to make our lives better, safer, and more comfortable. And perhaps the best example of human ingenuity is how we take care of our health. Experts are always working to improve healthcare, constantly developing new treatments, medicines, techniques, and technologies to improve our lives. This process happens through the hard work and curiosity of researchers, from university students to GPs. Researchers are working to improve healthcare every day. But someone very important may be missing from this healthcare improvement team: you. It is very difficult to improve healthcare without people like you and me being willing to participate in research. Here is an example of how it works: This team of researchers is working on a new drug to treat a disease. They conduct all kinds of research in their laboratory, but they cannot know for sure if the new drug is better than the one already in use. So they ask people who have that disease to participate in a research study. Some patients take the new The researchers observe how both medications work over time. The more people who participate, the more accurate the study results become. In the end, they discover which medication works best and for whom. Whether it's a medication, a surgical intervention, or any other medical treatment, healthcare only improves by testing how new ideas work on human beings. So why do people participate in research? It's possible that the study results may one day improve the health of the participant themselves, but for many, it's knowing that those results may eventually help family, friends, neighbors, and people around the world. Why should you participate in research studies? Because we are all different. We all respond in different ways to medical treatment, and research allows us to explore those differences to learn something new. Why do researchers need to take those differences into account? Many studies require certain qualifications. These may include having a particular disease, being a certain age, or belonging to a certain gender or ethnic group. So, you may not be able to participate if you don't meet the study's requirements. But consider other studies. Like any medical treatment, research is not risk-free. Currently, research is governed by strong laws, policies, and practices that protect the safety and privacy of participants.  Studies conducted through university hospitals, clinics, and other research institutions must first be reviewed and approved by a professional ethics team. They evaluate all the risks and benefits of each project before it is approved. Before you can participate in a study, the researchers must ensure that you fully understand how the study works, how your health information will be used, and any known risks you may face. Ask all the questions you can think of. When possible, take the information home to review it with a trusted family member or friend. Ask other trusted healthcare providers. Only when you have all the information can you decide whether to participate. Ask the study organizers if you will need help understanding the materials or if you need an interpreter who speaks your language. If you register for a study, participate actively and share your experiences with the researchers, good or bad. The researchers need to know about your participation. Also, just because you start a study doesn't mean you have to complete it. Participation in research is voluntary, so you can stop at any time, even after a study has started. Participating in health research is giving a gift. It's a gift to yourself and others like you.  If you have a particular health problem and it's a gift to your culture to help researchers better understand your ethnic community, one person at a time, visit our website for more information. You can help improve healthcare for all of us. Thank you for your attention.