My name is Alejandro Ravenstein. I'm a stroke neurologist here at Mayo Clinic. We are doing a study on postpartum stroke. That is a strokes that occur within six weeks of delivery. Stroke is a focal brain problem uh causing loss of function which uh occurs uh because of occlusion uh of a blood vessel causing lack of blood flow. as a consequence that part of the brain stops uh functioning. Uh and uh this is a permanent problem that can cause a lot of functional disability. Although this is a rare condition happening in a very small proportion of pregnancies, data seems to indicate that uh it is uh growing in frequency and uh the true estimates of that growth uh may reach as far as 80% over the last decade. We really don't know why this may be the case but uh being a growing problem there is a growing need need to understand it. These uh postpartum strokes can have variable outcomes. Uh fortunately most can be quite benign and caring for those patients can be quite rewarding. Unfortunately uh we have seen a handful of cases uh which the outcome was uh unfavorable and even fatal. Personally those cases had a uh a very uh strong emotional uh impact on me. uh seeing the uh effect of those strokes uh in first the patient then the families uh marked me in a way and that is what initiated my um interest in uh learning more in doing research uh on this condition uh so to be able to help uh more patients uh in the future we have done some uh research conducted primarily here at Mayo Clinic uh uh in part with collaboration from other centers trying to learn as much as we could on the basis of the patients that we have seen uh but because of the rarity of the condition the number of uh patients that we have been able to recruit and therefore the conclusions that we have been able to reach are limited. The purpose would be to acquire more information from uh patients who have not been seen at Mayo Clinic but would be willing to share their medical information. uh so we can uh examine the characteristics of uh the these strokes when they happen and uh to try to uh determine what causes these strokes and what options are available. We confirm that you have had uh the type of a stroke that would be considered a postpartum or peripartum stroke. We would ask your permission to obtain your medical information. These would be the medical notes that were produced during uh the care that was provided for your stroke and the uh actual images of your brain and the blood vessels of your brain that were obtained at that time. The purpose of the uh data to be acquired is to understand this disease better. All data will be kept uh absolutely confidential. you would be contributing uh by generously sharing with us this information is uh of great importance for for the future for the next patient who has had a stroke. We will not be able to help you. Hopefully you recovered well, but certainly what you will share with us uh has the potential to help us uh treat future patients better and hopefully even avoid uh strokes in uh the the pregnant women of the future.