Multiple myoma is the second most common blood cancer. It affects about 20,000 Americans each year. Uh generally it's not considered curable. Over the last 10 years, we've made some remarkable strides in the treatment of multiple myoma. The average survival used to be about 3 to four years. Now it's in excess of 7 to 10 years. Um mult almost all patients with multiple myyoma start off with a precursor condition called monoconal gopathy of undetermined significance. It's also called mgus or muggus. Muggus has been extensively studied in Homestead County, Minnesota, and we find that over 3% of the general population over the age of 50 has an emus. 1% of patients progress each year to the cancer called multiple myyoma. It's well known that African-Americans have a significantly higher risk of multiple myyoma compared with whites. And this increase is not slight. It's more than twofold and such kind of a discrepancy is not seen in most other cancers and in our previous studies we have found that this increase is also seen in Africans from Ghana. So there is a suggestion it might be a genetic predisposition but there might be environmental factors also at play. The reason why multiple myyoma is marketkedly increased in blacks may be a result of either an increase in the precursor condition MGUS or an increased risk of transformation of the precursor condition to multiple myyoma. Um there's been no systematic nationwide study of the prevalence of MGUS, the precursor condition of myoma in the United States. And there has also been no uh study looking at the disparities in prevalence between blacks, whites, and Hispanics. This was a very large study uh that we conducted using the National Health and Nutrition Evaluation Survey, NHANES. It was conducted in collaboration with the NCI as well as the CDC. And um after studying over 13,000 samples, what we found was that there was a significant increase in the risk of the precursor condition to multiple myoma in blacks compared with whites and Hispanics. Hispanics had somewhat of a lower rate than even whites. Now, not only did blacks have a higher risk or higher prevalence of this precursor condition, but they also had uh the the type of embers they had was also the higher risk type, a type more likely to progress to multiple myoma. Uh another important but unexpected finding was that there was a geographic difference in the prevalence of emus suggesting environmental factors may also play a role such that in the Midwest we had a higher prevalence than in the south. Um the further steps that we need to take are if we can understand why emus is more prevalent in blacks compared with whites we may actually have the clue as to why people get myoma in the first place. Understanding the racial disparity actually helps everyone and uh we are undertaking such studies including looking at the specific cytogenetic types of myyoma that are affected um more in one race versus the other as well as more molecular based studies. So um we hope that we will have more answers in the next few years. Currently we are studying young people age 10 to 50 trying to understand whether MGUS occurs earlier on in blacks compared with whites whether the age of onset is friend.