Wonderful and some of you may be rejoining and have have seen me or were a part of our first webinar series, the finding your passion in practice. So you might be familiar with my face. We do have a new face with us today and we'll certainly go through introductions. But just to remind everyone that today is part of a four-part webinar series that we're doing. So today of course but for the next two weeks in addition today we will have another hour webinar focusing on a couple different topics that hopefully will be pertinent for anyone kind of looking to start your nursing professional journey. Some tips and tricks insider intakes and to hear from a panel of expert nurses from across our practice setting here as well. So feel free you can certainly join all of them. You can join just ones these twosies that are pertinent to you. We're always happy to have you join us. And with that we'll probably jump right in. We have a good group to get started here and I would imagine a couple more will trickle in as we get started. But if you weren't here for the previous webinar my name is Heidi Bjork I am a Nursing Placement Coordinator here, directly supporting Rochester Mayo Clinic. I am a Registered Nurse. And so I always like to lead with that because not everyone knows what a placement coordinator is. So I'm a Registered Nurse. I've been with Mayo Clinic Rochester over 10 years now in a variety of different settings. Of course, working with patients at the bedside, but also a previous nurse manager and now most recently a placement coordinator here. I will be moderating today and supporting Amanda, as we'll get to know next, who will be leading this presentation. Feel free, Amanda, go ahead and introduce yourself. Wonderful. Thanks, Heidi. Yes, I'm Amanda Vierling. I am also a Nursing Placement Coordinator and the same thing with Heidi an RN. I've been with Mayo Clinic for going on 12 years here this March. Prior to this role. I started out in med-surg and peds and did some floor nursing with various roles, things of that nature within that department. And then I'll have been in this role here in our nursing placement office for going on seven years. So really doing a lot of this work, the bulk of my career here. We will also be answering some questions probably towards the end in the Q&A or the chat feature. So feel free if questions pop up throughout the content of the webinar here, drop them in the chat and we'll be happy to answer those towards the end of the conversation. Brittany is also joining us. She'll be dropping some answers in there as well if things pop in there that we can answer throughout in addition. So thank you, Brittany, for joining us once again and helping moderate our chat and Q&A features. With that, I'm going to go ahead and share my screen get our presentation started so that we can all hear from Amanda. And I'm gonna look to my colleagues to make sure that they can see let me know if this has shown up for them? Everything looking good? It's there, Heidi. Thank you! Fantastic and we'll get started. Wonderful so as Heidi mentioned this is a four-part series so we're going to build upon what you heard from last week and really today going to just talk about launching your career here with Mayo Clinic and really preparing for success. Heidi, do you want to go to the next slide, please? Let's see if it'll let me. Okay. One moment. One second. I'll redo that real quick here. No problem. And as she's doing that, just to highlight a little bit more about today's topic, is going to be a lot about resumes, cover letters, interviewing, and just really getting yourself prepared to be successful in wherever you're applying for positions. So It's just not in the...there we go. Yeah, there we go. Perfect. So that's us. I'll just briefly mention, of course, we have a lot of different Mayo Clinic locations. We have our three main destination sites, Rochester, Phoenix, and Jacksonville. And then also there is a health system region that spans across a lot of Minnesota, Wisconsin, or the western side of Wisconsin, which is where I primarily practice out of, and then into that Northeastern Iowa area. Again, we are Nursing Placement Coordinators, so I just want to share a little bit about our placement office. We are a team of Registered Nurses, really here to help support a comprehensive of career experience for you. So we are serving as an extension to the hiring manager. And we really just strive to identify nursing talent who align with our primary value, "The needs of the patient come first" here. So yeah. Let's get started. We are a very values -based organization. And hopefully, again, I know if you haven't, didn't join the last one or couldn't, Heidi did go through some more of the values and such, but we're going to just chat a little bit here about values and action here at Mayo Clinic. And this is from a, I believe from Heidi, correct me, a DAISY award winner here. So one of our nurses. So I'll just read this for you all. Meg's attention to detail instills confidence in those she serves. Her commitment to excellence never wavers, even in high pressure situations. What makes Meg care even more exceptional is how she combined her clinical expertise with genuine compassion. Not only did she provide the necessary treatments properly or promptly, excuse me, but she also reassured me throughout the entire process. So yeah, just a great example of our values in action here. And again, just to reiterate, we are a very values-based organization, so we will continue on. So to get things started, before you're ready to apply as you're, you know, getting ready to maybe even graduate from nursing school just try to start by envisioning your nursing career thinking about where you want to be what you want to do what does that look like both short -term and long-term. You know really success begins where you apply. So just some thoughts to consider here as you're navigating this piece, it's just really what meaningful clinical classroom work experiences have you already had? Also, what are some of those environments that you thrived in, especially thinking about those clinical or work experiences? Where did you really find yourself feeling at home in the zone and really succeeding in? Next, of course, like the skills and attributes that you will be able to contribute to a professional environment. And then again, kind of thinking about the future here, what's your personal motivation for the future? Where do you hope to see your career go? What are your, what are you thinking? Um, I always talk to, uh, you know, individuals about this is career goals. And one beautiful thing with nursing, there are so many avenues and pathways you can go down. Um, but it's nice to kind of have just at least a little bit of that thought happening right away at the beginning, so we can help best guide you throughout that. So let's go to the next slide. So application, this is where it all starts. A well-crafted application can really leave a very powerful first impression, showcasing not only what you can do, but who you are. So within the application... First of all, I will highlight, please read job descriptions and what's required for each job application, what materials are required. But two big ones that are pretty much almost always recommended or required. One, a resume. So that's going to share what you've done. And then two, a cover letter, why it matters? So we'll dive into resume. So with a resume, this should be a very clear, concise document that really shows us insights to your skills, your experiences, your education that really qualify you for the role that you're applying for. There are a few main elements that we always recommend including on resumes. One being exclusive inclusive work experience including detailed clinical hours. So sometimes people will forego including their clinical rotations and hours. We do really recommend including both the location or the type of clinical as well as the hours you spent there. The other thing I'll mention too for the education piece is to put your graduation or tentative graduation date, that's also going to help us identify really, you know, that timing piece of when we would be able to consider you for a position. Next would be licenses and certifications. So if you've already taken your boards and you have your RN license or other certifications like BLS, please definitely jot those down, include those. And then the last bucket would be community service or volunteerism. Just a few best practice recommendations that we want to highlight further. One would be your work experience or experiences related to the specific requirements of the role that you're applying for. So, you know, it's important and good to include all of your work experience, but your CNA roles or, you know, patient care assistant type roles, those are going to be really important to not miss on your resume. We definitely want to see those and where you've been. Consistent formatting, font and spacing is really important. And then also for resumes, really focusing on quality versus quantity. I know some people get really caught up with the length of how long a resume should be, or they're like trying to cram everything into one page, things like that. We really just want to make sure it's quality content. We will sift through however many pages it is, you know, and such. But if it spills into that second page, don't worry about it. We just want to make sure we have all the necessary pertinent information to make a good decision. And then also just some pitfalls that I definitely want to call out. So spelling, grammar, and punctuation errors. Again, that's going to really showcase your attention to detail as we just shared about in that values in action, right? Your attention to detail was so important. This is your first impression to show us your attention to detail. I know how annoying like the CNA to CAN - spell check will keep switching. But, you know, do your best to continue using that or to changing that. And then also inclusion of personal information that's not applicable to the job or job search. So really making sure this is your professional resume and just only the information that's necessary. And then lastly, of course, please do not use any false or embellished information on your resume. We would hate for it to get too far into, you know, the hiring process only to find out something was falsely included on your resume and things like that. So please, of course, use honesty and integrity and make sure the information is accurate and factual. All right, cover letter, so then the next big document. So this document here the cover letter it should really tell the story behind your resume. It should help you...give you the opportunity really to showcase your values your experiences and career goals that are going to align with the role in the organization that you're applying for. So some of the best practice recommendations here is really to invest that time and that energy to create a compelling cover letter. I know Heidi and I were just chatting a little bit ago about cover letters and sometimes they're just very generic and it looks like there's this copy paste, copy paste, like every person says the same things over and over. So if you can really, into the next bullet point here, share a real life story or connection to, to the organization, to the values or the mission, really showcasing your authentic self, that is going to be much more captivating for us. And truly, if there is two candidates that are neck and neck, and they both have cover letters, but one is more compelling, that could be the person that gets the interview. And then lastly, of course, convey your interest and excitement for the role. We want to know that you're excited to work at Mayo Clinic and for this RN role or this department, things like that. And then I'm going to pivot right into the common pitfalls because at the same time, one of the big ones that we noticed is failing to update your cover letter to the organization in which you're applying for. So it's really disappointing when I see somebody so excited to work for a different organization than Mayo Clinic when I'm reading that. So make sure if you are including a cover letter that you do update it to the organization that you're applying for. Next, repeating elements from your resume. So this should not be another resume. This really needs to be something that's going to share additional clarity or detail, just really tying your interest to the position and the organization. And then again, same thing with the resume. Just make sure you're doing those spell checks, grammar and punctuation checks as well to showcase that attention to detail so you can avoid those errors. Okay, so you've applied, you've gotten the call or the email or the text that we want to interview you. So now we're going to get to the interview piece to this. So this is going to be this opportunity to really demonstrate your skills and experiences and passion that you've highlighted in your resume and cover letter and what you're going to bring to the table here. Before you get to the interview, there is some big preparation steps that we definitely recommend, um, doing beforehand. Um, so first things first, get to know the organization that you're interviewing with. Build that knowledge base. It is so helpful and appreciated when somebody can, you know, share their connection in an interview to the mission, vision, and values of Mayo Clinic. So this is something that can be found right on our MayoClinic.org website. It's easily accessible. You can even Google or use any search engine and just type in what is the mission at Mayo Clinic? And it will tell you right there so you can know about it. You can think about it and then know how to incorporate that within your interview. The next big thing, we use behavioral-based interviewing here in our Department of Nursing. So a bulk of the questions that you might be getting asked are going to be considered these behavioral -based interviewing questions. So for these, this is going to be an opportunity for you to share a previous story with us, your past performance, to help us predict future behaviors and to predict future performance. So we like to recommend using the SHARE acronym when you are giving these answers or responses to these questions. Just to quickly run through that here, the SHARE acronym. So that stands for specific. You want to share a specific story. And then H is hindrance or the challenge. What was the challenge that you faced? A is action. What action did you take? R is results. So what was that outcome? What happened at the end of the situation? And then maybe the most important thing, I think, is E, and that's the evaluation piece. What did you learn from this experience? Believe me, we all know that not everything ends in sunshine and rainbows, and there are some poor outcomes to some of these stories. But if what you took away from it, what you learned from it was so valuable, that is, in my opinion, equally as important as the outcome to the situation. We need to know that you learned from the situation. Again, you can go go to search engines and find lots of practice questions of these type, and just really rehearse them, practice them. You can jot down notes that you've had from clinical experiences or work experiences to kind of have prepared before your interview. And then the next thing would be preparing your own questions. So come prepared with questions. At the end I'll always open it up, or even during, and just say what questions do you have for me today? And if they're like nope I don't have any that really gives me pause. Because gosh, I mean, especially if you've never worked at Mayo Clinic or on a specific department surely there are... surely there are questions that you would have. So come prepared with your own questions.  And then last lastly before the interview to prepare make sure you know what modality the interview is in. Oftentimes we do virtual interviews right now via Microsoft Teams or Zoom, things like that. There is occasionally in-person interviews still as well. So just make sure you know exactly what it's going to be, the modality, and then also that you have the appropriate equipment to access the interview or downloaded the correct links, things like that, so you're ready to go on the day of the interview. Okay, now we'll go into during the interview. First things first, we really want you to be your authentic self. Be true to who you are. Be honest, open, and transparent. That's going to be your best bet for any interview. Next will be maintaining professionalism and really avoiding slang or inappropriate language. One other big thing I want to put a plug in here for this maintaining is being really mindful of how you are speaking about others in your stories that you are sharing. Really try to focus on your role in situations, what you did. Sometimes there are individuals that, you know, will put down their co-workers or colleagues, things like that. And that's just really something that is hard to determine then from that professionalism standpoint, that teamwork standpoint. So really being mindful of how you're speaking about others in your situations and stories that you're sharing. And then the last big thing always seek clarification. So if you do have questions or if if we're asking a question and you're just not sure... you're not, you know, not sure about what type of answer response we're looking for you can absolutely ask us. As well as accepting feedback so often we'll share feedback that we may have and that's really important to be able to accept feedback graciously. Great. AI in the hiring process. So gosh, this did not exist when I started this role, but here we are in 2026. So with AI, here's some best practices to keep in mind or recommendations. So certainly when you're in that career exploration phase and you're trying to just figure out and navigate, right? Because there's hundreds of different types of nursing and places you can go and things like that, you can utilize AI to really help guide you to where might be a good fit? Whether it be a specific specialty, location, department, like AI is great for that. Let them kind of help guide you in that career exploration phase. Also, of course, in grammar and spelling reviews and application materials, leverage that AI. That's fantastic to just make sure you're not missing any grammatical errors and things. And then also building or build confidence in networking conversations. To switch gears then to just some of the pitfalls, letting AI or using AI to write your resume or cover letter. Again, I think this goes back to probably Heidi's point that we shared earlier in the cover letters of, gosh, everyone seems so generic. Is AI or are we just all using templates and plugging in a few words here and there, it really loses your authenticity. So I encourage you to write your own resume, write your own cover letter, just use AI or the technology for the like spell checks and things like that. Also, allowing AI to draft responses to interview questions that are inaccurate or truthful, or honestly, in general, would be bad. But Mayo Clinic does prohibit the use of AI tools or assistance during recorded or virtual interviews. So this is not allowed. If there is, or if we suspect that, you know, it could really hinder your opportunity here at Mayo Clinic or to get a position. So not to use that. All right, next slide. Okay, let's stay connected. So of course, please follow Mayo Clinic on social media. Here are our four main platforms that we are active on. And these are specific, some of them are specific to nursing, so definitely recommend that. There's some great content there. And let's see what the last, I think it's the last slide. So we cruised through this, hoping there's lots of questions we can answer. But, you know, I guess just in closing here, really wanting to share just a little bit about, you know, these life -changing careers here at Mayo Clinic. I can't imagine where I'd be if I hadn't started here at Mayo Clinic 12 years ago. Of course, you can see the bullets here that Mayo Clinic is top -ranked in so much and more specialties than any other care provider. Again, we are really rooted in our RICH TIES values for our patient care environments and just here in general, I would say at Mayo Clinic. We have a really great compensation plan and benefits to support you now and into the future. And then also depending on where you're located and where you may want to work. So if you want to come by me in Wisconsin, it is actually nice out right now. You know, depending on that, there may be relocation assistance available, too. Wonderful. Thank you so much, Amanda, for sharing all that insider tips, tricks, very helpful information. And certainly I learned a few things along the way too. So really appreciate that. Feel free, anyone on the call, if you have specific questions related to the topic at hand today, put them in the chat. We're going to go through some questions together and hopefully provide any in-depth answers to curiosities or questions you may have as a result of the webinar. One thing I do want to ask you, Amanda, because this is a question that I get frequently from individuals that I interview. When I meet with that nurse manager, should I share my career goals with them. If maybe let's say I start on a general care floor, but I want to move to maybe a critical care floor in the next year or two, tell me about what you would recommend for individuals in that situation. Yeah, that's a great question. Um, and I guess it probably varies a little bit. So, um... I think being open and transparent about your career goals is always going to be better than potentially keeping it like secretive. We don't want you to hit that one-year mark and all of a sudden you're off and applying and, you know, throwing that manager off. I think just one, see what questions the managers ask. I know each manager asks a few different things. So as it would hopefully naturally come up in conversation, I would be very open and transparent about those long-term career goals. And at least I'll speak to the managers I work closely with, they want to see you succeed and grow and help you reach your career goals as well. Especially if you are starting on those general care floors, they often know that's...that's what's going to happen anyways. And so they want to best support you in that. So if I see you as your, your goal, for example, and you're going to start on our, one of our general care floors, well, that manager might prioritize getting you your PCU experience earlier than maybe later, for example. So, you know, I think our managers want to work with individuals to help them reach their career goals. And they can't really do that if they're not, you know, open and transparent about that. Yeah, I love that answer. One thing I will also chime in is that when you get to that interview, oftentimes the most important question that you will answer is, why are you considering this opportunity on my unit, right? Why this unit out of all the other areas? Why did you express interest in this particular work unit? That's not usually the place where I say lead up with your career goals, right? Talk about the here and now, because I really want you to highlight why that this particular opportunity, they're not asking about your future opportunities, right? They're asking you about here and now. So I would say if they do, just like Amanda mentioned, if they ask about your career goals and where do you see yourself contributing now, and maybe look to the future, what does that look like? Talk about the here and now first, how you're going to invest in this opportunity. To make sure that any future career goals, whether it's what you hope to do, you know, with your current mindset, or maybe that will change in the future, how that might evolve with time with this experience, how you're going to get those takeaways from this opportunity. So I'll add that in as well. Brittany, have there been any questions that have dropped in our chat? Yes, there is. So I'll just start from the top. Megan asked, what is something that makes people really stand out in their resume and interview process? Two questions there. Amanda, do you want to jump in? Sure. Yeah, I'll get started. So one, coming prepared. I can tell when somebody has come prepared, when you can speak to, again, our Mayo Clinic mission, vision, and values, that is really going to stand out to me that you've come prepared, um, for this interview that you really want this, you really took the time to do that. So that's going to be one, I guess, just big key things. Also I'll just mention briefly to just  your professionalism, in general. Like how you portray yourself? Again, how do you speak about others throughout, you know, throughout the interview, the questions you come prepared with. Those are going to be some of those key things,  that really stand out to me. Yeah. I'll speak to the resume piece because a resume is a little bit harder, right? You can't, you can't add all the quirks and the uniqueness and the authentic pieces in there as, as evident as you can showing up in an interview. But resume, the first thing is, is it neat and tidy? Do we have the information that we need to really assess? Is it clear as an outline, right? Can I find your contact information? Like Amanda said, do you have your graduation or tentative date on there or when you got licensed? Is that clearly stated in there or am I left wondering, okay, have they graduated or what school are they actually attending right now? Or if I'm like digging through it and maybe your work history bounces around a lot. So just making sure that's really professional, really clean. I love that. And then of course, all the pieces are there and your cover letter really tells a story about who you are and why this opportunity matters to you. That is really compelling. A lot of us are very empathetic storytelling people. And so if we can also tie that into making sure we understand you as a whole person as much as we can from paper, I think those are the best ways, yeah, to really stand out. The next question is what are some examples of questions that an interviewee could ask the interviewer? Okay. That one's good. Um... So, I think first and foremost just asking about, I always appreciate when somebody's like... well, what do you like about working at Mayo Clinic? Or why have you, you know, like, what has made you stay around for 12 years, right? Things like that. I think that's a great general question that you can ask. I also think asking specifically about unit culture or work environment. Other questions, I'm trying to think now at the top of my mind, some of the common ones that I get, those are some big ones. If it's not already discussed during the interview, I think just knowing like patient to staff ratios is so important as a nurse. I would want to know what, what my workload is going to be expected on a particular unit. What is maybe the staff staffing look like on the unit or on a particular shift? How does the scheduling actually work? Those are just some big ones, I guess. Heidi, would love to hear if you have specifics that you really appreciate. Yeah, I love when people lead with intention. So, you know, before you ask a question, you say like, oh, I really want to work with a team that's really supportive and welcoming to new grads can you tell me a little bit more about...well that's not a question but.... what is the culture of the unit like and how many new grads do you typically hire a year? Right, what does that look like? What might contribute to my success on the floor? What what are some things I would need to know now and could prepare for if I was to be offered this position? That shows your genuine interest and that you're willing to go a little bit above and beyond to make sure that you're successful. I like when people ask about things like: as a team, how do you celebrate those wins, right? What do you do to acknowledge the staff on the floor when things go our way and we have a tremendous outcome for a patient, maybe who didn't expect the outcome that that was a result? So those are the questions that are a little outside of the norm, but I think are really impactful. It kind of sends a message or intentionality of why you're asking the question about why it matters to you versus just being scripted. Thank you both for that. The next question is, for new grad nurses, when do you suggest applying for a position? Good question. Typically, anytime, I would say three to six months max before graduation. I would say around the three month mark is pretty reasonable or average before you graduate to start applying. I would also be mindful of there's certain nurse residency programs that hire only in cohort. So depending on your location or which location you're looking for, if it is a nurse...the nurse residency program specifically, I would just be monitoring and watching for those postings to come through. And they should outline the details in there about if you're a May grad right you can apply here and this is the application window. Because I would hate for you to miss out on that i know you know that happens too sometimes. But you can I mean and you can certainly apply after your passports too that is that is perfectly fine as well. I would just say your best bet is to maybe especially if you're looking for a particular unit or you have a strong interest in a role to start around the three to four month mark beforehand. Yeah, I would agree with, Amanda. And really what I would say is whenever you're most prepared and ready to apply. Don't rush it, right? We wanna make sure that you do a good job in the application process. But also a lot of you aren't gonna have a capstone or clinical immersion until that kind of that three month. And so if that opportunity is gonna make you more prepared for an interview or a stronger applicant on paper, then yeah I would wait for that before you apply and put your best self forward in that process so you might not be overlooked with opportunities that you didn't really get to explore or highlight as a result. So I would say, yeah, I agree with Amanda about three to four months is ideal. Unless there's specific cohort windows. But a lot of them align with that anyway, you'll see. So pay attention to those deadlines. Thank you, next question: what qualities do you look for in students who are new to health care? I want maybe a little more clarity regarding new to health care. So as a student or as a nursing student and as you're you know potentially looking for RN opportunities for example, I would hope at this point that you've had an opportunity to work as a nursing assistant in some capacity beforehand to really help you be more prepared for healthcare. So if there's that opportunity of having that actual work experience in some type of healthcare setting, that's going to be really helpful for us as far as what we're looking for in, you know, in those students who new to health care. Outside of that, of course, I'll just continue to be a broken record and go back to, you know, people who are aligned with our values, our mission. Also, who show, you know, a good hard work ethic and who are very open and receptive, right? We certainly want you to make sure you're comfortable asking questions, especially if you are new to health care. So those would be, I guess, just a few things that come to top of mind. Yeah, I think about an early nursing student who's kind of exploring, you know, healthcare as a career, maybe not even nursing quite yet, just trying to figure out if this is the right fit. Someone who's curious, always wanting to learn, right? Someone who is 'others' focus who really wants to see other people succeed and do well and get better, right? Not being afraid of you know things like bodily fluids or really difficult conversations or um invading other people's personal space, right? You really have to have a sense of willingness to preserve other people's dignity in a time where they're very vulnerable. And that truly is a privilege. But I think that sense of curiosity. The ability to go above and beyond for others and really hold yourself accountable to the work and the practice and what you're committing to with a healthcare profession is really important as well. Thank you both. So we're getting a lot of questions just kind of regarding new grad nurses and opportunities for new grad nurses. And I'm wondering, Heidi, I know I work with you specifically regarding our nurse residency posting. So a lot of these questions are tied to new grads and the residency program. I'm wondering if either of you could high-level go over that process for the sites you support. Yeah, absolutely. So if you're going to apply to Rochester Mayo Clinic right now, the process is that all new graduate nurses will apply through one central posting entitled Nurse Residency. And so you apply there and what happens is you get connected with a placement coordinator. So again, I'm part of a small team behind the scenes. One of us will individually connect with you virtually. And it is in that initial interview where we get to know you, we get to assess your values, we get to learn more about your career goals. And then we aligned those with opportunities that exist within our department here. We hire new graduate nurses into nearly every specialty, including, of course, inpatient, but also outpatient, you know, surgical services, procedural settings. And so there's a lot of areas to explore and truly here in Rochester, we have a lot of sub -specialized units and a lot of unique practice spaces that maybe don't exist other places. And so it's really helpful to have those conversations because you might not even know what opportunities exist. So we're really there to help navigate that complexity and make sure that we find an opportunity that exists or that is more aligned with your career goals and interests. Amanda, you want to share a little bit about yours? Yeah, absolutely. So again, I'm Wisconsin -based, so I'm in the Health System, which does have a bit of a different, approach to this. I will throw in the caveat as though.... Although we don't have a specific nurse residency posting or not all the time, sometimes we do post those. Sometimes we don't, it really depends on the number of available positions that we have in our smaller regional hospitals. Every new grad who is hired to a position here throughout the Midwest, and I will just say the Midwest cause Arizona would be different. Um, but I think even Florida is the same. No matter what position you would get as a new grad, you'll automatically be enrolled into the nurse residency program. So I just want to make sure that that's abundantly clear that you would still have the opportunity to partake in and be enrolled in that nurse residency program, even if you apply to a different job posting that doesn't necessarily call that out in the title. So here, typically what you would do, especially I support a lot LaCrosse or some of our critical access hospital sites in our Wisconsin area. You would apply to a specific unit that you're interested in. Again, similarly to Heidi and their team in Rochester, you'd meet with myself or one of my colleagues here in Wisconsin in the placement office. We will have a good interview, conversation. We'll chat about the opportunity you applied for, your career goals, things of that nature. If during our conversation we identify like, hey, maybe actually this unit or this department might be better for you we would just let you know during that time and switch gears and things like that. But actually here we typically or we're starting to anyways do a lot of the hiring decisions here through our placement office. So we would really have that in-depth interview with you and then determine whether or not that's a good fit and or if we want to direct you to a different department or unit. I think Arizona and Florida, they do cohort style hiring. So there is a dedicated window in which you will apply to a nurse residency posting if you want to express interest within the Arizona or Florida sites. From there, they will review all applications at the end of that window, that application window, and then select a coordinated base on how many positions they have available at that time. So each site is slightly different. We do have, we do have a website for our residency... nurse residency here that you can kind of find all that information on too. Brittany, I don't know if you can drop that in the chat at some point in time too for us. I can definitely drop that in the chat, Heidi. Thank you for that. The next question is, does Mayo Clinic offer shadowing, volunteering, or mentorship opportunities for students early in their nursing education? So I know here in Wisconsin, there is a application you can fill out to complete a job shadow while you're still a student. However, typically though, if you are applying an external, not within Mayo Clinic, typically that would not be allowed to do a job shadow in that regard. Just due to HIPAA violations and things like that. I know there's some HR policies behind it here in Wisconsin, but there is a form and things like that that we would direct you to here, again, in our Wisconsin sites that you could apply to do a shadow opportunity. I'm not certain that we have formal mentorship opportunities. Certainly, like, I always encourage everybody to reach out to us in placement and nursing placement so we can kind of help answer the questions that you may have as you go throughout. Yeah, that's kind of what I'm aware of here in Wisconsin. Yeah, I would say similarly here in Rochester, we do allow shadows. Usually it's through our affiliated programs with their students who are doing clinicals here. Certainly they can work with their academic instructors and see if shadow opportunities or exposures are available. Um, definitely volunteer Um, there is a whole site dedicated to volunteering at Mayo Clinic that, , that is available... that.... people can be directed to, or you can look for different opportunities, depending on the type of volunteering you wish to do. So certainly not hands-on patient care when it comes to volunteering. But we don't allow external job shadows for individuals coming in outside of Mayo Clinic with no affiliation here or doing direct clinicals within our halls and walls. Thank you. I'm just kind of going through the chat now here. We've answered some of the questions in the Q&A. I saw a good question that I oh....how would you suggest an interviewer can prepare if they struggle to articulate themselves due to nervousness? Great question...so, again I think it'll go back to that preparation piece to the interview. I think I mentioned it in in the presentation but maybe I didn't. As you're going throughout your clinicals or work experience applicable work experience, things like that, if there's a situation or a scenario that really stands out to you, so I'll kind of, maybe I should jump into more behavioral style interviewing stuff too. Um, if there's a specific situation or scenario from clinicals or things of that nature that really stand out to you, I recommend, you know, after that clinical experience, going home, jotting down, like just some brief notes on it. And during a right... you know, during your interview, you can have a little note card that has like a one -line phrase to help jog your memory. So in the moment you're not like, oh my gosh, I don't have an example, or I can't think of a story or scenario to share for this question that was asked to me. But you can look down and say, Oh, yep. I had that, you know, patient that was deteriorating and I know exactly, you know, what I'm going to say about it. So it just helps jog your memory in those moments of anxiousness and nervousness is just having a little notebook or notes next to you to be prepared. Again, you don't want to be reading from a piece of paper verbatim, every single word, but just having those quick bullet points to help keep you in check there or on, yeah, on task there. That's probably one of the big, big ones. Also just like, taking a deep breath. I know moments of silence can feel really hard in an interview or awkward or just builds anxiety sometimes. It is okay to take a breath ask for a minute too if you need a minute to think about what you're going to share and the answers that's okay, too. To help with, I guess, eliminating some of that nervousness. I think sometimes there's just no good way to go around some of the nervousness and nerves that come with interviewing. But yeah, being prepared. I remind people that interviewing is not a test, right? There's no trick questions. It's all about yourself. And good news is you're the one living your life. So you know all the answers to every question they're going to ask. So you're already prepared in that sense. But yes, practicing... practicing is really important and focus on right the controllables things that you can do if you have pets, get them out of the room, lock them out of the room, right? If you can log on early, see if the sunlight isn't, you know, shining directly in your eyes so that you can see. And if you are someone who's very nervous I've had many people who will introduce themselves and say you know what I'm going to be honest I am really nervous to be here, but it's a nervous excited. So thank you for your time I, you know, can't wait to hear more about this opportunity whatever it is so just kind of clear the air. Or if you're nervous about having some material next to you. I usually tell people totally fine if you have that next to you feel free to jot down notes or, reference... have reference material if you need it. But you can always say that too. You know, I have a little notepad next to me. Are you comfortable if I use that throughout just to jag my memory, if anything, or if there's questions asked that I can't remember my responses to. Yeah. Nerves are inevitable. Sometimes I get nervous for interviews and I'm like, I do this for a living. Why am I nervous? Yeah. Yeah, for sure. We have a couple questions just regarding continuing education. So, we have a question in here. What is the continuing education path and assistance like for a new grad Mayo Clinic employee who is looking to further their education online while still working full time? So we do have... there's, I guess, a couple of things. One, there's the condition of employment piece. So I don't know if you're getting your ADN versus BSN, things of that nature. So Mayo does help support you with that pathway, of going for your BSN right away. You actually have five years to complete that. So that would be one bucket of just an opportunity to apply for tuition reimbursement. It's an X amount of dollars per year, I think, that's allotted for that trajectory. And then outside of that, we have what's called our Career Investment Program. And hopefully I'm answering this or getting to the root of this question here. But within our Career Investment Program, once you've met some basic qualifications, you do need to be with us for at least a year to qualify, benefit eligible, and good standing, things of that nature. But within that program, there are various offerings, specialty certifications, all the way through master's, doctoral degree type programs. You could apply if accepted Mayo, then helps, again, finance your way through those programs. Also, it does allow you the opportunity to continue working with us, you know, at least part-time if not full-time throughout those programs, depending on the program. I know there are some educational leaves things like that. I know...I think I saw CRNA pop through here as well. So once you get too far or too...you know farther along in that program a lot of times staff would go into like an educational leave or things like that to be able to maintain their educational pathway. For that one particular. But what am I missing, Heidi or Brittany? I think you touched on the main things you know outside of formal education certainly we have our own resources for things like continuing education credits for, you know, licensure renewal or as you kind of move throughout your career. We have specialty certification courses and things that you can pursue. Not...not things under...how do I say this...things you don't have to pay for, right, that are just resources available for Mayo Clinic staff. So there's a lot of education that you can access here without having to pay for it at all, depending on what you're looking for. Yeah, for sure. I think you both covered that really well from an HR perspective. Another question is, if we have been a patient at Mayo Clinic, should we mention that in our cover letter as a personal story? And how that experience, experience highlighted Mayo Clinic's values and mission? You could, if you feel comfortable sharing, and it was again, a positive experience, if that's what led you to Mayo Clinic, that would really be up to you. If that's, you know, something you want to share specifically as a patient, right? Like we can't, you know, share others, you know, specific information from a HIPAA perspective, but you're always welcome to share your personal story with us. Yeah I agree. Perfect I'm just gonna review the questions kind of flowing in.. What other positions can I apply to as a new graduate nurse after being rejected for that position? So I'm assuming this candidate is asking about the nurse residency, new grad position potentially? Yeah. From like a residency posting specifically. I usually say if you're in that situation, reach directly out to the placement office and we can leave those contacts in there for you. Likely we'll help you navigate that specific situation. If, there's a situation which you were, you were rejected from that, kind of that central nurse residency posting. Yeah. So we'll... drop our, well, I'll drop my contact in there, I should say, so that you can reach out directly and I can kind of help navigate that specific situation. Thank you. Sorry, I just want to make sure I'm reading this right. Are newly graduated RNs with less than one year of experience eligible to, apply for open RN positions at Mayo Clinic Arizona outside of the nurse residency program? I would need to double check, maybe. I don't know, Heidi, if you know that one offhand for Arizona specifically. Outside of the cohort higher dates, I don't believe so. It was Arizona, right? I'm sorry I was typing the... Yeah. Arizona, I believe, they all have the requirement on their job specific postings that one year is required that doesn't mean you can't be considered but they want all new grads to apply to that that nurse residency specific posting within those cohort or the posting window, yeah. Thank you I'm just trying to kind of scroll through if there's any questions, Heidi Amanda, if you see in the chat that kind of stand out to you. I think we've answered most of them. Ss far as kind of grouping them together. Yeah. I see one about travel nursing. We do have an internal travel team I believe is still up there. So when those opportunities are available, there would be a specific job posting. Um, I don't know the likeliness of a new grad. If you are a new graduate, getting into the travel team. But we do have that available. So... Looking for a summer, I see one about being like a Summer... they're a junior in college right now looking for a Summer PCA, PCT, MA type of job. So absolutely recommend if, you know, depending on what you're looking for if it is truly summer only and that's your only availability there should be summer only positions posted based on site availability so just depending on your location you're looking for. Some may or may not have those specifically available. But if they do not highlight summer only, I will say we are typically looking for individuals who can stay in the role for at least a year or more typically. So again, if it is summer only, I would just look for those specific, you know, words in the job posting itself for summer only. Here's a good question from Alexandra: has heard that residency programs receive hundreds of applications and companies use AI engines to screen these applications a coordinator never reads them does this happen at Mayo Clinic? So I'll speak to this yeah we do sometimes receive hundreds of applications that's absolutely true and I can in fact say I read every single one of those. If not me, all my colleagues, will have second pairs of eyes on those applications. So it is not AI behind the scenes reviewing those applications here at Mayo Clinic. These are fantastic questions. Yeah. I did see a couple just regarding Visa. If you do have Visa questions, we would just want to redirect you to reach out specifically to, you know, some of our HR Connect team or whatnot, if you have those questions for today. Here's a good question. If I updated my cover letter and resume recently, but I had already applied, is there a way I can send them an updated version? So I can kind of speak to this. We don't allow edits to current applications. So I would recommend either sending to myself or the placement office. Heidi, Amanda, I'd be curious what your insight is as well. Yep. Yep. I would agree if the system doesn't allow you. So if you withdraw from the current system, you can't reapply. So likely you'll end up reaching out to us regardless if that's the case. So if you do need to make any changes after your final submission, just reach out to the recruiter or whoever's listed on that specific posting and just share kind of what happened and we'll certainly help you out. Yeah. There is another question here. How are complex cases introduced to new nurses in the ICU? So here, there is no preference or how do I want to say this? Regardless if you are a newer nurse or not, if you complete an orientation, you should be able to handle any of the critical status patients that are bedded within any of our ICUs here. So there's no, unless there's specific competency you haven't done, you will not be assigned that patient. I think of some that get certified in different modalities or specialties, but so long as you've completed standard orientation, if you're hired to a critical care unit, you can care for any patient bedded on that floor. Yes. Yep. I was just going to add, it'll happen in orientation. You'll get introduced to all of them. And I think we have time for one more question. It is just regarding salary. So can we ask about salary during the interview? I personally do not appreciate that question when it comes up. I know it can be a big deal. It is right. Like that's a big piece of the decision that needs to be made. But one, I, as a nursing placement coordinator, I don't know what your starting salary is going to be. I can maybe ballpark it based on like, if you're a new grad and you have XYZ education level, but one, I'm not the expert and nor would be the nurse manager either to answer that question so really it you're going to likely just get met with an I'm not sure it might be in this ballpark maybe but you can reach out to your recruiter...the recruiter on the job posting if you have specific compensation questions, so. And I just, yeah, I just don't like it personally. Yeah I don't mind the question but it's truthfully impossible for us to answer in our position just because we don't have access us to that information. However on every job description there is a range that is provided so that gives you a ballpark right there that's likely what you're going to get from us too. And so if you just read the job description it'll give you at least an idea and then you will get all compensation details so both through all the benefit information things like that at point of offer, before you make any final decision. So do know we make sure that you have all the information to make a very informed decision before you sign on any dotted line. All right, we're just at the top of the hour. So, fantastic discussion this afternoon. Thank you all for joining us. Reminder, there is another webinar next week, same time, Tuesday. That's all about the Residency Programs that we have here across the enterprise. What does that entail? What will that look like? So if you're curious about Mayo Clinic's Nurse Residency Programs, feel free to tune into that one as well. But I just want to thank everyone for the time. Thank you again to Amanda for your wonderful presentation and have a great rest of your day, everyone.