Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host Dr. Andrea Tulie and I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. >> Today we will chat about ocular genetics with Dr. Elias Trabuli, a leader in pediatric opthalmology and genetic disease from the Cleveland Clinic Cole Eye Institute. Tune in and be reminded to appreciate the inherited aspects of eye disease and medical education. >> Dr. Elias Traboli is the head of pediatric opthalmology and the director of for the center of genetic eye diseases at the Cleveland Clinic Cole Eye Institute. He is professor of opthalmology at the Cleveland Clinic Learner College of Medicine of Case University and serves as vice chairman for education at the Cole Eye Institute. He is past president of the international society for genetic eye diseases and retinol blasto editor and chief of opthalmic genetics and on multiple editorial boards. His fingerprints are all over pediatric opthalmology literature and his book on genetic eye diseases of of the eye was first published in 1998 and I understand it's on third the third revision is coming. He is a recipient of multiple awards um in particular the master educator award at the Cleveland Clinic where he was the director of graduate medical education and a DIO for 16 years. He received the Parker Palmer Courage to lead award and the Joseph Gennap award from the ACGME. He is a friend, a colleague, a mentor and a treasure to just hang out with in an afternoon. And we get to say welcome Dr. Dr. Trabolce to our podcast. >> Thank you, Eric. Thank you very much for having me. >> Welcome. It's great to have you here. >> Thanks. >> You know, I am spoiled because I am in pediatric opthalmology in a field where as a coming up in the field, you see these giants that you get to learn from and appreciate the shadows of and try to walk in the footprints behind. And you are one of those people have always been one of those people for me. Um I as I know your story probably better than some of our listeners and outside of peds share with us just your career path. I mean you are have a neat niche niche I use the word tapestry recently but between opthalmology genetics history art um Dr. Trolzi has just an incredible story but share with us your career path for our listeners to frame this conversation. >> Thanks Eric. I've actually been thinking about that uh recently. As our life goes, we jump from one thing into the other without a lot of of thought. We we our career paths are kind of traced for us in a way but we take advantage and we benefit from people we work with situations we are placed in interests that arise in us that hadn't been there before. Uh and that kind of shapes uh and and modify the career path that we all have. If if you if you want there there is a mold that you and you and I have shared college, medical school, re uh residency, fellowship, work and along the way friends, family, uh parents, loss, what have you. So the paths are all parallel. It's it's what develops along those lines and is shaped by uh life events and what's shaped but by discoveries of of interests that you didn't know you had uh and talent that you didn't know you had and people that you admire uh and people who influence you that shape your path. And I've been very fortunate all along the way that I've had good experiences and I've been in in touch with and I I will use the word mentored although it's not a word that I understand very well uh by individuals who have been extremely influential in in how I turned out and they start all the way back with my parents uh my dad was an educator and I think that's imprinted me probably the most uh especially in my um in my career as an educator and the second environment that also imprinted me uh quite a bit is uh my um studies uh at the American University of Beirut as an undergrad and in medical school and in my residency. The ambiance there I is extremely academic in the best possible sense that we understand it here in the United States. Uh and and it's it's a it's an environment of u curiosity of study of caring for patients of teaching of sharing. And I grew so I I grew up like that. And if if you're predisposed to it in the first place, that's how you're going to behave. That's how you're going to be. Um unfortunately, uh I was uh caught in in the civil war. I had just finished or my um undergrad. So I went to medical school and I did my residency during the civil war in Lebanon between 1974 and 1985. and uh I I came to the US to specialize in pediatric opthalmology and I was accepted at the University of Iowa for a 2-year fellowship in pediatric of opthalmology uh before I came and because of my very strong uh love of genetics since I was in premed school. I' I've always been fascinated by the field. Uh I had a deal with uh the University of Iowa the program director Bill Scott uh you you know Dr. Scott that I could spend six months at Hopkins doing genetics out of those two years and they allowed me to they said okay you can do six months in genetics uh and because I had heard of this Dr. M I did not know. I saw he was a man. In fact, turned out to be professor Irene Moy who one of my mentors who was there and then thing one thing led to another. I could not go back to Lebanon. The war got worse and I decided to stay here. Another influencer there was a pediatric of themologist we all know John Flynn who said Elias you have to stay in the US. you have to repeat your residency and when you're done give me a call. I want you to come to Baskin Palmer. >> Uh I met him during my fellowship with Irene M at Wilmer. I still remember where we met in the basement uh of of Wilmer in the in the library there. And people who have been there know what I'm talking about. Um anyway, so I I repeated my residency at Georgetown. I won't tell you the per the you know the convolutions of how that happened but I was also very fortunate because I was applying for two years later and it happens that two people dropped off uh dropped out uh that year and I got a call from John O'Neal program director and pediatric of themologist offering me one of those two spots for that coming July. also serendipitously the other position was given to Jonathan Horton. So Jonathan who's who's a big big name as you know a master pediatric mur of themologist works on uh on vision and ambilopia and and so on in primates. So I I I was lucky to also work with Jonathan for three years. Following that, I um um I was recruited in a couple of different places, but also to make a long story short, I ended up at Wilmer where I uh spent half of my time uh at uh Bayiew Hospital doing general of themology, pediatric ofthmology. I was the chair there for seven years and half of my time was at Wilmer in genetics uh with Dr. Mine and then I was recruited to to Cleveland Clinic. Um many years later uh and at Cleveland Clinic I became the residency program director, a position that I held for about 15 years. Uh we waited for Jeff Goi to become the program. He was one of our graduates and he's he's done a wonderful job with the with the uh training program since uh since I left. Uh which will lead me to another comment. I I will make in a in a minute about succession and and all giving making room for for others to do the work you do because they're going to do it better than you did. Uh but but setting the foundation is one. Taking over from others is one, but also giving opportunities and and opening the door for others. That's one of the main things we we have to do. We need to learn how to do. And uh some of us have some difficulties with that. Um so after I I we moved to to Cleveland, one day my uh my wife that I had met my first year of college. So I've met her in 1974 and we're still together. We have two wonderful sons and now three grandchildren. Uh she knew I was interested in in painting in in doing some sort of art. So, she signed me up for for a class in the local community art center and uh honestly that opened my eye to a whole new world. Uh and I I took up watercolor and I've I've been painting since and uh I look at things with a different eye. I appreciate beauty and things around me and uh uh that got me more into learning about art and artists and their lives and what they've done. So it it's uh another a whole other identity that I found myself uh developing and we talked about professional identity formation uh earlier today uh and we all have a a number of them. We talk about the med medical one mostly and the effect of education and the clinical learning environment on it. But we all have other identities that are shaped by our socioultural background, by by our families, by people we live with, by people we work with, by our personal interests, what we are good at, our our abilities, our aptitudes, you know, I don't have any aptitudes for sports, okay? Not whatsoever. But I had an aptitude for art and I developed it and and I got better at it and I get satisfaction from it. And you also talked about the interweaving of different aspects of our uh lives, but they complete each other and they and they make each one better. >> I'm a better teacher because now I incorporate in my teaching aspects that I became more sensitive to and appreciate more that I got from learning about art. I know you're going to ask me later about education. Let me make a couple of comments here. Education is not something you learn by osmosis only or by observing other or by looking at how others teach and so on. It is a science. There's a science to education. So I I urge and I encourage everybody who wants to be a a better educator. We all can educate. Okay? If we if we didn't, we wouldn't be where we are now. We love to do it and eventually we do it okay but at a price that it's delayed and having made mistakes along the way. So if you have a solid foundation in education, you know, you you learn what um a curriculum is, you learn how to uh impart competencies, you know how to assess, you know, how to deal with learners, uh etc. If if you learn all if you you learn about the the principles, how people learn, you know, the principles of general education, uh then you do a better job. I thought I was a really good educator. I was already a DIO and then I said let me see I I had an opportunity to join a master's program in education that they had started at the Cleveland Clinic with Cleveland State University. So I enrolled >> and I and I completed my masters and said I should have done that 15 years ago. What am I thinking? Uh so to um pass this on if if you will to program directors what what I did I instituted a a year-long course in education at at the Cleveland Clinic for our program directors. Okay they two hours a week every other week for several months and we have enough people to to teach different aspects of it. And now we've we've had more than a hundred PDs and APDs go through it. And this year talking about pediatric opthalmology we are offering that a a mini version of this for pediatric ofthmology program uh fellowship program directors uh during the academy week and then I hope we if if this is successful to uh take it to other subsp specialty uh fellowship program directors so that so they refine their skills. I'm not saying that they don't know how to do this. We of course they do and they they've all been doing this for for a while and even the new ones would know how to do it because they were students and residents and fellows themselves. They know what they what they need. But there are better ways of doing it. >> Well, it's like leadership development. You can be a have phenomenal ability and structure and setup and throughout your career. You can learn you know skills to or refine your skills and polish your skills that way. I know Andrea is, you know, in the in the midst of it even more than I am as as the residency director here and looking at the ways of some of the descriptions you say and how to teach and how to assess. You brought up earlier in a conversation I heard about to trainees, but I think it's true for all of us even as educators as about self-reflection and being self-reflective over what you're bringing to the table just as much as the trainee needs to be self-reflective of their skill set. It's, you know, it's all about communication and self, the ability to self-reflect and be humble and receive feedback is critical both for the learner and the educator. >> You bet. I'm glad you reminded me of the self-reflection piece. Uh, and it is it is honestly one of the most important things that I've learned uh over time. Uh, and and this is why we continue to learn every day. and learn multiple times in a day from minor situations, things that we would just pass over and not pay attention to and and we think that that's just how they are. But if you stop and think about it, then you find that you can learn something uh from that situ. And if we keep that in mind as we train people around us and I'm not going to say residents or fellows because they could be technicians, they could be patients, they could be anybody we educate uh if we if we stop and think okay this interaction what what's happened here that I could that what have I learned what how can I make it better next time or what should I avoid doing next time and just that stop and I think does not take us that long. Honestly, we're all smart enough to do it. No, nobody is not smart enough if they're already in medical school or if they're already in practice of on the practice of medicine. We're smart. We just have to find that that opportunity to to get better. And it it adds to our satisfaction with our work because we see how we're improving. I rec I can I recount a um an anecdote anecdote here after three or four years of of having been at the Cleveland Clinic practicing pediatric ofthmology. Um my evaluations by patients were kind of mediocre. Okay. And I was I thought I was doing a great job. And yes, there were many patients who would pay me compliments and so on, but there were some that were not satisfied. So, what do I do to improve on that? I I asked a friend, a colleague, a senior colleague. I said, "Roger, Roger Langston, he was he was a residency program director before I was, and he was one of the more senior people. said, "Roger, can you come and spend half a day with me in clinic and tell me what am I doing wrong that the patients are not happy or as happy of my interactions with them as I want them to be?" And he did. And he gave me a a few uh clues afterwards. He was very quick at catching it. And he said, "You know, the main thing that you're not doing well is patients feel that you just want to get out of there and go and see your next patients." And and your face is so transparent that they can see that in your eyes. So all I want you to do is spend the same amount of time with them. Just sit back, listen, >> okay? Don't make them feel that you're you're in a rush to go. You're explaining things very well. Evidently, you're getting good good you know how to treat things and uh so on. So I did and I I can tell you that within 3 months my ratings had improved dramatically. >> Wow. >> But that was the self. It took an active act an active um action. An active action uh you know on on my end to seek this feedback and this is why I encourage residents and students and colleague please ask for feedback because what you think is probably >> maybe partly right but but may not be an actual reflection of of reality. So self-reflection, asking for feedback, giving good feedback, honest, good, constructive and useful feedback, not positive and negative feedback. You know, we don't talk about those anymore in education. Uh is is the key to being a good educator. >> That's really incredible to hear. Very inspiring, especially as a someone in the education space who's young. This is my second year as program director and I was a resident here not that long ago. Um, and hearing what you say about self-reflection, h spending the extra time, it to to to educate yourself on how to be an educator, it's all so ideal, but in today's busy world, how do you find the time to to do those things that you know you you want to do? And I'm always thinking, oh, I should really make better lecture material or really should go over more stuff during clinic. But the reality is we're packed with 15inute back-to-back patient slots. You know, how do we be the best version of ourselves that you're right now inspiring me to be? And how do you tell young opthalmologists to do that with the pressures that we're under today? >> Um, that that's a >> is that terrible to actually perfect question. >> Perfect. It's a perfect question and I I see that all the time and the pressures that we are all under to see more patients uh is is real and undeniable. There are u ways of of being parsimonious and very purposeful in how much time you're going to invest in any of these activities. So you have to find the correct activity for you to train as an educator and there's fortunately there there's a lot of that nowadays available online. Now it it's it's an investment. So if you you look at it as my chairman has to give me time to do this is one way and the other way to of looking at it which in my opinion is is the better way is I have to invest and find the extra time it takes me to become better because on the long run that's going to serve me and and the people I took responsibility of training better. Okay. Our jobs at least in academia and I'm not talking about the people who are in private practice. Uh our jobs are not 9-to-five jobs. They're not. They're full-time jobs. Now, the full-time includes time after we see patients or in between patients or whatever. The unfortunate thing uh and beautiful thing at the same time is that we have other things we have to take care of. We have our families. we have our ourselves to take care of and uh we spoke at noon about how one can burn out at the end. Uh and I've personally had that experience. Uh so you have to be very judicious. Uh don't be very ambitious. And the the good news about about this kind of of training is that you can do it over a long period of time. You don't have to pack it all and become uh the super expert in a month or two. If you do it a little bit at a time, some of it's through reading, some of it through courses, some of it through conferences and so on, it will it will add up. Same with interactions with trainees and medical students. Uh, and you know that you've done it. I'm sure it may not take you more than a minute or two after a patient interaction and you have somebody with you to show them that little thing, that little pearl, that small uh formative feedback that's very precise and good and uh that's going to serve them well. And then if you add it up over the course of a day, it's perfect. We're not, you know, it's not the time to discuss lectures and and so on. Uh it's a little p honestly and people still think about, oh, we're going to have a curriculum. We have to have lecture on all of this and this and that. >> Residents know how to learn that by themselves. >> They they can read it and they prefer it and it's okay. What they want from you is to show them what you've learned through your experience and they want to learn from the patients that you show them. So even if you have set time for a lecture, >> if if it's a case-based type of of presentation, it's good. Give them something that you only you can te tell them, not that they can read in a book. Yeah, I think it's a wonderful reminder cl that I brought up leadership but in education that the journey of becoming a better educator is a is an investment and you continue to can pursue that. Unfortunately, when people go to academy, they look for I need all my cataract experiences and let me go to this wet lab and and you don't always think about what else is there either online or at meetings to explore in some of these other areas. I mean, Mayo has resources that are phenomenal that if a physician wants their bedside manner or their communication style and empathy or whatever is reviewed, professional teams will come sit with you and observe you for a week, give you feedback and exactly the sort of thing you're speaking to. >> One other comment from in that regard about being hungry for improvement and finding ways to improve. as surgeons, there's certain this aspect of we we taught you and you've launched. And one of my um voices of mentor or people of influence that I I cherish was Bob Lson. And he was a pediatric opthalmologist in Minnesota um for decades on end. and he spoke into something that he thinks was always lacking in opthalmology circles of practices, but that is investing in shared o time throughout your career. So it's private practices or academia that sets up a dedicated if you hire a new ocular plastic surgeon coming alongside them and saying once every six months let's have a day together and being humble as the senior but also humble as a junior to bring cases to that day. From your educator perspective I know through residency we have ways in which we evaluate and and teach. speak to your perspective of once you get done and you're out in private practice as many of our readers are here, how do you invest in yourself or invest in others in your practice surgically? >> Uh my my init my impulsive answer is going to be you're never done. Okay. So when a person graduates from a a training program, all it means is that the program director and the program feel that it is safe for them to go out there and be on on their own and take care of patients in the best possible way they know. But they could be better. They could be more expert. But they're not g they're not going to do any harm to these patients. Certainly not from ignorance. And this is where reflection comes in again. And and the aspect here is for any practitioner to know their limitations and what they can and can't do and reach out for others who can help them, which ties into what what you're saying, having somebody else more senior come periodically. And yes uh if if I know that I have a a difficult case that I don't feel very confident I can do I always ask for help even as recently as a couple of years ago I have not been operating now for two years but before that if I have a patient that I know I may have a problem with I'd ask a colleague to come and be with me and more often than not they just sit there cross their hands they're looking in the microscope Yeah. Good. Good. Just keep going. Whatever. Um when I when I joined that Cleveland Language, the same person, Roger Langston, God God rest his all, wonderful man. Um I used to do pediatric penetrating keratoplastes, okay, on on babies. And um I said, and Roger was a cornea surgeon, a superb corne surgeon, uh a surgeon of surgeons. And I I would ask him to come and be with me in the operating room. I said, "Just in case, Roger." So he the first time he came, he scrubbed and just sat down and put drops on the cornea and gave me a couple of pointers. Uh the the second time he didn't scrub. He was just sitting there. And after we said, "If if you have a problem, call me. I'll be there in in 15 minutes." You know, I'll just I'll ask. So people who are out there just left, you all are good enough. Uh you you may not be excellent, but you're good enough to practice. The excellence comes from your practice, from being out there. That's where you build your excellence, not in your training program. Yeah, I think it's a nice just reflection over your clinical practice, your teaching portfolio, your leadership, whatever aspect of this life that helps make us who we are in our careers are all able to be invested in longitudinally. And I think you speak to that whether it's in your your clinics, in your medical education forte, whether it's in painting, you know, just continuing to invest in yourself in a creative um you know uh exciting way um is is a great model that you've shown us. >> Yeah, it's fantastic. I think we could talk about life for two more hours. I I would be so remiss if we didn't take our last few minutes here to just ask you a little bit about genetics. I'm sure you've seen such an evolution over the course of your practice. Tell us how genetics fits into pediatric opthalmology for you, the role that it plays and what our listeners, mainly comprehensive opthalmologists, what they should know about the state of clinical genetics now from an expert like you. So everybody knows how how far uh genetic has gone in the last two three decades and how easy it is now to obtain genetic testing on on anyone for that for that matter. Uh we have to be very careful. Okay, that that's that's my that's the best adi advice uh I can give. Number one, yes, you need to know quite well what disorders are genetically determined and how they're inherited and what their manifestations are and uh what how you can manage the patients for whatever secondary problems they have with their vision and so on. Um when it comes to genetic testing, for example, I'll I'll touch a little bit on that. There has been a big push uh from um drug companies, pharma companies that that sponsor a lot of the trials that uh result in in in gene therapy and and good outcomes actually for patients to to get uh uh of themologist especially retina specialist. If if we think about only the retinal destrophies to be more u liberal in ordering genetic tests and that's a good thing uh from one end because it will uh allow the identification of patients who might potentially benefit from those treatments and that's the purpose and I think that's what's behind the push from the companies because they want to make sure that their uh product is is huge. is used uh and I'm not talking about it from a financial perspective uh but but from a humanitarian perspective even uh that's that's the case. The problems come up when it when you get the test is what are you going to do with the results? And the labs nowadays are are better at providing uh a a um a reading and a significance of whatever sequence variance they find, but they're not the clinicians. And at the end of the day, it it it's our job to put the result together with the clinical picture and see if indeed it matches and so on. And I I can assure you that there are many times where that is not the case. And there's even more times that the patient misunderstands what's in the report and they're convinced of it. Somebody is found to have one variant in the ABCA4 gene and they think they have star guard disease uh and uh the results are not communicated uh professionally to them. The only people who can communicate these results professionally are the genetic counselors or those of us who have had the extra expertise and training uh in in that field. Um fortunately the numbers of people who who have that expertise has been increasing significantly. I I don't know of many eye institutes or or big departments of of who don't have at least one person who knows how to do that. Uh and we've become resources for the communities around us to take care of such patients. At the end, they're going to be a minority of patients within anybody's practice. So, it's not a matter of of like giving up income from a surgery that you're going to do on somebody that 15 other people can do. uh and and also having somebody else take care of your patients when you can take care of them yourself because that's another way of thinking about. It's that rare patient that will definitely benefit from getting the best explanation and interpretation of of their findings and also determining whether genetic testing is um is necessary or not and what genetic test to to do. I have many patients with what looks like inherited retinal drophe. we end up getting mitochondrial genome testing on them or or some very specific panels on them uh before we can determine what they have. >> It's a team approach. Certainly, >> it's definitely a team approach. Genetic counselors play a a critical role. There are more and more centers. So, if you have a patient who you you know has RP, you know, you you examine them. I mean, you're you're a trained opthalmologist. you're going to recognize this. If you don't, you're not you're in the wrong you're on you're in the wrong business. >> So, send them to somebody who knows more uh about testing them and advising them. And patients now are very smart. Uh they've always been smart, but they're they're more better informed. >> They're better informed. They have access and they they going to ask you questions that you may not know how to answer. I get asked questions and I'm a little bit more experienced and I still have many questions I cannot answer for them but I know how to tell them that I cannot answer their question as opposed to somebody who doesn't know the information and doesn't know how to tell them at the same time. >> Fantastic. >> Thank you so much. >> Thank you. >> This is an really >> it's a delight to have you here. It is. >> I want to I wish we could spend more time and talk about his watercolor or his dog or more about your We'll bring you back history and lens abnormalities, all kinds of good stuff. But Elias, thank you again as a >> as our colleague, a friend. >> I've been delighted. >> I'm delighted to participate. >> Appreciate your presence here on the podcast. >> You're you're making me reflect. >> If if you hadn't asked me all these questions, I all this is in the back of my mind. It's coming out spontaneously but uh you know I didn't think about it ahead of time you know that. So >> it's a great conversation. Wonderful. >> It is a wonderful conversation here. Thank you. >> You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Opthalmology podcast on our website. >> Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.