 narnitIanya, arbanya, narnia, narniaIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII integrated clinical practice, we can create that system. And a fellow will be able to see, you will be able to see how that system, what that system looks like at the number one hospital in the world. I think one of the great advantages of doing fellowship at the Mayo Clinic is the breadth of cases that we have. In our fellowship, you as a fellow start off just learning the basics of how the labor and delivery floor works, how to do kind of bread and butter cases, doing C-sections and epidurals for labor analgesia. But you're also part of our care team that's going to be coordinating complex cases with our maternal fetal medicine physicians, obstetric laborists, our neonatologists, as well as many of our other subspecialists, depending on the comorbidities of the patients. As the year progresses, you kind of move more from a fellow role into really a consultant role that you will be able to take care of anything that comes your way. The OBA fellowship was fantastic. Just one fellow per year. And so you really get first dibs on anything that's high yield in OB anesthesia. So first dibs on fetal surgery cases, you're in all the high risk deliveries like the cesarean hysterectomies. You see all the clinic patients as an outpatient. So you really get to connect with these people as an outpatient, help manage their condition throughout pregnancy, and then get to participate in the delivery. And it's really rewarding. Our fellows get a great clinical experience on the obstetric floor day to day. They get protected time for research. All the while, they're really an integral part to our obstetrical anesthesia team. And so their role really is vital to what we do. And I think that they relish that. In fellowship in general, the people are what I think is the most important thing. I think you're always going to learn things from your patients. I think you're always going to learn from anything clinically that you do for a whole year. But what you're going to get is everybody's opinion about their practice. The better your faculty are, the better you are going to be. It's an investment that nobody can ever take away from you. So once you have this fellowship training, you will always have it and then always be able to pull from the mentors that you had, the patient experiences you had, the ability to really get a head start on research, which I don't think I would have had without the fellowship just time set away. One of our goals is to set the fellow up so that in the future, if they were to choose academics, that they have a good basis for how to do research, connections for them to be successful wherever they go. The vast majority of my colleagues are probably putting out four or five manuscripts a year in some area of obstetric or now even fetal anesthesia. Tremendous opportunities for the fellow to get involved in whatever research they would like to. And although it's only a year of fellowship, I think we've been pretty successful at that. During my fellowship, we did procedures that had never been done before. We had the ability to not only participate in those surgeries, but then also to write them up and do research projects on them. And it just kind of snowballed into like, if you're on the cutting edge of those sort of things, then like only good things can happen from there. Mayo has a program of fetal surgery that's been around, I think a little over 10 years. Fetal surgery as a discipline has really only been in the U.S. for about 30 years. It's an area where you're taking care of various fetal conditions in utero. Typically, they're divided into minimally invasive and open procedures. Not only are we caring for the mother, but we're also providing anesthesia for the fetus. We're working to provide uterine relaxation to give the surgeon good operating conditions. And it's a fairly highly specialized area, which is unique to Mayo and just a handful of other centers in the U.S. I don't think words can actually describe what you can do for patients here. The opportunity that I have to take care of those high-risk patients is going to be second to none. Since this is a world-renowned care center, we'll get all sorts of pathology here. I think that the fact that you get the best people in their field to be working here and they're available to you for any questions, I think that's where Mayo kind of like exceeds. One of the things that I feel is truly unique about Mayo Clinic is the lovely camaraderie that we have amongst all of our subspecialties that we work with. We're a really tight-knit community here. We all know each other very well and work well together. Our goal is to create a leader in obstetric anesthesiology in a program that is tailored to their needs or their desires. Some of my interest background has been in more of the social determinants of health. And I think there's so much when we think about health disparities within the maternal space, as well as the pain space, that there's a lot of opportunities there. The other thing that I think is fantastic is that Dr. Sharp is our program director. And for example, Mayo Anesthesia is trying to expand our global health footprint. And we're part of this global health consortium. When we're thinking about global health opportunities, it can take a long time to set up, as you can imagine. And even just today, Dr. Sharp sent me an email to say, hey, I know you're staying for a fellowship next year. What are your thoughts about going on a global health trip? And if what can we do to start planning for that early? So that you are able to attend? Since that's one of your interests? Chip Walter, Ph.D.: Multiple fellowships are particularly common here at Mayo. It seems Chip Walter, Ph.D.: There's a lot of different options for completing multiple different fellowships Chip Walter, Ph.D.: And really tailoring the education to what you want to pursue. And so I wanted Chip Walter, Ph.D.: to pursue obstetric critical care. Chip Walter, Ph.D.: And I was met with nothing but open arms here at Mayo. Chip Walter, Ph.D.: I would say that I was looked to as a resource as Chip Walter, Ph.D.: someone who's interested in OB critical care Chip Walter, Ph.D.: and someone that could sort sort of helped bridge those two areas. And I could come to the ICU and, you know, the consultants would bounce ideas off of me and I felt like I was really able to participate in the management of these patients. Having lived in Rochester for 13, almost 14 years now, I can say that Rochester truly is a wonderful place to live. It's very family friendly. They have wonderful schools. It's affordable. It's actually a really active community and the city does a lot and puts on a lot of events for people. In the summertime, we have things like Thursdays on First where we have live music, local food vendors, local artisans that come in. It's very well attended. I would say apply. This is the best place you could be. You have people who are so invested in your growth and your success that they are just willing to spill the knowledge that they have onto you and be able to teach you in whatever way that they can, which is really nice. And I don't know if I would have gotten that from any other institution. I absolutely love obstetric anesthesia. If your goal in the field of anesthesiology is to put the needs of the patient first and to innovate and advance a practice in your personal practice as well as the field in general, if your values align and you have the drive, the resources are there. Do what?