Well, my name is Fructuoso Solana Revuelta, I am 71 years old, originally from Córdoba, Veracruz, Mexico. I am at Mayo Clinic for prostate cancer. This prostate cancer was detected in March 2008. When it was detected, it was at a very advanced stage, with a Glyson score of 4 and 5. The cancer had spread beyond the prostate, as they call it, to stage T3. My case was quite complicated, quite difficult. Dr. Michael Blood, the surgeon who treated me, decided to give me a treatment based on female hormones, specifically Lupron injections and some pills I was also taking. I was fortunate enough to have access to an experimental medication. I was patient number 56 in a group of 108 patients. This medication is called MDX 010. This medication works by activating the immune system, producing lymphocytes that attack and recognize cancer cells. This treatment was a kind of vaccination; they gave me an intravenous infusion, and it works simultaneously with the hormone. The success was resounding. The cancer I had, according to the EMARAY scans I had in February or March, was quite severe. Three months later, around June or July, in the second EMARAY scan, the cancer had significantly reduced in the external part, so to speak, of the prostate. Initially, they monitored me weekly, observing how the MDX010 medication was affecting my body. The reactions I experienced weren't very serious, so everything worked perfectly. When I had the last EMARAY scan in September, it was truly amazing. The psychologist and radiologist who performed it asked me if I had received radiation therapy because the cancer wasn't visible on the surface. They asked if I had been receiving radiation therapy for that, and I told them no, that I had been undergoing treatment with an experimental medication. When Dr. Bluet and Dr. Juan saw the results, they were overjoyed; I could say they were jumping for joy. I was too, of course. It was a fantastic result; the cancer wasn't visible externally.  Then they said, "This is the opportune moment to operate." Dr. Blue had to take two weeks off, and in that time I had abdominal pains, and they removed my gallbladder on September 30th. But I was ready for October 24th, 2008, for my prostate surgery. The operation was a success. Dr. Blue was very happy with the result. He removed my prostate and some lymph nodes on both sides of my groin, upwards, and the truth is that he is extremely satisfied. I am too. At that moment, it's May, May 11th, 2009. I just had the tests done; my PSA is undetectable. It remains undetectable. The results are extremely satisfactory; we are very happy, and I think this new experimental medicine is a great advance for medicine. I hope it works for all patients the same way it worked for me. It's wonderful because I had a very bleak outlook, and with the results of this medicine, along with the traditional female hormone treatment, the external part really disappeared, and only the internal part of the prostate remained. And for that, the skill of Dr. Michael Look  who did an excellent job with the surgery, and it gives me great peace of mind to have been able to do so and to have come to this magnificent clinic. I think if it hadn't been for them, I do n't know what the outcome would have been, as my condition was quite bleak at first. Currently, I am doing well. I have to continue with debridement every three months. I have a lot of faith that we will continue to do very well, and the only thing I can thank is the Mayor Clinic, Dr. Blue, Dr. Juan for his great wisdom and knowledge, and for the wonderful new medicine that I hope will soon be available on the market because it is a true marvel. I think that's basically what I have to say. Thank you very much.