Hi uh my name is Dr. Samir Parik. I am an associate professor of medicine at Mayo Clinic here in Rochester, Minnesota and I am a part of the CLLL diseaseoriented group and it is my great pleasure to have you here today. Um we're going to talk about um frontline therapy for CLLL. So CLL is chronic lympositic leukemia. As the name implies, it's a chronic or a slow growing disease process. The vast majority of the times the disease has been present for a number of years and you've likely been undergoing what we call as watch and wait or active surveillance. And then there are many instances when the disease does experience progression over time and that is when we really think about starting CLL directed treatment. And so it's important again to ensure that if and when you're having a decision or a discussion about having to start CLLD directed treatment, you've actually met some of these criteria that we would say you would need or benefit from CLL directed treatment. So what are these sort of criteria? Uh some of these criteria are pretty straightforward. So for example, if your hemoglobin is below 11 g per deciliter or anemia, which is really because of CLL infiltration of the bone marrow, that means it's time to think about treatment. In many patients, the platelet count, which is another sort of blood cell type, if that goes down and if that's below 100, that might be a reason to think about starting treatment. In many patients, the lymph nodes can enlarge and that would also be a sign of start starting uh CLL directed therapy because it means that this lymph nodes are actually enlarging causing discomfort etc. In some patients, it can be the spleen that can really be the uh reason why we need to start treatment because it is pretty large. It's an organ in the abdomen that filters our blood. And if that enlarges because of CLL, that means it's time to think about treatment. Traditionally, we also think about symptoms such as fatigue, night sweats, weight changes, etc. That can also be construed as uh indications to start treatment. In my experience, generally it's the entire package. So most people who have fatigue because of CLL also have enlarged lymph nodes or maybe anemic and that's why they have significant symptoms needing therapy. So it's important to ensure that everything fits together uh and and you think about starting therapy. Now you know most of the time when you are faced with the question of you know am I really about to start treatment I think it's a good idea to seek care with a CLL specialist because it's important that you be seen and evaluated by a physician who actually specializes in CLL or for that matter any other lymphoma because CLL is considered to be a type of lymphoma and it's important because increasingly there is subsp specialtydriven care uh and it's important to be evaluated by someone who actually specializes in these diseases. And so if you were to be seen by a CLL specialist, typically there are several things that you know I would look at when I see a patient who's about to start CLL directed treatment. So for example, I would see what your age is. And in general, although age doesn't play as important a role anymore in the in the decision-m process, it's still an important thing for us to consider because there are certain treatments that I would be hesitant to think about uh in patients who are older, meaning greater than 70 75 years of age because these treatments may not be well tolerated. The other things I'll evaluate for are what are some of your coorbidities? Meaning what are the medical problems do you have? Do you have high blood pressure? Are you on a blood thinner? Do you have um um you know a bleeding disorder? Are you on other medications that can increase the risk of bleeding? Um how are your kidneys doing? How is your liver doing? I mean these are all sort of looking at the entire patient and not just looking at uh the disease itself. And so in addition to you know looking at the age and some of these coorbidities we also look at the the CLLL specific characteristics. So what do I mean by that? Well, we typically will evaluate for some of the genetic abnormalities that may be driving the CLL. So, we would likely do a bone marrow biopsy. We would also do a CAT scan or a CT scan to look for, you know, any enlarged lymph nodes uh in the chest, abdomen or pelvis or a big spleen. And and specifically when we evaluate the CLL portion of things, we would look for genetic abnormalities. So generally speaking, we would check what is called as an IGHV mutation status that determines how you might respond to treatment or if you do respond to treatment, how long that response may last for. We also typically look for CLLL fish abnormalities. These are genomic abnormalities that may be present inside the CLLL cell that may predict how long treatment may work for. And then some of the other genetic tests that we do are really to look for evidence of abnormalities in a gene called TP53. Now you know this is an important gene because it really regulates a lot of the things within our body and if there are abnormalities there then we potentially select a slightly different treatment approach than what we would in the vast majority of the patients and so you know as I'm seeing you I'm trying to gather information from both you know your medical record and medical history and also do additional investigations to understand your CLL specific parameters but at the same time I'm also trying to gauge what are your preferences because I think It is very important for me to understand I know are you in a full-time job that requires you to travel frequently are you retired are you able to come to the clinic for infusional treatments etc and you know basically try and get you to be able to commit to a certain type of treatment because there are several treatment approaches that are available and so once I gather all of this information typically we would say that it is important for you to meet with a pharmacist who can go over some of the uh medications uh and options with you, talk about potential side effects of treatment and then also with one of our nurses who can actually tell you about what to do if you were to experience any of these side effects. Now in general frontline treatment approach for CLLL is divided into a few different u uh treatment approaches but in general I would mention that generally speaking we do not administer chemotherapy anymore because there are lots and lots of new agents that are now available that actually have shown to be better compared to chemotherapy. And so you know I I would say amongst all the novel agents or targeted treatments that are available there are different types of targeted treatments. uh and I'll just name the specific sort of categories of these u because you may hear them. So for example there are BTK inhibitors that are available and these include names such as ibutinib, xanobutinib or a calalibutinib. There's treatment with another type of a class of medication called bcl2 inhibitors such as venadoclax. These are also oral pills much like the BTK inhibitors. And then there are infusional imunotherapy treatment options with something called obinetismab. So this is a CD20 directed antibbody therapy. And so generally speaking, our treatment consists of a combination of either these two pills or a pill with an infusion. And the treatment duration generally is for about 1 and a half to two years depending one to one and a half years, excuse me, depending on uh which combination we actually pick and choose. Now there are a variety of different sort of um things that go into consideration as to which treatment combination we will pick depending on your convenience factor meaning can you come in to get infusions versus not. How are some of the other medications that you are taking and how would they interact with these pills and so ultimately I think it is a a very much of a physician patient sort of relationship and trying to determine how best to choose the best treatment option that would work for you. uh and then and seeing how things go. The majority of the times we choose a fixed duration therapy. So it's about a year or to a year and a half worth of treatment. But in those patients where we do see what is called as this TP53 disruption, we sometimes will say well the better treatment op option is with continuous uh therapy meaning for an extended period of time with one of the BTK inhibitors such as a calalibbranob. Again, all of this can be discussed with your with your hematologist when you meet with them. It's also important to point out that the vast majority of patients re will have a response to treatment and at the end of treatment we will do a response assessment generally with scans and a sensitive blood test called a flowcytometry that will determine the residual disease and that can give us a very good understanding of how long the response is likely going to last. Unfortunately, despite all the advances that we have made, CLL does remain incurable and the disease has a tendency of coming back. But thankfully, we have many many effective treatment options that are available should the disease come back, including repeating the same treatment that you did the first time around. So, I think in general, a lot has changed in the in the paradigm of therapy for frontline CLL therapy. Um, I'll also finally just put in a plug for potential enrollment in clinical trials because that's the only way we can actually advance the field and make changes and improve upon our existing standard of care. And so if you do have an opportunity to consider or be a part of a clinical trial, I would highly recommend that you that you consider that. Thank you. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic lymphoma diseaseoriented group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology and approaches to clinical care and patients with lymphop proliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform again our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, "The [music] needs of the patient come first.