Hello, I'm Dr. Paul Hample. I'm a hematologist at Mayo Clinic and today we're discussing RTOR transformation of chronic lympositic leukemia. So, let's set the stage. People living with chronic lympositic leukemia or CLL can have variable clinical courses meaning the disease can behave aggressively and grow quickly or behave more indolently and grow slowly. But across all of the spectrum of CLL generally we consider this a more slow growing or indolent process in the the big scheme of lymphas. RTOR transformation is an uncommon but devastating complication that can occur for people with CLL when diagnosed with an aggressive lymphoma. Most commonly this is diffused large B cell lymphoma. So first off if you have CLL I want you to remember this point that it is a rare complication an uncommon one that if you're newly diagnosed this is not something that you need to be losing sleep over. When do I worry about this? When should you worry about this? What are the signs and symptoms of RTOR transformation are things that can occur as well with chronic lympositic leukemia progression? Fevers, drenching night sweats, significant unintentional weight loss, and rapidly progressive rapidly enlarging lymph nodes. So lymph nodes will grow when you have CLL uh in the natural history of the disease. But if you have something that is a a grape or a golf ball and it's turning into a baseball and then a softball in a short order, that's not the typical timeline for for CLL and something that you'd want to reach out to your hematologist sooner rather than later, not waiting until the next appointment to bring this up. When I see you in clinic and there's these signs or symptoms as a concern that maybe the disease has flipped, has switched, has transformed into a more aggressive process. Then the next step is getting a PET CT scan. This is like a CT scan. We get images of the anatomy. How big are the lymph nodes? Where are they? But it comes with an added piece of information of how active are they? How much energy are they using? And again with CLLL being a more slow growing indolent process, usually they don't light up so bright on PET CTS. They don't use so much energy. When we see things that are lighting up uncharacteristically hot, uncharacteristically bright on the PET CT, that raises the concern for something else going on. Now, [snorts] importantly, the second piece here, RTOR transformation, this diagnosis of an aggressive lymphoma is not made by signs or symptoms or imaging studies. We need tissue. We need a biopsy to confirm what we're up against. And that's because CLL can can mimic this still can can trick us. Uh infections and other cancers uh can also appear similarly on imaging. And so the PET helps as that next step to guide where are we going to target with a biopsy to find out what are we really up against here. And so with that biopsy, the the next important piece there is having an expert hematopathologist who knows what they're looking at, who's familiar with with RTOR transformation with lymphas, uh, interpreting this because not uncommonly we can see CLL that looks more aggressive under the microscope, but in essence is still CLL and has not fully crossed that line into into diffuse large B cell lymphoma, which is the most common type of RTOR transformation. Why is this distinction so critical is because while RTOR transformation certainly has worse outcomes than than CLLL, um it's not the end of the line, we're just switching the path that we're on and starting a a new leg of that journey, but one with very different outlooks and and management. And so we really want to make sure that we know what we're up against because even aggressive CLL is still going to likely respond well to the usual drugs, our usual targeted agents, whereas these will be inadequate in the setting of of RTOR transformation. The other key distinction here when we're making the diagnosis is to differentiate this from denovo diffuse large bell lymphoma or diffuse large bell lymphoma occurring outside of the context of somebody who's living with CLL. uh this is important because uh diffused large B cell lymphoma is the the most common type of non-hodkin lymphoma altogether and when this is diagnosed in someone without CLL the outcomes are much better and the usual treatment is a combination of chemotherapy drugs and an amunotherapy that that works very well for the majority of patients and so uh we're talking about a very different approach when when this is occurring in the setting of of CLL specifically for diffuse large B cell lymphoma type of RTOR transformation less commonly about one out of 10 cases of RTOR transformation can be Hodgekin lymphoma these patients we're not going to focus on this scenario as much today but in short Hodgekin lymphoma transformation should be treated like Hodgekin lymphoma in the same as in someone who does not have CLL so this is another little nuance that's That's key when we're talking about RTOR transformation again to reiterate globally is going to be the diagnosis of an aggressive lymphoma in the setting of arising in the setting of CLL and most commonly diffused large B cell lymphoma but can be Hodgekin lymphoma. Hodgekin lymphoma treat like Hodgekin lymphoma same way as in someone who doesn't have CLL [snorts] diffuse large B cell lymphoma the vast majority of the cases need a a different approach need to be considered uniquely and a therapy approach for you individualized considering the diagnosis of CLL in the history and what prior therapies you may have received for your CLL preceding this diagnosis of large cell lymphoma. So what are the treatment options for someone with newly diagnosed RTOR transformation? While historically we have treated this the same as diffused large B cell lymphoma arising in someone without CLL uh that's our chop that's what has been done for a couple decades now and we kind of know just how well or or unwell that works and so the at at present it's trying to really improve upon that low bar the massive gains in CLL that have occurred over the past decade plus with targeted drugs, BTK inhibitors, BCL2 inhibitors has not yet translated over into the significant improvement in outcomes with patients who have RTOR transformation yet. Certainly not on their own. So while those agents are so effective for patients with CLL and treating their CLL on their own, they don't work very well for RTOR transformation. They have some activity but not enough. So what we're doing is is looking at what you may have previously received for your CLL and then seeing what we still have in the toolbox for drugs that we know work in that setting and combining them with with approaches that we know work for aggressive lymphoma. So this may include using a a targeted drug in combination with chemotherapy or targeted drugs in combination with each other and in combination with immune checkpoint blockade which does not work very well for CLL but because of the unique changes in the biology of the disease in the lymphoma itself when it turns into diffuse large bell lymphoma. These have all shown promise for some patients and certainly the access to a a clinical trial is always something to consider when there's so much room for improvement yet in this disease process and and treating it. So uh that's the initial approach in treatment. But regardless across all of those options, whether it's targeted drug with chemotherapy, targeted drugs together, meaning BTK inhibitors and BCL2 inhibitors alone or together with an immune checkpoint inhibitor, these are usually even when they get a response, that response is not durable. It doesn't last long enough. And so we're looking towards consolidating or or doing something additional that is going to hopefully put this aggressive component of the disease away and it never come back. That is the goal. People are familiar that their their CLL is a is something we treat and ultimately we expect it to come back at some point later. when we're up against rto transformation diffuse large b cell lymphoma in the setting we're hoping to at least take that aggressive component and make it go away and it not come back uh to do that the gold standard here for people who are eligible is an allergenic hematopoetic stem cell transplantation or an aloe transplant unfortunately many people won't be fit uh for this it's an intensive procedure and and with many people diagnosed with CLL at an older age and rect transformation coming down the line you know later yet alot transplant is not always an option what is accessible to more patients is chimeic antigen receptor T- cell therapy or CARTT cell therapy and so keeping cellular therapies maybe more broadly in mind as a consolidative step beyond the initial treatment for your RTOR transformation is a very important That in summary, RTOR transformation is the diagnosis of aggressive lymphoma arising in the setting of chronic lympositic leukemia or CLL. This puts us on a different path where we need to consider different treatment options than we were using for your CLL and also importantly different treatment options than are typically used for the most common type of retro transformation diffused large bell lymphoma when it is diagnosed outside of the context of CLA. If this is Hodgekin lymphoma transformation, it should be treated like Hodgekin lymphoma irrespective. Although these outcomes leave much room for improvement, there is the therapeutic advances. There is progress being made and we continue to devote all of our efforts to move the needle in improving outcomes for people with this complication of chronic lympositic leukemia. Thank you for watching. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic lymphoma diseaseoriented group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology and approaches to clinical care and patients with lymphopoliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform again our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, "The [music] needs of the patient come first.