Hi, my name is Taiwan. I'm a lymphoma doctor at the male clinic. [music] Today we're going to talk about mentosolymphoma. So mentosolymphoma is a relatively uncommon bell non-hotkin lymphoma. It is a heterogeneous disease which means patients may have different presentations at the time of diagnosis. The treatment can be challenging and with today's available treatment, this disease is generally considered incurable. So it is important for you to see a specialist with expertise in this disease so that you can get the best care possible. So if you have mental celloma that was just diagnosed recently, several things would be important for you. One is to confirm the diagnosis. As I said, this lymphoma can be heterogeneous. Patients can have different forms of mental cell lymphoma. Some are slow growing, some are fast and some even can mimic other lymphoma subtypes. So, it is important to have an accurate diagnosis. Some patients may need a repeat biopsy if the initial biopsy was small. It is critically important to confirm we are indeed dealing with mental cell lymphoma other than some other lymphoma so that you can get the best treatment. The second thing is to have a complete staging which means we will need to run scans maybe additional biopsies such as bone marrow biopsy to know how extensive your lymphoma is. That also has implications in how to treat your lymphoma. Uh the third thing is to know whether there are any high risk features associated with your disease. You may hear terms such as blastoid or pleomorphic variant hisystologology of mentosymphoma or high KI67 which means a higher proliferation index or faster growing tumor cells appearing under the microscope. uh other features such as TP53 gene mutation which is usually associated with fast growing aggressive tumors and another thing is called complex keratype meaning there are multiple abnormalities in the chromosome level u in your lymphoma cells. So these high-risisk features are important to know so that we can tailor your therapy. Uh when it comes to treatment um there are several questions we need to address if we see you here. One is actually do you need treatment immediately? Uh we come back to this hetrogenous term again. Some patients have slow growing lymphoma. They feel well even if they were told to have this lymphoma. They often can be observed initially. Uh some patients on on the other extreme may have very rapidly growing disease and they may feel very uh unwell and they often need treatment right away. And then there are patients sitting somewhere in between. uh we need to figure out what's the best strategy for them. Um so that's the first question. Now who don't need treatment? There are patients who have no symptoms whatsoever. Uh no fevers, night sweats, weight loss. They don't have any palpable lymph nodes anywhere and they feel uh absolutely well. Their blood counts, their lab uh labs look good. So they can be observed. We have multiple studies in the past to confirm that it is safe to watch and wait to observe in this kind of scenario. Patients who have any symptoms or any lab abnormalities or any impending issues based on where the lymphoma is located or how extensive they are they usually need treatment. The second question is how to treat. Um based on the experiences in the past uh we usually take two approaches for different patients. For patients who are young and fit and who we think can tolerate more intensive therapy. Historically we have been offering these patients higher intensity chemotherapy. Uh you may have heard chop chemotherapy. We mix chop chemotherapy with highdose ziterabin based therapy or we use higher intensity chop chemotherapy called maxi chop. again mix it with uh highosc uh containing regimen and after these intensive treatment induction we often follow with autogus stem cell transplant using your own stem cells uh uh for treatment of this disease. Um there are patients who are less fit or older who cannot handle these intensive treatment. So for these patients historically we have been using milder chemotherapy such as a regimen called bendastic retrauximab or BR for short. Uh in any uh of these two forms of treatment we usually follow with a maintenance treatment called rettoxm maintenance. So these are the treatments we have been offering patients until very recently. So in the last just a couple of years there have been a lot of exciting advances in treatment in mental cell. uh specifically incorporating newer agents to combine with the chemotherapy approach specifically something called BTK inhibitor uh where which is a it's a pill form where patients can take every day when we combine a BTK inhibitor with chemotherapy uh we can often reduce the therapy intensity for younger and fit patients who would otherwise uh need highintensity chemotherapy and a transplant now we can just give them chemotherapy combination with BTK inhibitor. Many patients can omit the stem cell transplant part. Uh we have some study that suggests that we can even lower the intensity of the chemo part. So potentially we can use a BK inhibitor with lower intensity chemotherapy for these patients who historically needed very intensive treatment. For less fit or older patients, we can simply add a BTK inhibitor to the BR regimen or the bend muscle retracement regimen. Uh that has improved outcomes compared with chemotherapy alone. And also we need to keep an eye on what's coming for this disease. Um so we have moved from chemotherapy alone to now chemotherapy in combination with novel agents. So next step we are trying to reach is to use novel agents alone without chemotherapy and these studies are actively uh ongoing and we are involved in those kind of studies. Um so hopefully in the future we can get rid of get rid of chemotherapy just give you pills and imotherapy infusion based therapies. uh we are also moving other exciting therapies in addition to BG inhibitor to the very front line of this disease treatment for example using uh bicep specific antibbody which is an imunotherapy uh and also maybe even cartis cell therapy in some patients. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic lymphoma diseaseoriented group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology and approaches to clinical care and patients with lymphop proliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform again our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, "The needs of the patient [music] come first.