Hello, my name is Dr. Thomas Witzig. I'm one of the lymphoma physicians at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. I'm here to talk to you today about follicular lymphoma in the relapsed phase. So remember that follicular lymphoma is the second most common lymphoma in the United States. And typically, it is called follicular because under the microscope, the cells grow in small clumps, and they are small in size, and typically they have a slow growth rate. So at this point, when you're seeing me for relapse follicular lymphoma, it means that you've already had some treatment, perhaps months or years before, and now the tumor has come back. So as we have this conversation, I'm going to be asking you a number of questions. First of all, how old are you? Because patients over the age of 60 that get this disease typically live out a normal lifespan. What other medical illnesses do you have that might interfere with any of the treatments that we're going to have? I'd like to know how long it's been since your previous treatment. So for example, let's say you got rituximab as your initial treatment and five years have gone by and now the lymphoma is coming back. Well, it might be very easy to simply say, let's just take that same treatment again. Whereas if you just had the Rituxan (rituximab) six months or so ago or less than a year and it's coming right back again, then we probably would want to do something different. So we would talk about any symptoms that you have. Are these lumps bothering you? Are they close to your kidney or to your liver that might interfere with the function of a vital organ? Are you having fevers or night sweats? Is there any risk that this might be changing into a large cell lymphoma? And if that's happening, I may ask you to get another biopsy to make sure that you really have follicular lymphoma. If transformation occurs, then it's a whole new conversation on another time that we can talk about because then we would start treatment right away. So after we've gone through these, we've looked at your scan, we've talked about whether you want to take treatment or not and what you had before, we would then discuss the options. Like I said, one option would be simply repeat what you had before if a long time period had gone by. That treatment would typically have been rituximab or bendamustine rituximab. If you had already had bendamustine rituximab and you had had two prior therapies, then you would be eligible for some of the newer things that are currently available that perhaps you haven't heard other doctors talk about. The first one would be CAR-T cell therapy, this is FDA approved for follicular lymphoma if you've had two prior chemotherapy regimens. If so, that's a one- -and-done treatment. In other words, we take your T-cells out of your blood and we send them off to a company and they're re-engineered and then given back to you. So they're your t-cells but then when they come back in they have a new receptor and they are honed to target your lymphoma and this is a very effective treatment with about an 80 percent response rate. So that's something you'll hear about and you should ask about if you're seeing your doctor for relapsed follicular lymphoma. The second new option ,that you, is now approved is a bispecific antibody. So as you recall when you add rituximab that's a single headed antibody it's got a, it's going to target your tumor cell. The new antibody is based off that same rituximab but it has a separate head and that head attaches to your t-cells and brings the t-cells up close and personal to your lymphoma and that is shown is, is also FDA approved for relapsed follicular lymphoma if you've had two prior regimens. So those are both immunotherapy approaches, they're really exciting and they're going to definitely make an impact. Lastly, you need to know about a new regimen that's recently been approved by the FDA, which is a pill called zanabrutinib when combined with obinutuzumab, which is a similar antibody to rituximab. That combination is also approved for patients with follicular lymphoma who have had two prior, at least two prior therapies. So I've given you some treatment options that would be "quote" old, like Rituxan again or bendamustine Rituxan. The other one I haven't mentioned is a combination we call R² which is rituximab and lenalidomide which goes by the brand name of Revlimid and Revlimid rituximab is also a very effective second line treatment. So if you've only had one prior treatment and you're not eligible for the bispecific, so the zanabrutinib or the CAR-T, then R² is another option. And then sometimes we simply give you the bendamustine rituximab again, and that can also work. So what I've given you is kind of a wide spectrum of treatments that will be individualized to your situation. And remember, when you come to see me for relapsed follicular lymphoma, we're going to spend a good 30 to 45 minutes talking through these because I need to look at your whole picture. I need to put my internist hat on and look at your comorbidities, in other words the other diseases that you might have. And also what you feel about the disease, are you really worried about it, are you willing to let it be and just observe and not do anything. So when we sit down and do that i think we'll come away with a good plan. And remember this is not always a fatal situation, we often have very effective treatment. And the new options that I'm telling you about may completely change , what, how we treat follicular lymphoma in the coming decade. Thank you for listening. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic Lymphoma Disease-Oriented Group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic Partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology, and approaches to clinical care in patients with lymphoproliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform. Again, our sincere thank you, and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, the needs of the patient come first.