Hello, I am Yi Lin from Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. I'm the medical director of the cell therapy program here, and today I'm really excited to share some information about a very transformative immunotherapy treatment for patients with lymphoma. And this is CAR-T, or chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy. CAR-T has been FDA approved to treat a number of lymphoma and related conditions. This includes aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma, such as diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, high-grade B -cell lymphoma, primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma, and mantle cell lymphoma. In addition, there are certain indolent type of lymphoma that's also FDA approved. This includes follicular lymphoma and a related similar diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia or CLL. Now, with all of these indications, the use of CAR-T therapy is for patients who have had at least one or more prior lines of treatment, and the exposure to prior drugs may vary depending on the lymphoma diagnosis. There are clinical trials testing the use of CAR-T in frontline treatment for a number of these conditions. And so if you have newly diagnosed lymphoma, it's worth reaching out to either Mayo Clinic or center near you to find out if that could be an option for you. Now, for the FDA approved indications, the CAR-T cells are made from the patient's own T-cells. So these are very individualized, tailored treatment. The white blood cells are taken from the patient's body. they're sent to the manufacturing companies and in the lab are turned into these genetically changed CAR-T cells. And then these cells shipped back to the treatment centers. The manufacturing time can vary anywhere from a few weeks to a month or longer. Therefore, it's very important if you might have a diagnosis that could be treated with CAR-T that you ask your doctor whether CAR-T is a good treatment option and that your hematologists are discussing the treatment options with the CAR -T treatment center. Oftentimes that coordination of this testing and scheduling to get the white blood cells collected are critical to shave as much time off as possible to get the patients to the treatment. Now CAR-T is given with some chemotherapy before the CAR-T cells are infused. The use of the chemotherapy drugs are quite different than what the patient may have experienced before for the treatment of lymphoma. Here the chemotherapy is to prepare the body's immune system to allow the infused CAR-T's to really expand and be active once it's inside the patient's body. Therefore, after the CAR-T's are infused, oftentimes in the first few weeks up to the first months, there can be some very CAR-T specific types of side effects that's related to the actions of these immune cells trying to kill the tumor cells or the lymphoma cells. These may include symptoms that we collectively call cytokine release syndrome or some neurologic changes. Because of this, patients are asked to stay near the CAR-T treatment center for about a month after CAR-T are infused so that the specialists trained to prescribe and manage the symptoms of CAR-T can assist in the care of these patients. The reason why we're so excited that CAR-T is a treatment option for our patients with lymphoma is that we have seen unprecedented clinical response, very high clinical response rate, and long durability of in remission, very high likelihood that these patients or subgroup of patients who are receiving these treatments are cured from their condition. CAR-T therapy is a very individualized treatment. The CAR-T cells are made from the patient's own white blood cells, and they're genetically changed to be able to better recognize and kill the tumors and thereby have some very unique side effects. Because of all the complexities of logistics and the unique side effects, CAR-T treatment is not available at all oncology practices. Currently, in the United States, there are some designated CAR -T treatment centers. So it is very possible that the patient would need to work with their main hematologist oncologist and coordinate the referral of these patients to the CAR-T treatment centers for these treatments. The general treatment journey involves the patients going to the CAR T treatment center undergoing some additional evaluations to make sure that it is medically safe for them to get this treatment to collect this white blood cells from their body in a procedure called leukapheresis which is very similar to blood donations and then to return to the CAR-T treatment center after the CAR -T cells are made for the actual treatment. The manufacturing of CAR-T can be anywhere within a few weeks to a month, depending on the CAR-T product. When the patient returns to the CAR-T treatment center, they can generally expect to stay about five weeks at the treatment center, where they will receive some chemotherapy to prepare their body, mainly to adjust their immune system so that the infused CAR-T cells can be active at lymphoma killing and to stay within the treatment center for about a month after CAR-T infusion for management of CAR-T specific side effects. Now, because these CAR-T cells are living immune cells that are genetically changed to be more potent, more active at tumor killing, patients may experience unique side effects of this immunotherapy, such as cytokine release syndrome, which is basically the reaction of all these immune cells that could cause fever and other signs and symptoms if not managed, and thereby they're very closely monitored by the CAR -T treatment center. And neurologic side effects can be a common side effect with this treatment as well. Therefore, it's very important for the patient to hear all aspects of the treatment journey, the anticipated short-term and intermediate recovery process, to understand if this is the right treatment for them. Now, while the short -term logistics of the treatment journey may sound very complex, the reason why we're so excited about this treatment and want to make sure that patients hear notes about this treatment and explore if this is the right treatment for them, is that in patients with relapsed refractory lymphoma, CAR-T is offering unprecedented clinical response, very high clinical response rate, and a subset of patients with long, many, many years of durable remission and who are cured from their lymphoma. Therefore, it is very important to see if this is the them and to make sure that they are exploring this treatment at the earliest possible approved indication. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic Lymphoma Disease-Oriented Group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology, and approaches to clinical care in patients with lymphoproliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform. Again, our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, the needs of the patient come first.