Hi there, my name is JC Vasbos and I'm a consultant at the division of hematology at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. My clinical practice is focused on the treatment of patients with lymphoma, bone marrow transplantation and cellular therapy. And in our laboratory, we study the interaction between the patient's immune system and the lymphoma cells. Today, I'd like to talk to you about the patient who's who has a new diagnosis of follicular lymphoma. So, if you have been given this diagnosis, I wanted to know four main points that are important for anyone who has received such a diagnosis. The first point is if you have been rendered a diagnosis of follicular lymphoma or any lymphoma for that matter, I think you deserve to be seen at a center uh with specialized care for patients with lymphoma. It's important for you to understand there are nearly 100 different subtypes of lymphoma and the diagnosis between these subtypes sometimes is very nuanced. So one of the things that I will always ask is the review of any external pathology just so that pathologists with expertise in looking at biopsies with lymphoma have reviewed that diagnosis and have sign off on that on that as a correct diagnosis. The second point I want to make [snorts] is that you have adequate staging which is the determination of the location of the you know lymphoma throughout your body. This typically includes a bone marrow biopsy, a PET CT scan and blood work in addition to a complete physical exam. It is very important to determine in which locations throughout the body the lymphoma is present because this will help us understand which of the tests are necessary to be repeated later if you go through treatment. It is often common for patients to have um a CT scan um and not a PET CT scan um before after a diagnosis of lymphoma. But the information provided by the PET scan is superior to that only provided by a regular CT scan. Additionally, some patients have silent disease inside their bone marrow which is not visible through CT scans or even PET scans. And for this reason, I typically recommend at the first time of follicular lymphoma diagnosis that we obtain a bular biopsy because that can make a difference between diagnosing someone with stage two or three follicular lymphoma as opposed to stage 4 follicular lymphoma if there is involvement of the bone marrow. And we know that the stage correlates with the prognosis of the patient meaning the likelihood that they will do well in the future. The third point that I want to make is that if you have been given a diagnosis of follicular lymphoma, I strongly urge that you have an assessment of the status of your immune system. We know that follicular lymphoma incidence meaning the likelihood of diagnosis increases steadily with age with the med of the patients at uh being 65. So it is more common to have a diagnosis of follicular lymphoma the older we are. The reasons for that are poorly understood but one of the main hypothesis is that the aging of the immune system leads to the emergence of follicular lymphoma. And for that reason, I always try to have patients assess the status of their immune system prior to initiating any treatment for feliculy because many times they already arrive in the clinic with an unknown undetected immuno deficiency which is important to know because sometimes we attribute the immune deficiency to our treatments when in fact the patient already had that deficiency prior to initiating any therapy. during the initial evaluation of a patient with follicular lymphoma, one of the most important things we have to do is to rule out the presence of something called hisytological transformation. Histoologgical transformation is the medical term that describes when a patient with a slow growing or indolent lymphoma transforms its biology into a disease that is more aggressive and often times life-threatening. In the case of follicular lymphoma, that transformation typically occurs towards something called diffuse large B cell lymphoma or DLBC. Diagnosis diagnosis of transformation is done by putting together a number of factors. One of them being the clinical presentation. So patients with transformation will often explain that they have a lymph node that has grown out of proportion to the other lymph nodes. So as if one you know chain of lymph nodes took off and started growing faster than the other lymph nodes. Sometimes they can present with constitutional symptoms such as drenching night sweats, significant unintentional weight loss, but those are not required. Sometimes we can hint at a transformation by looking at their baseline blood tests. And finally, on review of the PET scan, sometimes a transformation can be hinted by seeing a lymph node chain that is disproportionately more active compared to the other lymph nodes. We expect therefore in a patient with follicular lymphoma that they may have multiple lymph nodes throughout their body, but their activity level should be homogeneous, meaning they should be about the same in different areas and not one particular area being more active. One of the common mistakes that I see when I evaluate patients uh in my clinic with follicular lymphoma is that the patient has multiple lymph nodes throughout their body. Let's say lymph nodes on their neck, under their armpits, but also in their abdomen. And at the first time the patient is evaluated outside, they reach out and get a biopsy of the most convenient lymph node. let's say the one in the neck or under the arm because that's easy to do with an ultrasound. But when I review their pet skin, I notice that sometimes their most active lymph node is actually internal inside the abdomen which is not easy to reach. In that case, the diagnosis has not been completed and it's possible that this patient could have missed a hisystological transformation and in fact they already have a disease that is more aggressive and more concerning than the follicular lymphoma that is under their armpit or on their neck. So in that case a repeat biopsy may be necessary and that's the point where having that pathology review is extremely important because many times depending on the area of the lymph node that you sample you may see just follicular lymphoma cells but if you look at another area you can actually see this larger cells which is consistent with this process of histoological transformation. The fourth point I wanted to make in case you have a diagnosis of follicular lymphoma is that the treatment strategies are evolving rapidly. At this time there are many patients who don't need to be treated. This is called watchful waiting on or observation. And this is the case for example of a patient who comes to the clinic with an incidental follicular lymphoma. Meaning they went to the ER for example to have a kidney stone assessed and while in the process of getting a CAT scan they noticed there's a small lymph node inside their abdomen. A biopsy therefore shows follicular lymphoma. In this case, a patient had no symptoms of follicular lymphoma and the lymphoma was completely found by accident. Sometimes this is a patient can be easily and appropriately observed without active therapy u in the strategy called watchful waiting. In other times you know the diagnosis of follicular lymphoma generates significant anxiety or it comes with symptoms and even if the lymph nodes are not big this patient may need to be treated. In the patient that needs to be treated we typically have a menu of options to choose from. options including single agent imunotherapy with rettoximab or a combination of rettoximab imunotherapy with chemotherapy which we call chemoimunotherapy but I want to stress the point that the landscape of treatment for follicular lymphoma is rapidly changing and as of right now we're moving agents to the front line that are more active than the agents that we currently have available as standard of care. So I believe that a patient with follicular lymphoma should be offered a clinical trial when they need treatment. So I urge you to seek seek medical attention at a place where you can be offered such options. One such option that we currently have um being tested throughout the country is the use of bi-pecific antibodies which are novel imunotherapy drugs that seem more potent than standard imunotherapy and these trials are running throughout the United States and patients have been randomized to the standard imunotherapy rettoximab against this novel imunotherapy strategy with biopecies. Additionally, there are anti-lymphoma vaccines being tested for patients with follicular lymphoma. And this all goes back to the point that the immune system of the patient seems to be very important in the management and control of folic lymphoma. So if you have this diagnosis, you should be looking at evaluating the status of immune system and also using imunotherapy drugs that leverage the patients own normal defenses against the this lymphoma diagnosis. And lastly, I want to make a final point about the use of certain types of chemotherapy and how they can affect the patient's immune system. As we just discussed, patients with follicular lymphoma may already have a weakened immune system by the nature of their disease. There are certain types of chemotherapy that will further decrease the function of their immune system and could potentially lead to a net negative effect in the fight against follicular lymphoma. For this reason, I ask the patients to discuss this particular detail with their provider and choose the appropriate treatment that is the most logic for their state of disease and the state of their immune system. In summary, if you have a diagnosis of folic lymphoma, I recommended that you seek attention at a center with high volume um and high expertise in lymphoma in general. You must have appropriate staging um including bone marrow biopsy, PET CT scan. You must make sure that your provider has done absolutely everything to rule out the possibility of histoologgical transformation and that your provider is taking into account not only the status of your disease but the status of your immune system in general. when choosing the appropriate modality of therapy for your disease. >> I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic lymphoma diseaseoriented group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic Partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology and approaches to clinical care and patients with lymphop proliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform again our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. for William Mayo. Quote, [music] "The needs of the patient come first.