Hello there. Uh my name is Nora Banani. I am a faculty within the division of hematology at Mayo Clinic Rochester. Uh my area of expertise is in T- cell lymphoma and that's why I am doing the talk today. Um I will assume that if you are watching this that you had a diagnosis of T- cell lymphoma. you were treated for it. Um, and that unfortunately it came back and this is truly not uncommon. T- cell lymphas are notoriously known to be difficult to treat even with the best therapies and that's why we treat aggressively. We do the best we can. You may or may not have had even uh um um an autologus stem cell transplant. Um but you know here you are the disease is back. So now what how are we going to manage this? Okay. Um you know it's again um the same way you had discussions with your provider initially when you had the new diagnosis. We take a lot of things into account. We take into account the fact you know how you feeling, how sick are you or you know how functional are you? Of course, we take into account again the age um uh the age and organ function. We want to make sure that your kidney is functional, your heart and uh liver. Okay. So, we look at all of those things and we take those into account. Now, um once we have all that information, we um will assume that you already have a repeat path CT scan that shows the relapse. Even though we know that the patient has a T- cell lymphoma, do not be surprised if your provider or your treating oncologist asks for a repeat biopsy. You will say, "Well, I know it is lymphoma. The radiologist called it a lymphoma because of your history, but we always always repeat a biopsy." And the reason for it, we've had surprises in the past where, you know, everyone assumes it is a lymphoma. We start the treatment, the treatment doesn't work, and you wonder why is it not working the way it should have, and it's actually because it is something else. Um, whatever is lighting up on the PT scan is actually not T- cell lymphoma. Sometimes you may see both T- cell lymphoma and bell lymphoma in the same patient. Sometimes we even get surprises where it is completely something else. So we don't we don't we never never make assumptions that this is u a lymphoma or you know in in your case a T- cell lymphoma. We always need a biopsy. That's the gold standard to prove that it is a lymphoma and we need to see that before we commit commit a patient to new treatments. Sometimes something will light up on the PET CT scan. We do a biopsy and it is actually an inflamed lymph node, what we call a granuloma or sarcoidosis. Those are inflammations that affect the lymph node and they can light up on the PET CT scan and you know sometimes the patient may be treated erroneously if we assume that is a lymphoma or relapse of the T- cell lymphoma in this case. So you need a biopsy um um regardless. So once we prove that the disease is back, we look at we we take into account the some of the characteristics of things that we talked about function and all of that and then we decide on the treatments. There are a few treatments that are FDA approved um that affect basically the epigenetics of the tumor. Uh that's what we call uh the HDAC inhibitors. um ro you're going to hear Rommy Deepepsin Binostas those are two cousins basically they work the same way however the schedule of the treatment is different we always tend to use one drug at a time um we you know there have been trials that looked at combination of these drugs and sometimes we may do that in some circumstances to get a higher response and get the patient to the transplant. So we will pick either the HDAC inhibitors the benostat or royepsin as I mentioned before there is pylorate which is also FDA approved it's um it's um a folate antagonist it works differently it has a different schedule um and you know CD3 as I mentioned before virutin uh bruxumab virutin targets CD30 which is a tumor marker that we look at and if that is present we may use branchumabutin either alone or in combination of chemotherapy. If you've had a transplant before then we are going to consider one of these drugs and then um and then uh you know each one of them will have a different schedule and we can go over that. If you did not have uh the autologus stem cell transplant before then we will try to do that and which means that we will try to give you a combination of aggressive chemotherapy that you did not get before. Uh sometimes you may hear ice chemotherapy. Again each letter means a different type of chemotherapy. Some people will use different types of chemotherapy like Jim Ox. um uh you will get few cycles and if a response then we will consolidate with highdose chemotherapy and give you back your own stem cells. The autologus stem cell transplant again it's your own stem cells and the goal of this stem stem cell transplant is more your you being able to get the highdose chemotherapy and getting your stem cells back to replenish your bone marrow. Okay, for the stem cell transplant to be beneficial, ideally the patient needs to be in complete response, meaning all disease is gone because the outcomes are way better. When the patient goes into transplant and there is only a partial response, the outcomes are not good. The disease tends to come back. So most of our transplant team members, they will not do um they will not move forward with the transplant if there is no complete response. Okay. So transplant um and that's a whole process again um once we before we get you there we you would have a whole session of education on the transplant process and this is not the goal of this discussion today. Um so if you did not receive the transplant then we will pick from you know several um of the FDA approved drugs but ideally the ideal case scenario is having a clinical trial that we will um that you are eligible for that we can treat you with. Again, although we have FDA approved drugs, we emphasize, we always emphasize enrollment in a clinical trials because even though we have good drugs, they are not good enough in our minds and we want better better treatments for you. The only way to get those treatments is through a clinical trial. So, we do have um uh several clinical trials. However, you know, things change with time. So uh at the time you present and you see us we will have you know few clinical trials that we can pick from that you we will uh make sure that you have you are eligible meaning that you fit all the criteria that are needed for the clinical trial and in general it's organ function um and various things that we look into and also sometimes the the hisytologology of the T- cell lymphoma If there is no clinical trial that you are eligible for then we will go to the standard of care uh which could be one of the drugs that I mentioned before. Uh on occasion uh we may consider combination of therapies. Um there are multiple uh drugs that we are looking at currently um you know in clinical trials and there are exciting things coming down the pipe and we are you know we are very uh very happy about some of the innovative therapies that coming along for example various imunotherapies um cartis cell therapy for example gene therapies encolytic vyrotherapy there are viruses that are genetic genetically modified that are currently used in clinical trials to try to tackle the tumor and boost the immune system. Um so again always ask your oncologist about are there any available trial that you will be eligible for and keep in mind that some of it these trials may actually provide even if you have to travel may provide compensation um for your stay in the area so you can receive the drugs within the clinical trial. In some instances when the disease comes back uh after an autologus stem cell transplants or any of these drugs um we try to get the patient to a response and if they are fit enough and depending on the subtype of the T- cell lymphoma we may consider an allergenic stem cell transplant. An allergen allergenic stem cell transplant means that we need to find a donor match typically um within the siblings, the parents, the siblings, family members um that are a match. And if there is no match in the family, then we go to um a bio bank, a data bank or a transplant bank where we try to find a match for you. uh the allergenic stem cell transplants works differently than the auto stem cell transplant. The auto stem cell transplant depends on the highdose chemotherapy and for the auto stem cell transplant to be beneficial you need to your the disease needs to be uh cheosensitive because we rely on the chemotherapy. In the case of the allergenic stem cell transplant, we are actually using your the the new donor cells and the immune system to fight the lymphoma. That's what we rely on. But ideally, the disease needs to be in as good of a response as we can get it to. Okay. Different toxicity and risk profile for the Odo versus the aloe. And in general that is a very long discussion with a transplant team provider. Okay. Um in general whichever way you go whether to through clinical trial um or standard of care there will be several cycles um and then you will be assessed and seen along the line to make sure you are tolerating whatever treatment we are giving you uh safely. Um I would say that although sometimes you know we um this diseases come back and um I feel that although we sometimes may have difficulties treating some of these diseases. I feel that the future is bright and that um some exciting new treatments are coming down the pipe and hopefully will get approved for this disease and hopefully will lead to better better outcomes uh for this T- cell lymphas. Again my name is Nora Benenni a faculty within the division of hematology at Mayo Clinic Rochester. I am here to help and if there are any questions please feel free to reach out. Best of luck with everything. Thank you. >> I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic lymphoma diseaseoriented group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic Partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology and approaches to clinical care and patients with lymphopoliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform again our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, "The needs of the patient come first. [music]