Hi, my name is Lindsay Roker and I'm a hematologist in the CLLL disease team at Mayo Clinic. Today we'll be talking about the treatment of relapsed and refractory CLL. So CLL or chronic lympositic leukemia is a chronic disease, one that we're able to manage incredibly well with the tools that we have, but with the current tools that we have, we're not able to cure. And because of that, we think about treatments over time. So selecting the best treatment at each junction for each patient. The frontline treatment decision-making is really based a lot on p disease characteristics and patient preferences. And we have two major classes of drugs that are incredibly effective for this the treatment of CLL. We have BTK inhibitors which are pill-based medicines that go in and tell the the cancer cells to stop growing and dividing. Those are have typically been used as continuous medicines. We then have venettolax which is a medicine that goes in and basically flips a kill switch for the CLL cells and allows them to pop open and die off. That's been used in combination with amunotherapy IV medicines as a timelimited combination. We're also getting uh more and more data available on the combination of BTK inhibitors and BCL2 inhibitors like venettolax together and those are some of the treatments that people use in the front line. I bring this up because what you receive in the front line for treatment really impacts our options in the second line or further settings. So when CLL has come back after a first treatment, it really depends on what a patient has received first, why they stopped the treatment that they received first, or whether the disease came back while they were receiving the therapy. Based on those factors, we decide what the best strategy is in the second line. And typically, it's some combination of one of the medicines I was talking about using in the first line setting. So for people who have received BTK inhibitors, they can either be retreated with a BTK inhibitor if they had previously stopped that because of a side effect or they can switch over to a venettolaxbased treatment if the prior BTK inhibitor had been used while the disease came back. For patients who would receive venettolax based therapy in the frontline setting, there's often um a consideration of how long has the disease been gone since the venettolax was used. That helps us understand if retreatment with venettolax is a good idea or did the disease progress while a patient received venettolax in which case we can switch gears to a BTK inhibitor. For people who have received both of these types of treatment and had the disease grow despite use of both of these types of treatment both covealent BTK inhibitors like ibutinib a calalbrutinib or xanabutinib or with venettolaxbased therapy then we have additional options. We have a couple of approved options that work incredibly well for um this disease scenario where the disease has come back despite these prior therapies. The first is called pure brutinib. This is a non-coovvealent BTK inhibitor. So in order to understand why a non-coovvealent BTK inhibitor is a good idea, let's first talk about what covealent BTK inhibitors do. Coalent BTK inhibitors like Ibutinib, a calalibutinib and Xanabutinib work by entering into a CLL cell and attaching to the protein BTK on a specific hook. So the medicine goes in and grabs onto that hook and prevents the cell from doing its normal process where it grows and divides. Non-coovvealent inhibitors work even if the shape of that hook has changed. So one of the most common ways that CLL cells outsmart some of our covealent BTK inhibitors is by changing the shape of the hook. So the medicine goes in and doesn't have a spot to hook on to the protein. Non-coovvealent inhibitors work even if the shape of that hook has changed and it allows the cell to um stop growing and dividing by inhibiting BTK even if that hook is a different shape. So pure brutib is a medicine that has been studied head-to-head to some other standard of care treatment options and has been shown to help the disease stay under good control for longer than the tools that we had previously. Another approved option that we have for the treatment of CLLL that has come back despite use of Koval PTK inhibitors and venettolax based therapies is called CARTT cells and CARTT cells are a normal part of our immune system that we take out and send to a lab and then we reprogram those tea cells so that when they go back into a patient's body they're able to find the cancer cells and fight them off. This is a therapy that can be incredibly effective for a subset of patients. And if this is a consideration for you, your doctor will talk to you all about the process of of undergoing CARTT therapy. In addition to these approved options, including pure brutin and CARTT cells, we also have other types of medicines that are in development. So these are medicines that are in clinical trials currently and have been shown to be very effective for the treatment of CLL but we're trying to figure out how to use them optimally both from a dose um you know what is the most effective dose for this treatment as well as how should we use them most optimally. One class of medicines that's shown a lot of promise is called a BTK degrader. So we've talked about covealent BTK inhibitors the ones that attach to a specific hook within the protein. We've talked about non-coovvealent inhibitors, ones that work even if that hook is a different shape. And then there are BTK degraders which go into the cell and they get rid of the protein altogether. So they break it, they allow the cell to break down the BTK protein, thus allowing the cell to kind of live out its normal lifespan and die off rather than continuing to grow and divide. BTK degraders, there are few in development and are in various stages of clinical development. So there are clinical trials ongoing where patients have access to these medicines and these can be incredibly effective even for people who have previously been treated with covealent and non-coovvealent BTK inhibitors. In addition, we're learning more and more about the use of bspecific TE-C cell engagers. So these are medicines that go in and hook onto the cancer cells and grab part of our normal immune system and bring them together so that the normal immune system is able to fight off the cancer cells. This is another class of drugs that is incredibly effective for CLLL. And we're learning more and more about how to use these medicines safely and well for patients who have had their disease come back despite other treatments. So this is a a field where we have a lot of great approved options. We also have some really exciting drugs in development and um overall the treatment of relapse refractory CLLL requires consideration of what you've received in the past, why you stopped the medicines in the past and what's most in line with how you want to be treated. So, with all of that being said, um we're here to support anyone who needs to talk about their treatment of CLL and more than happy to discuss these treatment options with any of our patients. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic lymphoma diseaseoriented group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology and approaches to clinical care and patients with lymphoproliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform again our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, "The needs of the patient come First, [music]