Hi, my name is Steve Ansell. I'm a hematologist at Mayo Clinic, and I'm excited to share with you options for patients with Hodgkin lymphoma when we need to go to second line and subsequent therapy. So, many people with Hodgkin lymphoma will have gone through treatment specifically with a curative intent, but in a subset of patients, probably no more than about 15% of people. Unfortunately, the disease is quite resistant to therapy, and we need to make an additional plan for further treatment. The goal in second line and subsequent courses of treatment is still to treat the disease with an aggressive intent, and the overarching goal is to cure the patients of their disease. So what exactly is the most appropriate treatment that we give to patients if they've had frontline treatment. Now we do look at the frontline treatment and our choices for subsequent therapy needs to be different treatments, treatments that may not actually have been used in frontline. So for example, if one received brentuximab vedotin with chemotherapy or nivolumab with chemotherapy, these are frontline treatments that does impact our choice of treatment subsequently. In general, the principles of treatment for patients who've had their disease come back with Hodgkin lymphoma fall into three categories. The first is to give what we call salvage treatment to beat the cancer down to a low level. Then the second phase is to do what we call an autologous stem cell transplant, where we really try and intensify treatment and beat the cancer yet further down to a low level. And in a certain percentage of patients who are high risk, we will consider what we call consolidation treatment to maintain the benefit and ensure that the patients have the best outcome. The fourth category, if you like, of treatment I'll talk about briefly at the end, and that is if, heaven forbid, the cancer was to come back yet again, there are additional options that we would use after a stem cell transplant to get a further benefit and get the cancer back under control. So to take each of those step by step, The first part I'd like to talk about is what we call salvage chemotherapy. So the goal here is to retreat the cancer with different drugs to what we might have used in the front line with a goal to shrink the cancer back and to get it under good control. And we typically will combine chemotherapy with novel new drugs. And the novel new drugs are targeted therapies targeting either CD30, a drug called brentuximab vedotin, especially if you didn't get it as the first line of treatment, or targeting PD-1 using antibodies such as nivolumab or pembrolizumab, which really activate the immune system. And we use those agents in combination with chemotherapy. The goal is to beat the cancer down to a very low level. In patients who are able then to tolerate an autologous stem cell transplant, that will be our next step. And autologous means we use your own bone marrow. This is not using somebody else's bone marrow. This would be using the patient's bone marrow. And what we do is we take the bone marrow out of the body by stirring it up and collecting the mother cells, the stem cells, and putting them away in the freezer. Then we would give a high dose of chemotherapy. The goal is to beat the cancer to a very low level, but obviously having the bone marrow stored in the freezer out of the patient allows the patient not to have any evidence of toxicity, particularly on the bone marrow, as we go through the transplant process. Soon as the chemicals from the chemotherapy that have had the effect on the cancer then are passed out to the kidneys, we would put those cells back and allow them to become re -established. That whole process is called an autologous transplant. In patients subsequently, where we are concerned that they are at high risk for disease relapse, and those are people that particularly didn't have a good response to initial chemotherapy, or whose cancer came back quite quickly, in other words, within a year, and particularly if it came back outside of the lymph node system, we will consider consolidation treatment. And the consolidation that we would then consider would be the use of brentuximab vedotin, which is that antibody drug conjugate, particularly if the patient didn't get it in earlier lines of therapy. If the patient did receive that, then we might omit that because it might just bring more side effects than benefit. The other thing that we will sometimes consider for consolidation is radiation treatment to particularly bulky areas of cancer, like a mediastinal mass or something like that. So again, the principles were salvage chemotherapy, beat the cancer down, autologous stem cell transplant to really further consolidate the improvement and then consolidation treatment where we would maintain it with the use of an agents such as brentuximab vedotin. There have been some studies that have used PD-1 blocking antibodies like pembrolizumab in the consolidation phase. However, those have been very small studies and we really haven't got standard of care and use of PD-1 blocking antibodies in that space. The final thing to take a few minutes to talk about is there are some unfortunate patients who have gone through initial treatment, subsequent chemotherapy, autologous transplant, and maybe even consolidation where the cancer proves very stubborn and comes back yet again. Just to say that we have additional treatment that we can apply at that time, which again can provide significant benefit for patients. Many times if patients have not received a PD-1 blocking antibody like pembrolizumab or nivolumab, we will consider using that at that point. There are now other immune checkpoint treatments like that pembrolizumab and nivolumab that have been tested in clinical trials and those are a consideration. Additionally, there are further treatments including CAR-T cells or bispecific antibody treatments that are being tested in clinical trials and are proving quite promising. And then there are some other chemotherapy options which we reserve as additional treatment should it be necessary. So again the takeaways from this discussion is that there are multiple therapies that have significant benefit for patients with Hodgkin lymphoma. Our goal particularly in the context of autologous stem cell transplantation is to still drive toward a cure for a sizable percentage of patients and should we still have difficulty, even after all those intensive therapies, other new agents are available that can be beneficial for patients with Hodgkin lymphoma. Thanks for listening to this. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic Lymphoma Disease Oriented Group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic Partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology, and approaches to clinical care in patients with lymphoproliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform. Again, our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, the needs of the patient come first.