I am Sad Kandarian. I'm a hematologist at the Mayo Clinic. My work focuses on CLLL and chimeic antigen receptor T- cell therapy or cartis cell therapy. And I run a research program also focused on cartis cell therapy. Chimeic antigen receptor T- cell therapy or cartisel cell therapy is a form of immune therapy. It's a form where we're using the immune system to attack cancer. In this way we are engineering the immune cells or the te- cells to become carti cells. To do that, patients go through a process called lucopharesis where the cells are collected similar to blood donation and then the cells are shipped to the lab either here at Mayo or at one of the companies that they have approved the products and then the cells are engineered over a period of anywhere between 7 and 10 days and during this time the cells are engineered to become carti cells. So the tea cells now are CT cells and during this process the cells are trained to recognize and kill cancer cells and then these cells are frozen and are shipped back to us and before these cells are given to patients patients receive lowdose chemotherapy to make room for these cells. that the purpose of the chemotherapy is to get rid of the patient's own tea cells and make room for the cartis cells for the cartis cells to find their way and go and attack car cancer cells. The concept of cartis cell therapy has been around for a long time and it was first FDA approved for lymphoma in 2017. in CLL. It was approved in 2024 and it was approved for patients that have disease that have relapsed after BTK inhibitors such as ibutinib or a calabroinib and BCL2 inhibitors such as venitolax. though a double refractory disease and in that group of patients with double refractory CLL cartisel therapy led to an overall response in about twothird of patients but importantly in about 20% of patients cartisel caused a deep longlasting remission suggesting that the therapy can potentially be a curative therapy for CLL in fact the very first patient treated with CLL was treated in 2010 and the patient is still in remission and there are many patients who are in remission now 5 6 7 10 years later similar to that first patient again highlighting the potential for a curative therapy with cartisel therapy. As patients go through cartis cell therapy, patients will need to stay around the treating institution for anywhere between two to four weeks. And during this time, patients are monitored daily and monitored for some unique side effects that happen with cartis therapy. Some of these side effects includes the development of what we call cytoine release syndrome or cytoine storm. And this is basically a process that the cartis are going around. They are multiplying inside the body by thousands of folds and they are chasing and looking for the cancer cells and killing cancer cells and the cart as the cartis kill cancer cells. Then patients get sick and then patients can have fever. They can be in the ICU. Most of the time we're able to treat this with a specific infusions that calm down the cytoine storm and in the vast majority of the time this is fully reversible. Another unique side effect is the development of neurotoxicity or encphylopathy or the scientific name for that we call it icons immune cell associated neurotoxicity syndrome. And this neurotoxicity is unique. Patients can have a bit of confusion. They can transiently lose the ability to speak. They can occasionally go into a transient coma. And in the vast majority of the time, this is fully reversible within the first two to three weeks after cartisel therapy. So these unique side effects of cartis cell therapy happen early on and that's why patients will need to stay around the treating center for two to four weeks and then in most of the time they are fully reversible. Another unique side effects is development of low blood counts or cytoenas and this happens in a a a significant percentage of patients and at times it can last for a few months following cartis cell therapy and during this time where patients stay on antibiotics kind of to prevent any infection and continue to be monitored with frequent blood counts. But despite all of these side effects, cartis cell therapy is an exciting development in CLL is a new form of therapy. It is a potentially curative therapy. And importantly, recently we looked at what we call the real world data. patients that are treated not in the clinical trial but on the FDA approved therapy and the results seem to be similar to what we seen in a clinical trial or perhaps even better in patients with double refractory highlighting that the effects of cartisel therapy is applicable to the real world beyond clinical trials. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic lymphoma diseaseoriented group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic Partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology and approaches to clinical care and patients with lymphop proliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform again our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, "The needs of the patient come first. [music]