My name is Nneka Comfere. I'm a dermatologist and dermatopathologist. And that means that as a dermatologist, I take care of patients in the clinic, I take care of skin diseases that affect the skin, hair, and nails. As a dermatopathologist, however, I'm reviewing skin biopsies, so I look at skin specimens that have been obtained and processed, and I look at those slides under the microscope or on the computer monitor and make diagnoses. My clinical practice is focused on cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. So I take care of patients who have a diagnosis of cutaneous T -cell lymphoma, which is a broad term that encompasses many different types of T-cell lymphoma. But the most common subtype that we see is called mycosis fungoides. A very long name, but it describes the occurrence of different types of lesions on the skin and most commonly presents initially in the skin, but can also present in other parts of the body like the blood, the lymph nodes, or other organs in the body. The diagnosis of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma more broadly can be very challenging to make particularly early on in its presentation. And the reason why is because clinically, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma can mimic a lot of benign reactive skin rashes that we commonly see in patients. Which makes it difficult to distinguish lymphoma in its early stages from more common rashes. And even under the microscope, as a dermatopathologist, when I see a biopsy that bears the question of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, that can be a difficult diagnosis to make if one isn't cognizant of some of the other mimics of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma under the microscope. So therefore, it really requires a very experienced multidisciplinary team with expertise in evaluating patients who may have cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and diagnosing them. The literature tells us that the diagnosis of lymphoma in the early stages is commonly misdiagnosed and, in fact, can be delayed by an average of three years. So what that means is most patients who have early stage of lymphoma carry the disease for a number of years before a diagnosis is actually made. This has obvious implications for patients because you are receiving multiple different therapies, often under the guise of an erroneous diagnosis, prior to actually receiving the accurate diagnosis that enables an expert team to implement the right treatment or to start the right treatment and to monitor and follow you over time. So a common question that arises is how do we diagnose cutaneous T-cell lymphoma when a patient presents? Well, the first thing that happens is if you present to a dermatologist like myself, we would perform a whole body full skin examination. We examine your entire skin and evaluate you to try to identify where you might have lesions on your body and what those lesions look like. And you'll hear descriptions of the kinds of lesions that we typically see in cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. We describe them as a combination of either patches or plaques or tumors, and sometimes they can be light colored or dark colored, sometimes they can be ulcerated, so the skin will be broken down and can be open, and sometimes they can have a little bit of or a lot of scale actually on top of them. But patches are basically usually very flat lesions. They're barely discernible. You have to look really hard to see them and they tend to favor the parts of the body that we call the bathing trunk parts of the body. So the parts of the body that are traditionally covered by clothing are favored for patches. Plaques are slightly raised, so if you were to close your eyes and run your hands over the skin, plaque stage lesions would be slightly elevated over the surface of the skin and you can feel them. And nodules are significantly raised over the skin surface and they're large masses and they're very obvious. So when we see a patient who presents with skin lesions that look like CTCL (cutaneous T-cell lymphoma), the first thing we do is we try to quantify how much of the body surface area is involved by these lesions, because that quantification of how much of the body surface area is involved enables us to accurately stage patients. So staging is a schematic that we apply to lymphomas, but cutaneous T-cell lymphomas as well, to help us identify those who are in early stage versus those who are in later stage disease, because that impacts your prognosis. It impacts what your clinical course and outcome will be. And it also helps us direct the appropriate treatments when we are able to stage you accurately. So in addition to the physical examination, we're also usually getting skin biopsies. We might get one or two or more skin biopsies to help us make the diagnosis, because as I mentioned, it is a difficult diagnosis to make. So having multiple biopsies increases our diagnostic yield and our capability to identify the important features that would allow us to make that diagnosis. We might also get blood tests, and usually we might get imaging scans. So the most common imaging scan we might employ would either be a CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, or what we call a PET-CT scan. Either of those give us a nice view of the internal organs, the lymph nodes. And once we have all of that information, we're able to provide an accurate stage for your disease, which will direct and guide our treatment approach. In early stage disease, most of the time we can treat very simply with topical therapies, which means creams and ointments. And we're usually relying on corticosteroids. So these are steroid based creams or ointments that usually requires a prescription. And you are usually applying these to the affected areas two to three times a day for several weeks. Most common side effects with topical steroids are just thinning of the skin that can occur with weeks and weeks and months and months of prolonged usage. So we usually would treat just the affected areas until we notice complete clearance of the patches or plaques. An additional treatment that we'll sometimes use is something called topical nitrogen mustard, which is, or topical Carmustine is another name you might see. They're both similar entities, but they're topical chemotherapeutic agents that are applied to the skin once or twice a day. And again, we use it to treat early stage patches and plaques of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma or mycosis fungoides. Another treatment that we use is a class of topical medications called retinoids, and topical bexarotene is a commonly used one that, again, is applied once to twice a day to the affected areas only until they are clear. So those are the range of topical therapies that we use and that we might employ as a first line treatment for early mycosis fungoides. After that, we typically will consider phototherapy. Phototherapy is ultraviolet therapy. So ultraviolet light comes from sunlight, but there are different types of ultraviolet light. And we typically would use either ultraviolet A light or ultraviolet B light. Typically, we would use something called narrow band ultraviolet B light, that's the most common modality. It's very convenient and easy to get this treatment at your local dermatologist's office. Some of our patients may even acquire home units that they can place in their home setting and can use it to treat their disease. This treatment is typically delivered two to three times a week for a few minutes each time over several weeks and can affect complete clearance of patches and plaques of mycosis fungoides with appropriate use. We usually will use ultraviolet light therapy in conjunction with some of the topical therapies I mentioned previously. And then another common modality we would use in early stage disease might be a total skin electron beam radiation therapy, which is a very superficial type of radiation therapy that doesn't penetrate too deeply into the skin. So it works really well for early stage cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, and usually works well for disease that is not limited to just one part of the body, but that covers multiple regions of the body. So that total skin electron beam radiation treatment treats the entirety of the skin surface and can affect really good response rates in patients with early stage disease. So that's a summary of the most commonly employed treatments for early stage disease. And hopefully you have gained a little bit of an understanding of how challenging it is to make the diagnosis of early stage cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, what methods we employ to make that diagnosis, and some of the common treatments we use in early-stage disease. Thank you. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic Lymphoma Disease-Oriented Group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic Partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology, and approaches to clinical care in patients with lymphoproliferative disorders, this project will serve to inform. Again, our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, the needs of the patient come first.