Hi everyone, my name is Nora Benedi. I am a faculty within the division of hematology with the lymphoma group. Uh it is my pleasure today to talk to you about uh a new diagnosis of T- cell lymphas. Um and the way I will structure this is basically how I talk through a new diagnosis with one of my patients when I see them in the clinic. So we have a diagnosis uh we are ready to treat. Um we've taken things into consideration as I managed as as I mentioned earlier. Normally the T- cell lymphas um are aggressive and we tend to treat them with combination chemotherapies. You are going to hear things like chop. Okay, chop uh or chap. Uh those are letters uh that each letter means a different type of chemotherapy. And uh the goal of treatment is you know to get rid of the lymphoma, get rid of the dis the disease, improve the symptoms, shrink the lymph nodes and the hope is that we get a cure potentially. Okay, that's that's the goal. Um in general, we will start chemotherapy the combination chemotherapy drugs. We will give two to three cycles and then we will repeat the PT scan to assess for response. We want to make sure that this disease is responsive to the chemotherapy that we are given. And most of the time after two to three cycles we will see improvement in disease meaning the areas that were lighting up on the PET scan are mostly gone or gone and the tumors have shrank significantly. Okay. um you are going to hear some words uh um for response. So response to therapy you're going to hear complete response. So this is when the disease is entirely gone by based on the path. Partial response when some of the areas that were involved are gone but some remain enlarged or lighten up still. Um you may hear stable disease when there is not much of a change. uh and you may hear progression of disease when there are newer areas that pop up after treatment and the goal in general we want to sleep to see complete response as much as possible. Okay. So um we decide on the type of the chemotherapy based on the subtype that you have and we I'm going to mostly talk about the most common subtypes which are the nal PTCL and this include angominoplastic T- cell lymphoma which is one subtype of the T- cell the nal PTCL there is the anoplastic large cell lymphoma and there is the OG positive and the OG negative there are the PTCL NOS which are a bunch of T- cell lymphomas that we put together because we just don't know more about these. So we often look at tumor markers um you know when the pathologist gives us a report we look for certain keywords and one of these is a tumor marker that we call CD30. The reason we look at that if the disease is CD30 positive, it will tell us that we could potentially use um we could potentially use a recently somewhat recently now um um FDA approved drug which is called Brentukumab Vidotin. Brenttoxumab Vidotin. This drug targets CD30 which is expressed which can be expressed on the surface of the tumor. So when the tumor express CD30 we may add this new drug. In short it is called BV braintoximutin BV. If the disease is CD30 negative we are not going to add it because there unlikely for it to be beneficial. Typically we will treat with this combination chemotherapy trump or chabab for CD30 negative disease. If CD30 positive disease we are going to treat with BV chip. We will remove one drug because when that drug is combined with BV there is higher risk of nerve toxicity. So we in general will give a cycle which is one day uh of IV chemotherapy 5 days of prednazone which is oral and that you can take uh at home most of the time most of the time we're going to treat in the outpatient setting meaning you're going to go to the cheone suite. However, sometimes when the patients are very sick or they have high tumor burden and we worry about when the disease starts melting down, there is high risk for kidney dysfunction, abnormal electrolytes and all of that. Then we will admit the patient to the hospital just to get them through the first cycle safely and then for the future cycles then they can get their treatment at home. Okay. All right. So we are going to give a cycle. One cycle is day one and that repeats every 3 weeks or 21 days. Okay. Uh in general we will give depending on the on the stage but most of the time we're going to be looking at six cycles. So one cycle every 3 weeks time six six times. We will repeat as I mentioned before a a PET scan um after two to three cycles and then we will have another PET scan at the end after the sixth cycle uh to confirm that there is no disease that the patient is in complete response most of the time but not all the time. So most of the time we will think about consolidation with um autologus stem cell transplant highdosese chemotherapy and autologus stem cell transplant. Even if the disease is gone sometimes you may have still residual disease that we cannot see with the naked eye on the PET scan. The way I I uh I mention it to my patients is like a dend you have a dendelion or a wheat you remove you remove the wheat you're going to leave the roots ender you know in the ground that you cannot see within a week or two that you know the weak is going to grow back. So you want to remove the roots. So those are those the uh tumor cells that are hidden we need to get rid of those uh to make sure that that response is maintained. So we tend to give additional highdose chemotherapy to get rid of those hidden uh tumor cells and we will give stem cells your own stem cells back uh to replenish your bone marrow so you are not transfusion dependent and that's a whole process that we do education about. Okay. In some rare diseases that are more aggressive, we may be talking about the donor stem cells or allergenic stem cell transplants. T- cell lymphas, some of them can be um more challenging to treat and um not respond as well to chemotherapy as we want them to. Um and that's why we treat this aggressively. Um so this is pretty much how we manage um newly diagnosed T- cell lymphas. Um we do a lot of education along the line. I would like to emphasize this one thing before I end uh this discussion is that we want our patients to be treated on clinical trusts. Although we do have good therapies that we treat as part of standard of care, we always emphasize if there is a clinical trial that you are eligible for, go for it because the tr clinical trials will provide you with um something extra that could potentially be more beneficial to treat your disease than the standard of care. So whenever you see your provider whenever you where whichever center you end up in at uh inquire about clinical trials and your your provider will talk to you about the possibilities of clinical trials. Okay. Uh many of these drugs that are available to you came to FDA approval through clinical trials and they showed the benefits. So for example this BV I was telling you about branchukumab virutin it was through a large clinical trial that was done and because this disease are diseases are rare the clinical trials are most of the time that are lead to FDA approval are relatively small so the number of patients is relatively small but we um we keep that in mind um so we do have clinically a clinical trial that um uh that is available to our patients who have a new diagnosis of T- cell lymphoma when the disease is CD30 positive. This is a national C uh clinical trial. Um and uh there may be others down the road. Okay, I hope that I managed to uh demestify a little bit and explain what this diagnosis means um how we go about it and um the hope at the end is possible cure. Okay. Um I'm happy to answer any question. Uh feel free to reach out to me. I again my name is Nora Banani. I am one of the faculty members within the division of hematology at Mayo Clinic Rochester. Thank you for listening. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic lymphoma diseaseoriented group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology and approaches to clinical care and patients with lymphop proliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform again our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, "The needs of the patient come first. [music] >> [music]