Hello, my name is Dr. Neil K. I'm one of the CLL physicians at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. I'm here to talk to you about chronic lympositic leukemia, CLL, at initial diagnosis and the so-called watch and wait phase of this disease. CLLL is the most common leukemia in the United States and in fact in the northern hemisphere of the world. Let me tell you more about the disease, how we diagnose it, learn as much about you as possible, give you as accurate a prognosis as possible, tell you about more common clinical complications, and what our plans are in following you during the watch and wait phase. The diagnosis is often made in older individuals with few or no symptoms but found to have a single abnormality on their blood work. That specific change is an elevated total white cell count where the majority of the cells are lymphosytes. Further work to confirm the diagnosis of CLL is to look at the blood through a microscope where typically the pathologist confirms that it looks like CLL cells. The next study is to map the outside of these cells using a flowcytometry machine. It is a standard and accepted approach to show that these CLL cells have a typical set of membrane receptors that are seen on CLLB cells. With the diagnosis confirmed by this gold standard test, we then need to ask you some questions. How old are you? Typically, this is a disease seen in patients over 70. We also want to know how you feel and that you may or may not have symptoms like unexplained weight loss, fever, night sweats, or fatigue. We will also do a physical exam to make sure that you have no enlarged lymph nodes or an enlarged spleen or liver. We will want to know if there are any other blood abnormalities in the CBC or complete blood count that could in indicate more aggressive disease. For example, is there anemia, a low hemoglobin or a low platelet count, thrombocyopenia? Bone marrow biopsies are not typically done unless we see these additional blood abnormalities I just mentioned. Finally, we need to find out from you if you have any other serious medical illnesses. This is because even without treatment, CEO patients can suffer from infections and have an increased incidence of other cancers in particular skin cancers. With the diagnosis confirmed and a complete elevation evaluation by a history and physical exam, we'll then do tests to assess your risk for progression of CLL and need for therapy. One important fact is that the vast majority of CLL patients over 70% will be in an early stage of disease and have many years of watch and wait. Depending on this risk for progression, this period can actually last 10 years or longer. These lymphosytes grow slowly and most often the disease is very slow to progress. How do we currently provide you with information on your risk for progression and needing therapy? The initial workup including the history, physical and necessary blood work allows us to quote unquote stage the disease. The rise stage first developed in the 1970s and refined in the 1980s is still used for initial staging has four separate stages. Ry stage zero just lymphocytosis. Ry stage one lymphocytosis with enlarged lymph nodes. Ry stage two lymphocytosis with enlarged spleen and or liver. Ry stage three lymphocytosis. Lymph node enlargement spleen or liver and may or may where they may or may not be enlarged and anemia. And finally rise stage 4 all of the above that I just mentioned along with low platelet count or thrombocytoenia. Doctors generally still separate the rise stages into low, intermediate, and high risk groups when initially determining a p a person's treatment options. Stage zero is low risk. Stages one and two are called intermediate risk. Stage three and four are high risk. Risk means for disease progression that ultimately may require therapy. There's also another staging system mostly used in Europe called the Benet stage. This system is not used here. For a long time, we just use the rice stage, but now we do more prognostic studies that give us better insight into risk. While the rice stage is helpful, it has limitations for prognosis because it does not take into account other adverse prognostic factors, including other biomarker or genetic abnormalities that relate to risk. Another commonly called prognostic test is called the fish test which means fluorescent and sichu hybridization test. This test was developed in the last part of the 20th century and consists of detecting common recurring genetic defects in CLLB cells. The standard CLL fish panel looks for abnormalities in chromosome 6, 11, 12, 13, and 17. More favorable fish abnormalities for disease risk or outcome include the finding of certain abnormalities in chromosome 13 or a normal fish test. While finding certain abnormalities in chromosome 6, 11, and especially 17 can be associated with more aggressive disease. Now we have more accurate prognostic models that predict for disease course. To do this, we generate data with a risk score using a prognostic model called the CLL International Prognostic Index or the CLI IPI. This test, while not perfect, has been found to be very useful in predicting overall survival and risk of progression needing first therapy for newly diagnosed early stage CLL. To obtain your CLLIPI score, we use five tests. Age, rise stage, IGHV mutation status, beta 2 microlobul levels, and genetic tests that include fish and/or mutational analysis to see if there's a so-called TP53 defect. Using these five tests, we can generate a score of anywhere from 0 to 10 for a given patient. From this score, we can put you into one of four risk groups for disease progression. These risk groups consist of low risk score, a score of 0 to one, intermediate risk score 2 to three, high risk 4 to six, and very high risk 7 to 10. These risk groups have the following approximate estimates of overall survivorship of 93, 79, 63, and 23% respectively. The CL IPI will thus allow us to counsel you in regard to how often we want you to return for evaluation at the hematology clinic. Typically for high and very high risk, if that is where you fit, you may have more frequent visits over the first several years of followup. Perhaps this would be on a 3 to six month basis. What can you then expect to have done at your regular recurring hematology visits? We will usually do a CLLO blood panel workup that includes a CBC, liver and renal function tests and conduct a history and physical examination. If there are no signs of disease progression over the se over these several initial visits at 3 to six month intervals then may we may recommend that you return on a 6 to 12 month basis. Other than monitoring CLL, are there other aspects that could be or should be concerning for you during the watch and wait phase? You may have other clinical complications associated with CLLL even if the disease is not progressing. These can include most prominently serious infections requiring hospitalization and second cancers. These may be related to the common occurrence of reduced immunity even in untreated CLL. For the infections, if they do occur, we recommend that you see a physician promptly uh or other caregivers, especially if you have fever and are not feeling well, so prompt attention can be given to you. We also recommend that you see a dermatologist for a complete skin exam in order to monitor for skin cancers that are more common in CLL and can be more aggressive. And this includes even if you're untreated. The watch and wait period we recognize can be an anxious time for you. We also recognize that and want to allay that anxiety as much as possible. So in that case, we would sit down with you and explain what the situation is for you at the current time and hopefully that this will be reassuring to you. I would also tell you that if you did progress to need for therapy, there are very effective treatments available. Thank you for listening. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic lymphoma disease group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology and approaches to clinical care and patients with lymphopoliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform again our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, "The [music] needs of the patient come first.