Hi everyone, my name is Nora Benedi. I am a faculty within the division of hematology with the lymphoma group. Uh it is my pleasure today to talk to you about uh a new diagnosis of T- cell lymphas. Um and the way I will structure this is basically how I talk through a new diagnosis with one of my patients when I see them in the clinic. Um so what is a lymphoma to begin with? Uh often there is a lot of confusion on what it means. Um a lymphoma is a blood cancer. It involves uh some of our white blood cells. we do have a variety um of white blood cells. In this case, uh the lymphocytes are the cells, the white blood cells or the immune cells that are affected. Um so um there are two types of lymphocytes and they are the uh Tlymphosytes T as in Tom and Bymphosytes B as in boy. In the case of the T- cell lymphas, the T-ymphosytes are the ones that are abnormally growing and forming tumors. Um so um in our um throughout our body there is the lymphatic systems that goes along our vascule. There are lymph nodes that are scattered throughout our body and you know that these lymph nodes can enlarge at times when there is an infection because your immune system is doing its job to try to protect you from the infection. Um this lymphas often will affect the lymphatic system or the lymph nodes. So most of the time when the case comes in uh when a patient comes in it is because they've noticed an enlarged lymph nodes. However, not all lymphas affect just the lymph nodes. Um you may see enlargement of um you know an organ being affected like a kidney, uh stomach, even brain sometimes. Now let's go back and talk about um T- cell lymphas. So um and I always start this discussion by telling my patients that there are actually about 130 types of lymphas. It's not just one disease. Um and that's often triggers a lot of you know wow 130 lymphas. Yes it is 130 lymphas and the number is growing as the technology evolves. Um so we divide this lymphas into two huge categories. There are the hodgekin lymphas uh that you may have heard of that affect the youngsters and it is typically highly curable. But there are also the non-hodkin lymphas. Anything that is not a hodgekin lymphoma there are five subtypes. Anything that is not a hodgekin lymphoma is called non-hodkin lymphoma. And that's you know nothing fancy about that. And based on the type of the lymphocytes that is affected this non-hodgekin lymphas are divided in bell non-hodgekin lymphas and t- cell non-hodkin lymphas. So now we are going to talk purely about the T- cell non-hodkin lymphas. Okay. Um and there are about 30 subtypes of the T- cell non-hodkin lymphas. Um you know they are relatively rare. Um if we were to talk about the non-hodkin lymphoma incidents in men and women, it's about 4% of all the type of cancers that affect humans. Uh so it's relatively rare. T- cell lymphas usually quote a number of about 3500 to 7,000 cases um new cases uh in the western world. In Asia that number can be a bit higher because there is a higher incidence of EBV which is the mono virus. Okay. The way I look at this um T- cell lymphas and the way I think about it and I like to explain that to my patients um this uh T- cell lymphas can involve the lymph nodes and that's what we call it that's what we call a nodal nodal node uh T- cell lymphoma it can involve organs outside of the node and that's what we call extra nodal so outside the node and it can be anywhere where can involve the skin, it can involve the gut. Um and there are the leukemia forms as well. So where um the lymphoma actually presents as circulating um malignant cells in the peripheral blood. So this is how I look at it. Um nodal, extra nodal and leukemia forms. Okay. Um no I will skip to how it does present how one recognizes that they have a lymphoma. Um this lymphas often as you as I mentioned will present because the patient suddenly is feeling sick or over few months they have noticed a few changes in their health. often times you know this is a disease of older patients but there are um incidences where or some subtypes that tend to affect more the younger patients like the gumma delta t- cell lymphas they tend to affect more the younger patients uh there is a higher um frequency of occurrence in men so it's a 2 to one incidence um and more most of the time will the patients will notice some changes that we call the B symptoms. What are these B symptoms? And you're going to hear about this and you're going to be asked this questions. Do you have fever that cannot be explained because of an infection? Have you noticed um weight loss, significant weight loss, you know, without even trying. We all know that it's difficult to lose weight and when it becomes so easy to lose weight, that's not normal thing. Um some patients will present uh with decrease in energy. Uh so they are just so fatigued and some may have what we call night sweats and what we when we mention night sweats is we are talking about drenching night sweats. Uh this is when the patient have actually to wake up in the middle of the night to change clothes um and even change seats because that's how drenching it is. Okay, so those are the B symptoms and it's not uncommon for patients with diagnosis new diagnosis of T- cell lymphoma to come in with some of the symptoms. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic lymphoma diseaseoriented group, to the Mayo Clinic, and to the Goldman Philanthropic Partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology and approaches to clinical care and patients with lymphop proliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform again our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. for William Mayo. Quote, "The needs of the patient come first. [music]