Hi, my name is Urshila Durani. I'm a lymphoma specialist at Mayo Clinic, and we'll be discussing newly diagnosed Hodgkin's lymphoma. Hodgkin's lymphoma is a cancer of lymphocytes, which is a type of immune cell that lives mainly in our lymph nodes. And although Hodgkin's lymphoma can affect people of all ages, most patients diagnosed with this disease are actually under the age of 45. Some of the most common symptoms people with Hodgkin's lymphoma experience include enlarged lymph nodes in different parts of the body or symptoms from a mass in the center of the chest. But there's some other unique symptoms, including intense itchiness, especially after hot showers, weight loss without explanation, drenching night sweats, and interestingly, pain in your lymph nodes after drinking alcohol. Now, diagnosis of Hodgkin's lymphoma can be very tricky and really requires a very good sample from either a core needle biopsy, or more often an actual excisional biopsy where a surgeon goes in, takes out a lymph node and sends it for diagnosis. So now you've been diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma, what happens then? Well, usually the next step is staging, which is where we get an understanding of the extent of your disease. And the best way to get staging done is through imaging, in this case, a PET-CT scan. That really helps us to determine is this early stage, meaning it's just in one or two areas near each other, or more advanced stage disease, meaning it's in lots of different lymph nodes in different parts of the body, or even in organs other than the lymph nodes. In some cases, we need to get a bone marrow biopsy to look for lymphoma in the bone marrow, but many times we don't need to do that. What all of these tests do is really tell us the stage of disease, which is crucial because it determines how we approach treatment. Patients with early stage disease, which is stage one or two, will often be treated with a combination of chemotherapy and radiation, while patients with advanced stage disease, which is stage three or four, will often be treated with chemotherapy alone. And this is because when Hodgkin's has reached a more advanced stage where it's involving lots of different areas of the body, radiating just one area isn't really going to increase your cure rate, whereas giving chemotherapy, which goes everywhere in the body, will. I think it is important to note that in almost all of these situations, some form of chemotherapy is going to be involved in the treatment of Hodgkin's lymphoma. In terms of chemotherapy, for patients who are healthy with early stage disease, the most common type of chemotherapy is a four-drug regimen called ABVD. That includes Adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine. These are all traditional chemotherapy agents that have been around for decades, and they're usually given for anywhere from two to four cycles. Now, radiation, which is usually used in combination, has been shown to be very helpful in early-stage disease and is often given after chemotherapy. But it may come with its own risk of long-term issues depending on the area being radiated and the dose given. However, with treatment, about 90% of patients with early stage low-risk disease can be cured. Now, what if you have advanced or stage 3 or 4 disease? In those cases, 2 to 4 cycles of chemotherapy may not be enough. Historically, patients with advanced-stage disease were given 6 cycles of that 4 drug ABVD regimen, and that resulted in cure for a lot of patients, but it also caused a lot of toxicity years down the line. And this was especially true in people who are getting chemo at a young age. These long-term issues could include things like problems with fertility, which is rare but could happen, heart disease, and second cancers like breast cancer, lung cancer, or leukemia. So newer regimens that combine novel agents with chemotherapy are now being studied with the goal of decreasing those long-term toxicities of treatment while increasing cure rates. One of the newer regimens uses that same chemo backbone of AVD, so three drugs, Adriamycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine, but this time in combination with a new drug called brentuximab vedotin, or BV. BV is an antibody drug conjugate. And to give you a sense of what that means, it's basically an antibody that can specifically target lymphoma cells based on a marker on the outside of the cells called CD30. But the antibody has a chemo tail that it carries with it. And so we can deposit that chemotherapy right at the site of the lymphoma. And that way you can consider this a targeted chemotherapy agent. This regimen called BV-AVD was actually found to improve survival over the traditional four drug regimen of ABVD. However, this newer regimen carries its own toxicities with it, like a higher risk of infection in older folks especially, and a higher risk of neuropathy. Another even newer regimen combines that same three drug AVD backbone, but this time with a form of immunotherapy called nivolumab. And nivolumab really wakes up a person's immune system to fight their cancer. Hodgkin's lymphoma cells are especially susceptible to this type of immunotherapy. And this regimen combining nivolumab and AVD, at least in early analyses, seems to produce even better responses than BV-AVD. At the same time, it also seems to carry less toxicity with it. So although we're still waiting to see longer term data, this will very likely be a common standard option for patients with newly diagnosed Hodgkin's lymphoma. In summary, we've come a long way from using radiation alone to combining multiple different chemotherapies and curing a lot more patients, and now to combining those same chemotherapy agents, but with novel immunotherapies and targeted drugs, which are curing at least 85% of people with any stage of Hodgkin's lymphoma and decreasing their toxicities. Hopefully, this will translate into longer life and better quality of life for survivors of Hodgkin's lymphoma. I want to express our sincere thank you to our patients, to the members of our Mayo Clinic Lymphoma Disease-Oriented Group, to the Mayo Clinic and to the Goldman Philanthropic Partnerships for this generous gift to produce this series. This gift has an incredible duality in that it goes directly toward enhancing patient care and provider education. We are at a time of phenomenal rapid change in the treatment plans, the biology, and approaches to clinical care in patients with lymphoproliferative disorders. This project will serve to inform. Again, our sincere thank you and in the words of Dr. William Mayo, quote, the needs of the patient come first.