Although long welcome to a walk, marijuana, this is the session where we're going to speak in Spanish for cancer patients. My name is Rafael Fonseca, I'm a hematologist-oncologist at the Mayo Clinic, and we're here to talk with you. Three of the doctors who participate in the care of cancer patients at the Mayo Clinic are here, and I'm going to start by letting you introduce yourselves, give a presentation of who you are, where you're from, and conclude. And after they do, Dr. Arana, can you please say something about yourself? Good morning everyone, I'm Cecilia Arana there. I'm also a hematologist at the Mayo Clinic, and I'm in charge of the leukemia service. I 'll try to answer your questions as best I can. Thank you very much, Dr. Arana. Dr. González, good morning. My name is Miguel González Vélez. I'm a Colombian doctor, and I'm finishing my training in oncology and hematology. I'm an advanced resident, a fellow in oncology, finishing my training at the Mayo Clinic. Thank you, Dr. González. And I repeat, Rafael Fonseca, here, delighted to be with you.  I am a medical specialist in multiple myeloma, to which I dedicate all my time and energy, both in the clinic and in research. This session is for you, so you can ask us questions, for example, bring up problems you are currently experiencing, and we will gladly answer them. For those unfamiliar with the Zoom platform, there is a small box at the bottom right of your screen. You will see a green button in the center that says "Share Screenshot." If you go two to the right, there will be one that says " Q& A." So, if you have any questions, please don't hesitate to send them directly through that small tab. We'll start with some general comments as people submit questions, but Doctor, could you briefly explain the steps we take when a patient arrives at the clinic needing care for an illness? In this case, we'll focus on cancer. What are the steps patients need to take and what should they expect when they come to the Maya Clinic? Thank you for the question, Dr. Fonseca. The steps are quite general. When a patient feels there's a new problem, something that hasn't happened before, the patient usually reviews these symptoms with their primary care physician. The primary care physician is generally the one who performs screenings for certain medical problems and, in many cases, initiates the referral to a cancer center or the Mayo Clinic. Once the patient arrives at the Mayo Clinic, they are evaluated by the doctors there, and the evaluation is based on the problem the patient is seeking. If, for example, it's a blood problem, let's say there's a problem with the blood counts, such as anemia, which is quite common, the doctor who sees the patient orders blood tests to evaluate the cause of the anemia. This doesn't necessarily mean the patient has cancer, but a thorough evaluation is done to determine if the problem the patient is seeking is cancer. Unfortunately, if the problem is related to cancer, we generally perform tests to confirm the diagnosis. For example, in the case of a problem...  In blood tests, the bone marrow, which is the factory of blood cells, is investigated. If this condition is detected, a more complete study is done to determine the diagnosis. The same happens if, for example, the patient comes in with a problem, say a spot on the lung or a lump in the breast. The reason why the patient developed these complications is investigated to arrive at a diagnosis. Once the diagnosis is made, the doctor explains to the patient what the next steps are, for example, confirming the diagnosis with a biopsy, determining the patient's prognosis with imaging studies, and then having a much broader conversation regarding the treatments that need to be followed. Thank you, Doctor Gonzalez. A little bit for those who aren't familiar with how we work at the Mayo Clinic with community physicians: some of the patients, perhaps, have questions about how their care will continue, what happens if they return, for example, to their home community, or if there's no human connection there. How does this work? Well, at the Mayo Clinic, we are very familiar with working with different doctors in the community, and here we are what is called a...  We are a referral center, and we see patients who come from other countries, from other states, or from surrounding states like Utah, Colorado, California, New Mexico, and also from other cities like Tucson or Northern Arizona. So, at the clinic, we are very familiar with working with physicians and oncologists, the cancer doctors in the community. What we generally do is obtain the patients' medical information before examining them to see how their situation is. Depending on the needs, we give what is called a second opinion. We make general clinical recommendations that we would give at the clinic, and depending on the needs, we can do part of the treatment at the Mayo Clinic, or we work hand in hand with local doctors, whether by mail, phone calls, or with visits every so often, to help and guide them and provide joint management with the local doctors. Thank you, thank you, Dr. Gonzalez. Let's talk a little bit now about cancer. Perhaps I'll start, and then I'll ask you some questions: What is cancer, and what does this mean for a patient?  No, the word that makes it is actually a very, very broad word and includes many diagnoses that we see in the clinic, and it must be emphasized that cancer is a very general, very descriptive word. So, if any of you are dealing with this, don't necessarily think that because someone is diagnosed with cancer they will have the same treatment, the same life expectancy, or the same toxicity as someone you know who also has another type of cancer, because each diagnosis is fundamentally different. And later on, I'm going to ask my colleagues to talk a little about the treatments, but let's start with what cancer is and what its origins are. First, to emphasize, cancer is generally thought of as a proliferation, an abnormal and uncontrolled growth of cells in the human body. And what happens is that the cells in our body normally grow, but they grow just enough to perform their functions, not enough, for example, to cover a wound we have on our skin or enough to regenerate the lining of our stomach. But there are times when this growth is controlled, and it's excessive when it's uncontrolled, but the uncontrolled growth isn't so great, and it's something Localized cancer is what's called a benign, autosomal process, and there are many examples of this: skin tumors, for example, like warts or moles—all benign—or polyps in the colon. Sometimes, however, this growth is more disordered and aggressive, and that's what we generally call a cancer diagnosis. But as I said, cancer is very broad, and we have to specify the type and all the details to know what we're talking about. Cancer is generally classified by the organ where it originates, and this is a very important consideration because sometimes people get confused. They might say, " Now you have cancer in your bones," but perhaps the cancer started somewhere else and is now present in the bones. So, when we doctors talk about cancer, we generally refer to the organ where it started. You'll hear us say it's stomach cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer, and so on. It spreads to other places; it's like a migration, but it's still the same cancerous process. It's not that the other organs become cancerous; it's simply that these cells leave the original site and implant themselves in other organs.  In some other area, this is what's called the spread of the cancer, and the term we use is metastasis. Now, there are so many types of cancer; it's impossible to cover them all in a session like this. But the key point is that they are very localized, and generally, it's better if we detect them early. They start throughout the body. For example, the cancers that Dr. Anna and I see, like leukemias, are cancers that are present throughout the body from the moment of diagnosis. So, how we approach them and what we do for their treatment is different. Now, what causes cancer? There are several causes, but let's say there are three that are primary when one thinks of cancer. The first is genetic changes, and in the vast majority of cases, these are genetic changes that happen to us during our lives— genetic changes we have at birth that we inherit from our parents. They are simply small changes that occur in the genes of our body, like typos, like "you are" in English, "taikos," right? And if one of those errors changes the course of history, that's what we call...  A cancer process, and these typographic changes, medically we call them mutations, then the first thing that happens is that it doesn't stop because mutations occur. There are many reasons: sometimes environmental factors, sometimes simply bad luck. And what are the factors that lead us to cancer? The first, I said, is obviously genetic. The second is environmental factors. For example, if a person smokes, there's no doubt that it significantly increases the risk of contracting, for example, lung cancer, and others as well, but we started talking about lung cancer. Sometimes cancer just happens because... The human body is very, very sophisticated, very elegant. It's truly impressive when you study the biology of cells in detail, and in nature... but even within such elegance, sometimes errors simply occur randomly, without any apparent reason. And that happens, and sometimes that's part of what leads to a cancer diagnosis. So, doctors don't always have an explanation. Sometimes we can tell the person, "Look, what most likely happened was this." For example, cervical cancer, we know that it is very highly likely related to...  Infection with a virus, the human papillomavirus, but there are other cancers that we don't have consequences for. So, for the first question, how is it that this happens to me? Sometimes we have a little more certainty, and sometimes we don't know for sure what causes this cancer. Dr. González, you 're currently in advanced training. How do we treat cancers? What are the differences between the various treatments? Yes, as Dr. Fonseca was saying, it's very important to know that cancer treatment is very diverse and very different, and what was used to treat a family member, parents, or neighbor isn't necessarily the same treatment offered to everyone. Currently, there are roughly four different ways to treat cancer. The best-known are when the cancer is localized in one area. There's surgery, for example, if it's located in the breast or lung and is in a part where surgery is possible, a procedure called a resection can be performed. That's one of the ways. The other option, which is also generally used when the cancer is localized, is called radiation or radiotherapy, which is essentially a high-intensity light that  It's aimed at destroying cancer. These two methods are used when the cancer is more localized. The other two methods involve medications. One method is the traditional one you see in movies, books, and TV series: chemotherapy. These medications are generally given intravenously, either through a vein in the arm or through special catheters inserted into the chest or neck. This chemotherapy reaches all parts of the body, from head to toe. In recent years, we have newer therapies, also administered intravenously, called immunotherapy. Technically, these don't destroy the cancer directly, but rather activate the immune system to fight it. These are the four basic mechanisms. In other cases, special medications called targeted therapies can be used. These generally block proteins, turn off genes, or suppress proteins that help activate the cancer. But in general, many people use the word "chemotherapy" to refer to all these different treatments. So it's very important  Ask your doctor exactly what kind of treatment you are receiving. Thank you, Dr. González. One of the things I think patients always ask themselves—the author asks, the one who tells us a little more— is, first, what do I have? What's going to happen? And what can be done? So, what I have is what I mentioned a little bit about, cancer. What can be done is what Dr. González and Dr. Adam told us. Since we talked about the prognosis, let's talk a little bit about how we share information about the prognosis and what the prognoses are for him. Thank you very much for the question. The answer to that question is a little more complex because it depends on the type of cancer, but I'm going to make things simpler. When there is a solid tumor—and when I describe solid tumors I mean colon cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer—we have what are called stages, and these are what are called clinical stages, in which we can describe a very small, very localized tumor within the area where it is affecting the tumor, tumors that are metastatic, or that have spread to other areas.  Body parts— this is, as they say, the other extreme of the cancer situation. The tumor is liquid, for example, leukemia. The stages cannot be determined by where the tumor is located. If we are talking about leukemia, in general, we are assuming that the tumor is liquid, that the tumor is in the blood. So, according to the stages, in general, we can talk about certain prognoses. Certainly, the prognoses are a little more somber, a little more difficult, when the tumor has already spread beyond its place of origin. For example, if the tumor is in the prostate and this tumor has spread to the bones or other organs, other systems, the prognosis is different than if, for example, the tumor were only located within the prostate. In the same way, in leukemia, we would say that it is circulating throughout the blood, but sometimes leukemia goes to other organs, other systems, for example, to the liver, the lungs, different parts of the body, and obviously the treatment is different. The prognosis has a lot to do with the stage, as I already mentioned, and as for leukemia itself, there are certain characteristics that allow us to decide if it is  Whether this leukemia is high-risk or low-risk has a lot to do with what Dr. Posse Fonseca mentioned a few moments ago regarding the genes and the types of genes associated with leukemia, the chromosomes that are part of the genetic material of blood cells, which tells us the type of leukemia and, above all, the long-term prognosis. Thank you very much. Let's make a change a little to delve deeper into the treatments. I'd like to ask you some questions, and I'll speak first about the molecular treatments that are being used. I ask Dr. González to elaborate a little on how immunotherapy works. And then a little about transplants, which are three modalities that are of great interest to people. First, I'll talk about molecular treatments, or those that use genetic targets. As I mentioned, there are genetic changes in cells that, as I say, are like typos, and we almost always notice them, but they don't lead us to...  Nothing, but yes, sometimes we put the comma in the wrong place, the period in the wrong place, the whole meaning of the story changes, and that's what happens with these mutations. Now, mutations can be of different types. Imagine you have a text. A mutation might be that a letter is missing, and then the story changes. That's what we directly call a mutation. Sometimes it's like a whole sentence is deleted, and that's what we call a lesson in genetics. In cancer, sometimes we paste a chapter where it doesn't belong. Chapter II, for example, we put Chapter 7 before Chapter 3, and in genetics we sometimes call that a translocation. And sometimes we put Chapter 2, we start repeating it, and we put Chapter 2 seven times, and that's what's called an amplification. So, as you can see, they are all changes of the same type: changes to the text, changes to the story. But we have learned in the last 50 years that these are very important changes; they are changes that lead to cancer. And so, consequently, if this is what leads to something being cancerous, we can use that information to develop treatments.  And the short, concrete answer is that yes, it can be used. The results aren't always perfect or conclusive, but sometimes they are. For example, there's a type of leukemia called chronic myeloid leukemia. In the patients we see with this, there's a process where a gene component gets stuck where it shouldn't be—what we call a translocation. And because of this translocation, a gene that shouldn't be activated is activated. A group of researchers decided to try something like a cap on that component, developing a molecule that blocks the effect of that translocation. That drug is called imatinib. Imatinib has been used for many years and is a very successful drug for treating this type of leukemia. Previously, patients only had the option of other, older therapies or transplants, which didn't necessarily yield very good results. Today, these patients often take one pill a day, and it's like taking a pill for blood pressure, and with that, they're under control.  That was the most important example of the classic treatment we mentioned earlier. From there, many other treatments have been gradually developed, sometimes only addressing a small percentage of patients with different tumors, but many are now fully integrated into clinical practice. Fortunately, the vast majority of these treatments come in pill form; that is, they don't require injections. They are pills that people take, and in many cases, they are combined with other treatments because sometimes, to fight and defeat cancer, you have to work as a team, like a gang of all the active medications we have to try to address cancer. Many of these drugs are new. If you have something that is compatible with one of these drugs, the doctor will discuss with the patient, "Why don't we consider this option?" And sometimes that also requires genetic testing because they only work if the therapeutic target is there, if the target is there, as we say, the target is there, which one to aim for. So these medications are used, but you will hear more and more about this type of medication, which is one of the ways  which have more, let's say, promise to help people with cancer. So, well, I'll leave it there. I'm going to pass it on to Dr. González so he can expand a little on immunotherapy treatments, and then Dr. Anna so she can talk to us about Carter cell transplants and all that we're bringing up in the news. Miguel, well, immunotherapy, as I said, is one of those new treatments that have really been developing over the last few years, but they became really popular in the last decade, the last ten years. And what immunotherapy does is activate certain cells of the immune system, it's like the body's police force that checks that nothing bad is happening. And these cells are lymphocytes, as I said, part of what are called white blood cells, and they're the body's police force that goes everywhere in the blood from head to toe looking for foreign cells, cells doing something bad. And several proteins in these lymphocytes, the body's police force, are activated so they look for cancer cells. And the good thing about these molecules is that they have really worked for different types of cancer. The most common are...  A lung melanoma, but they are already approved for many, many different types of cancer: lymphomas, bladder, skin, lung, and brain tumors. So it's important to talk to your doctor to see if immunotherapy is an option. Another advantage of these therapies is that they don't have the traditional adverse effects of chemotherapy, such as nausea, vomiting, and hair loss. They also have adverse effects, and these can be significant and serious, so you have to monitor them and talk to your doctor. But in general, they are very well tolerated compared to some chemotherapies. And the other thing is that they are generally given every three, four, or six weeks, which allows for a little more flexibility in treatment. Finally, the problem with these medications is that, as I said, because they activate the immune system, they can cause inflammation in any part of the body. So you should talk to your doctor to see what the signs of inflammation are and what the warning signs are when using these immunotherapies. Thank you, Dr. González. Doctor, now, do you know a little bit about Carter cell transplantation and all that? Of course, with pleasure. Let's talk first about bone marrow transplantation.  Bone marrow transplantation is fortunately one of the curative options for many blood diseases, for example, leukemia, lymphomas, and myelomas. To understand this, we need to grasp a fundamental principle about stem cells. Stem cells are the cells that, as they are sometimes called, are the parents or mothers of blood cells, and they are located in the bone marrow. What we do when we perform a transplant is basically this procedure in which we infuse the patient affected by leukemia, myeloma, or lymphoma with an infusion of these healthy stem cells. In many cases, these stem cells come from donors. The donor can be a brother or sister who is compatible with the patient, having the same blood type. These blood cells are prepared and selected a day, a few days, a few weeks, or a few months prior and are introduced into the patient through a catheter or a central line on day zero of the transplant. The idea behind this infusion is to allow these stem cells to reproduce and normalize the patient's medical condition. That is to say, if the patient has leukemia and we infuse them with these stem cells...  In the patient, these stem cells will be responsible for producing healthy cells, and as a result, the patient will be cured of the disease. That is the most basic principle of performing a bone marrow transplant. It is the same principle we apply for other hematological diseases. Obviously, the patient has to undergo preparation that involves doses of chemotherapy and doses of radiation so that the bone marrow is in the best condition to receive these stem cells. It is the same principle that we can use in other similar treatments. There is a more recent procedure, approved by the FDA for treating certain types of lymphoma and certain types of leukemia, called CARC therapy, which basically stimulates the production of these immune cells in the patient's cells to try to kill the lymphoma or certain types of leukemia more effectively. The patient is prepared with a dose of chemotherapy, these cells are extracted, separated into a small bag, and this bag is sent to a laboratory to try to stimulate the immune cells so that...  It says to prepare these cells so they can again kill these enemy cells, which are cancer cells. The day this bag of prepared cells is reinfused into the patient is the day the Karti cells are infused. Once infused, the expectation is that these cells, which are immunologically prepared to cancer cells more efficiently, will improve the patient's response to treatment through this modality. Obviously, these two types of treatment, bone marrow transplant and Carnicer, have different adverse effects and different benefits. If patients have any questions regarding these modalities, I'd be happy to answer them. Thank you very much, Dr. Arana. Let's see if there are any questions from the audience. I don't see any questions from our question box yet. Yes, this is a completely safe forum. If you have any questions, please bring them forward, and we'll gladly answer them here. For whatever you want, I'll tell you a little bit while people think of their questions.  What are we doing about my illness? Then I ask the author to open up and talk about leukemia, especially in the elderly patients we're seeing. And Miguel, why don't we talk about some gastrointestinal cancers as well? So I said, let's start. I'm going to talk a little bit first about multiple myeloma. Multiple myeloma is a disease that begins in the bone marrow, affecting older people, and we generally see it in those who are 60, 70, or 80 years old. It's a blood disease, a neoplasm, as we call it, hematological. It involves the cells that normally produce the antibodies that protect us, which lead to the development of multiple myeloma when these cells become cancerous. Patients with this diagnosis are generally diagnosed because they present with some of the most characteristic symptoms, for example, increased tiredness or fatigue, because anemia is one of the complications of multiple myeloma. Sometimes some patients have damage to their bones; the bone heals a little weaker. These cells act like termites against the bone, causing points of weakness, and the patient...  It can present with pain and unfortunately sometimes also with fractures. Sometimes the patient also presents with kidney problems because the myeloma proteins sometimes partially block what happens in the kidneys. For example, when we are producing urine, the levels drop so low that they clog the kidney. And well, there are other symptoms, but these are the two main ones. As I was saying, this is what I dedicate myself to. It's a disease that makes extensive use of the treatments we were mentioning previously. For example, we give the patient treatments with these small molecules that work very well. We combine them with immunotherapy injections, as Dr. González mentioned. These are also antibodies that go and attach to the myeloma cells and attack them significantly. And in patients who are under 75 years old, what we often do for them is a bone marrow transplant, what we call autologous, and this is followed by maintenance. The reason I brought up the "thousand men" as an example is because I don't know how relevant it is to many of you, but it's to use it as an example where we bring all this information we are getting from the  Genetics of the treatments they have developed, from immunology to the same team and the same strategy to treat this cancer, and we have learned a lot. When I started, when I was in training, I trained at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Back then, the survival rate for patients was approximately two years, and today many patients live beyond 10 years with combinations of these better treatments. So it is important, obviously, to have a whole approach. Sometimes it's not just about having one drug, like the famous silver bullet, as we say in English, that will take care of everything. Hopefully, we will have it, but many times it's about putting all the pieces of the puzzle together to be able to better treat the patient. Dr. Adam, another example, perhaps, is leukemia. Yes, that's right, and it's a situation that is quite rare. It's not one of the most frequent cancers in general, but the way we identify if the patient has leukemia or not is through a blood test, which is the most basic blood test, first to see if the counts are normal or  No, if anemia is present, if the white blood cell count, which is another blood component, is very high or, conversely, very low, and also the third blood component, platelets, which can be very high or very low. Obviously, these changes produce different symptoms in patients. A patient with anemia generally notices that the patient is very pale, very tired, and lacks their usual energy. If the platelet count is very low, the patient will have, as they say, these bruises or bumps, or they might bleed a little when they blow their nose or brush their teeth. If the blood counts, specifically the white blood cell count, are very low, often what happens is that we see the patient in the hospital suffering from an infection, and then the doctors take blood tests and find that the counts are very low. This indicates a very severe infection; perhaps the infection is because the patient's immune system is very weak. So, we identify medical problems in this way in many cases, when the presence of certain cells is detected in the blood tests. Abnormal cells called blasts, which are basically immature cells, leukemia cells, generally force us to conduct a much more thorough investigation of what we are going to do. The study we do is usually a confirmation with a biopsy, and the biopsy we perform is generally a bone marrow biopsy, which is basically a standard, routine procedure to confirm the diagnosis. Once we have a confirmed diagnosis of leukemia, which is the presence of cancer cells in the blood, we usually give it a first and last name. The first name is basically the diagnosis, but the last name is... okay, we have leukemia, but what type of leukemia is it? What is the prognosis for this leukemia? As I mentioned earlier, there are high-risk leukemias and low-risk leukemias, including leukemias of intermediate risk. In general, we offer the option of a transplant as soon as the patient begins to respond to chemotherapy. In low- risk leukemia, we generally offer certain courses of chemotherapy, and usually after they have received the treatment, the patient...  This is what's called an observational episode, where we don't necessarily offer any treatment, but we try to prevent the leukemia from returning. For this, the patient has to come to their regular checkups, making the process as easy as possible for everyone. And above all, we're trying to find a cure for the disease, to find a cure for leukemia. This process isn't isolated; it's not something the patient will go through alone. Many patients are scared, wondering what's going to happen to them. It's a process that involves not only the doctor but the entire Mayo Clinic team: nurses, social workers. Because sometimes—and this is very important—when you have a cancer diagnosis, it's not just knowing the diagnosis, but also the uncertainty of not knowing what's going to happen. Many patients are working when they receive their cancer diagnosis, so the hospital helps them not only medically but also emotionally, trying to help the patient with their health insurance so they don't have many financial complications, and also providing emotional support through...  Counselors from social workers are needed by patients and their families to get through this very difficult situation, but our shared goal is to cure cancer, to cure leukemia, and for patients to have the best quality of life during the treatment process, during the observation period, and once the patient has overcome cancer. Thank you very much, Dr. Arana, Dr. González. Another story of integration, of everything we have, I'm going to talk a little about gastrointestinal cancers in general. They are a group of different processes that can start in the mouth, passing through the esophagus, which is the part of the body through which we chew and eat, the stomach, the small intestine, the large intestine, and also include the gallbladder, the liver, and the pancreas. These are different processes that are generally diagnosed with an endoscopy, which is a camera inserted through the mouth to see how the entire stomach is, or a colonoscopy, which also helps to see how things are in the colon. With these two images and with these two aids, and also with a CT scan or CT scan of the abdomen, which are...  Black and white photos of the abdomen allow us to diagnose many of these processes, and the treatments, as we mentioned previously, vary depending on the specific location. They may include different types of chemotherapy, radiation, or a combination of these at different times. Since these processes affect eating in general, and often cause nausea and vomiting, we work very closely with nutritionists and gastroenterologists—the doctors who work with the stomach and intestines—to help us maintain a certain level of nutrition while managing the cancer. As we mentioned before, many of our treatments are multidisciplinary, which is quite demanding, and we understand that for patients and families. Sometimes, several pieces are needed, like a football or soccer team, where different positions are needed: a goalkeeper, forwards, a quarterback who passes the ball, and a running back who scores the touchdown. In cancer management, several players are needed, each representing a fundamental piece. Helping them at different times is perfect. Thank you very much. I appreciate both of you. Obviously, your comments, let's say examples of how we are trying to address this issue of cancer. I'm not going to see any here yet. Okay, we don't have any questions. Any of the attendees who would like to ask a question for the panelists? If not, why don't we do the following? Why don't we make a series of additional comments and give some guidance on what patients can do to obtain more information about the cancers they have? Or why do n't we each talk about some of the resources you have or recommend to patients to obtain more information? Dr. Arana, there are obviously global reference points, but there are also some that exist in Spanish. Also, how do you help guide patients when they are seeing something new with a diagnosis, for example? Thank you very much for the question. It's a very interesting question. The great advantage we have here at the Mayo Clinic is that we provide information in the patient's language. We have a large Spanish-speaking population here, as you can see. Many of us are Spanish speakers, so in that respect, things are much easier. Secondly, the information that patients can find online through the Mayo Clinic website is also available in Spanish. Many of the medical conditions that I commonly see are not easy to find when you search on Google or other normal search engines. Sometimes we ca n't even identify these conditions through family members who suffer from them because they are generally rare conditions. Some conditions are more common, for example, colon cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer.  Unfortunately, many of us have family members, acquaintances, or loved ones who suffer from these conditions. Sometimes we learn about them through neighbors or family members who are also suffering. But for less common conditions, the Mayo Clinic website simply requires you to type "I want information about anemias," "I want information about UC," "MIAs," "bone marrow transplant," or "Senton CESC." This is one of the easiest resources for finding information. The second resource is through non-governmental organizations. For example, I work extensively with the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, which helps provide comprehensive and appropriate information for patients and their caregivers regarding leukemia and lymphoma in general. This society not only provides information but also, in many cases, facilitates connections between patients with the same disease. Finally, it offers financial assistance in certain cases, such as transportation and other support. Medications typically covered through conventional insurance wouldn't help. Other options include educational programs, such as the one the Mayo Clinic, which focuses on providing general information to patients. Finally, discussing these diseases with their doctors is also a good way to access information about cancer in general. Okay, Dr. Gonzalez, along the same lines, let's talk specifically about patients who have limited English. How do we help patients when they're at the clinic? Fortunately, there are several ways to help. In addition to what the doctor will do, no one has mentioned that the American Cancer Society has a Spanish-language section with various educational resources. There are also other options that depend somewhat on the type of cancer, but generally, there are many foundations that support each type of cancer, such as the Breast Cancer Foundation and the International Myeloma Foundation. Depending on the type of cancer, many of the cancer sections have resources in Spanish. Another way we can help is at the clinic; we have social workers and what are called patient navigators.  The Peixe Navigator is in English, and these people know resources in different foundations and societies that have resources to educate, guide, and provide help. Finally, depending on each person's skills, or even family members, there are quite a few resources on social media, especially on Twitter and Facebook, in foundations created and led by patients to educate and help. I have helped with different types of resources, so Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter can be good sources. You have to be careful about what you find, but it can also help to find resources for patients, which should also be discussed with the doctor to see if the information obtained is useful and, I don't know, not confusing. Okay, thank you very much. This is the final mission. Please comment on this. I appreciate your attention and your interest in participating in these sessions. On the right side, where the chat is, there is a link where you can leave some answers according to how you perceived this session to be useful or not. As my colleagues said, we offer you the opportunity to participate. We know that there are different aspects, sometimes how it is easier, also if one can perhaps talk about the diagnosis of the treatment of  Their own language, so we do our best to do that. If we can't find the systems, even with telemedicine, we sometimes invite families to help us with Zoom or the phone. But the idea is, obviously, to always try to provide the best service so that the person understands what's happening and we can have this, let's say, mutual platform to decide what the best path is for you in the diagnosis. And as I say once again, we thank you for your attention. It has been a pleasure to be with you. I invite you to the service on the right with the questionnaire to answer. There are five quick questions, and with that we finish. We appreciate your attention. Thank you very much, Stacy Active