Hello, my name is Felipe Around, I'm a radiologist. Today I'm going to talk about radiography of peripheral diseases. Here's a frontal radiograph, but for the majority of this presentation, we're going to focus on the lateral radiograph. Here are most of the structures you can see on a lateral radiograph: the right atrium, the left ventricle, the right ventricle, the pulmonary artery, and the ascending aorta. It's important to understand that the pericardium covers all of this, from the ascending aorta to the ventricles and then to the atria. This is important to distinguish diseases that affect the pericardium on the radiograph from diseases that are only in the ventricles. Here's how the pericardium covers it. For example, here's a 60-year-old man with difficulty breathing, and you can see a thick white line here. This line extends beyond the expected limit of the left ventricle. Here we go to the line, and the left ventricle in this patient is located here, but this line is actually the 23rd, and the left atria...  If we place a tag over this lateral radiograph, you can see very clearly that these markings are in the pericardium, that this is calcified pericardium, and that here it resides in the left ventricle. I observed how the pericardium extends over the descending aorta and the pulmonary artery. And here in axial images in the same view, we can see the pulmonary matter and ascending aorta. There are frictions at this level. This space is a rich, rich, visceral margin. Here, this structure is located between the myocardium and the visceral pericardium, and that makes a dark line on the radiograph. And that is very important. If we rotate to the front, we can also see that there are markings here above the right ventricle and the right atrium. If we place the frontal radiograph again, here we can see a little bit of the markings. Well, another different patient, an 83-year-old man, this radiograph was taken the day after the placement of a pacemaker/ defibrillator and ventricular assist device, and that is why this patient has a lead in the right atrium, a lead of  Pacemaker and defibrillation in the right-hand view, and also a lead that goes through the coronary sinus into a Picardial vein here to stimulate the left ventricle. This is for the cardiac imaging system. If we go to the lateral radiograph, we can see this same lead that is supposed to be in a Picardial vein here, and it also goes to the left surface of the 21st century to continuously monitor the pulse density. But two weeks later, the thresholds of the left-hand view were being captured, and we can see the lead in the right atrium and the lead in the right ventricle. But the lead that is dry, the one that was supposed to be in a Picardial vein, has moved, and this lead is not capturing thresholds. So it's very suspicious. Here we see a dark line, a white space on one side, another white space on the other. And what causes these lines? If we put the tag on top, what we see is that the pacemaker lead is in the pericardial space, that's why it moved. And this is a coronary artery, and the fat in Picardial vein causes the dark line on the radiograph. On one side we have Ricardi's drama, on the other side we have the heart and the grace of Picardie. Here, between the drama and the pericardium, the heart causes these white spaces, the dark CNI and the white space in the lateral radiograph. If we go to a four-chamber image, we can see the pacemaker lead in the pericardial space. We export this again to the front. We can put a frontal view on top. We can see this lead here when it should be here. Another patient. This patient is a 69-year-old male with chemical cardiomyopathy. He also has a pacemaker lead in the right atrium and two in the right ventricle, one and another lead in the right ventricle here. But what interests us in this patient are two lines. There are two lines here, in a dark line between them. If we look here, there is a line here, another line here, and a space between them. This is creating this cause. Where these lines are, and we put the three-dimensional tag on top, we can see that this line is a pericardial mesh, and this line is a qualified infarct. This mesh is a cardiac restraint device. The idea was to prevent the activation of  The particulars, but this is this treatment doesn't work very well and isn't used nowadays. Here's this mesh in a model to show how the image doesn't work, and the mesh we see towards the outer line and the infarction towards the inner line. The space in the middle is the Picard area. Here we see the Picard area, and here's the infarction and the mesh. Here's a two-chamber image, and we see the Picard area of ​​the infarction and the If we rotate it to the front again, we see the mesh, and we can put the frontal radiograph on top. Well, another patient, a 63-year-old woman, presented to the emergency room with symptoms of vascular disease, and we don't have a radiograph. We only have this CT scan scan image of the TAG, and you can see that the tip of this internal jugular vein catheter is too low. But this catheter is used for contrast injection. What we did was a direct action of contrast in the pericardial space. Well, we can turn the TAG to show what a chest radiograph would look like in this patient, which would look like this.  From the front and from the side, it almost shows the pericardial processes very well, the three-dimensional taxis. We can see the pericardial space filled with contrast. If we go to a short axis and place it over an image of Cardio García, we can see the left ventricle, the right ventricle, and the pericardial space filled with contrast. This patient had to go to the emergency surgery room to have this space removed. Let's go to the front again, fill it in a little, and we can show it again for any simulation. And that's all. Thank you very much.