- Announcer: Welcome to Mayo Clinic's ECG segment Making Waves Continuing Medical Education podcast. Join us for a lively discussion on the latest and greatest in the field of Electrocardiography. We'll discuss some of the exciting and innovative work happening at Mayo Clinic and beyond with the most brilliant minds in the space, and provide valuable insights that can be directly applied to your practice. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Welcome to Mayo Clinic's ECG segment Making waves. In this episode, we dive into the latest updates in the atrial fibrillation management guidelines. These changes have reflected growing body of evidence, supporting early rhythm control strategies, more aggressive use of catheter ablation, and refined recommendations for patients with heart failure and atrial fibrillation. Joining us are two cardiac electrophysiologists that we know very well here at Mayo Clinic, Dr. Christopher DeSimone and Dr. Deshmukh. Dr. DeSimone is an associate professor of medicine and cardiac electrophysiologist in the division of Heart Rhythm Services at Mayo Clinic. He specializes in complex ablation procedures and directs heart rhythm services research. Here he has over 400 peer reviewed publications, holds more than 50 patent application in lectures nationally and internationally on innovations in electrophysiology. He also serves as the director of marketing for the Mayo Clinic cardiovascular enterprise. And joining us as well is Dr. Abhishek Deshmukh, and he's also an associate professor of medicine and cardiac electrophysiologist here at Mayo Clinic in Rochester. He specializes also in catheter ablation, a lot of device management and infiltrative cardiomyopathies, as well as in a complex field of adult congenital heart disease with over 400 PubMed index manuscripts. Everyone knows him. Dr. Deshmukh leads research and arrhythmia epidemiology and AI driven ECG analytics, and he is also the co-director of, of the Electrophysiology fellowship program here and directs the heart rhythm physiological Monitoring Laboratory. Dr. DeSimone and Dr. Deshmukh, thank you so much for joining us today. - Dr. Christopher DeSimone: Thank you so much. Happy to be here. - Dr. Abhishek Deshmukh: Great. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: So we got a, you know, a lot of new updates or exciting updates in the atrial fibrillation guidelines. And maybe we'll start with Dr. Deshmukh. You know, a lot of buzz around these guidelines and when it comes to new recommendations with catheter ablation and the early management of these patients, how are you seeing and and what's your initial take on on the guidelines? - Dr. Abhishek Deshmukh: Thanks, Anthony. No, these guidelines are very well taught through and a fantastic document for learners in cardiology who are getting into the field of cardiology and learning about atrial fibrillation because you'll get a historical perspective of what happened and how these evidence came into play. And even for contemporary clinicians who are seeing a lot of patients in AFib, I think it's a fantastic document it now, some of the key takeaways from here is now, you know, initially went through medical school and everywhere else we were taught that AFib is like paroxysmal persistent and basically defined on by the duration of AFib what people have. But what the guideline has really transitioned to now is that the, the message is that once you have AFib, you will always have AFib and it's like a continual disease. And then the arrhythmia progression is divided into, you know, looking at patients who are at risk for AFib or patients who don't have AFib yet, but they're in the pre AFib stage. So some evidence of structural or electrical remodeling in the heart, which may predispose them to get AFib. And then finally, once the patient has AFib, then it is duration dependent, whether it is paroxysmal persistent, longstanding persistent, and then whether they undergo good A or successful a fibrillation by Dr. DeSimone. And then finally permanent atrial fibrillation where, you know, you kind of have given up hopes of maintaining normal rhythm. So they have really transitioned it nicely to more clinical utility of AFib from at risk. And the management strategy standpoint, some of one of the other key takeaways, and at least as an invasive electrophysiologist, I'm always trying to see, you know, who will be the best patients to offer an AF ablation and which are the patients which are going to do better from AF ablation. And clearly there is a lot of emphasis, including class one, a indication that patients who have symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and the aim is to undergo rhythm control, then we should try to ablate them as early as possible. And it was given a class one a indication. Similarly, you know, patients who have never been tried on antibiotics that got a class two A indication, again showing the benefit of AF ablation in patients to have better outcome from the ablation procedure and mind. Well, there is also a, a good section on the recurrence of atrial fibrillation after an ablation. That is also key because you know, if any electrophysiologist tells you that, you know, they have, they have never had a recurrence from AFib, you know, either they're completely lying or they have something secret that they don't want to share it with the rest of the world. But, you know, recurrence of AFib is a reality and you know, it also kind of highlights, you know, the approach how to manage that recurrence and some of the downstream effects of oblation. So really, you know, I, we should congratulate the authors and the leadership group who put together this fantastic document. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Yeah. And, and Chris, do you have anything you know, you want to add to that before we kind of look at the heart failure side of things? - Dr. Christopher DeSimone: Definitely. So definitely underscore what Dr. Deshmukh said. You know, they really did a, a yeoman's job on this building on what's been out there and then really bringing AFib to the forefront and front and center again, right? And it says something when you have all three of the major societies endorsing United States, Europe, all these areas endorsing a new set of guidelines. So I think this has just been documents in the waiting and it probably couldn't come out at a better time with the change of an implementation of pulse field ablation. Now to the catheter set. I would say along with Dr. Deshmukh's points, one of the major highlights is earlier is better and not only is earlier better, we're looking at atrial fibrillation as a continual disease or if you will even a continual syndrome. So really what we're doing is to improve patient's symptoms, reduce their recurrence and reduce their progression to persistent AFib. Even when we have these patients that are classified paroxysmal where we think are paroxysmal, there is a long interplay in between persistent all the way back to really truly paroxysimal atrial fibrillation. And that's where it's difficult to try to put these patients into these certain bins. So that's where the early part of these documents really speaks to us and hopefully speaks to the primary care and internal medicine field because most of the time, or at least the last two years, based on data in the past about no mortality benefit rate versus rhythm control, a lot, a lot of patients have been on metoprolol or diltiazem and rate controlling agents and they've just been sitting in atrial fibrillation persistently for a long time. So I think this document comes at a pristine time so that we can intervene on these patients earlier. And again, we don't have cures, we will have recurrence with the atrial fibrillation, but we have better treatments the earlier and the more paroxysmal we identify these patients at. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Hmm. And so the two clear things are, you know, even going back to the animal models when they studied AFib begets AFib, that's clear and kind of continued here and early is is important. Now, Dr. DeSimone, when you think of the, the focus of AFib, we see it with a lot of our heart failure patients. What are your thoughts on the guidelines and how they've shifted to managing AFib in those with reduced systolic function? - Dr. Christopher DeSimone: Definitely great one and, and it's really comes out in the documents and the guidelines very well. So it's really trying to establish this correlation or this connection between the atrial fibrillation as either being a byproduct of the heart failure or as being the originator. The AFib is the culprit of atrial of heart failure and decompensation. So if you initiate that, think about that. We have very, very few medicines or technologies or diets or anything you could think of that will reverse and or cure heart failure. This is one of the only things we have to do that. And if you could solve the atrial fibrillation riddle and maintain sinus rhythm in these patients, they have significant benefits on multiple subcategories of evaluation. So I think the important things that the document highlight is that you need to establish if you have a rhythm controlling approach, if you establish sinus rhythm, can you recover the ventricle? Can you recover the ejection fraction and even can you improve structural heart disease like valve regurgitation or tricuspid regurgitation? I think in some patients I probably even have lean to most patients if we do have that correlation to where patient was previously fine, healthy, normal echocardiogram, no cardiac disease, and all of a sudden presents in heart failure and they're in atrial fibrillation as well. Very aggressively, we should try to keep these patients in sinus rhythm. And I tell my patients we should take a diagnostic and a therapeutic approach to solving this AFib heart failure conundrum. That is, if we put you on a drug or if we do an ablation, if we keep you in sinus rhythm and your heart goes back to normal structurally and functionally, then we should take every efforts ablation drugs, sometimes the combination thereof to try to improve your outcomes across all measures. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Yeah, and it's the AFib heart failure, you know, which comes first and it's almost the cycle of both, you know, going to each other. Dr. Deshmukh, any thoughts on, you know, these heart failure patients? - Dr. Abhishek Deshmukh: No, I think Chris really nicely outlined, but one thing we need to understand that although the guidelines support AFib and heart failure, that is AFib with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. So that would be, you know, patients with likely tachycardia mediated cardiomyopathy, they're going fast. And then when you can bend back into normal rhythm, their EF gets better. That's, that's an important subgroup of patients because all of patients present that way, what the guidelines don't emphatically say, but there's enough signal now with, you know, maybe also some of the work. What we have done here that AF ablation also works in patients with AFib, with preserved ejection traction. So even if the EF is normal, if they have heart failure symptoms, certainly ablation may not fix the heart failure in that patient because EF is normal. But again, they will symptomatically do much better if, if they get an ablation for for AFib. So really good. A lot of good tips on how to manage AFib and heart failure together. And lastly, it also highlights that, you know, sometimes ablation is not always the answer to treat atrial fibrillation. So you know, it also emphasizes the node of pacing and AV node ablation like conduction system pacing or CRT pacing in the right situation to see whether that can also improve outcomes in patients who are refractory to other interventions to control their AFib. That's definitely - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Correct and you, you see the timing, you know, we've talked about it being a, a critical factor here in the management and early has been a recurrent theme that I've heard from both of you. You know, when we think about the patient selection, which seems to be important, whether we're putting a device in, in this shared decision making process, which Dr. DeSimone just mentioned, maybe you could walk us through, you know, a patient that comes to you in this and whether you're trying to decide antiarrhythmic drugs versus ablation and you know, what is the, the right option or things that are c clueing you in? - Dr. Abhishek Deshmukh: Yeah, no, everybody's approach is going to be different here. But you know, as electrophysiologist, you know, we are also trying to identify the right patient whom we can offer ablation for success for the patient. But more importantly, you know, we should not forget that at heart we are all internist and general cardiologist first and then became eps. And with that background, there's enough evidence now that really aggressive risk factor modification will play a cornerstone in reducing AFib recurrence even after an ablation. And now what the guidelines have nicely done it, you know, it has given you clear targets of what is weight loss. So more than 10% of body weight, how much to exercise alcohol, abstinence, you know, those things play important role in reducing the AFib burden. Now the guidelines, you know, just as a breaking news for all the coffee lovers, you know, guidelines don't say that you have to stop drinking coffee unless coffee specifically is a trigger. So at least for our patients, you know, we should not have them stop. We should not have them stop drinking coffee in case unless it's a clear trigger for AFib. So what the guideline also has carried on very nicely over the years that there has always been a debate about rate control versus rhythm control. And the guidelines in one of their tables have clearly suggested how to approach rate control and rhythm control and which patients would be a good candidate for rate control versus rhythm control so that they keep it in two separate buckets. And then there is that EQU vocal patient, you know, who may benefit from either ways. And they also support a, a, a trial of cardioversion in that group of patients to really see whether we can actually make that patient feel better in sinus to them after cardioversion. So the guidelines have outlined that patients who have had more recent onset of AFib rates difficult to control, more symptomatic, more LV dysfunction or more AV valvular regurgitation. Those are the patients who may benefit more from rhythm control compared to patients whose rates are easier to control patients who are older, not many symptoms, these are the, those are the patients who can go for rate control. So at least in clinic, when I see the patient, you know, I emphasize on risk factor modification and if they have been in AFib for a considerable period of time, I at least offer one or two trials of amiodarone with cardioversion to try to see if we can bring them back into normal rhythm to really make them feel how they could feel in AFib and versus normal rhythm. If they don't feel any difference, then we can go for rate comfortable. If they actually say, well, you know, my fatigue has gotten better, a lot of times the AFib just creeps onto somebody. So when they, when they get off AFib and they are back in sinus rhythm, they may feel their excess capacity is better, their fatigue is better. So I go by all the clinical clues and physical exam clues, what I can get when I'm evaluating a patient. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: And Dr. DeSimone, any, you know, final thoughts on that? - Dr. Christopher DeSimone: I do. So just a few things to add and it's kind of latched onto what Abhishek has already alluded to. You know, when we offer these patients these options, I would say it's fair for all of us, all of my colleagues, when we, when we bring these up to patients, it's always gonna be risk factor modification. So it's gonna be ablation plus risk factor modification. It's going to be rate control It's gonna be pacemaker navy node ablation I think that just comes inherent. It's not like, well I don't wanna give up drinking, so I'm gonna do the ablation or I want to come off anticoagulation, so I'm gonna do the ablation. That's never the right answer. We're always trying to risk modify and that gives the patients invite and a get to what are they gonna get out of this if they quit smoking, if they quit alcohol or reduce alcohol use, it's something that they get out of it. And that brings me to my second point here. You know, when we're talking about this binomial or other little silos, we put patients in to say, look, this is a persistent, this is a paroxysmal, this is a patient that might like ablation this, A patient would be great for ablation. I really, me, I know Dr. DMI as well, really put it out to the patients in a non judgmental way. I wanna do what they're most comfortable with. If it's starting with ablation, I'm happy to offer that. If it's starting with a drug, seeing how well they do, how they feel. Some patients hate how the drugs make them feel or don't wanna be on any drugs and they wanna do ablation, I think that's fine. Some patients don't want to go through a surgical procedure even though we're doing it percutaneously. And I think that's fine. I think you gotta let the patients make their own decision. You give them an unbalanced option and the best evidence you have, and you give them nothing to sort of sway them in which way you would lead until they ask you for that information. So then the patient's really telling you, here's the treatment I want for this atrial fibrillation. 'cause it's really going to be lifestyle modifications and everything we mentioned to you, all of this is for symptoms. It's what they're willing to give up versus what they're willing to get feeling better and what risk are they gonna take to get what benefit. So I really think the patient's, the overwhelming driver here, and that's what the guidelines kind of push you towards. Where we stand on the electrophysiology side is proceduralists, is to say, here's my thoughts and here's my perception of the situation after you've told me your wants and wishes. And that's what we bring of artistry to electrophysiology. It's not a cookbook. Okay, this person is the X number of years and has this number of comorbidities, they would do better with meds. This patient's extremely healthy, they're young, they do better with ablation. You really gotta carve out with the patient, are they the right person to benefit? Do you think that one procedure that you're going to do is going to lead them to another procedure down the load with recurrence and or do they need to be on an antirrhythmic drug given the aggressiveness of their AFib When you're starting, all of those things come into play in our minds, and that's what we could offer the patients when they ask us for our feedback or input in this situation. If you get all of those right, then it becomes a really good tool. And it's sort of a therapeutic and medicine modality because you're letting the patients choose, you're letting them engage in their care, and then you're really helping them out by applying the art form to medicine, which we all love to do. And all we, we all want to do and should do for our patients. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: That's great. You know, thank you both, you know, for joining us. I mean, it's really clear that the atrial fibrillation is with us, and then when we bring our patients with us, it's not for any short term. It's a long term journey. It's a long term journey of trying to figure out what's best with them. And as they both mentioned today, it's gonna look different for everyone. And sometimes, you know, atrial fibrillation is not symptomatic as Dr. Deshmukh mentioned, but sometimes it, it might be the thing that provides a lot of quality of life improvement. The guidelines are clear that, you know, atrial fibrillation will progress and we have to do a good job of monitoring and maybe early intervention makes sense for some patients. Dr. DeSimone and Dr. Deshmukh, thank you so much for sharing your time and your perspectives. I, I wonder if you know Dr. Deshmukh, maybe one final word. Do you have anything to, to say here before we end? - Dr. Abhishek Deshmukh: Yeah, I just wanted to sum up everything. Nice. Very nicely done, Anthony. But you know, everybody's AFib is different, but every, the treatment for everybody's AFib still remains the same, you know, rate control, rhythm control, anticoagulation and ablation. So, you know, so at, at this point we don't have a personalized approach like which patient is going to do better with which therapy, but we are kind of throwing the kitchen sink, but now throwing the kitchen sink, we know, you know what all we should throw in that kitchen sink and what we should not throw in the kitchen sink depending on the patient population we are dealing with. So thank you again for inviting us. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: No, thank you. I think that's a really important point is the guidelines kind of giving us that kitchen sink of what we should use and can use. But, you know, making that art of medicine really different for each patient. Again, thank you Dr. DeSimone, Dr. Deshmuk for joining today. We hope to have you back and, and really appreciate your time. - Dr. Christopher DeSimone: Love to be back. Thank you so much for doing this. - Announcer: Thank you for joining us today. We invite you to share your thoughts and suggestions about the podcast at cveducation.mayo.edu. Be sure to subscribe to a Mayo Clinic cardiovascular CME podcast on your favorite platform, and tune in every other week to explore today's most pressing electrocardiography topics with your colleagues at Mayo Clinic. This has been a Mayo Clinic podcast.