One of the exciting things that we're doing at United Health Group to transform how health and medical care is delivered is to be able to use uh an integrated comprehensive end-to-end approach that's first and foremost grounded in extraordinary data and analytic capabilities. This is the era of big data and we are making that era of big data come alive in the healthcare industry and through our work at United Health Group. What we are now doing then is to take uh robust data assets, be able to put the supercomputing capabilities uh to that's required for it to be analyzed to make sense and then disseminate that information in meaningful interventions at three levels. at the community or population level, at the level of an employer or purchasers population, and then down to the individual level so that we can take information, understand what people need to make personally appropriate health care choices, and then finally be able to use the data and understand how an individual wants to be engaged in this new era where you have availability to uh apps on your mobile device, texting, uh internet, social networking, uh gaming technologies, uh and of course the ubiquitous uh internet and the old style of just books and magazines. So learning how people want to be engaged, how they want to be coached, who they want to be coached by and how all of those becoming important. So end to end starting with identifying what the datadriven priorities are so that people communities u employers can make personally appropriate choices and decisions and then be able to engage in meaningful ways so that people actually use information to optimize their health and the affordability of their healthcare decisions. The key to what we're trying to do at United Health Group is to be able to engage all the stakeholders in healthcare. So if we have information about a community's uh health status and what the highest priorities are, now we can try to engage with government, church, civic association, fraternities, and sororities and have a datadriven prioritization that hopefully focuses and recruits resources to meet those needs. when we're trying to work with an employer and giving them specific information about where their problems are and what their problems are in each of their locations and which subpopuls of their employees are experiencing those problems. Now, we can helpfully work with them to target resources more cost-effectively and to engage the employer with greater specificity. When we have information about an individual, now we're able to be able to bring together uh this information by sharing it with the physician or the health care system, the hospital uh and the patient so that they can have a better conversation as they in the context of the patient physician relationship but also we can provide this information to the individual so that they can in fact act on their own self-interest. So, it depends on on on which level we're working, but ultimately they all roll up to be a combined activity that is designed to enhance health and and improve the affordability of healthcare delivery.