Many people experience progressive degeneration of the shoulder joint as a result of arthritis or accidents. Shoulder pain is often intense at night and interferes with sleep. There is also often a loss of mobility in daily activities, as well as at work and when playing sports like golf and tennis. There are some misconceptions about shoulder replacement; some think it is an extremely painful surgery with a very long recovery, or that the implants are ineffective or unstable. At our center, the shoulder replacement procedure has been greatly improved to enhance our patients' surgical experience by focusing on postoperative pain management. Furthermore, recent advances allow us to select the best possible implant for each patient. Finally, implants designed with the help of surgeons from the Mayo Clinic achieve much greater bone preservation. These are the components used in anatomical prostheses. The shape of the implants closely resembles normal anatomy. Components used in the past to replace the glenoid side used much more bone. Currently, there are implants with ultra-short pins to preserve bone. The same applies to the humeral side, where we use...  Implants are made as short as possible to preserve bone for the future. In an anatomical prosthesis, the surgeon separates the shoulder muscles and sections a tendon to separate the shoulder bones. At the glenoid, the surgeon prepares the bone to place a plastic component cemented with studs. At the humerus, the humeral head is resected and replaced with a component consisting of a metal stem that is inserted into the canal and a metal hemisphere. The joint is reduced, and the surgeon closes the tendon. The rotator cuff is a group of muscles essential for shoulder function. These muscles can be damaged in certain patients who require a shoulder replacement. The anatomical components do not function well without a good rotator cuff. The development of reverse or inverted prostheses has been a huge advance for these patients. In the inverted prosthesis, the normal shoulder structure is inverted so that a metal hemisphere is placed on the glenoid side and a concave component on the humeral side. The deltoid muscle is generally  To achieve arm movement, the surgeon separates the shoulder muscles, severs one of the tendons, and separates the scapula and shoulder bones. The humeral head is sectioned, and a metal tray is placed on the scapular side and secured with screws. A metal hemisphere is placed on this tray, and on the humeral side, a metal stem receives a concave plastic component that articulates with the metal hemisphere, allowing pain-free shoulder movement. In the past, shoulder surgery used to be a relatively painful experience. During the first few postoperative days, at our center, in collaboration with the anesthesia department, we have developed a process that has substantially improved pain control. Our anesthesiologists place a very thin catheter around the nerves of the brachial plexus in the neck. This catheter is visualized with ultrasound to guide the nerves. The catheter remains in place for 24 to 36 hours. Shoulder protection with a sling is crucial. Physical therapy is also extremely important and must be individualized for each patient. Most exercises can be performed with the help of a family member, although assistance is sometimes helpful.  The help of a physiotherapist, along with certain exercises in the final recovery phase, is performed by the patient themselves. As orthopedic surgeons, there is nothing more satisfying than seeing patients recover from surgery pain-free, with good shoulder mobility, and with a beautiful smile. Shoulder otoplasty has truly advanced, entering a new generation. Thank you very much for your attention.