Hello. Hello everyone. We'll give everybody a minute to connect to their audio and get fully logged in. I see some smiling faces. Hey everybody. >> Good morning. >> Is it more? Oh, afternoon. Oh my goodness. I almost said good morning, too. >> It has been one of those days. No worries at all. >> Just got to share, by the way. >> Yay. Oh, awesome. We were having some technical difficulties. So, we we agree with you that it's one of those days. Um, so appreciate everybody's patience today. >> I don't have camera on this computer. I'm sorry. >> Oh, that's okay. Yeah, we don't require your camera to be on. So, if it if your camera's not working, no worries. We just want you to be able to see and hear us. So, no requirement that you have your camera on. Um, I will ask everybody to go ahead and um mute yourself if you're not speaking to us. Um because we are we don't have we have about 40 people in here so far, but we were we had quite a few that registered today. So, we want to make sure everybody's muted just so we don't we're not picking up all your background noise. Y'all remember how that works on Zoom. Um let me admit admit a few people more who are waiting here in my waiting room. Um but yeah, so um I'm Janette Davenport. I'm one of the social workers with the kidney pancreas transplant team. Nice to see everybody. Thanks for joining. Um I have here with me um Joseph Yelington. He is one of our fabulous physical therapists here at Mayo Clinic and um he has graciously agreed to join us today to give us a little presentation about u rehabilitation for kidney transplant um and pancreas transplant p uh patients. So I am going to um turn the floor over to him and Joseph I'll be kind of moderating the chat for you. If if you have questions as we go, um you can feel free to put them in the chat or you can save them till the end and then we'll have some opportunity for questions and answers then as well. Okay. All right. I'll let Joe take it away. >> Hi everyone. I'm Joseph Yington. I'm one of the physical therapists here at at Mayo Clinic on the transplant unit. And what you're seeing behind me is actually a real gym. Um this is our new 12 uh 12 north gym. This is not a background. This is a real gym. And I was had just had a Zoom call from here and patient walked in. It's like, "Whoops." Um, but it's a nice background because we do uh we're really advanced in what we're trying to do for our transplant patients. Um, and this is the advanced stuff. This is the second gear stuff. It's funny. I was uh working with a fellow today down the hall, transplant patients. So, I'm up moving around really well and I walked into this room later and I they said, "You about ready to go home?" Says, "Yeah, I'm about ready to get into second gear." And I ran back in here and I changed this this uh presentation along those lines. First gear, second gear, third gear. And I went and told him that too. Not that it was going. He said he's a a writer, so he wants some royalties, but he's not going to get it. So anyway, that's how we're going to move along. Um the rehabilitation, kidney, liver and kidney transplant, kidney and pancreas transplant, excuse me. Um training the best outcomes uh in the long term and how can we make this the short-term outcomes easier? We have a little concept we call prehabilitation. Trying to get some of these things done before transplant. Understand some of you may be going uh planning to get transplant maybe listed and some of you had had it completely completed and are post-rplant. We're going to uh cover some of all of these things in the next uh 45 minutes or so. Okay. We're going to start with uh during your stay. Um mobility is responsibility of all staff. um you're going to get physical and occupational therapy um for kid pancreas transplant maybe maybe with kidney sometimes it doesn't that's why we have this presentation so if you're kidney transplant recipient after the surgery it won't be kind of so much of a surprise what's going to be happening I'm going to have to click on these instead of scroll but again here's the gear thing this is the thing I just put in prehabilitation first second and third gear we don't really have an overdrive yet uh but the prehabilitation Um this is the engine idling. This is where folks are waiting or have been listed or waiting to get transplant or sitting. Um that's what the prehabilitation is. Um I'll go into more detail on that. First gear is the hospitalization. Um that's when you're recovering. Um still have the lines starting to get the mobility going to control your pain trying to learn the things that going to keep you safe. Second gear is going home with the family. And the third gear is the getting back to that full activity work and the long-term goals. work, travel, hobbies, exercise, family, leisure, those things. That's the third gear. We're going to address these each of these individually. Now, prehabilitation or prehab, um, we we do is we want to talk about these things before surgery. You can imagine um waking up and having this old man in front of you telling you he's going to get you up and start moving you around. That's me. Um, and we're going to teach you how to be safe, how to control your pain, and we're going to throw a lot at you that first day. and how can how overwhelming that is. How to do the deep breathing the right day. What your family is going to do. >> Go ahead. >> Um and particularly >> Yep, I can hear you. >> Hello. >> Yep, you're on. You might want to mute. So, it obviously um after uh that transplant surgery um you have probably wouldn't have slept real good that night. You've had a few things going on. Uh pain and control on the bed's not real comfortable. So the learning doesn't make for easy learning and so um a lot of times it's easier to learn beforehand. That's what's great about what we're doing here by the fact of recording it for uh future use. We're going to get a lot of education done in a very short time that would normally take place the day after surgery. Um so the goal of this prehab surgery prehabilitation is to get you ready for the surgery so there's not so much of a surprise. There's a lot of fear going into it. Um and that fear can make things a little harder to bear. That's what we're going to try and manage here is how uh how many things we're going to do to try and make that easier on you. So, we're trying to get you ready for surgery and of course get you ready to go home, which is everybody's goal. Um a lot of times liver transplants are a little bit different from pancreas and kidney. liver transplants. They've got a lot of problems with encphylopathy and their labs getting off and parinitis and ascites and they have to come in a lot and so they get this education before surgery but not so much with the kidney and pancreas population. So, uh this is the way we're going to start doing this from here on out thankfully and thank you for the invitation by the way Janette and I scrolled down just a bit now. There are three basic prehab topics uh that I like to talk about. These are the things that as I'm sitting the side of the bed, I'm saying, "Man, I wish we could have talked about this beforehand." So, we're going to talk about it beforehand. There's three things I like people to try and do to get ready for surgery uh for abdominal surgery. One, get good at belly breathing. I'm going to go through through this several times during the um this this discussion, but the belly breathing is important. Get really good at that before surgery. You can understand why that would be easy. to get really good at walking because walking is always going to get you out of here. And there's some transfers that I like people to practice before you've been surgically altered. I'm going to go in these individually now. Now, diaphragmatic breathing uh helps with several things. It's really tough after surgery, but it's really important. And throughout my career, I found out all the things it does do. And it's not just a matter of filling the lungs to prevent adalcttois and the collapsing of the lungs which happens very quickly. I bumped into a colleague and I'm trying to go off on too many tangents that said this happens after knee replacement surgery. Certain number of people, excuse me, have had knee replacement surgery, which is a 45minute surgery that doesn't involve the abdomen start developing this collapsing of the of the lower lung fields. And so we need your deep breathing. It's just really hard after surgery. So get really good at practicing that before surgery. Really good. I mean, not just but really good before surgery. Um, we do that with shoulder replacements. People are going to have that done is get in and get really good at that range before surgery. The diaphragmatic breathing also helps u with abdominal muscle spasms. So, we're going to go in a lot of detail about how those muscles after surgery are going to try and protect themselves by tensing. And this is one way of controlling. It also relaxes the entire body. You're going to be going through a lot. The body's going to need to relax and we'll work on that uh throughout your stay. And here's one I didn't realize. I was at a course the other day uh other year um and that actually that the belly breathing assists with uh bowel movements. The belly breathing is not a lot of movement, but it's 28,000 times a day. And that 28,000 is partially responsible for the pressure of getting the bowels moving. And I didn't realize that it was actually pelvic floor discussion. Um, but if you're not belly breathing because you're in pain, that could slow that down, which is one of the one of the many reasons those bowels will will slow down to some degree. Now, the belly breathing is pretty simple. I've got uh just a picture of this fell here pushing the stomach out. That's belly breathing. It's isolated belly breathing. But this right here is where the scar is. And so, it's going to be tough to do. And if u there not sometimes the scar is over on this side and it can be substantial but that's why it's so hard because you're trying to expand an area after surgery that just got surgicalized. Um it's going to be hard to contract that. So that's why I want you to practice a lot before surgery. And I mean I practice it a lot. I want to mention one thing though. this little gizmo here, the spometer, that little thing that you attach this tube to and you suck on the tube and make these little balls go up. Real important to train you how to take the deep breath, but you're already going to be trained beforehand. A lot of people treat these balls like golf balls and they try and knock the heck out of it and so they'll be deep breathing and they'll just go, you don't have to go go that hard. So I like to call even I heard the one of the transplant the lung transplant patients say you know what this is starting to hurt people so bad maybe we should just find another way and that's when I come to this this yoga breathing the other function of that diaphragm are to relax and if you're breathing really strainful with all these lines in you it's going to be uncomfortable so sometimes it's just a matter of just a slow deep relaxing breath and take what it gives you. This is what I tell everybody. Don't force it. Don't but just take what it gives you. You'll feel tightness. That's okay. But I don't want a lingering pain after this little simple exercise that should be causing you to this should be promoting relaxation. So practice this beforehand because you'll be starting this as soon as you get out of surgery is trying to get that bow the the lungs filling up because you don't want to develop a cough. You want to get this started early because you don't want to be developing a cough and it'll help with relaxation as well. Matter of fact, that holy since the guy talked to me about the gears, I went back and talked to him and I've never seen anybody inflate his belly like this guy just did after all these years. He's a musician. He's used to taking massive deep breaths and he's moving almost too easily because he's gotten so much mobility now. He's moving too easily. I I just went and had that discussion with him uh after we u had to compliment him on on the the gear mechanism, the gear concept and he really impressed me. Okay, so the belly breathing is going be the first thing. Um the second the most difficult part of mobility is getting up and down after surgery. There's a couple of ways uh which you have to get up and move. I'd like to practice these before surgery where it's not so difficult. One of them is the log roll. You're going to have a big scar here. And this is a concept that was taught to us by neurosurgeons. When they go in, they do back surgery. They don't you tear those bolts out that we put in your back. And so they do a log roll where you roll to the side from this position and push up with your arms or in the bed rail to attain sitting. I encourage you to practice this. Roll all the way to the side and drop the legs and sit up and practice that over and over again. One thing I can't tell you is which side of the bed is easier after all this time. Some people say it's the left after kidney surgery. Some people say it's the right. Do you lay on the sore side or do you lay on the good side and use the sore side to get up? So, this is one of those two things I just want you to practice. Make it all easy. This this is a two- second maneuver. It's uh and so we can minimize the amount of pain with that that first maneuver. Okay. So, the the other one is this one is practice getting up and down without holding your breath. You'll practice doing this without holding your breath. You'll practice this one. Just the getting up and down out of a chair without holding your breath. Just practice these two. Um, we're going to show you some shortcuts to this. Some people who are taller, I like to put uh blankets in the chair so it's just not so much of a strain. But you can see when you go to get up and this may be hard to bend those hips that way. Um, and so people don't and so they don't quite go as far forward and it's just harder for them because the legs aren't strong enough to get them up to get them up. And so I really like people to work on that sideline exercise laying bringing the legs up to 90° rolling to your side, dropping them off and sitting up and practicing that back and forth back and forth because you have to get back into bed. And then practice some squats to get you good and strong here. And of course try not to hold your breath. This is the hardest part. If we can minimize this, we can really take a lot of the discomfort out of those first days of mobility. So, it's the transitions, it's the deep breathing, and walking. Get yourself as good walking shape as you can because that's what's going to get you out of here. We walk not to get you in shape while you're in the hospital. We're going to do it a lot. Not as much as we'd like, but we're going to do it plenty. Um, and again, we're going to make that as easy as we can. But walking with get you out of here is going to prevent those complications. So, if you can get out and walk as much as you can beforehand, two, three times a day, and if you have to, if you're kind of weak, use an assisted device. Use an assisted device to make sure you keep safe, just to keep as much time on your on your feet as you can. All right. So, it's the walking, deep breathing, and those transitions. Now, I want to talk to you about pain. That's the before. Pain is more than you might think. And I've been over the years of dealing with it. Um, I've kind of defined it as as pain. Yes, you've got surgery. There's going to be pain from the surgical site, but some of it we can manage a little bit better. And I like to do this pain education beforehand because it's going to make things a little bit simpler and honestly easier afterwards. I still remember in high school looking at a an old movie of um perhaps it was in college of someone who did a study and if they told you that there was going to be a lot of pain after this the certain procedure you were going to need more pain medications as opposed to somebody who said there's not going to be that much pain or we're going to talk about how to manage that pain. They didn't need as much pain medicine. Now, that study was probably in the 70s or early 80s, but still there are in fact ways of controlling this pain. You've heard of a placebo effect. This is called the noibo effect. If you tell something somebody's going to it's going to hurt, they're going to expect it to hurt. But these are all the ways we're going to try and manage that to manage the the level of pain and how long you're going to hurt. And if you get sore, we're going to get you in the chair and show you how to control it. I spend a good portion I can't say a majority of the session but a good portion of the session trying to do just this and trying to get the nurse to do the same thing because if we can get your pain down you can mobilize fine if we can manage the lines for you. So I really emphasize this. So pain comes from three different areas. There's surgical obviously there's the muscles around it and then there's this little strange guy. Even when there doesn't seem to be involved, those bowels seem to sure want to make themselves known. It becomes a real issue. I'll tell you a personal story about how horrible that is. Now, the pain from the surgical pain is the stuff you expect. You got a scar there, the pain's going to be around that scar. And you get your medications every six or eight hours and you have a button in between. And if you miss those, you'll notice a couple hours later that the pain starts to increase. Um, this is the what uh defines the surgical pain. The pain's right around where the surgery is and it's going to be right around that area and it develops over hours. You make sure you get your medications on scheduled and then you have a a patient controlled anesthesia button that they will give you to use in between. Now, it's simple, but there's another one. It's the muscular pain. Now, the muscular pain starts near the surgical site, but it starts spreading out. Where the surgery site is, you have all these layers of muscles. You have the rectus abdominis, you've got the transversus, and you got the obliques. And you're going to feel that pain start spreading out. And that's as those muscles are tensing to try and protect that area. That's pain that'll develop over minutes. You'll be in a certain position, you realize you're starting to get really uncomfortable. Um, that's not that surgical pain so much that develops over several minutes, but over a short, very few number of minutes. And it occurs, it can occur when moving, when tensing, and again, we mentioned those transitions. you go to get up. Oh, you're going to feel that. But there's ways of controlling that muscular pain. Lots of ways of controlling the muscular pain. The first one, and this is the first probably the first thing you do when you get up that first morning, is if you're in bed, I did not do that right. Excuse me. Sorry. I don't know why I kicked over that far. The first one is to reposition. So, if you're in a position that you get sore, we all do this. We micro adjust. But in the bed, and I actually was going to put a picture of these beds, it's hard to micro adjust. When you're in that bed, there's kind of a pit that develops. You've been there for several hours, and it's hard to get out of it. The surface of those beds are very slick to keep you from tearing skin. And so, you slide into the bottom of this bed, and you get stuck there, and it's hard to move out of it. The problem is is as you As you're in that bed, you slide and you curl up around that scar. And so very quickly that pain's going to get uncomfortable and you start using the PTA, the PCA. When that occurs, and sometimes when I walk into the room the first time, the first thing I do before I ask even ask your name is I get nursing to slide you up in the bed. So that we're taking you out of this position into this position into what we call the beach chair position because where that scar is we don't want it crunching. We want it open this way. So that's what I teach the nurses to do as well as uh that pain is starting to come up pretty quickly. Adjust them at bed then get the medication because it just takes a couple of seconds once we get you into the rec recliner as opposed to the bed. It's got armrests so you can undo those little mic those little micro adjustments that we do all day. That's going to make things a lot easier. Uh we mentioned it before. Another way of controlling that muscular pain is to not bear down. Try and blow your air out as you move. Um avoid the breath holding. Here's an important one. When we walk that first time, um we're going to use this podium device. This thing here, it's like a brace that's not quite around the body. We're not going to make you pick up a walker and move it and pick up a walker and move it. That would be uncomfortable. So, we're going to use a podium that you can kind of bend in on and lean on and take the pressure off your stomach. Um, and that kind of goes into this next point. If you've had surgery and you've been in bed all night, it's not going to be so easy as stand up straight. Um, I drive home 20 minutes. I can't stand up straight after stand after driving 20 minutes. It takes me a minute. So people are going to tell you stand up straight and you're going to say just give me a minute and I'm straightening up. But this little device here, you can put all your weight on your arms and just relax. And it takes a lot of that muscular pain away immediately. Some folks will walk on that two wheel walker and when you put them on this one, they can go twice as far because it's just easier. And it's just easier because of the pain. So this is just a really good pain control device almost like a pain pill because it just takes pressure off when you're mobilizing. And we'll use this. I like to use this a lot. I like to use this until you're like doing laps around the unit. Then I'll put you on the smaller walker. So again, we'll use the podium to take pain, that muscular pain away. Um the deep breathing, when all those muscles tighten and tighten, the belly breathing is what gets them to relax. If my shoulders get tight, I have to contract the other muscles and to relax them just to get those to shorten and to to lengthen and quit. And that's how you get those to relax. And the belly breathing is how you get all those abdominal muscles to relax. That's one of the first things the first thing you do you start noticing pain is try a couple of belly breaths. Just nice and easy. Nice and easy. The first is going to be hard. Second a little easier. Third a little easier. But again it should be you might feel a little tightest but it don't increase your pain just like the deep breathing and everything else. Excuse me. Um here's another one. I'm not sure what to call it. They'll give you a kidney pillow or a pancreas pillow that you can hold on to. Excuse me. Because as I mentioned with the deep breathing, those lungs are going to try and fill up very quickly and we need your deep breathing. But as you go to move, there's going to be a cough and it'll be a hard cough and we we need a hard cough. Unfortunately, that stomach's going to kick out when you cough. And so you have to control that by grabbing one of the pillows that will give you a big soft cushy one. And you hold that against your stomach to allow you to cough. That's a good pillow for helping you move sometimes, too. Had a one patient tell me, but I haven't tried this. I I'm starting to recommend it. So he said, "You take that that organ pillow and you hold it over your surgery site and you hold it for about 30 seconds and then cough." He said that made it so much easier to do. So the coughing, the getting up, the walking, we have ways of each aspect of your mobility making that a little bit uh easier because you're laying in bed and you haven't eaten and you hadn't slept. There's we call it putting wood on the fire. All these things just make for a big roaring fire of misery. And so by using a podium, by deep breathing, by using the um the the uh um the recliner instead of the wheelchair instead of the bed, we're going to start taking fire off wood off that fire. So it's going to be a much easier fire to manage by using all of these techniques. Excuse me one last time. Now, many years ago, um had a stomach ache, got bad, they took me to the hospital, couldn't local hospital, couldn't find anything, sent me home. Turns out it was my appendix rupturing and I had to go back. And by then it it wasn't by then it was bad. Um so I spent a couple of weeks in the hospital. Um and I just didn't realize they couldn't give me anything but pain because I had found out that I had a reaction to it and they had to put me in ICU. So they couldn't give me anything but Tylenol. They even had to come in and open me back up in the bed to because of the infection blah blah blah. And despite all that, the most intense pain was this bowel pain, which is the strangest thing. I didn't know how to explain it. Nobody can explain it to me in 1979. But for some reason, you know, the surgical pain takes couple, you know, slowly builds up over an hour. The muscular pain over minutes. this thing. You'll just be sitting there standing, walking, laying down and all of a sudden you get this intense gut pain and it's just intense. And everybody says it's the most intense pain yet. That's the bowels trying to do their thing. They're just trying to propel something. The good news about that pain is it goes away in about 30 seconds. Mine lasted for a long time. Um over the years it it took a while to go away because it was such a complicated thing. But the bowel pain's pretty quick. If it just goes away, just give it a second and not tense, that pain will go away and that's when it shouldn't freak out about nothing going wrong. It's just what we expecting. And we need those bowels moving. We we actually kind of need that to occur. I went through husband coach child birth training with my wife and they described it very similarly. The bowel when you're going through contractions, the uterus is trying to push the baby and you don't fight that. You need to let that happen just like the bowels. You kind of kind of need to let that happen. And then there's one more little thing that we'll deal with and that's nausea. Um you that it'll sneak up on you. It's it's tough. And what I've noticed is um well everybody has a pain tolerance. Some people have a good pain tolerance, some people have a bad pain tolerance. Nobody has a nausea tolerance. You get nauseated, you're going down for a while. And this is tough. But there's means of controlling it as well, including the belly breathing. seems like nausea, the gut can't feel figure out whether it wants to go send those contents of the gut up or whether it wants to go down. And so the belly breathing is one of the ways of helping the resolve that as hard as that is. We also have these little devices called the quezies. It's pepper it's a peppermint that helps. It's an aroma therapy to try and help that nausea. Some people it helps more than others. And again, if there's nausea and you start getting cold sweat, this is one of the best things I've ever done is get a cold cloth, ice cold if you can get it, and put it on the face, the neck, uh the back of the neck, and the forehead, excuse me, and the chest. You cover this, this, and then the upper neck. And it will do one trying to control that nausea because the nausea is hard. The nausea is harder to deal with than pain. It really is. But one other thing, one, this is the first ask. If you're up and you start getting nauseated, please let us know. This could also mean your blood pressure is dropping. That's one of the the big ask is uh let us know when something you don't feel right when we're mobilizing because this could mean your blood pressure is dropping and don't be We've had a real plague of people who have no idea how to complain. We need like an instruction video. It's like I didn't want to bother you. It's like yeah, this is important. We need to know these things. Dizziness, lightheadedness. I had one fella, god, I guess it' been two years ago. You tell me how you feel. Tell me how you feel. I'm fine. I says I get him back to his bed and he says, 'You feeling better? He says, 'Y yeah, my vision's coming back. That's something that's something you should tell people. That's something you should tell those those kind of things. Uh it's not complaining. We need to know them. So during your admission, you will be seen by physical and occupational therapy. Um physical therapy and occupational therapy with pancreas transplant at the day after surgery. to do the best we can. Pos um possibly have nursing, possibly have PT. Sometimes nursing will get in there before we can. And that's another reason we're glad we're doing this because this will show you some of the things to do if nursing wants to help you. It's like, hey, could you elevate that chair a little bit? I'm kind of tall. It may be tough. Hey, could I try practice this mostly to the left side? Can I go to the left side of the bed? Those kind of things. This is where one of these family can assist as well. You're going to have drains and catheterss, IVs, lines in the necks. That first time you get up, the getting up process is not that long, but it takes us a long time to get things ready. So bear with us to get everything aligned so that you're safe. And again, real important as you go to get up that first time. This is not so much an issue with um spinal surgery or knee surgery or orthopedic surgery, but after abdominal surgery, you'll feel the body just reacts strangely. So if you don't feel right, please say something. It's like, oo, let me sit here for just a second. you know, being a little woozy. You would expect that. Some people just get veagal that way. Um, mobility. Here's a big one. We're going to ask you to walk many times a day. It's going to be tough for that very reason because it takes so long to get the lines ready and the drains ready and the gown changed and those kind of things. Let's remember, walking, walking is not the only form of mobility. It's also sitting because when you go home, you need to be able to walk someplace and sit down. You need to be able to stand when you get there. So standing and walking are also good. Um and sometimes I ask family to do that. If walking's difficult but you're getting up, okay, let's practice just practice some standing. I walked in on a patient yesterday. He was so good to see he's getting ready to get out of here. They're going home with family. Yes, you can stand up and just practice marching. We'll get to walk and have you walk later together. Um and also with the ADLs, activities of daily living, being able to dress, get to the bathroom, take care of that, brush your teeth. Once you get there home, can you participate in these things? Meal preparation, all those. That's all of these things. And we're going OT will work on a lot of these as well. Get you to the bathroom and make sure you can do those basic care uh self-care things. They call it self-care. Brushing the teeth, the hair, washing the face, those things. All of that is mobility, but it's hard to get um I think I addressed this shortly. uh occupational therapy. We want to make we uh uh we've got several occupational therapists. We want to make sure we emphasize no bending or twisting um because you don't want to take that surgical site and do this. It's a healing process. We're going to get more to in third gear. We don't want to try and and uh twist that. We want to allow it to heal. Um and that not just resting of the body, but resting of that area. And how that's way you do it is not bending, lifting, or twisting. And we'll get in more detail shortly. When you're dressing, bending forward is not what we want. You're going to pick the foot up to put a foot to put your shoes on or to try and start your pants. Excuse me. We also have equipment adaptive these adaptive tools she's talking about here to help you do that. long-handled shoe horns, um, sock donners, reachers, those kinds of things to try keep you from having to bend forward because you start doing those things and as you start feeling better, not only is it bad for the surgery site, but it may is all we're going through to try and control your pain. That pain just might increase if you do the wrong thing. So, these things, no bending or twisting, it's not just to keep it safe and protect that surgical site and everything inside, it's also going to make it more comfortable. um address clothing um and footwear that has ties and buckles or anything that's difficult to manage. Slip on shoes, those new sketches are wonderful. Not that I'm endorsing them, will make your life easier. No flip flops, please. No flip-flops. Um they just we just don't want you not just falling during uh after surgery. We don't want you stumbling because then your caregiver is going to grab hold of you and we just don't want any of that. Now, sleep. Um, bodybuilders don't build muscle in a gym. They break it down in a gym. They spend two to three hours a day breaking down in a gym. They spend the other 21 days putting that muscle back on with rest and with sleep. Sleep is going to be difficult. It will come by. I promise you it will be. But we're going to try and do the best we can. Um, one of the things I do, and I interview this early on, is at home. How do you sleep? Are you a side sleeper? Do you have an adjustable bed, flatbed? Do you sleep on a couch, a a recliner? Because we want to try and do that here. Not a single individual ever has been able to tell me how much sleep a sick person needs. We know an adult needs 68 hours, but how much does a sick person need? 12, 14, 16? We don't know. They're getting about three. I just looked at data yesterday of a sleep study we just completed. Um, and there's a lot of things we're going to find out about it, but the first thing I looked at, most people are getting about three hours of sleep a night. I wouldn't show up to work if I was only getting three hours of sleep a night. It's very tough. So, can. Part of that part of that is trying to find out how your preferred sleeping methods are at home. If you're a side sleeper, it's you can't really sleep on your side. I'd go crazy if I couldn't sleep on my side, but we can manage a partial side. So instead of laying on your back or all the way on your side, we can get halfway here with pillows under your knees, pillows under your arms, and wedges. We have these wedges we can put behind your back to allow you to just rest. Now, sleep is going to become the hard hard to come by, but let's come in as an advocate for sleep. You know, hey, he likes he likes the noise on. He likes the lights out. He doesn't get up till 11:00 in the morning anyway, or she doesn't get to 11:00 in the morning anyway, or anything like that. Let's try and mimic that. So try and get your best rest. So if we can't get sleep, rest. Rest as best you can. I'll describe that in a minute. Um again, some of the details what a family can help with this resting part and the sleep part. There's environmental modifications. Control the night lights, the noise, adjust them if you need to in the chair. We have earplugs available and and eye blinders if we need to. Um and again, assisting staff with mobility. Sometimes I'll ask folks, "Do you need a pain pill or do you just need to get out of that bed?" And they say, "I just need to get out of this bed. The bed is so uncomfortable." That's where family can assist if the nurses know they have somebody close by to hold the chair, something like that. Um, it's helpful. It's very helpful. Excuse my old physical therapy tech, Phil. He doesn't know. I'm about to put him on one of most important studies we've done in a long time. He he helped me with this. Uh he's now a physical therapist, but I found these old pictures of when we talked about this many years ago. The beach chair position. This is going to take pressure off the neck where you have lines. It's going to take pressure off your chest. Um so the weight of your shoulders aren't bearing down on your chest. You're going to find the nice angle in this chair that's just right. When you're in this beach chair position, there's a very specific angle that it's a sweet spot. It's a couple of two or three degrees that you get into that your family can help you with. And you can tell you get there because they'll do this. I was describing this patient earlier. You get in that position and you go, you can finally take that deep breath. But it's multi points of control. We want your neck supported, shoulder supported, hip supported, all those things. So just to allow that rest. You can't get rest until you're comfortable. Um, but again, the family's got a huge important this thing because you're going to be going home with them. You're going to assist in the chair repositioning, those micro adjustments, aiding with mobility, aid with sperometry. That spometer, that device is going to wind up on the other side of the room. Other side of the room, and um, they'll need it handy so they can do it or at least be reminded to do the the yoga breathing. Um, that's so important. And my honestly, my preferred way is the yoga breathing. And the other thing you can do, family, is make sure that they're not trying to knock the heck out of it. I got 1,100 yesterday. I got to get 1,200 today. And they're back in pain again. Now, after discharge, um because what we're going to do here with family, as we slowly graduate, we're going to walk with the podium, then the smaller walker, and as you start to get easier and easier that we're going to turn over to staff, the staff, and then of course the family. Um and both the family and the patient have to be comfortable with that mobility. You're going to be working at home together. Let's make sure you're comfortable here before you head home. Now, gear two um is that when you're at home and you're starting to normalize your uh activities of daily living and your mobility, not forget this is a healing process. You will not bend, lift, or twist after your kidney or pancreas transplant for eight weeks. Don't test it. You're going to be feeling pretty good. Um a lot of people gets to them, they haven't been able to do a lot, so they're going to start testing it. Had this conversation yesterday. No, had the conversation. Yes, yesterday. So, he's going to start testing himself. I can tell he's the kind of guy that's going to start testing it. And sure enough, he was testing it the next day. Just this type of thing trying it's so being so eager to get back into your life that you're going for five, six weeks winding up in the yard trying to do more laundry. So, let's be cautious of this those things and that's helpful of family members to watch those things. Again, rest and nutrition. Intake is important. Intake is important. We work with the respiratory therapists and social work and everybody else and the nutritionists tell me. I ask them, "What can I do for you?" They say, "One thing, just let my people eat. They need their intake. It's so hard because the food's not hot and it's over there. It's not what they want. Let them eat." So, we try and get that intake as best we can. Continue that at home. Pay real attention to that because that's what the substrate that's going to let those tissues heal while you're not damaging it. Walking is still the best activity. Progressive walking to prevent complications. We might send you home on a walker. Um, and you'll continue with that until you don't feel like you need it. I haven't had to tell anybody to come up with a walker. Um, as you start progressing that to 5, 10, 15, 20 minutes a day. Continue the deep breathing to help with that tissue mobility to make sure we're not uh getting any minimize the scar tissue. And then you can slowly progress the aerobic activity. um walking, level surface um uh walking, bike riding is okay as long as we don't fall. Um and this is for um kidney transplants. Uh pancreas transplants are different. We have to qualify that. Um it's actually the last slide, but I'll mention it. Uh kidney trans, excuse me, pancreas transplants, you're going to be on blood thinners. Can't have any impact. We don't we won't don't want you falling or bumping or stumbling, anything like that. We also can't have you running into um potentially falling off of a bike or anything impact like playing pickle ball or anything for several months until you're off the anti-coagulants. Yeah. No lifting for up to 10 pounds. After that, you can start slowly and don't pick up where you left off. I'm going to go into some more detail of that here. as you want to start getting into third gear. As you want to start getting into these things uh like golf and pickle ball and hiking um and car mechanics and things like that, it's not just your core that got weak because you haven't been able to do all the things you normally used to do. Your hips are going to be weak, your quads are going to be weak, your ankles are going to be stiff, your shoulders are going to be stiff. So, they don't want any core exercises for 12 weeks, but I want I've got a a booklet we have that talks about some of these things is how to start strengthening in third gear. Now, here we're kind of going in a no man's land. It's easy to find lots of recommendations and lots of practice of what to do with gear one and gear two. And of course, we know what the idling gear is here. It's a little bit different. We can't find a whole lot of information on this. So, some of this is just um recommendations. I tend to be someone who likes sure we're physical therapist want performance, but I really want healing and safety. These things will herniate. You will get bleeds. Um so, we want to make sure we minimize those. So, as you go from the walking on level surfaces to starting to hiking or stair climbing, we want to make sure that you're going slowly and maintaining your symptoms, make m you're not working too hard. that it's too hard is you get out, you go for a hike, you come back and you can't get to the bathroom because you're so tired. Things like that or increased sorus around the surgical site. We want to be cautious of that. So, it's strengthening of the hips, strengthening of the shoulders and the arms and then the core and then we can start the sports again. If you want to look at getting to the golf game because golf is a bit of twisting unless you're really good with your hips and if you do start with a short effort, start with a short game of golf. um just chipping, putting for to begin with. And if you need to start start um that that long game, give it plenty of time. Plenty of time. Pickle ball. People get pretty competitive with pickle ball. I'm not sure how many people will plan on doing that, but again with kidney with pancreas transplants, you're going to put this off until well after you off those grand coagulants. That gives you more time to strengthen though. That'll give you more time to strengthen the hips. That'll give you more time to strengthen your core and work on your balance. those important things. Um, I need to put that in here. Need to work on balance and control to protect that area. It's actually a very good point. Um, but then slowly get back into it. If you're really into pickle ball, because it's not just the sport, it's the social aspect of it. Um, because that's the people you hang out with. Start just with voling back and forth. Please don't get competitive. If you think you're going to be the type that can't be not competitive, just put it off until later. Um, and hiking. A lot of people want to go on hikes. A lot long-term goals are are getting are traveling and being with family. Um, that hiking is really important. A lot to do, but make sure you pick simple routes first. Um, they said the stair climbing is okay early on. Hiking is not much different from that. Just you got to watch your route. Make sure it's a simple route and it's a safe route. Nice and wide and you're not going to stumble. Um, and then slowly start picking up the grandkids. Slowly start picking up the grandkids. That's the the long-term goals. Travel and grandkids. If you have to pick up the grandkids, make sure that they're small or you squat down and have them crawl into your lap. Important things. Um, there is Yeah, this is the thing about pancreas pancreas transplant, excuse me. that I actually did that same mistake earlier when I spell spellch checked it again. You'll be on blood thinners long after you will for kidney transplant. So you will be deferring all of these activities later. Um particularly ones that involve contact. Um um it could run the risk of stumbling, falling or being hit by a ball. Um you know bowling should be fine after the after the eight weeks but again build up to that slowly. Build up to that slowly. Now, we have this little booklet, Staying Active Before and After Transplants. Got some great exercises that can be used to the entire stages, first, second, and third gear. They have sitting exercises for the people um who are too far too weak. We will sometimes initiate those right after surgery. Um excuse me, the laying exercises for the people that are really debilitated. Those are people that usually are hospitalized already. These are usually the liver transplants, things like that. the sitting exercises we'll give while you're in the hospital. Then they've got a series of standing exercises where you kick the legs sideways backwards. The squatting exercises I showed you earlier are some of those. It's a good booklet to start progressing that that into that second gear in preparation of the third gear. And we have uh we can actually create before you leave. We can actually create your own personal exercise program after surgery. Um it's going to be pretty general because we can't monitor it. That's one of the things therapists have a an issue with is we can't monitor it. And um some people get better this fast, some people get better this think they're getting better this fast and start pushing themselves a little bit too hard. So sometimes we we're going to give you that program. Please stick to it and don't don't exceed it because you can't speed up the healing. You can only slow it down. And if you're feeling good and if you're somebody who's a laborer who's done things your whole life, feel like you need to get back to things too quickly, you can't speed that healing up. You can't make that heal any faster. You can always slow it down. Now, you can enhance it with breathing, excuse me, with um obviously the um nutrition and rest. But getting out there, moving it, making working harder isn't going to make it those first four, six, eight weeks. We need to make sure that we rest it first. go say presently we are in the idling phase, the prehab phase. The things I talk about are the making sure you're deep practice your deep breathing before surgery, getting walking as much as you can and practice those transition movements without uh causing uh without holding your breath. Then we talked about the uh pain control here. Really trying to emphasize that to take the fear out of it to make the whole thing easier. So you need less medications. If we can teach you how to do those other means of controlling your pain, relaxing, deep breathing, adjusting, maybe a little less medication, those bowels won't seize up quite as much. You won't be as loopy. You'll make more sense. Um, so that's the things we'll work on during that that second gear. Third gear, we'll make sure you're safe at home with the family. We'll make sure you transition to that second gear. Well, by making sure your family is safe. One of our therapists said this funny statement. Uh sometimes it just comes down to the person who needs to catch you. So if they're I can go home, I can go home and Mrs. is saying I don't think so. We want to make sure that all those questions are answered before we transition you home. And they rely on us greatly. They call they don't think about it. They rely on us. Um the nurse practitioners, the doctors, all the folks is he are you sure they're ready to go home. It's like, "Yeah, yeah, let's make sure this takes make sure there, but let's get some home health therapy to make sure they're safe going from that second gear to third gear or make sure that there's somebody there 24/7, not just during the day to help make sure they get from second gear to third gear." I really like that gear statement. He really helped organize things. He should be going home tomorrow anyway. Okay, so that's our gears. Do we have uh other questions we could open for? >> Um, thank you so much. That was awesome. Such great information. I love that gear analogy, too. Very cool. So timely it came up today, huh? >> It's morning at 8 o'clock and I will be using forever. Right. Yeah. I did have a question um that came to me in the chat where some you had mentioned a couple of times just uh when you were speaking about like how the time it takes to kind of get somebody up and moving after surgery and all the logistics as far as what they've got going on. You had mentioned some potentially like lines in the neck and I had a question about why would there be a line in the neck? just it's an introducer for this says in liver transplant possibly in pancreas transplant it's just something that's a little bit deeper line that's a nursing question as to why exactly they have it but there'll be lines here here and this will be here for the first couple of days yeah and it's pretty we stabilize it we put a little thing on your head to make sure it's not moving around too much if you get it I don't think the p the kidney transplants get that >> yeah I don't when I've seen kidney p patients in the hospital usually they do not there there might be some circumstances in which you know there's complications that they might have one. So, most of our kidney alone patients are probably not going to have that. Um, kidney pancreas, those are the ones I've seen it with, but it's always possible, but um so yeah, may not apply for you to you in this uh situation. Looks like we had another question in the chat. And um just to let everybody know too, we um we do record these sessions. So, if you are more comfortable putting a message in the chat or a question versus speaking, that's totally fine. But we did have a um a request for you to kind of demonstrate that breathing again. The breathing technique, the belly breathing. >> Oh gosh, I hate making my stomach stick out. I spent 50 years trying to hold the sucker in. All these years I spent holding it in. >> Right. Hold one second. I'm glad I put on a clean t-shirt. So, this is the belly breathing. This is chest breathing. This is the belly breathing. Now, if you can do both together, that'll be impressive. But the deep breathing really involves three parts. It's the chest, the belly, and the spine. But you can understand why that's going to be difficult because you're going to have a scar here or here. And it's going to be hard to move that. But if anybody and usually even say deep breathing, most people immediately start deep breathing. But a lot of people deep breathe, they do this. They don't realize it's actually this. It's a lot more than we think. We rarely ever take a true deep breath. And usually if you see people do this, you know they're doing it because they do this. Their eyebrows come up. That's when they're working hard. Yeah. Because they do this. And that's why I want all of that tissue moving before surgery. I want all of that moving before surgery. And I think that's why that fella, the gear fella >> Mhm. The musician was moving so well, if not too well, and without difficulties because he was a musician. He could do, he could belly breathe just as good as I could there. He was able to expand all of that. So, he didn't have to worry about that tightness after surgery. It's really important. One of the things I really wish a skill would people would do before they come in. >> Awesome. I I definitely think it helps too to do just like what you were doing to put your hand on your belly so that you can actually feel your belly rising and falling. I think sometimes for me it helps to lay on my back while I'm doing it. So you have it makes it a little easier to kind of feel that you're really getting the breath all the way deep down into your belly. Um but I'm sure there's some good videos about it too like breath breathing. So if you YouTube it funny I walked into a patient's room. I do not watch this television show >> but Drew was on and she had another young lady and they were talking about breath work >> breath work and about just trying to keep the anxiety down by just >> breathing. That's what they were talking about on talk shows that today at 2 o'clock, you know. >> Oh, yes. It's it's kind of everywhere. So, yeah, if you were to if you were to search, you know, the um yoga breathing or belly breathing, I'm sure you would find some good videos or illustrations that would kind of talk you through it. >> Um any other questions um that anyone if you would either like to unmute and ask it, that's okay. Or if you want to put it in the chat. >> It looks like how many times a day should we practice the the belly breathing? three times a day, 10 times. So, 10 times a morning, noon, and afternoon because that's what you'll be doing here. >> Wonderful. All right. Um Okay. And then someone's asking about downloading the presentation or the like the PowerPoint. So, um if if you can always um if you can kind of if you're comfortable with it, Joseph, you can always um >> Oh gosh, it would be so helpful to do that. So, if anyone would like um me to I can email it to you if you want to respond to the um the portal message invitation that I sent you to this um to this meeting. U respond to that and say, "Hey, I'd love the PowerPoint." And include your email address. Then I'll be happy to send that out to you later. Um looks like I had AI also had a question about just kind of how long to wait after surgery before certain activities like going on a cruise. Those are all going to be questions you'll direct to your doctor. or usually they're going to want to limit you a bit as far as your exposure to germs and all of that for the first like six months. So, I'm going to say it would I'm going to venture to say it'd be a definite no in the first 6 months, but after that, um you're I'm going to defer to your doctor. I would ask uh your your your uh your doctor that question. >> Um and then how do we get the book? Oh, the book that he's talking the the one that you're referring to on the last slide. I'm guessing that's the book they're talking about. How do they get that? >> That I will see if that we can get that uploaded available in the portal. We use hard copies, but it really is a good book to have. So, I can find out if we can get that uploaded as a uh as a portal. >> Awesome. Okay. >> You'll see. >> Yeah, >> it really is a good book. I'm not even sure it was designed specifically for this, but it answers pretty much all the questions. Talks about even talks about posture and how to wrap your legs to control swelling. And it's a really complete book. >> Oh, nice. Okay. I'm just trying to see if I missed any other questions that were in our chat. How long is the hospital stay? Okay. Now remember for a kidney transplant alone your average length of stay is going to be 3 to 5 days. Um of course it could be longer if there were complications. Um for the p kidney pancreas combined you may be looking at a bit of a longer stay more of an average of of you know um 5 to seven. Um again they can always be longer if there are complications but those are kind of the averages. Um any other questions anybody has for Joseph? That was such great information. I really appreciate you coming. the whole team, all of our patients on behalf of everybody. We really, really want to thank you. >> I appreciate this opportunity. I really do. This really make our lives make everything easier. >> I love the whole idea of prehabilitation, too. That's amazing. Like, I love this concept. I'm going to be like uh starting to help you get the word out about that for sure. >> Okay. Well, we will um look forward to seeing everyone again next month where we'll have another topic. I believe our topic for next month is uh uh is perhaps going to be nutrition, but we'll kind of get a finalized um invite out to everyone. And you know, it's the same day and time every every month. So, kind of keep an eye on your patient portal for those invitations if you'd like to join us again. All right. Thank you everyone. Take care. >> Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, sir. You're welcome. Thanks. Bye. >> Bye.