I think the Mankato Family Medicine Residency was a great fit for me because of the support that you get with your learning. Not only the support from the faculty, but from your peers as well. The faculty and the people here are all so supportive and you can bounce ideas off of them with medicine or even your life outside of medicine. So that's what I've really enjoyed is getting to know the people and the resources. You know when I actually was interviewing here, I felt very welcome, both from the resident and also the program and faculties. Everybody's willing to help me out and how everybody's willing to show me the ropes of how to become a better doctor in the future. That was very unique to me and I have not seen that throughout the other residents that I've actually interviewed. So I'd like to be there and be part of it. Mental health is a large part of our family practice. I always say IBH or the Integrated Behavioral Health component of the residency is kind of the hidden gem. You see so much behavioral health in family medicine, so having that available and just like learning how to conduct those visits is going to be very helpful in my future. The first days when we came in for orientation, we always get assigned with an advisor and also someone as a mentor to help you through the journey of residency, so my advisor has always been very supportive and helpful. The people who are at the program, the faculty, the residents who are there, if you feel like you would get along with the people, I think it's probably one of the most important things that you feel like you're supported where you're at and with your education and being somewhere that everyone's really working together for the same goal and lifting each other up. It's not some competitive place, but everyone's working together to support you and your education. If you enjoy a small program that's well-connected and also has a well-diverse patient population, my care is for you. If you enjoy rural medicine and also sports medicine, my care is for you. Everyone really wants to see you succeed in what you're doing and kind of understands that work -life balance is important and it's definitely doable with this residency to kind of have your personal life and educational and work life and kind of still succeed in both both sides of things. I enjoy playing soccer and so we have since I came to Mankato I've actually started a team here in Mankato that I always play with with them on the weekends. Mankato is great for outdoor activities there's lots of bike paths and hiking paths the river kind of runs right through Mankato too. I think Mankato has good food options as well so that's been a benefit too. It's been a really nice town to be a part of a nice community.