Resident well-being is a fundamental aspect of our program. If you are not taking care of yourself, you cannot take care of others, so it's important to get enough sleep to find something that gives you joy outside the clinic and to find fulfillment in your work. We have quarterly meetings with our behavioral health specialist to kind of check in and see how you're doing. And we also have a wellness lead who helps organize kind of fun activities throughout the year and also just kind of continues to check in on you. pretty much all the faculty have an open-door policy where if there's something that you'd like to talk about they're always happy to hear about it. We started this wonderful gesture every morning through our huddles. We have a jar and everybody anonymously writing a small note for the residents, for the nurses or preceptors. We pick up one note or two during the morning time. We read them to whoever that is around. It's so heartwarming to hear what other people's appreciation is. I think especially in this day and age burnout is a serious concern but through this residency I've learned that it doesn't have to go down that path. We're really supported in terms of our mental, emotional, and physical health to make sure that we are finding enjoyment both in our work but also having a life outside of work as well. I feel like we do a lot of different activities. All of us like to go out to eat. A few of us are avid board game players and then we all really like to be outside so once it's warmer there's golfing or hiking or biking and we just have a big group tech so typically it's just thrown in there and people are just more than welcome to show up to whatever they want to. In this residency we have checkpoints basically all the time to make sure that we're doing okay with our advisor, with our behavioral health lead. When it comes to the residency and having a life besides the residency and doing a good job with the patients, it's so important to be able to take care of ourselves first. Overall I think we just have an incredibly supportive faculty and residency and support staff. It really is like a family and I'm really beyond grateful every day to be here.