Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host Dr. Andrea Tulie and I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. In today's episode, we have the opportunity to do journal club again on a retina paper or two. We invite Dr. Matt Star, a viter retinal surgeon here at the Mayo Clinic to talk about uh two articles. The first of which is outcomes of intentionally suspending treatment in eyes with advanced neovascular age related macular degeneration. This article was recently published in the Ajo and we will discuss it shortly. The other one which will follow is called retinal arterial and vein occlusion risks after coronal virus disease 2019 or coronavirus disease 2019 vaccination. A fascinating article talking about whether there's a relationship between retinal disease and corona virus. >> Dr. Matthew Star is a vitrietinal surgeon here at Mayo Clinic. Dr. Star completed his residency at Mayo and Vitrorinyl Surgery Fellowship at Wills Eye Hospital. During his fellowship, Dr. Star was awarded the Ronald G. Michaels Fellowship Foundation Award in 2021. He was the macula society evangelos gradudas award and lecture winner. His clinical interests include clinical management of vitriorinal diseases such as diabetic retinopathy, retinal vascular disease, and age- related maccular degeneration as well as the surgical treatment of complex vitriet retinal disorders. Welcome, Dr. Star. >> Thanks so much for having me. Happy to be back. >> That's a mouthful. You have so many awards. >> It's been a while though. It's a few years old now. >> We're so proud of you. >> Thanks. >> Well, it's a delight to do journal club again and we certainly like to unpack articles for our readers. um the more the first of which we're going to introduce and I I am happy to say I want to start out with just some background information because as a pediatricologist I like to tap the brain of an a retina specialist before we get into this complex article but the article we'll be talking about as you know is outcomes of intentionally suspending treatment in eyes with advanced neovascular age related macular degeneration and this was published in the Ajo by a group led by Dr. A um Katherine Ae and in 2023 recently published um and this article talks about is it okay to stop injecting but before we get to this article we get you on the mic to share with us about injection practice as a whole and where we stand today. Um I I I don't you know I appreciate the work it is to screen of patients with a variety of conditions and start their injection practices. share with us kind of what your perception is of the landscape of injection practices and retina practices or places like Mayo that might do it a little differently and how when patients need injections how they're enrolled in protocols to get treatment. >> Yeah. I I can remember when I was a medical student interested in opthalmology and there was an ocularastic surgeon said retina is the wild wild west. You know, you never know and it's still the wild wild west. Things are always evolving. there's a new frontier and that's you know um ever more present now with injections and so we're always getting new drugs um new new types of medications and it's a little bit tricky for patients and other um physicians who are not always involved to kind of keep up with all of it. You know, right now Mayo does it's about five or six types of antiv injections. Um the newest one being something called vibismo um or ferismab and that's you know the latest and greatest perhaps but then you now you've got something called EIA HD which is a more concentrated dose of EIA um or a flipcept and then you know coming down the pipeline there's even more um and then there's different types of anti um individual injections not only looking at antiv but different other modalities and target pathways for patients with you know diabetic rhnopathy macular degeneration retinal vein occlusions all sorts of new of, you know, from an injection standpoint. And then, you know, not only injections, you're looking at different, um, implants. You know, recently, um, there was an implant placed that is now kind of off and coming back onto the market looking at, you know, something that works for 6, 9, 12 months. Um, and you refill it in the office, but it's something you implant into the eye. And then you look at things like gene therapy which we're doing clinical trials here at Mayo Clinic for patients with macular degeneration where we deliver um gene therapy sub subretinally um and then hopefully those patients either stop or have a significant you know 90 95% reduction in the number of injections they need um and that's you know the latest and greatest in this you know ever evolving field for antiviral antiviral injections um Mayo Clinic has a unique injection practice you When we see a patient, you either sent to us or sent to um or in our clinic, we typically will send them to what we have an injection clinic. Um unique to Mayo is we don't typically do injections, you know, right there in the office. You know, a lot of retina private practices, a lot of other institutions will do them kind of in the chair. We have evolved kind of this um injection clinic where we send patients up to a hospital-based setting. um they have a you know whole kind of algorithm and protocol for how they do injections and how they prep the patients and you that's really worked well for us um and we've you had a significant reduction in um or we we never really had a high rate of you know infections things like that but you we found that the rate of infections is quite low and when you compare that to the national average is you know quite lower um and you know for us it streams streamlines clinic we're not bogged down doing injections we're having you know an injecting physician who's a retina specialist um doing them you essentially every every day for you know three or four hours and it it seems to work really well for us. Unique to that again too is we always don't we don't get an image every time you know that that's something different to a lot of physicians will utilize OCT um when they're you know performing an injection every four, five, six weeks or whatever where we have a protocol where they come in, they get their vision checked and then if they meet these you know criteria they can go up to the injection clinic and you know get the injection and go home. Um Dr. Britney Scruggs here is working on kind of analyzing some of the safety features of that. And you know, we found we're s, you know, patients are satisfied. They're really happy with this. They're not, you know, being bogged down getting images, waiting for images, you know, talking to the doctor that are coming in, getting the pictures, getting the injection, and going home. Um, and you know, that again works really well for us in our practice, you know, given the volume of patients that are are coming through our doors. Um, and you know, I think it works really well for, you know, what we um, you know, have here at Mayo. >> Yeah. So interesting, Matt, to hear about this and and I kind of grew up with this structure being a resident at Mayo, just like you. Um, and so I've seen injection clinic. It's super safe, extremely streamlined, like you said, great patient outcomes, and patients love it. It's it's a very unique practice to Mayo. Before um we kind of I want to go into more of those protocols like how you decide to do treat and extend versus for us say, you know, an injection every four weeks times three and then come back and we'll evaluate you or or how you make those decisions. Can you take us through the landscape of the meds? Select how you select the med. I was just in DC recently and we were talking about step therapy um which is a huge struggle for rena specialists. You know, you have to fail a vestin first or or whatever. So, how do you decide what med? And then let me just also add a caveat just for the podcast in general. We'll probably have some brand names um and be talking about some products and things here and it's purely an educational purpose and and we're just using it to kind of discuss those things. So just a little disclaimer but take us through the drugs. >> Yeah, it's easier to say you know viasmorin than bevicismabismab. Don't make me say beismab. >> Yeah. No. >> Um so yeah it is an unfortunate um you can get way off topic and you know insurance companies unfortunately dictate a lot of how we practice. Um and when choosing medications a lot of times I'm you know up to what the insurance will cover. Um, you know, a lot of times you can have pre-approval processes, but then that may delay care. Um, so if you see a patient and you want to give them, let's say, EIA or Vismo, insurance may need a couple days to run that where I can just say, "Okay, get a vast, you'll get it today and you'll go home." Um and I don't know if you know one is safer than the other but you know recently there was um you know the DRCO protocol um looking at diabetic patients when they did implement step therapy and when you really dissect that kind of paper um they found that step therapy was safe um from an vision standpoint um a number of patients I believe it was 50 to 60% were able to stay with Avasten and didn't meet switching criteria although their switching criteria were pretty stringent >> um and so that kind of you know played into insurance company's hands perhaps for diabetes um that you can you potentially start with avastin and still safely transition to later on without compromising vision. However, there are other protocols that have said when you start with AIA for certain, you know, vision cutoffs, you you have better vision overall than if you started with Avasten. Um, >> for me, I typically, you know, if I see a patient, I I'll assess their one their baseline vision, you know, their baseline OCT pictures, whether there's fluid, scars, things like that, and decide. Um, for the most part, I will start with the vasinismab, and then after a few injections, depending on what the disease is, if they've responded really well, keep going and then extend them. We have a kind of a modified extension protocol um where we you know start in kind of two increments but we did them in series so it's not um you know you're seeing them back every time. What the true treat and extend is you see back six 8 10 12 and then you keep going from there. >> Um I don't think a lot of physicians are continuing monthly dosing. You know when you look back at the early trials monthly dosing was maybe the best but it's a big burden on the one the phys you know patients you know to come in every single month. These patients are elderly, they're sick, they need help from family members to get to these appointments. So, we're trying to, you know, balance all of that out plus the cost on the health care system. Um, it it's an ever evolving kind of what push and shove, you know, kind of what's best for the overall picture for healthcare. >> So, as we're going to get into an article in a few minutes, but share with us what the typical schedule you say monthly is becoming less commonly utilized, but what's the typical schedule? First of all, is a rear or end in sight? And then when do you try if you think end is in sight stopping and how do you do that? So three questions. One is what's the average frequency? You know when might you might consider stopping and how would you stop and then that'll lead us into our article. >> Yeah, I think monthly is is really uncommon. I do have you know there's I can I know them all by heart almost of the patients that need a shot every four weeks, you know, and it's just it's so uncommon that I I do all know I know them really well. um because they're coming in so frequently. But in the era of the new or antiv agents, it's really uncommon for us to have to give a patient a shot and they really need it. Some patients, there's even reports of needing shots every two weeks. Um and you know, that's where it's really tricky. Um for most of mine, we start, you know, by the you know, clinical protocols where we, you know, load them, you know, loading dose for three to four months every month and then if they have a response, most physicians will do, you know, two week interval increments. um and then check make sure they're doing okay, check them back and then gradually extend them out um over many many months. When I first meet a patient, I tell them you're going to need shots for a long time indefinitely, at least several years if you can buy into that. Um just so they upfront know this is not, you know, a one one and done. You're you I tell patients this is like diabetes or hypertension. We're going to manage it. We're not going to cure it. and just most of the time they kind of understand those kind of systemic correlations and they kind of buy into okay I've got a disease I need treatment I need I say band-aids you need to we reapply the band-aids every month and then hopefully my goal is to expand that out so you don't need them for maybe two or three times or two every two or three months um the most I usually extend out to is you know 13 14 weeks um with the newer agents um like Babismo or Ferrismab you can they they showed a lot of patients were able to get out to 16 weeks between shots um that if they met certain criteria um for other diseases like diabetes or diabetic retinopathy vein inclusions when you can give a steroid or steroids are beneficial you know those patients may go many months if they're getting you know agents that last three months to you know somewhere now three years um they still need treatment every now and then you know they don't know they don't go three years without treatment but um there is some you know a lot of things that are you know increasing durability >> so no real end in sight for most >> just the frequency changes >> frequency change I think I tell patients if you can just buy in that you know frequency is our our target >> and then if you can get there I usually give you a chance to stop um there's an older paper not this one that you know showed about 50% of patients if you can get to three months between shots can stop them and not have to return to injections so 50% return to injections um with an initial drop in vision however that recovered to their vision at after stopping and so no depreciable at least vision loss in that study. >> That kind of brings us to our paper. Let's segue um to this paper outcomes of intentionally suspending treatment in eyes with advanced neovascular AMD. Um and so this was a a really nice super well done paper in AJ to determine the outcomes of intentionally stopping antivf injections in these eyes with um advanced neovascular AMD. It was a retrospective cohort study. um they had 93 patients with AMD um and poor vision um 2400 in which the treatment was stopped by the treating physician and then they looked at visual acuity, OCT, they looked at a bunch of different outcomes to kind of see what happened during the next 24 months after stopping treatment. Can you kind of take us through the what's what was the point of the study? Like why do we want to know this? And then what they found? Yeah. I mean, so I think this is a huge question is a lot of patients come in saying they don't see anything anyways. Why why treat it? Um, and I tell all patients, you know, you we can get some subjective improvement likely. Um, and usually with a, you know, a fresh AMD, they're going to see definitely some subjective improvement. I I've yet to have one where they don't notice really anything. Um, and there's some really bad ones. Um, this paper was looking really at those who have been treated for at least a year. Um, and then there's still, you know, they they say 2400, but the majority were count fingers. You they're not these patients. >> It's worse than 2400. Is that right? Yeah. >> Yeah. 2400 or worse, I think. Um, and but they they they kind of comment that most of them are hand motion count fingers vision, which is, you know, that's really, you know, poor vision. >> And so at that point, what do you, you know, what do you do? Um and so I think you know they found that in the population when they're you know fairly stable their vision is still really poor you know do we just intentionally stop um and they found really no change in vision when you look at you know long-term data they had fewer patients follow up you know one year two years out um initially there was some mild vision decline but you're you're you know splitting hairs at count fingers vision um and so it gets a little tricky there and then they really didn't find any you know difference in you know fibrovascular lesion discorn scar cars, things like that. They actually had reduction in inninal fluid, which was kind of interesting. That seems kind of paradoxical. And fluid is kind of like our hallmark for activity. You know, they kind of postulate, you know, this is perhaps just endstage natural history progression of these lesions where they kind of die out or burn out. Um, and so I think it, you know, it does kind of validate. We, you know, they mentioned a lot of retina physicians do this. You know, there's just no data really to kind of support that. You know, a lot of patients are either getting injections, they're getting them frequently, and they just don't see really well. So, you know, why do we keep doing it? Um, again, it goes back to I can a lot of my patients are elderly. They have to have, you know, family bring them in for these shots. You know, what are they doing? >> They they also really nicely point out that 90% that's their worst seeing eye. Okay. So, they have a better eye to rely on. And so, that I think plays a big role into it. You know, a lot of times if it is a monocular patient, we're hesitant really to kind of really pull back on anything. >> That all makes sense. >> Yeah. I thought it was interesting that you know even many of these it said 60% or so still had subretinal fluid 30% still had inter intraretinal fluid hemorrhage was present and 30% so these rise that were still wet and juicy and and and yet because the you know vision horse was already out of the barn they sort of thought let's just back off um and as you articulated they for the readers that or listeners um measured fovial thickness and lesion diameter and um greatest lesion thickness wherever it might be and only 7% did they go back on some treatment for some reason even though the bulk of the data would show that you know the for the most part lesions were stable stopping. >> Yeah, >> it was encouraging that so few must have progressed enough that they thought and this is retrospectively there was no you know uh protocol for when to restart but for whatever reason they thought at least in just a handful um it'd be reasonable to restart. So yeah, it it's just, you know, certainly eyes that were still meeting criteria to keep going, but yet because the vision was so poor, they thought it was reasonable to stop. You did comment on the the loss of followup in any retrospective study. Um there's always that risk that some of the people you really want to know how they're doing uh are not coming back anymore. And certainly in a retina practice with poor vision, it's possible that they saw somebody else because they weren't getting better in that eye. I mean they I think at 2 years or it dropped to 63% at 18 months and then 56% at two years. So they'd lost all they said the majority but they'd lost almost half the patients in two years. So that was just a qualifier. Yeah. >> Um that could be there too. >> Yeah. And any retrospective study is going to have some sort of limitation. And a lot of these patients again they follow up elsewhere. They just don't want to come back. You know, a lot of times when we make these decisions with our patients, they're we say you you can follow up locally or you can follow up with your opto your primary care opthalmologist or your optometrist and and you'll send us records, things like that. Um and that works out, you know, it you know, they're going to see other other doctors, other physicians. They're you're going to have other problems like glaucoma, things like that. Um who need care and so they sometimes will kind of cut the retina dock out and go see the other ones. We see that pretty frequently. One thing I've noticed with AMD is that even if it's endstage and severe, I don't and you maybe we worry about them getting a bad hemorrhage or a bunch of heem and then I guess that could progress to bad glaucoma or something. But as an ocular plastic surgeon, I'm always thinking about like then the eye is going to become pretic or ticle or a blind painful eye. I never see blind painful eyes from AMD. It's just not a thing. I don't think I've ever done anorinis for a blind painful eye that that AMD was the reason. Yeah. >> So, it's not that's not something we have to worry about here. >> Yeah. I think for AMD specifically, I tell patients you're never going to be blind from this. You may lose you may be legally blind and you may not see anything, but you'll always have your peripheral vision unless you've got some sort of, you know, really atypical, you know, bleeding problem or polyoidal or something or, you know, there's different things, but tried and true like age related macular degeneration, you're going to always have your peripheral vision, at least at least most of at least some of it. Um, and so it's I think for those patients when they're saying, "Hey, I don't really care if my blind spot's a little bit bigger, like I you know, I think they they they decide that it's just not worth it for them to continue treatment." >> I think the burden of injections is huge and and really hard for us to understand, but it must be horrendous for patients. >> You made a comment that this is um the worst seeing eye. You know, I've I don't hang out in retina clinics as much as I did as a resident. But, you know, it was quite striking when all you back in the day all you had was PDT when I trained or whatever it might be, but in lasering these in in a practice right now for comprehensive opthalmologists that don't see retina patients all the time. They usually see one of these and say help and they punt it. >> How rare is it to be less than 22 2400 in both eyes these days if with current treatments like we have? Yeah, it it's really uncommon. I I again it's you know less than a handful in my practice. A lot of times these patients come in when their good eye goes and they realize it because they you just haven't seen an one of eye and then they finally you know kind of come into the doctor you know with then when their good eye kind of starts to lose vision because even then most patients as soon as they start losing vision and one eye will be treated. So the fact that you know the number of patients with one really bad eye less than 2400 is that's even more rare. But you know those patients you know will still come in once they really start to lose vision in a good eye and with the newer agents you we've shown that patients can get injections 10 15 you know now we're seeing up to 20 years and they maintain good vision as long as they maintain treatment. Um and then there's you know geographic atro atrophy and dry macular degeneration which can it's >> still there. Yeah. >> Yeah. But you know these injections work really well and a lot of patients you know are 2020 2040 um you know just getting their injection. >> That's wild. >> Well on this topic of injecting you know vascular abnormalities in the back of the eye. I mean this was a nice highlight of just the injection practice practice but also ARMD. Let's switch gears to another vascular um abnormalities in the back of the eye. retinal vein occlusion and arterial occlusions related to COVID. Andrew, you want to introduce the article of this article for us to talk about? >> Yes. So, this is retinal artery and vein occlusion risks after coronavirus disease 2019 or coronavirus disease 2019 vaccination. And um this is a huge study came out of opthalmology last year 2023. Um it was a nationwide population-based cohort study out of Korea and looked at the incidence of new um RAO retinal arterial occlusion or RVO retinal vein occlusion after the diagnosis of CO 19 or after vaccination against CO 19 and compared it um against the entire population. They had over 8 million people in this group and they separated them into into three groups. One was the control group which so no COVID no vaccination. The second group was the co 19 group so had had a covid infection and some had had vaccination and some hadn't. So that was a little bit of a variable group. And then the third group was the um vaccinated group, the co 19 vax group and also represented a variety of different vaccine types um mona fiser that lots were included in that type but huge huge groups a million patients and then they followed the incidents and looked at hazard ratios and and overall incidents between the three groups. did a big multivaried analysis to compare with other risk factors and looked at the cumulative incidents and then the risk of incidents um from index A to 60 days after. And it I mean a very interesting study. I think the take-home point is that there there were no significant increased risks in the vaccinated group or the infected group. Um that's kind of the big generalization, but if you look at the data a little closer, there were quite a few differences. So, we're going to dive into this and I think the significance and we can talk more about this too with Matt is that I still have patients ask me all the time if whatever their pathology is is from COVID or from their vaccine things that are are super unrelated. Do they have a new mining? Is this from my vaccination? Um, and so I think it's nice to have some data especially on these arterial and venus occlusions. We know that there's been a lot of talk about COVID having higher incidence with thrombomolic events and pro-inflammatory type type of things and so um these data I think are really helpful when we talk with our patients. What do you think Matt? >> Yeah I mean I think the biggest thing for me is when I when I counsel patients I get the same question in the retina clinic. Oh did co do this? Did my vaccine do this? you know I you know and it it was a really hot topic you know a year or two ago and you know right when everything was going on and I get it less and less now but still you know I had this week had someone asked and I think this you know kind of gives me some guidance to say there really is not a lot of good data to support yes or no um that you know COVID or the COVID vaccine led to your you know retinal vein occlusion or rather arterial occlusion um and I think this kind of highlights that that there you know perhaps there really is no no association I think like you alluded to, there's a few, you know, you know, interesting kind of topics, you know, or discrepancies in the paper. I think jumping into it, the you the cohorts weren't really balanced really well. I mean, in 2021 when they made the control cohort, it's really hard to find someone who didn't have COVID or had the COVID vaccine, especially in a country where the government mandated vaccines. >> Um, and so, you know, that's a little bit of a more nuanced or tricky to, you know, define cohort. Um and then when you really looked at it, they did find significant increases in ROS and RVOS's in cohort 3 or the vaccinated cohort, but when you ran kind of the multivaried analysis, the sub sub analyses, then really divided it in multivariate and hazard ratios, you know, there really wasn't a difference. Um you they did find that on subgroup analysis, you know, females who got an MR mrna vaccine did have higher rates of aros, but again, you know, they're not controlling for other things. You we didn't get any data on laboratory values. you know, previous studies have shown after COVID or COVID vaccine, you get elevations in CRP, ESR, D-dimer, >> you know, those things are really big risk factors for thrombomolic events. And so, you know, some of those things where it's kind of missing from this, but I, you know, I think again, this is kind of goes back, it's it's really hard to say. >> I think for um people that aren't in academic practices and don't read through statistics commonly or have statistical help around them, um it's what you your comment over multivaried analysis is important. And just to for uh anyone understanding basic stats here just or and learning about basic stats, you can have a study like this with really big numbers that by univaried analysis just looking at one factor was being female >> or was having COVID or was you know what having high blood pressure associated with some event? But unfortunately we know that if COVID was more you know tended to be happening more in certain groups it might not be that the fact that they had CO it was but it was their age >> that was the driver. So even though you know if if the elderly patients came into the hospitals more commonly and were diagnosed more commonly with COVID than a younger person >> when you you need that multivaried analysis any instead of looking at the individual bucket look at how the buckets cross contaminate or complement or separated and when you do that multivaried an analysis is helpful to say if the statistical significant disappears when you do that it means it wasn't a significantly associated risk at least in study if it was well designed. And so that's why, as you're saying, even though some of these buckets like the C the COVID group looked potentially like there was a trend there, it went away when you multivaried analysis or other statistics were applied. Um, and that was just helpful. I I agree with you. continues to pop up and it no matter what I think there's been a degradation of in our society appreciating science >> and so having more science behind um data like this to help the emotions and the feeling behind opinions whether they're seeing something more is so helpful >> yeah I mean it's nice I mean this is the biggest study you know on this kind of topic right now they comment on you know this case series and there was a couple hundred patient papers done before this but I mean on a national level hundred hundreds of thousands, millions of patients and you know the events are small and they're trying to answer a really hard question and you know data gets murky and then you know once you kind of finally tease through and do the you know like I said the you know indepth or very detailed statistical analyses you there's just nothing there. >> Yeah, exactly like you said the the groups are were a little bit uneven. I mean if you look like two million in the control group so that was no vaccine no COVID and their average age was 35 versus group two was the COVID group only 500,000 only half a million so quite a bit smaller their average age was a little bit older 41 mean and then group three was the vaccinated group 5 million so much bigger 10 times bigger than group two and but their average age was also quite a bit higher 52 as the average so big age difference there and then like you said Matt if you look at the actual ual numbers like the the number of events um that we can we'll link this article in in the show notes so that you can see some of the figures but in figure three they have a list of cumulative number events and they are quite a bit higher in the vaccination group but again this group had 5 million people compared to only 2 million in the other and 500,000 in the other so that you can skew the numbers to make it look however you want but at the end of the day the data are what the data are and it is a tough question to answer. Yeah. And these are events that are happening. I mean, you don't typically see an RAO or an RVO, a vein inclusion, arterial occlusion in a 35-year-old, you know. >> Sure. >> And so, you're going to see them in a patient who's, you know, a little bit older, usually in their 50s, 60s, 70s, um, 80s, um, who've got systemic, you know, coorbidities. You know, we know that it's associated with hypertension, high blood pressure, you know, all sorts of other things. And, you know, they controlled for a lot of those, um, risk factors in there. Um, and I think, you know, there's been other studies that have looked at younger patients. You know, I think it would have been kind of neat nice to see not only male female breakdown, but you know, age breakdown >> adjusted. >> Yeah. Because >> groups, >> you know, they they've some studies have, you know, positioned that having COVID will put you at a higher risk for RAO when you're 25, 30. >> Um, you know, yes, so be it. If you're 45, 50, you have other things that are affecting your your health. And so, you may have developed those because of those other risk factors. But if it's actually affecting younger patients who shouldn't be really getting this or we don't see that often, you that's a different kind of question. >> Very interesting. Does this change the way that you counsel patients or change anything you say to your patients? >> I don't know. Not a little bit. I mean, it gives me a little bit, but I still tell patients that you can find a study saying yes or no to whatever you want. I I think it it's really hard to say COVID or COVID vaccine caused this. And I don't think there's enough data to support yes or no. I think right now this would be a little bit more helpful for me saying, you know, look, it's if you have, you know, I tell patients get get the vaccine. You know, there's really not a good evidence right now to say it's causing any problems. >> Right. Right. Wonderful. >> Well, thank you. >> Yeah. Thank you, >> for joining us and shedding light on these vascular processes and anti-vef. And it's always fun to to tap your insight and have you here with us on on the podcast. >> Great journal club. First retina articles I've read in too long. >> Thank you so much, Dr. Star. >> Oh, no. Happy to be here. >> You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Opthalmology podcast on our website. >> Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.