It's technology the retail industry and libraries have used for some time now. Doctors at Mayo Clinic are using radio frequency identification to track and trace patient specimens as they go from the procedure room to the lab. Mayo research shows the technology is fast, efficient, and helps prevent human errors. In this procedure room, Dr. Mark Larson is performing one of the more than 40,000 endoscopies done at Mayo Clinic every year. We're looking for evidence of microscopic dysplasia open. That means Dr. Larson will take several tissue samples and send them to the pathology lab for evaluation. Traditionally, nurses would write all the patient information on long forms and on tiny specimen labels. Then they'd enter the information into a computer and send the bottles off to pathology where the handwritten information would be re-entered into another computer by a different person. Easy to see how errors could happen. We needed a way to uh eliminate human error uh and make it as concise as possible. The way to do that, say doctors John Shaner and Skyler Sanderson, is radio frequency identification or RFID. The technology allows us to offer a direct communication portal, if you will, from the endoscopist directly to the pathologist who's going to be looking at that case. Here's how it works. Before and during a procedure, the nurse puts the patient information into the computer. Immediately afterwards, the doctor and nurse work together to make sure the information is accurate. Next, the specimen bottles, each equipped with an RFID tag on the bottom, are placed on a pad and programmed. Then, they're off to the path lab where technicians put the bottles on another pad. The system automatically pulls up the information which includes notes from the procedure that tell the pathologist exactly what to look for. Fast, efficient, there is less room for error, making healthc care safer for patients. Right now, Mayo Clinic is using the RFID system for the GI colctal surgery department only. They hope to expand the system for other departments as well. And in addition to making the system faster, more efficient, and safer, RFID technology allows nurses to spend less time dealing with information and more time caring for patients. For Medical Edge, I'm Vivian Williams.