Every time I interview fellowship candidates the first thing I lead with is Congratulations. You've made a fantastic decision for deciding to come to rheumatology as a specialty. We have fascinating diseases, complex immunology that is still being discovered and treatments that we can't even imagine will come out next year I also feel it's very rewarding to treat a patient who cannot do their daily activities. And when you see them getting better, I think that's really satisfying as a physician. It's very hard to find a field that offers as much patient experience, patient relationship and the longitudinal aspect of the clinic as you can see in rheumatology. Part of the reason that I got interested in rheumatology is because I was a college basketball player and then had to stop playing due to a spondyloarthritis It was a rough couple of years for me, but the thing that turned it around was meeting a rheumatologist who trained at Mayo when I was doing medical school at Dartmouth The first thing that she told me after she made the diagnosis was, but don't worry, we're going to get you feeling a lot better. And it was true. They absolutely did From that day on, I knew that I wanted to be a rheumatologist. Matching into Mayo was a dream come true. I still remember the time I matched here, I was hyperventilating I couldn't believe that. I would have not have chosen any other program other than Mayo. And coming here and looking at it now, I was like awestruck What a beautiful art it is. Like the whole building - Gonda to enter and then moving towards the Mayo Building And then going up till the 15th floor where the rheumatology department is, and then you see a Nobel prize over there. I think being the, one of the oldest training programs leads us to want to look back and think about what has made us successful for all these years A major part of that is the legacy of excellence in thinking about all the founding individuals who came before us. We were the first rheumatology training program in the United States We have that legacy Someone once said we stand on the shoulders of giants and we do. There's lots of people who are taking various paths, and I feel like the real strength of our program is that we individualize it to the fellow The transition from a three-year to a two-year program has made it much more flexible for the trainees to figure out, do they want to become primarily clinicians, or do they want to be academic rheumatologist if they're just doing their two years they are learning how to become primarily clinicians. I think of the third year as the year that they can use as their time to grow and blossom into an academic rheumatologist. I would like to be in an academic setting in the future. My specific interests is in connective tissue diseases mostly in lupus and scleroderma. I do want to be an academic rheumatologist where I have interactions with medical students, with residents, with fellows, be able to learn from them and be able also to teach them You will see the common cases but you will also take care of the zebras in our field and having that prepares you in a way that I don't even know if the fellows understand until they fully leave this place There are folks from across the world folks who are requesting a second, third, and some of my experiences, even an eighth opinion. But at the same time, though, we still see a lot of the bread and butter and that nice blend of exotic patients and then more bread and butter patients is certainly extremely unique to the Mayo experience I've had a couple of patients now who have come here because they've been to other top institutions and have not been able to reach a diagnosis for their condition. And more times than not, we're successful here. We have some of the most qualified people in your field who are humble and will take half an hour, an hour of their time in order to explain every step of the process. That just doesn't happen at other places We're able to pick up the phone and call that pathologist who's reading the kidney biopsy on our lupus patient, as well as speak to that nephrologist and maybe even the dermatologist who saw that patient within the same week. Many residency programs, they focus on ultrasound of other parts, ultrasound of the abdomen, cardiac, ultrasound. But the musculoskeletal ultrasound is often overlooked in residency. We focus very strongly on this to get them an understanding of how to do ultrasound, how to interact with the machine and optimize the image. A nailfold video capillaroscopy is a very unique tool we train our fellows on. It is a very simple bedside tool that can help in the early detection of certain rheumatic conditions like systemic sclerosis Primarily, I'm involved in evaluating on treating patients with vasculitis. These are rare and complex conditions. They often require multispecialty evaluation by different disciplines. So for fellows they get the opportunity to evaluate patients with rare multisystem diseases. It's very important for the adult rheumatology fellows to be exposed to pediatric rheumatology medicine. Some of the emerging disease states are more common in children, all of our patients will eventually be adult rheumatology patients for the most part. My work in AI and its application to genetics consists of creation of a foundational innovative model that can inform individual prediction of treatment response, disease identification and outcomes response for patients with rheumatoid archritis and other chronic conditions We have also created a model system which we have named the immune Avatar. We're applying cutting edge technology to see what inflammatory cells are in the tissue. How are they positioned? What's the geographic landscape of disease. The nice thing about the program is there's a very good work life balance. And so we do also have the time we're able to spend time together, which further reinforces the camaraderie that I experience here at Mayo. So as fellows, we usually get together around once or twice a month outside of work. We’ll sometimes go out to eat to celebrate special occasions but also, we like to get together for events like a picnic Chester Woods or fires in one of our backyards. I'm also a very outdoorsy person. I frequently bird watch and I also frequently bike. I go bird watching at the Audubon Society. They have a local chapter that meets Saturday mornings. I am really an outdoors person, so whether it's canoeing or kayaking, going up to the Boundary Waters is one of my favorite places in Minnesota, or cycling. Rheumatology remains the final frontier of medicine. It's the field of medicine that most physicians know the least about. And so if you can get inside that club and access that knowledge, you know it's incredibly satisfying, rewarding, and you can have a really great impact. I think rheumatology is still one of those consummate medical fields where you still have to rely on the physical exam. You still have to think critically about patients. You can't just order lab tests and do an algorithm to figure out what's going on. If you like critical thinking, and I think medicine is all about critical thinking, if you like to build up a puzzle, if you like to build a bond with a patient and try to help the patient as much as possible then rheumatology is the way to go.