- Dr. Kyle Klarich: Good day everybody. My name is Kyle Klarich from the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine. And I'm coming to you from Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota from the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine and Cardiovascular Surgery with our CME podcast series Interview with the experts. Today I will be joined by two experts and the topic we would like to discuss is very important about questions that patients and physicians may want to ask surgeons about whether they should pursue robotic assisted approaches to surgical treatment of valvular heart disease. We further want to clarify how robotic surgery works and including the assisted and associated risks benefits and the misconceptions that might be out there. We plan to discuss and have you a better understand the expected short and long-term outcome of robot robotic heart surgery. So today I have the great pleasure of being joined by Dr. Philip Rowse the associate program director for cardiovascular surgery residency program at Mayo Clinic in Rochester. He's an associate professor of surgery at Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, completing his undergraduate at Arizona State University in microbiology. Wow. And attended medical school at Ross University, completed both his general surgery and thoracic surgery residencies at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. He joined our Mayo Clinic staff in 2018 after completion of his residencies. He has a great interest in robotic surgery and that includes all forms of valvular repair. He also does valve replacement. Traditionally. He manages atrial fibrillation, surgically surgical management of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, constrictive pericarditis, and arterial coronary revascularization. His interests include innovative valve techniques in particular and also clinical outcomes research. Our other expert today is Marty Uhruh DNP, ANP, CNP He has a lot of initials and is very important to our practice as he is a nurse practitioner and supervisor of the Department of Cardiovascular surgeries in Mayo Clinic, Rochester. He joined Mayo Clinic in 2014 as an emergency room nurse, became a nurse practitioner in 2021, receiving his practitioner residency through Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences, and he holds the rank of instructor in surgery. Welcome Dr. Rowse and Marty, it's great to have you both here. Thank you. - Dr. Robert Rowse: Well, thank you Kyle. Appreciate the opportunity to have this wonderful discussion on a topic that I'm very passionate about. Thank you for this opportunity. Likewise. - Marty Unruh: Happy to be here. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Great to have you both. Well, let's just jump right in. I think what procedures you can perform robotically is probably something that's evolving and we'd like to bring our audience up to date on that. So maybe Marty you could start with that question and we'll ask - Marty Unruh: Sure - Dr. Kyle Klarich: To jump in after that'll - Marty Unruh: I'll give a stab at it. So some of the things that can be done robotically are ASD repairs, PFO closures, maze procedures. The bulk of what we do here at Mayo Clinic is mitral valve repairs. So we see a lot of those come through tricuspid as well. Dr. Rowse have you done any of the tumor removal through the robotic approach? - Dr. Phillip Rowse: Yeah, so that's the, I would say the armamentarium that we have is really expanding. You know, as Marty mentioned, mitral and tricuspid valve work is becoming really important to us. Taking out tumors of the heart. Benign tumors most commonly are what we see papillary fibroblast. Stomas are a common one on mitral leaflets. Even on the aortic valve, the aortic valve leaflets, we've taken them out on another benign tumors like omas as they grow and, and start to, to either obstruct or become symptomatic or just are found incidentally, we're taking those tumors out robotically and even coronary bypass surgery is an, is an avenue that's being explored and we've done a handful of those. So it's, it's an exciting time to be a robotic heart surgeon and to, you know, push the envelope with this, with this practice. But the armamentarium is exploding and we're happy to be part of that. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: It's a lot of great procedures that you can do with with this technique. And I'll let Marty add another comment here because I could see he was anxious to say something. - Marty Unruh: Yeah. So this is also my time to interview Dr. Rowse, which is exciting for me. So, you know, while we, we get to take care of these patients postoperatively, but what I'm seeing is we can do single and double coronary artery bypass. Do you think that will ever evolve past that Dr. Rowse with the robotic - Dr. Phillip Rowse: Yeah, I think, you know, you start with a single bypass to the LAD, arguably the most important graft to do. And, and then as the comfort level and the experience and expertise expand, you know, then you can expand that practice to multi-vessel. But most of the robotic coronary work is really a, a blended practice with cardiology, you know, hybrid type procedures with a combination of, you know, PCI stenting of other lesions that can't easily be reached with the robot and, and leaving the LAD, you know, graspable by the robot. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: That's great. It's so neat to see how things have expanded. And maybe you could mention what it takes to be a candidate for robotic surgery. I mean, can any patient have a robotic surgery or is there, are there certain people that are better suited? - Dr. Phillip Rowse: That's a great question, Dr. Klarich. It's selfishly, I like to say we can use a robot on everybody, but there are some limitations to the robot and it's important to talk about those things. So one of the limitations to the robot is it's not geared to be very effective in the extremes of body size. Believe it or not, you know, really young children that have a, a narrower thoracic chest wall and chest cage is, it's difficult to get the arms of the robot situated appropriately that you're not clashing with one another. And so, and then the opposite is true, the other extreme on, on, on body weight, morbid obesity and whatnot makes it a bit more challenging for the arms of the robot to reach where you need to go. And so one of the, that's one thing we take into account. Sometimes there can be deformities to the chest wall, you know, there can be levo scoliosis where the ribs tilt, they tilt to the right side. And that's typically where we do robotic surgery is coming in from the right side of the chest. We have to go in between those rib spaces. And so if they're pinched off and real narrow, that does make some limitation. Another bony abnormality is a pectus deformity to the sternum, you know, where the, the sternum kind of dips in and dips and depresses the heart. I would say that's not a contraindication, but it is something that we have to see on a CT scan, make some measurements and see whether or not we can, we can do that. And we certainly have been able to do robotic surgery in a handful of individuals with a, a pectus deformity. Concomitant procedures is something that we're becoming more adept with and publishing even on, you know, mitral and, and a tricuspid valve work at the same time. But if you needed a mitral valve repaired and you also needed, you know, a number of coronary arteries grafted, you know, that's a procedure that we, we typically wouldn't do minimally invasively coming from the right side of the chest. We would do that through, you know, a standard good old fashioned sternotomy, which really is a good way, it really is a good way to do surgery at the right instance. When we do robotics and we come from the right side of the chest, there are periods of time, believe it or not, where the, the, we have to deflate the patient's right lung and, and so, and this is before we're on a heart lung machine and so if the patient has extreme lung disease, you know, COPD emphysema and we're concerned about how well they would oxygenate with the contralateral left lung, while that right lung is down, you know, we need to be thoughtful for that. So sometimes that might necessitate doing, you know, pulmonary function testing before robotic surgery to see how healthy those lungs are would be, would be another thing. So those are some of the things that that initially come through my mind as to, as to who could be a candidate for robotic surgery. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Well, you know, very interested in tumor removal as large partial of my practice does revolve around tumors and I've been really pleased to see that you're able to get them now off the aortic valve as well as the mitral tricuspid valves. Can you, can you reach the pulmonary valve? - Dr. Phillip Rowse: You know, pulmonary valve is just a little bit further away. The aorta sits in front of that when we're coming from the right side, I will, to be honest with you, we have not done anything robotically on the pulmonary valve yet. And I guess I would emphasize the yet because the future is always, you know, the bold and unknown. But right now we have not. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: So if I could just summarize, it looks like maybe these are all relative contraindications and there could be some wiggle room around most of them, but extremes of BMI being either the very small patients, especially children or very large BMI sizes with probably not exact BMI cutoff, but I'm sure that there's worry about whether they're too big or not. And then scoliosis practice and then COPD with some caveat that if they can, if it's not too se severe of COPD or emphysema, they might be able to be a robot candidate. It's interesting that you can do these confined procedures and it sounds like a mitral tricuspid is pretty reasonable to do. And I wondered about whether you could exclude the left atrial appendage. - Dr. Phillip Rowse: Oh yeah, that's a great question. So, you know, in oftentimes with mitral valve surgery as as mentioned, there's varying degrees of tricuspid regurgitation and I would say at our institution we're more aggressive with treatment of, you know, up to moderate tricuspid regurgitation at the time. But mitral valve surgery, we're getting a lot more experience with that, a lot more comfort with that. Many of these patients will also have atrial fibrillation and we are aggressive with doing cryo maze procedure and typically the way that we would address the appendage of the left atrial amino and we come from the right side of the chest, the appendage is way over on in the left chest if we can't usually see it as adequately, you know, when we're in that chest space. So we tend to close the appendage from the inside with a patch, a little patch of supple pericardium, sometimes autologous pericardium, sometimes bovine pericardium, and we'll sew and patch up that the orifice of the appendage. And, and that's been a very good way in our experience with occlusion of that appendage at the time of surgery. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Dr. Rowse, there are a lot of talk about minimally invasive surgeries. Is is robot the main way or robotics the main way to do minimally invasive surgeries or are there other techniques that we would use? - Dr. Phillip Rowse: There are other techniques. So when we say minimally invasive heart surgery, we don't always mean robotic surgery. So there are procedures where you can still come from the right side of the chest and be in between those rib spaces and the surgeon can perform the procedure, mitral valve repair, cuspid valve repair, even aortic valve replacement with long shafted instruments that the surgeon holds and puts through those little incisions through the right side of the chest. So that's a minimally invasive surgery, still uses a narrow video scope and a screen to be able to see the anatomy clearly, but is not using the robot. There are other procedures, you know, like a mini sternotomy, little mini heavy sternotomy up at the top where you just divide the upper maybe four or five centimeters of the sternum to perform like a neo ORIC valve replacement for example. And, and technically we would say that's a minimally invasive surgery, it's not a full sternotomy. And so those are, those are some non robotic minimally invasive surgeries. But I would say that, you know, sort of the pinnacle of minimally invasive surgery is robotics because that allows us to shrink those incisions on the right side of the chest way down like eight millimeters in size. And, and, and it really is, that is the peak, that is the peak of minimally invasive surgery is to do it robotically and really, really narrow down those decisions and still have the aid of a video scope to see the anatomy clearly really better than you can see it open. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Well it's really fantastic that we have these options available to us, but maybe we need to try to articulate what the, you know, really summarize what the value and the benefit of robotics is over a traditional sternotomy. Maybe Marty I'll start with you on this one. - Marty Uhruh: Yeah, I can talk about it from the postoperative period and also from like kind of the patient experience. You know, the biggest one obviously is going into this surgery, you're concerned about blood loss and with this approach there's less blood loss and that's largely due to the surgical precision that the robotic allows. There's also lower risk of infection. You don't have the big sternotomy incision and less pain is frequently talked about in the literature. From my personal experience, it seems like they have a lot of pain immediate post-op, which we manage really well with, you know, PCAs and, and you know, aggressive pain medication. But as soon as those tubes come out, these patients have an incredible relief of their pain and we, we realize immediately when those tubes come out, these patients are almost ready to go home. Just really impressive how the robotic approach is such a fast recovery. So that's obviously one of the biggest benefits of the robotic is a really quick recovery. They actually spend less time intubated because it's minimally invasive, less time in the hospital overall and smaller scars, although I've seen some creative scar tattoos that people do with the sternotomy, but the, these are a really nice approach for people that are especially younger, don't want that big scar across their chest. So those would be some of the benefits that I see from the, the patient and the postoperative perspective. I'll let Dr. Rowse talk about the, the surgical perspective. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Before we go there, can I just ask a follow up question? Yeah. For our audience, you mentioned that the, we usually manage pain pretty well both for sternotomy and for the robotic procedure in my, in my opinion. But then you mentioned that after the tubes come out, maybe you could just clarify for our audience what tubes we're talking about. - Marty Unruh: Yeah, so they are, they're left with at least one pleural tube and that's in that space in that right side and it's like Dr. Rowse talked about it goes through that rib area and so you ribs, you know, with all of the nerve pain and the nerve endings seems like those can cause a lot of discomfort to them. And these are traditionally on individuals that have a BMI less than 32 and so they're a little bit skinnier people, maybe not as much subcutaneous tissue there to kind of pad the tube. And so once that tube comes out it seems like that just is a, a big win for them and they're up and walking and ready to go home. So that's probably why it's most painful 'cause it's going through that rib space. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: And what's the timeframe that two comes out? - Marty Unruh: Most often? It's post-op day one. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Wow. - Marty Unruh: So we can get it out. Yeah, they spend a night in the ICU and and a lot of times we pull it the next day. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Phil, did you wanna add anything to that? - Dr. Phillip Rowse: Yeah, I, you know, one thing I believe all that Marty said is, is true, you know, I think a misconception out there might be, well if I'm having minimal invasive surgery, robotic surgery with little tiny incisions, then it's, it's gonna be pain-free and, and the answer is it just isn't pain-free. We have gotten a lot more effective with how we manage pain and one of the things from a surgeon's perspective that we do, and we've done this more recently now, is nerve blocking each of those rib spaces at the time of surgery. And so with local anesthetic we can find that rib space, we can usually see where the nerves are residing and we can block those nerves and we've seen that regional anesthesia, that local regional anesthesia can be a huge blessing for pain control immediately post-op. And as Marty mentioned, we do try to get those tubes out early, very frequently. It's that next day after surgery and usually any residual discomfort that's there once we take the tubes out starts to go away pretty quickly and, and many patients are leaving the hospital without painkillers. Some, some still need it, but many, many are not. And so, but it's important to know that small incision does not necessarily mean it's less pain, but it's, it certainly is manageable. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Well it certainly sounds like a, a great technique from that quick recovery and in the hospital and being able to get people up and around really quickly after surgery. Exactly. So it's, it's attractive from the patient's point of view from the recovery in the hospital. How about the long, you know, short and long term effects of this, of a robotic approach to surgery. Is it as safe and effective as a traditional sternotomy? - Dr. Phillip Rowse: Okay, great. Maybe I'll take a stab at that first. I think that's a really important question to ask. If I have my valve repaired robotically my mitral valve and or tricuspid valve repaired robotically, am I gonna get the same result as if I had sternotomy? You know, I don't wanna compromise that. And the answer is it it is the same and the results are the same. What's unique about using the robot is that the operation that one gets to repair their valves does not change from having a sternotomy. We do the exact procedure, the exact same techniques that we would use if we did a sternotomy only. We're using the platform of the robot and coming from the right side of the chest and we've evaluated these patients, in fact we've followed them echocardiographic over 10 years and, and what we have found is the repairability of valve and the durability of mitral valve repair 10 years out from surgery mirrors our open practice. And so is it effective? Absolutely. Is it safe? Yes, we would expect a risk complication rate of about 1% and that mirrors the open approach as well, risk factor of about 1%. So it's safe, it's effective. And particularly for the mitral valve, we've also studied, you know, to take it one step further, what about complexity of the valve? Should that change the approach, you know, if it's not just a posterior leach mitral leaflet problem or if it is only just a posterior mitral leaf problem, should you just approach that robotically? What about if it's bi leaflet or what about if it's an anterior leaflet problem, which tends to be a bit more tricky, we can repair all of those valves robotically no matter if it's on the complex side or on the simplistic side. And, and our data shows that it's as effective as, as our open data. And so the complexity of the valve does not carry a sway into taking us out of the robotic approach. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: That's very reassuring, I think, to people that might be really wanting a great repair, but also, you know, all of us would like to minimize our time in the hospital, our time and recovery and, and, and the scars that we have. You know, we don't wanna have a lot of scars of most of us, so that's really very, very reassuring. I think. Marty, one thing I didn't clarify and I'd like to just come back to the, what's your, what do you think the average stay in the hospital is? We talked about taking the chest tube out, the pleural tube out within the first day and that implied that we're getting out of the hospital quicker. And then what is the amount of time most people would see themselves going back to their normal lifestyle, their maybe their job or whatever their, you know, normal lifestyle would be? - Marty Unruh: Sure, that's a great question. And so, you know, I mentioned that they typically spend one night in the ICU, they come to the PCU the next day. We pull that tube often on that, on that post-op day one technically. And so by post-op day two to three, we are often dismissing these patients. I would say the average is post-op day three, whereas, you know, a sternotomy approach is we, we attempt to get them, get the patient dismissed by day five. So it it drastically reduces their time spent in the hospital. From a per recovery standpoint, these patients are often driving within two weeks back to their normal life within four. What we tell them at time of dismissal is give yourself four weeks, you know, with the sternotomy approach, we say six weeks, but it typically is much earlier than what we tell them. But we wanna set expectations real so that, you know, four to six weeks, four weeks being the, the robotic and the six weeks being the, the sternotomy approach. So we see a, a pretty great recovery within two weeks of the surgery. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Wow. Anything else that you'd like to add to that Dr. Rowse? - Dr. Phillip Rowse: Yeah, I think, you know, robotic surgery, it's good for patients. Cosmetically as we've talked about, it's, it's, it's good for patients in terms of getting back to work. It's good for society for patients to be getting back to their jobs and their normal life. And you know, I've had patients even texting me a picture on the golf course within the week after surgery. I didn't want him doing that, but he did it anyways. And I can tell you his golf swing was probably not the same, you know, but, but these patients are doing really quite well within, you know, two or three weeks they're gonna be healed up and you know, in terms of healing from a sternotomy, you know, a standard surgery, you know, oftentimes it's six weeks, but sometimes it's longer than that. Many times it can be, you know, two months or three months, you know, depending on how, how slow that bone is going to heal. And so, you know, robotics is great from that standpoint really - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Because you take the sternum out of the picture and then there's less bone that needs to heal because the ribs are still left intact. - Dr. Phillip Rowse: Right. There's an exact right no bone breaking, just soft tissue that has to heal. Soft tissue usually heals pretty quickly. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Wow. How many robotic surgeries has Mayo Clinic performed? - Dr. Phillip Rowse: Oh, that's a great question. So we started doing robotic surgery at Mayo in and over the last number of years we do about 200 a year. And so we are, we are well over 2000 procedures at this point and in time and you know, that includes robotic mitral and tricuspid maze procedures, taking out tumors, closing, you know, atrial septal defects, other small congenital defects in the septum, you know, all the gamut. So well over 2000, over 2000 cases is where we're at. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Wow. That's a lot of cases. And it sounds like probably the savings would be on hospitals stay, but maybe I do know that we use two surgeons in the robotic procedure and one of the questions that I've heard from patients is, you know about, well it is probably a twofold question. The the savings and you know, we have two surgeons and the surgery and then what, how much is the robot doing or are the surgeons actually performing the surgery? I mean, it sounds like a silly question but in but in, but, but, but for people who haven't seen it, I don't think, you know, the robot, you know, a lot of times we think about robots doing it all by themselves. - Dr. Phillip Rowse: Yeah, that's a that's a really good question. Oh, sorry Marty, go ahead. Take a step. - Marty Unruh: Well no actually it's, it's, it's interesting to me because I actually got to watch Dr. Rowse perform one of these surgeries and it's intriguing to me because as a clinician I can see why they would think a robot's doing this job. And so, you know, Dr. Rowse would be out of a job if we actually got the robot to do it completely. But the console is set to the side of the room and the patient is in the middle of the room and he is obviously operating with his hands still, but it's a robot that is performing those exact maneuvers in on his behalf. And so I'll let him talk a little bit more, but it's, it's very interesting to think that at some point, you know, it maybe people will be taken out of this picture. I kind of doubt that. - Dr. Phillip Rowse: Well, I mean, it's a fascinating question to ask because we have cars that drive themselves. You know, I was in Scottsdale just recently and there was a, what's called a Waymo, it's one of these cars that, it's a, it's a taxi car that you just order on your phone and it drives you where you want to go. There's no driver to it. And so what about when we say robot is the robot just doing its own thing and we just program it And the answer is no, as Marty said. So the robotic surgery, the surgeon is performing the entire procedure and just as Marty mentioned, the console is where the surgeon sits. And I like to think of it kind of like a cockpit, you know, like if you're a pilot and inside that cockpit, you know, you have a center console and there's an area for you to put your fingers into and the arms of the robot are, you know, docked right at the patient's bedside. And this cockpit is off to the side. And when the surgeon manipulates the little arms of, of the robot with a little finger movements, the robot very precisely replicates what the surgeon is doing with their fingers on that, on that console. And so I like to think of the robot really as an extension of our fingers, you know, inside the patient's chest only we are sitting remote and sitting in a little cockpit and manipulating it with our fingers on a console system. So it's like a, almost like a high tech video game. I mean, I might compare it to that, but, but certainly the surgeon is doing all of it. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Well, what I think I've heard is that robotic is safe and effective. There are some maybe soft clinically decisions that need to be made about body habitus, COPD, some of the other processes that we need to take into consideration, patient specific ones particularly. But overall, it's a very robust procedure that gets the same exact outcomes that we would expect from a mid sternotomy and with a much quicker turnaround in terms of hospital stay and return to your normal lifestyle, which is, is is fantastic. So I would like to congratulate both of you on what a great option this is for our patients. And, and at this point I would turn it over to the two of you. Do you have any closing remarks or anything that we wanna point out further besides the questions that we've already discussed? - Marty Unruh: I think that me being younger in my career at Mayo Clinic, I am excited for the future. We, as we see these robotic procedures become more and more frequent, we're able to serve more and more people. And that's exciting, especially with the amount of people that need help in this nation and world. Being on the receiving end of those people is, is an honor to care for them. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Thank you. That, that's a really good point that we had, it really talked about is the short resources that we have in the medical system right now. And that if we could shorten hospital stays, if we can get people back, it's gonna help the, the demand on the hospital space. - Dr. Phillip Rowse: Yeah, I agree with all that. It's, you know, as I mentioned earlier, it's good for patients from a healing standpoint. It's good for society for them to be got, you know, getting back to their jobs, getting back to their lives, their routine. You know, i I I suspect robotic surgery, mid minimally invasive surgery will continue to expand. We've talked about lots of different things that we're doing with the robot presently, but, you know, what are we gonna talk about in five years from now and in 10 years from now? What, what is possible? And so it's, it's, it's great for patients, it's great for surgeons at an institution like ours where we are focused also on education. There's no better way to teach the uprising generation how to repair a mitral valve, how to repair a tricuspid valve than, than, you know, putting the robot adjacent to the patient and putting it on a big screen. We've got multiple big screens in the operating room and we can teach the next generation how to repair these valves and they can see it otherwise without that, you know, we have an open sternotomy and you're in a deep chest, it can be very difficult to see what is the surgeon doing to repair that valve. And so robotics is also good for, for the next generation, how to teach and train the next generation of surgeons. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Well on those very optimistic notes, I think I'll again, thank you both for being here and answering these very important questions about robotic assisted surgical approaches to our patients care. And thank our audience for their time and listening to our presentation. And we'll be back in the future with another Mayo Clinic cardiovascular CME podcast series and I'll look forward to talking to you then. Until then, be well, take care and have a great day.