I invested in a very rewarding career taking care of cancer patients. I believed that a big part of my life included service above self. >> After retiring in 2022, Nancy Drower noticed changes in her health. A lingering rash, fatigue, and short-term memory challenges led to years of tests and appointments with physicians near her home in Tampa, Florida. When blood work in 2024 suggested Nancy may have a severe kidney condition, she turned to Mayo Clinic. >> When I saw the MRI and the results, there was a concerning finding which was bone lesions and spleen lesions. And to the radiologist, it was concerning for metastasis or cancer. It could be an infectious process or other autoimmune diseases. >> A biopsy ruled out cancer, but did confirm a diagnosis of sarcoidosis, a disease that affects approximately 200,000 people in the US. Sarcidosis is a inflammatory disease in a way that the body is attacking uh the the organs or the cells. In the case of Nancy, it was quite severe from skin to bone to spleen to many other organs. >> While there is no known cure for saridosis, NY's care team, including experts in rheumatology, oncology, infectious diseases, and other areas developed a treatment plan to manage her disease. It was within my power now to navigate this disease and not give up on the things that brought me such joy. Nancy receives weekly treatment and regular follow-ups to measure progress. She's also given more thought to her textile design business. The dream, influenced by her grandmother decades ago, was put on hold to focus on her health. NY's journey also inspired her to write a letter to her care team titled The Science of Angels, in which she shares her gratitude for the diagnosis and treatment options. >> I will forever remember how deeply the science of angels impacted my life and those of my loving sons. Thank you for instilling hope and a medical path forward in the treatment of my rare and complex disease. with a grateful heart. Nancy Crower. >> For the Mayo Clinic News Network, I'm Alex Ositis.