Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host Dr. Andrea Tulie and I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. >> In this episode, we are chatting with Dr. John Eert, the director of the Mayo Clinic Nicotine Dependent Center, all about smoking sessation. >> Dr. John Eert is a professor of medicine and the medical director of the nicotine dependent center here at the Mayo Clinic. He's also associate chair for innovation and advanced analytics in the department of medicine and both vice chair for research and section lead for teleaalth in community internal medicine geriatrics and palative care. Today we will discuss his insights into nicotine dependence implications in health and opthalmology and resources to break the habit. Welcome Dr. Eert. >> It's a pleasure to be here. Thank you. We're so excited to chat about um smoking sessation, how we talk to our patients about smoking, what the kind of nicotine epidemic is, and your experience. We've we've been kind of chatting offline. I've already learned so much. Um kind of take us through your career path if you don't mind, and how you got to where you are today and how you got to be the leader of the nicotine dependent center and what that even means. >> Yeah, I appreciate the question. And so in the early 2000s when I was uh starting my longitudinal care practice in community internal medicine, I noticed that a lot of my patients were dying from tobacco and there weren't a lot of great options for us. And so really my journey has been to try to develop new options, develop new therapeutics and really start to have a much broader strategy to engage patients in the treatment of tobacco dependence. And so that brought me to where I am today as the medical director. Uh it's been a long journey uh but it's been a a wonderful journey. I I must admit I just for us and we I Andre and I care for thyroid eye disease, but there are a number of conditions in for our patients that we see that we know have some relationship and risk to smoking um or other nicotine dependent um habits that they might be making. And I for me as I sit there and I say um I'm going to do your stbisma surgery after your thyroid eye disease for an example. And I know patients with thyroid eye disease will have a more complicated course if they're continuing to smoke. >> Yeah. >> Um, you know, we tell them, "Please stop your smoking." And so often they come back and they're still smoking. Um, it's just it's such a challenging thing for opthalmologists to meaning well advise their patients well. So I'm excited to just have sort of the session to educate us, inform us, and just, you know, bring awareness to what we might do for them. But before we get there, let's just talk about current trends um for nicotine use in you know all platforms. And I just you know I think we think about I think about chewing tobacco and then smoking and now there's this vaping stuff but share with us the demographics of how youth or individuals in their life often get in. What are the stats on that and then what is the balance of the different platforms by which they um use this habit? >> Yeah, so I appreciate the question. So our smoking rate in the United States is the lowest it's been in a really long time, 11 and a half%. So about 28 million adult smokers in the United States. And when we look across all tobacco use, that still remains the most prevalent. And one of the reasons is is that cigarette smoking is so addictive. And the addictiveness of any drug is directly related to how quickly it can get into the central nervous system and in what concentration. So smoking something and inhaling it is faster than any other form of delivery. And so I think that explains part of that. A lot of this has been marketing as well. Um and just some of the other tobacco products are not marketed as heavily. Ecigarettes came on the scene and they've really taken over a lot of the youth market. So if you look at ecigarette consumption, it's much more prevalent in the youth than it is uh among adults. And a lot of that is marketing and specific campaigns toward adolescence. When we look at hookah, they have hookah bars. Yes, that's true. The prevalence of hookah hasn't really changed much, nor has smokeless tobacco. And I think we talked about um in our pregame session, we we don't really see pipe smokers that much. Um so when we look at it, I think the it's always a constantly evolving playing field. It's also important to remember that the FDA has a very specific task to approve for marketing tobacco products and the FDA has approved for continuing marketing uh ecigarettes as well as a very low nicotine cigarette as well as smokeless tobacco in one of their authorization pathways. That means that the idea that we're ever going to put the tobacco genie back in the bottle and make tobacco illegal is never going to happen in our lifetime. So, we're going to have these products. we have to manage through these products and your patients are going to be using them. The other thing you mentioned timing is everything, right? So when you see a patient in a peroperative discussion and they're stressed out and they have anxiety and nicotine is the only thing that helps them manage them anxiety, it's tough to counsel in that space, isn't it really? >> And so a lot of times, you know, taking the patient out of that context and referring them to us or referring them to other options which we can talk about is sometimes really helpful. You say, "Look, it's going to help you with your surgery. It's going to help you with your recovery. Maybe I'm not the one to kind of help you get there, but we have teams who are dedicated to help you and maybe get in a little bit distant from that. I'm not saying you shouldn't intervene. You absolutely should. That's the time to say you need to do this." And they're going to listen to their surgeons. Um, but they just don't know how to be successful. >> And in the vaping group, how much, you know, a lot of youth might start out vaping, but then some might migrate to smoke later. What's the balance there of of of what the typical when a a youth starts vaping, what's their trajectory look like? >> It's a great question. They've done lots of they've asked a couple of interesting questions. Uh they first looked at if if if you looked at people who start smoking an ecigarette, what is their transformation rate to to smoked conventional tobacco cigarettes? Right? Because that's really what you're concerned about. The most risky product on the market bar none is smoked tobacco conventional cigarette, right? And an ecigarette is harmful, but it let's just be honest, it's less harmful, >> right, >> than a conventional cigarette. So, if you had youth picking up cigarettes, what you're concerned about is are any of those youth people that otherwise would have smoked conventional cigarettes? And also too, how many of them use ecigarettes as a gateway to conventional cigarettes? So it's actually kind of a break even. They don't think it's saving any kids from not smoking cigarettes. But we're also too observing that a lot of about a third of kids who pick up ecigarettes convert to conventional cigarette smoking which has the most risk. So on balance um probably no effect. >> Okay. >> In terms of preventing youth uh engagement with tobacco. >> And then one more question where do cigars fit in this mix? >> Good question. And so cigars um you know have had some ups and downs over the past couple decades. And we always look over what is interesting for me as what's been going on over the past two decades because I think that really gives you you know an idea of kind of what um cultural trends are and those sorts of things. Um cigars um are um they they had they had an upswing in you know 2010s 2015s. Uh there were some changes in their ability to market um that occurred. Um, and cigars are actually can be just as risky as smoking a conventional smoked tobacco cigarette because a lot of those people inhale. And the other thing is if you've ever seen someone smoke a cigar, they sort of marinate in the smoke. It's a real heavy smoke with lots of particullet that sort of hover in the air and they're inhaling that and that's really they're inhaling that smoke and it's a very heavy smoke. And cigar tobacco actually has more tar than a conventional cigarette. >> And the tar is the risk. The tar is what goes into your lung, carries the nicotine with it. The nicotine gets absorbed and the tar stays behind. Tar is pharmacologically inert. And in fact, emphyma can be viewed as sort of a autoagi. So you've got cells that go in there and attack the tar and they release cytoines that destroy the lung tissue. It's not the tar destroying the lung tissue. It's your body trying to protect itself from the tar. So cigars have a lot of tar is the point of that story. Um so they're certainly not risk-f free. >> Theoretically, if you weren't inhaling, then it would be slightly better. That's what everybody I smoked cigars. Well, I never inhale them. >> Yeah. So So sure. So, I think the thing that you think about is that smoking any kind of tobacco, uh, anything you burn at 3,000 degrees C on the lit end of any tobacco product actually is a what they would call in cancer as a field effect. So, whatever tissue is exposed to that tobacco, i.e. your mouth repeatedly, inhalation and exhalation, even if it's in your mouth, >> you can get oral cancer from that. And the oral cancer risks are very similar between cigar smokers and cigarette smokers. >> That's interesting. I have to admit, like Eric was saying, you know, we have these thyroid patients that we share and and opthalmology smoking is very important with macular degeneration, cataracts, all kinds of things, but especially with our thyroid, those are the patients that I say, you know, I will not operate on you if you're still smoking. And I must admit that smoking sessation discussions are my least favorite. They make me so uncomfortable. smoking and weight loss. Those are the two things I hate talking to my patients about um because they don't they don't want to hear it in in my mind or they've heard it a million times and I always I feel apologetic. I'm so sorry I have to tell you but you got to stop smoking. >> I apologize too. >> Do you? >> Mhm. All the time. >> Yeah, I know. >> And so in all of your years of experience and wisdom, give us your best tips for motivational interviewing, encouraging your patients to stop smoking in a positive way. So what I try to do is I try to meet what which I think is very common in all of addiction treatment. Tobacco dependence is no different. The difference between nicotine and all the other drugs is that you can use nicotine and still be functional, right? You're not impaired, can still hold a job. You you don't leave your family and you know do those become homeless because of it. So I mean it has a lot of other attributes that are very different than other drugs of addiction. So the social context a little bit different but having said that I think with all other drugs of addiction it's meeting the the patient where they are. So what I've tried over the years and I've tried different things of course I apologize. I said it's my job to do this and it's your job to say you don't want to quit and we just we move on but uh and I get it right. I'm supposed to be the guy right that knows how to do this and it's challenging but one of the things I I do see is I say it is fun to smoke isn't it? And you do you have to be careful a little bit about that. Motivational interviewing teaches you that you you don't want to engage in a discussion that is promoting the behavior, supporting the behavior. Like smoking is fun. Yeah, let's go smoke together. You're not doing that. But what you're doing is you're meeting them in a place where they want to talk about it with you. So when you go in there and you say, "I need you to quit. I'm sorry I have to do this." You know, they feel shame. They don't really, no smoker is really truly proud of it because I've never met a smoker who quit and said, "I wish I never would have quit." But I've certainly every smoker I've seen, I'm glad I quit. You know, I'm I'm, you know, so I think that they all have that experience. It's just that it's really hard to see down that road to be what the biggest thing for me that when connecting with my patients that I found is when you ask them the question, what would it be like for you not to be smoking, >> they have no idea what that feels like. They don't know how to live without it. >> It becomes their best friend. It becomes her coping companion. And so trying to understand that, you know, it's like trying to break that habit. Um, you got to meet them where they are. You know, why do we use, you know, does it help you manage stress? Does it mel help you manage depression? The answer of all those is going to be yes. Like when do you smoke? And they go, I don't know why or when I smoke. I just smoke all the time. Right? So it's but they use it um so commonly that I think engaging them in meeting where they're they are is is really really important. I always use scaling questions like how motivated are you to quit? um on a scale of one to 10 >> um how confident are you in your be able to quit one to 10 and kind of exploring that if someone says I have a three confidence you go oh great why wasn't it a one like what gives you some confidence it gives you opportunity to start to have a conversation with the patient and sort of engage them where they're at easy tip >> okay yeah >> I like that >> pro tip pro tip >> so commonly you know my I oftenimes refer to the smoking sensation clinic as an option for them or their primary care and you know some people come back and say they tried gum for a while or they had a patch or these other options in nicotine replacement. Um share with us just in within medicine how valuable is it to to in terms of health risk to transition to that? I mean we in surgery for you I think you still do proceed as long as they're on a nicotine replacement option. >> Yeah, I'm okay with nicotine. I just don't want the smoke. >> The smoke. So share with us just as they come to the smoking sensation clinic, you're engaging them where they are and giving them options. What is the usual process for >> caring for them, looking at options, evaluating their life and and choosing next steps and what what might those next steps be? >> Yeah. So we have three drugs. Um and when we think about tobacco treatment holistically, it's really a two-prong strategy. It's the behavioral strategy along with the pharmicotherapy. So I work with counselors who help with the behavioral strategies which are how to avoid Q or how to how to avoid triggers, how to um you know identify cues and all the behavioral components of quitting. And so we have our counselors work with that. When we do the pharmicotherapy, we think about three options. We have a medication called verenocine which acts very specifically in the addiction centers of your brain. We have broprion which is an anti-depressant which can help with craving. And then we have all the nicotine replacement products which include gum lozenge, nasal spray and patches. So those are the and what I typically do is I say what have you tried before? because usually they have some very strong feelings and it it's rare these days that I meet especially in the referral practice that I have that I meet someone who hasn't tried to quit before. I usually try to identify what they've tried to you what they've what they're interested in using and some of that's based upon previous experiences and then that's really where I start my conversation is what they would be willing to try. And we talked a little bit about um in the pregame here about insurance coverage which can be challenging of course um but we can work with prior authorization and we'll work with insurance company as you guys you both of you do in your in your surgical procedure practice. Um we do the same thing with our medication so we can work through those things. So that's how we start really what have you tried before? What are you willing to try? Um and then really engage with the behavioral components in addition to the pharmicotherapy. >> Is are most patients coming in the door the first time interested and engaged and ready to commit on multiple modalities? Are they on a systemic medication and replacement or do you try one and add in the other over time or what's the usual step therapy versus hit them hard and back off? It's an important question because some of the data suggests, it's very interesting. If you actually look at data of patients that walk into your big box store and take a nicotine replacement off the counter and use it on their own, they're less likely to quit than someone who had never even done that. >> Why would that be? And the answer is because what happens is they don't have the knowledge to dose high enough. So, they think it doesn't work. It doesn't help with craving. It doesn't help them be successful. So it actually it's actually works against cessation. >> It becomes defeating. >> Yeah. So it Yeah. So it becomes defeating. So really trying to engage them at that level of trying to figure out um you know what works and how do we start and we like step therapy. So step therapy is very common in medicine. We do blood pressure and diabetes all of these modalities and diseases that we treat. But we'll start out with um one or two products if they've never tried them before. And the next step is really combination phicotherapy. So a patch plus gum or a patch plus lodge. The patch uh provides continuous dosing and then the gum the lozenge and the nasal spray provide adlib dozing for acute urges and then we'll add verenocine and we can use verenocine with the nicotine patch. And sometimes we use all the medications at the same time. So I don't like to you know get all of the big guns out right away. I like to ramp them up so that I have something to go to on their next attempt. More recent data suggests, it used to say that most smokers try to quit 12 times before they're successful. The data actually suggests it's more like 30. We like to reduce that to more like three. And the way that we do that is we try to use, you know, combination phicotherapy with the behavioral strategies. >> Wow. So what would be just if you if you had a cohort of individuals trying to stop smoking on their own their own after 10 years what success does a population find and then number two what are what's the data behind smoking sessation clinics like we have here at Mayo on impact in that on that habit. >> Yeah. So what's interesting and important to remember about uh tobacco dependence is that there's a very strong correlation between abstinence rates and that's quitting and our gold standard is 6 months. You know um we check at three but really six months and the reason why is that when we get a patient to quit for 6 months the likelihood of relapse becomes almost like a flat curve. If you look at that with abstinence as your y-axis, most of that relapse is happening within the first 72 hours. 70% of patients are relapsing in the first 72 hours. >> So if we can get them out to 6 months, we're feeling pretty, you know, pretty good about that. >> And the more intensive the therapy, the higher the quit rates. So um >> on your own, 5% of the patient of the smoking population quits with our treatment. Mayo Clinic nicotine dependent center 25% at six months with our intensive treatment program um which is an outpatient program where they stay in a hotel here in Rochester and we see them every day um it's about 50%. >> Wow. >> And when you look at even the most effective medication which is Verrenlean at 6 months 2/3 have relapsed. We don't have a lot of drugs and they don't work that well. So, we've got to use them all together. That's the key. >> That's absolutely wild. And you mentioned when we were talking before, too, about how uh challenging it is that we get so many deaths per year from tobacco. We have so few drugs, so few things coming out on the market. It's unlikely to have new drugs coming out on the market. Talk to us about that because it's such a good point. I didn't even consider it. And um it's really shocking. >> Yeah. So, um, without sounding too cynical, um, 480,000 people die still each year in the United States, uh, from tobacco-reated illnesses. Um, that's equal to three fully loaded 747s crashing every day for an entire year with no survivors because that's a helpful frame because it's hard to imagine what 480,000 actually looks like. So, that's helpful. I only have three drugs that I can use and the last new drug I had came out in 2008 and then I think about acne where it doesn't really kill anybody but I have about 30 drugs. So it's like I said I'm trying not to sound cynical but that's why I actually lean into you know intensifying that therapy you know doing more than just one thing and really trying to use multimodatal approaches. >> So how unique is that? I mean and then just share with us what makes the smoking sessation or nicotine dependent center here at Mayo unique in terms of research or frontiers of of intensive therapy. >> Yeah. So we do something here that not a lot of other institutions do and that is we dose match and the dose matching is if you smoke 40 cigarettes a day which is two packs 20 cigarettes in a pack unless you live in Canada which case it's 25 but if you smoke two packs a day that's 40 cigarettes the first patch dose we'll put you on is not a 21 we'll actually put two 21s on you and it's a 42. So we we match the cigarettes you smoke per day with the number of milligrams in the patch because our early studies found that patients do better when you try to give them 100% nicotine replacement. So they did this fascinating study uh where and it's not just all about nicotine either. So what they did was every smoker has a nicotine set point and they smoke to that nicotine set point and there'll be either 15 cigarettes a day or a pack a day or 10 cigarettes a day. Everybody kind of has that sweet spot, if you will, with nicotine. And um when when they took these patients and they said, "Okay, what we're going to do is we're going to figure out how much nicotine you get a day and we're going to infuse that in your vein and see if it gets rid of all your cravings." it got rid of most and not all of the cravings. So even though we dose match the rest of that story is you still have to use those behavioral therapies because nicotine and drug craving is not all just about the drug. And they also have one more study I want to tell you about. They did a very interesting study um with um functional imaging of the CNS and they looked at the reward center of the brain that lit up among people who were injecting heroin and they found that the dopamine was released even before the needle was put in the arm because the association with the drug experience was so strong that's all they needed to get the high. And we believe that happens in smokers although they haven't exactly replicated that cigarette uh among cigarette smokers but that behavioral component even if we're really going after those highdosese nicotine patches is such a critical piece >> and it's hard for you to do that right in opthalmology you don't have the time >> that's what we're here to help you and support you and there's also some other things I can mention in terms of what patients can do on their own >> it's really helpful to know that there's lots of support out there besides just in our clinic because it's See, it does seem daunting for us. And I have a few memorable patients. I had one young patient, I'll never forget, who I said, I will not operate on you until you stop smoking. And this p this patient was so angry with me and said, "I'm not ready. I don't want to. You're forcing me, you know, was really upset." >> She dug in her heels. >> Yeah. And and I just I'll never forget her saying, "I'm not ready." And I thought, "Well, you're never going to be ready." You know, who is ready to quit smoking? Um, so that behavioral piece and then even the the data that you presented with the most intensive care, it's still only 50%. >> Correct. >> That just shows how addictive >> agreed >> these things are. It's unbelievable. How do we stop patients from starting? Are they all starting when they're young? >> Yeah. So, what's fascinating about addiction is that about 99% of all addiction happens before the age of 25. >> Wow. And we know that the brain continues to develop until the age of 25. And if you can keep a kid off of a drug or unexposed to a drug until after the age of 25, the likelihood they'll ever be an addict is less than 1%. >> Impressive. >> Wow. Is that the same with alcohol? >> Everything. >> Wow. >> All the drugs are the same. >> Wow. So till 25. >> Yep. And that's because during that age of experimentation and brain development, >> risk-taking behavior, trying different things, >> um, you know, you know, trying to think about, you know, seeking that high, seeking that dopamine rush and drug experimentation is a risky time for for during brain development. >> Talking about drug experimentation, can I just ask you just given your expertise >> where you know marijuana has become >> the cigarettes of, you know, of yester year. It's just, you know, it's not only just, you know, an opportunity that's seen as should be open in society, but it's actually in some circles, you know, trying to you be used to promote whatever there might be, whether it's glaucoma or which, uh, you know, much of this is not proven medicine. But >> how is the push for marijuana to become legalized made your life harder or made our society brought in new challenges that we might not talk about, but you experience every day? >> Yeah. And as I think about it, it's just really the next health care crisis, right? Tobacco is a healthcare crisis. This is the next wave. Um and because we know that there's very good data that daily exposure to cannabis during developmental um you know, the development of the brain can can really lead to long-term consequences on cognition. We know that from decades of experience with European data. So um it's just the next healthcare crisis for us in tobacco. What's happening is they're developing all sorts of new delivery devices which facilitate the co-administration of nicotine and cannabis. In co-administration of drugs in in the drug world is pretty common. So people will do what they call um an eightball. And an eightball is heroin and cocaine at the same time. They'll inject that. And the reason they do that is because heroin, you know, provides profound euphoria, but it makes you sleepy. So the cocaine sort of counterbalances that sleepiness effect. And they do that with alcohol and nicotine. Nicotine can be very sedating or nicotine became very stimulating. Alcohol can be very sedating. So the co-administration of drugs is very common. So cannabis can be relaxing, but it can also be sedating. So the co-administration of nicotine as a stimulant is what we're going to see more and more of. and then delivering these through, you know, we think that it's safe because we're not smoking a joint anymore, but what they're doing is they're heating it and they're aerosolizing that nicotine and that cannabis together and then co-administrating it through inhalation. But it's not smoke, right? It's not it's not burned organic material. It's actually an aerosol of cannabis oil, cannabis, and nicotine. >> It's in the vaping group. >> It's in the vaping group. You used a comment earlier off when we before the show we were learning all the terms >> and that was another one I had which is marijuana inside a cigarette. >> It marijuana inside a cigar get some nicotine from the cigar. >> Yep. Exactly. Cuz a cigarette is a tobacco rod rolled in paper. A cigarette is a tobacco rod rolled in paper. And a cigar is a tobacco rod rolled in tobacco. So that's why they use the blunt to >> Oh, I didn't know that. >> Yeah. Yeah. So in you We're very naive over here >> implications and thoughts in different locations. Minnesota has a very aggressive tax on cigarettes, my understanding or compared to national standards and but how impactful is that on um on the use? I assume it's not >> so not as much anymore. So most of the impact. So the two most effective strategies for reducing tobacco use at a population level are excise taxes and clean indoor air. Those two. But you're not seeing that now because you had a wave of clean indoor air. I don't know if you remember eating in restaurants where they had the smoking and non-smoking. It was it would someone had the analogy that was like having a peeing and non- peeing part part of your pool. All that's been implemented and there aren't a lot of new sort of clean in their air spaces coming online because a lot of this is political and a lot of is based on states. So your perception is not as effective is correct because we're not getting any new spaces online and any new significant increases and you know tobacco excise taxes. But if you doubled the uh excise tax on tobacco, you would eliminate almost effectively um 90% of the smoking. >> Why don't we do that? >> It's politics. Yeah. >> Oh my goodness. >> All right, one more question. This is so rewarding to unpack a topic that we just don't talk about other than these pearls that we give our patients sometimes. um help us for listeners that might be a comprehensive opthalmologist in a you know a city around us walking into their 13-year-old bedroom and seeing a vaping device in the drawer, >> right? >> Um or whatever it might be. and and there's that initial reaction that you pull your son or daughter into the living room and have this really critical harsh discussion probably and but share for the parents out there um you know when should we be talking about our kids and it should probably be throughout life in these regards but it's their young life but just advice for a communication prophylactically but then advice for that initial awareness that something this is in their house and it might it be more than just a discussion one-on-one with your child. >> Mhm. >> First of all, pause, breathe. If you're not ready to have a calm conversation, leave the room and come back because you have to start with a place of empathy or you're going to push the kid away. So, uh that's just my parent uh parenting advice. But anyway, um coming from an addiction specialist, um you know, we see this because I see it among adults. Same thing. Um they have the same response if it's not from a place of compassion, empathy. they they want to dig in and throw up the resistance, right? >> So, uh I I I think that it's important for them to get the information that they need. Ecigarettes are safer than conventional cigarettes, but they're not completely safe. They do create because of the heated coil system with the vegetable glycerin and the propyline glycol inside those vaping systems does convert to carbonals like formaldahhide. Um and that firmaldahhide as you know repeated inhalations of formaldihide as you might surmise is risky and can lead to cancer. It's a it it it you know it it's a carcinogen. So starting with information and then also knowing that these kids are being exposed to very high levels of nicotine. just released a study when they looked at positron emission tomography of carbon 11 um uh they took carbon 11 and basically combined that with nicotine and then they had smokers smoke a conventional cigarette an ecigarette and then an ecigarette with a salt and a salt is a is a different form of nicotine uh that they use in ecigarettes and the delivery of the salt form with an advanced ecigarette Nicotine in the central nervous system look exactly like a smoked conventional cigarette. So they are achieving serum and blood and CNS, central nervous system concentrations of nicotine that look exactly like a conventional cigarette. So if you see a 16-year-old with an ecigarette, they may be just as addicted as a 20 year your 20 cigarette a day smoker that you see in the opthalmology practice needing an opthalmologic procedure. Just as addicted. So to say stop is going to work as well with that kid as it does at working with their patients in opthalmology. So they might need help and they might need treatment. And so calling a quit line like 1800 quit now. 1800 quit now is a state-run quit line. They can get help. Um Truth Initiative has a stop vape program that they can get for free um to try to So I think having the conversation, giving that child that information and then getting them help is key. expecting that they'll quit cold turkey just means the behavior is going to go underground, >> right? >> Thank you for that advice. >> Yeah, good advice. Terrifying. Wow. Well, I've learned so much. Really, your expertise is phenomenal. Thank you so much. And we'll try to meet our patients where they are, give them some data, and then refer them to you. >> That's my plan. >> Much appreciated. >> Sounds good. Thank you so much for having me. >> Thank you, Dr. Eert. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Opthalmology podcast on our website. >> Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.