So I think with chewing tobacco, the biggest risk is oral cancer. So it's mouth or tongue cancer, and this can be very devastating. And so that by itself is a reason not to chew tobacco. I think with vaping, there are a lot of associated lung injury conditions that occur as a result of vaping, including vape-related acute lung injury has its own name, and we've seen this in young people. There was a period where there was a lot of young people being admitted to the hospital and requiring even mechanical ventilation because of this vape-related acute lung injury. As far as causing lung cancer, remember, when you're vaping, you're still burning something, be it electric or otherwise you're still burning something and inhaling it. Our lungs are not designed for that, and so the risk of a cancer is also increased. I don't know that I can tell you if it's exactly the same as cigarettes, or less or more. But we know that it would cause, or would contribute, to an increase in lung cancer to actually inhale these things that you're burning, be it nicotine or whatever else that this electric cigarette is doing. There is always a little bit of recovery that lungs will do once you quit the cigarettes. But if you think about it, damage that you have accrued over 20 years is not going to be fixed in one, two, three, four, five years even. And so, for example, when we look at risk of lung cancer in people who stop smoking, it will take you a good 5 to 10 years to get back to the same risk as somebody at that age. So your risk doesn't just plummet down the minute you stop smoking. That's why it's important to quit cigarettes, to quit smoking as early as possible. You got to quit in your twenties so that when you're in your thirties, your risk is similar to other people in their thirties. If you're waiting until you're 70 to quit smoking, you know it's going to be another ten years before that risk has come down to be similar to people in their eighties. Now, as far as repairing with regards to emphysema and bronchitis, you might improve your symptoms from bronchitis that happens with smoking. So you're not coughing as much over time, you're not bringing up as much phlegm, maybe not flaring up your COPD as often, but as far as damage that occurred- the lung destruction, that's what emphysema is: emphysema is where the lung is destroyed. Tissue that is lost is gone. You're not going to get it back. So again, the earlier the better. You know, I often tell people if you're start with $100 in your gambling, and you get down to ten, don't keep gambling. You stop there because you’ll keep your ten. You're not going to get back 100 but you keep your ten.  And it's the same thing, as you smoke and you lose lung tissue, don't keep smoking. You stop here and you will reap some benefits, but you're not going to regenerate lungs.