My name is Andrew Goats and I'm a chief resident at Mayo Clinic. This case is a spontaneous cribopform plate CSF leak repair with a free mucosal graft and it was done with Dr. Aaron O'Brien, a rhyinologist and skullbased surgeon in conjunction with Dr. Maria Pariselda, our partner in neurosurgery. This patient is a middle-aged female with an elevated BMI who presented to our clinic with right-sided clear drainage from her nose. A CT venagram showed narrowing of the right transverse and sigmoid sinuses and she underwent endovvascular stenting. This resulted in decreased flow through her CSF leak, but she continued to have drainage. And we like stenting in this setting in order to maximize the likelihood of surgical success and decreasing the pressure on the repair. Shown here is her pre-operative CT scan which shows the area likely of leak at the right cribform plate. And the endoscopic examination also here shows this bleb of clear fluid and the likely sight of leak and potentially two sightes that will require repair. Here we are in the right sinasal cavity injecting the head of the middle turbinet as well as the axilla of the middle turbinet. Given that this is a very medial leak, we elected not to perform a unilateral sinus surgery, but routinely that may be part of this type of repair. We elected to start with a middle turbinet resection using the curve scissors here. It's often helpful to initially perform a more conservative resection and additional removal can be done. We took this turbinet out generally on block and then we're able to use the mucosa from the middle turbinet for our free mucosal graft later. This is working back along the middle turbinet toward the tail and then removal of the middle turbinet here. Again, setting aside for grafting. It's important to cauterize along this edge as this can be a source of bleeding and meticulous hemostasis during this case is essential in order to identify the sight of leak and ensure a good repair. So again, this can be done in a few different steps in order to get the access you need. So this is just trimming extra bit of that turbinet. Now we're able to visualize the sight of the leak here with this ble of mucosa coming from the curbopform plate and an additional ble more anteriorly which we will find in addition to the primary side of leak. there were multiple sites that required repair and coverage. So as we've identified this, we then begin to work circumferentially around this area. Again, meticulously removing uh the mucosa, ensuring good hemistasis in order to keep this in view. Initially, this can be a bit intimidating to remove the mucosa due to concerns about making the cerebral spinal fluid leak more robust, but one must recognize that the mucosa needs to be removed and that we are here to fix the CSF leak. And so increasing the flow of the CSF is not so detrimental. The most important aspect is removal of all the mucosa in order to get a good So as we work here taking more superior and anterior mucosa away we do begin to visualize more than one side of CSF leak coming from the olfactory fela and the foramina in the kurbopform plate. Here you can now see pulsations of that CSF again with multiple sites like we involved and the mucosa is gently removed across each of these sites in order to get good bone apposition with our graft. There's a combination of instruments that can be helpful here. You have seen the dissecting more sharp scraping devices as well as small cups in order to ensure all this is removed. Here our neurosurgical colleagues have now entered the field in order to utilize a team-based approach with one surgeon holding the scope allowing for two-handed operation. And here the endoscopic bipolar is being used to bipolar the dura. The endoscopic bipolar does quite a good job at slowing the flow of CSF. Here is a dural substitute, synthetic dural substitute being placed. In general, it's good to get this uh well tucked in all around the bone and in an extra dural fashion. This is a fairly common approach for us. Again the neurosurgical team is placing this ensuring good coverage of all the areas of leak. Once the dural substitutees in place at this point we should not see any more CSF pulsations or leakage. So some of the edges can be further unfurled and ensure good coverage. This is the free mucosal graft that we harvested from the middle turbinant uh floor graft. Nasal floor is also a good donor site for free mucosal graft. And the markings on there are to remind the surgeon which edge which surface is to be placed outward in order to make sure that the graft is placed appropriately. And this is unfurled and placed over the repair. Once good circumferential coverage is ensured, some absorbable packing can be placed for post-operative healing and to aid in hemoasis, keeping the graft in place. Some surgeons prefer some fiber and glue in addition to ensure that this stays in place and to provide a barrier for post-operative debrements as additional packing will be placed and this fibin sealant can be a barrier between what you remove in the clinic when you see the patient back. Key points for an endoscopic spontaneous CSF leak repair include pre-operative workup may include a CT venogram to ensure there's no stenosis of the dural sinuses and if stenosis is identified consider stenting pre-operatively to optimize outcomes of the repair. Determining whether a endoscopic sinus surgery should be included to get good access and excellent exposure for your repair. Complete removal of mucosa surrounding the leak will ensure postoperative healing. A good multi-layer closure will ensure good healing. This may include a duro substitute as well as mucosal coverage in various forms. That's all we have for this video. Thank you for watching.