Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host Dr. Andrea Tulie and I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. Today we have the opportunity to sit down with Dr. Ray Azi, a vitro retinal surgeon at the Mayo Clinic. He's going to enlighten us on the management of traumatized eyes. >> Dr. Dr. Raymond Azi is a vitrior retinal surgeon here at Mayo Clinic. Dr. Aayzi's clinical interests include retinal degenerative disease as well as all aspects of vitrior retinal surgery with a special interest in complex retinal detachment repair associated with diabetes, trauma, and proliferative vitrior retinopathy. He's also heavily involved in research including retinal prosthesis development, nanoparticlebased drug delivery, and has been developing stem cells and retinal transplantation treatments for macular disease. He's a recip recipient of the visionary award from the foundation fighting blindness is a former heat fellow nap fellow was awarded the Ron Michaels fellowship and is a fellow of the American society and retinal specialists. Thank you so much for being here Dr. Azi. >> My pleasure. >> We love talking about retina. >> We do some I think pets is better though. >> There's there is overlap. >> Well, there might be some today. We're going to talk about your expertise in the care of patients after trauma and certainly we all care for trauma whether ocular plastics for Dr. Tulie myself for pedes but um and we put globes together and often often send them to the retina specialist afterwards. So we're thankful you could be here to talk about this subject. Oh absolutely it's a pleasure to be here. You know, my earliest exposure to the idea that there is something called an eye surgeon uh was my own family experience where my father had an open globe injury and had to undergo subsequently several surgeries including vitrectomy with prolonged faceown positioning due to gas uh placed in the eye and I saw that he had to remain two months face down and how emotionally uh challenging that was and I subsequently developed several surgical approaches that mitigate the need for face down in macular hole repair and in many cases retina reattachment surgery. So it it was actually very formative of my uh career even to the present day and um I got very interested in highly complex uh ocular reconstruction and trauma and retinal detachment largely due to that early interest. No, I don't think we knew that story about your dad having an open globe. That is so interesting. I just want to shout out, we have another episode that we recorded with you, one of our first episodes actually, uh, about faceown positioning and your whole philosophy, which was extremely novel, uh, and there's been a lot written about it. So, we'll link that in the show notes, but it's another great episode if you want to learn about macular hole repair, face down positioning. I don't think we knew kind of the impetus for this interest that you have. That's really special. >> Yeah, >> it's great. >> Let's start up before we get to rupture globes because I think there's a lot to dig into there. >> Let's talk about just um thinking for the comprehensive opthalmologists listening, managing call and or whether in their clinic or in an ER setting. Let's talk about non-penetrating injuries first. So blunt trauma whether it's sport related uh you know a punch to the eye whatever it might be can have retinal squella share with us you know as patients may or may not have vision affected acutely with whatever the posterior damage might be but share with us the common or remind us the common retinal diagnoses that might impact vision after blunt trauma. >> Absolutely. You know, blunt trauma is one of those things where we have to think about the occult. Um particularly maybe even during Halloween, right? Um it it's one of those things where, you know, you might the patient may present with acute vision loss due to let's say uh an anterior chamber hemorrhage like a a hyphimma. There may be a vitrius hemorrhage due to uh a traumatic um tear in the retina or to a traumatic posterior hyoid separation. Um, and you know, in a setting of of acute trauma, it's often difficult to look in the back of the eye either because there's a corial abrasion in the patient is very hard to examine or the media are not that clear. Um, and so I would say, you know, in the early assessment of a patient who suffered blunt trauma, let's think about, you know, what was the mechanism of that blunt trauma? Was it a um high-speed high velocity projectile from let's say a uh some form of gun that might have shot a plastic pellet um where there might be some associated contusion? Was it an accidental thumb to the eye like a sports injury? Uh was it um um a low a low speed blow or high speed blow? Um and and I think that we we have to think about hemorrhage in association with other retinal complications. And so a dilated fundus examination is going to be very important. If that's not possible, getting at least a a BCAN ultrasound to rule out something grossly abnormal about the back of the eye and then referring uh if if the posterior seg dilated examination is not clear or is ambiguous or not possible, get that patient to a retina specialist quickly so that we can look for things that happen commonly. So typically vitrius hemorrhage may be may or may not be associated with a peripheral retinal break. We want to figure that out early because we can treat those uh and mitigate the need for retina reattachment surgery later on. Uh patients can can develop uh if they're presenting later, they may have that break progress toward a regenous retinal detachment and sometimes that detachment is localized and can be treated with just a laser as opposed to bringing them to the O. Um but more commonly with the more impactful blunt traumas, patients can develop retinal diialysis and they're very hard to pick up on because a dialysis occurs at the at the orerata. It's a it's an evulsion of the retina from uh from the RP and um that typically requires a scaral buckle. So we we want to get get to these patients sooner than later. dilated fundus examination is the the mainstay and minimum basic requirement of of treatment. And if uh if an if that can't be done, an ultrasound is an okay surrogate in selected cases to rule out gross disorganization inside the eye, but still doesn't replace a dilated exam. I mean a yeah a dilated exam because with an ultrasound, you can't see a retinal break. you can't really identify a low-lying peripheral detachment or renal dialysis because the ultrasound focuses too much posteriorly and we're not getting those anterior structures. One thing I remember so often seeing as a resident seeing trauma is commotio um or just retinal edema kind of from from blunt trauma, non-penetrating trauma. And as an oculoplastic surgeon, I I see a lot of traumatic optic neuropathy from the optic nerve getting jostled and the same intraraanial component like concussion. I I feel like those are all kind of in the same genre. Um just from this jostling type injury, but it seems like at least with optic neuropathy, concussion, um the avenue for recovery is a little smaller. We've looked at giving hydro steroids and found that that can actually have more intraanial risk. Um I still give steroids sometimes for traumatic optic neuropathy. Koshio seems like it has a little bit better outcome. Is that true or is it still the same? Is there anything we can do to treat that? >> You know, we currently don't have any objective well wellstudied methods for treating Kimosio. But one thing about trauma, which I think is pretty uniform, is that the visual outcome often relates to uh specifically what structures were damaged, you know? So, you could have somebody that has a penetrating injury and it might go right next to the center, but the center is preserved and they can still read the eye chart, no problem. Um so a lot of it is sort of like where the actual trauma had its end organ effect. Um and that's similar with komosho you know there's there's concussion and then there's traumatic brain injury sort of a spectrum of kosho as well. Um and if the kosho is mild the patient will have some visual recovery. >> Um I also hesitate to be definitive in prognosis early on. patients um patients are are tremendously emotionally affected by the potential loss of an eye. And usually if a retina specialist is gotten involved in the case, we explain that we're really trying to save the eye and that we're going to have to um work longer and um and and wait uh for the long-term prognosis that we can't really predict what the vision's going to be like. And I think deferring any definitive statements on vision uh is important because we don't know what the patient's going to ultimately wind up with. And um uh it is somewhat helpful to frame what we're doing in terms of well right now our goal is to save the eye. >> And it's really unclear what what your vision's ultimately going to be like. >> Um >> uh but this was let's say a a very serious injury. Um and it may affect your vision long term. I think setting a framework of expectation early on is important, but I always hesitate to give any definitive um uh statements on outcome unless you know we're we're really trying to save a very endstage injury. >> Makes sense. >> In long you mentioned vitri because it can obscure ability to adequately assess for kamosio for you know a ruptured coroidal status or for retinal breaks. So if and for people we're we have the luxury of being able to call a friend our retina specialist and you know promptly after non-traumatic or non for blunt trauma without perforating or penetrating injury for someone in a very rural setting or that don't maybe have intermittent retinal support. How often do you do a Bcan? How quickly do you need refer? Is there a realm that you can monitor some of these? obviously with maybe steroidal coverage and dilation and just let the eye rest while you're ultrasounding that. But at what point does monitor what level is okay to monitor and what level do you need to punt to make sure the retinols gets more formally evaluated? >> Well, for some of these cases, that's a great question. I I think for some of these cases, I would hope that a referral mayo clinic would like be the easy button. Okay. Uh where you can get your friendly neighborhood retina doctor to take a look. Um because it it does take time. You know, sometimes with vitrius hemorrhage, we have windows of opportunity in terms of getting a glimpse. >> Mhm. >> Um >> or bilateral patch. I just listened to a lecture about bilateral patching. I'm a believer. >> It is. It is really a good tool. >> It's such a good tool. So underrated. >> It is. And in fact, we can reattach retinas by bilaterally patching. we can make retinal detachments much less than they were reducing the amount of manipulation in the eye. So bilateral patching has a super huge role. um complex. >> Okay, you need to explain that for listeners that don't >> I I'm gonna give a shout out to Will Park who just gave a lecture on bilateral patching. Um and Will is phenomenal, great retina specialist. We and we work with him a lot, but he made it out to be like this very novel technique and I said, "Will we've been doing this in Mayo forever, >> so you got to >> it probably emerged from the ancient Egyptians. It's it's >> just resting eyes." Well, >> you know, it the fact is is that retinal detachments occur due to eye movement. Okay? So, you get a break. It doesn't generally speaking you your tear in the retina doesn't immediately associate with a a retinal detachment. It takes an active pump to pump fluid into the subretinal space in order for that retina to come off. Um, so the correlary to that is let's patch both eyes permanently, you know, for a period of time. patch both eyes completely so patient can't peek. The the lack of eye movement because patients don't typically move their head side to side like they do with their psychotic velocities. That lack of eye movement allows the retina pigment epithelial pump to remove a lot of that in fact sometimes all of the subretinal fluid reattaching the retina. And so bilateral patching is you know prospective evidence to show that it can diminish the extent of a retinal detachment and protect even the macula in let's say a macula on retinal detachment. So bilateral patching has a tremendous role in helping us manage retinal detachment pre-operatively. Patients physicians and patients don't often like it because the physician is putting a patch on that's now mimicking this blind role. patients can get a little freaked out by it. Um and and so patients can sometimes, you know, peek around them. Sometimes they peel them away and that kind of defeats the purpose. But um I use I use bilateral patching um non-infrequently. But it also has a role in the management of intraoccular hemorrhage. Because if a patient has a diffused vitrius hemorrhage, let's say they just came in from parking the car, they they flop into your into your exam chair and you're looking at them. It's like a snow globe that's been shaken up, right? Where we've got hemorrhage everywhere. If we, you know, patch them and let them sit with sit quietly, a lot of that blood will settle down and I'll get a a chance to look at the peripheral, at least the superior retina. And if we have a patient bilaterally patch and come in the next day, um, a lot of times I can even offer treatment through the peripheral retina because that blood will settle down so much that all of a sudden I'll be afforded a view of the periphery. So um, it can have diagnostic and in fact treatment implications. There are several cases where a patient came in with a hemorrhagic um, break. We knew it was a break. it was a very difficult view and we couldn't necessarily see well enough to treat. Um, but by by having them bilaterally patch and come back the next day, we take the patches off while they're at the laser and we can actually get laser treatment. And of course, as long as we can see the break and the retina is not terribly detached, we can even offer cryotherapy which goes in from the other side which freezes through the scara into the retina area. So bilateral patching gives us uh several treatment options. >> Okay. But in so come in, hemorrhage is there, can't get a look, might patch overnight, reassess the next day. >> If they still are hemorrhagically difficult to examine, h what point do you get nervous that in comprehensive practice, you should refer after ultrasounding for how long? >> Well, I wouldn't get nervous because there's no rule for that really. Um, referring out for an ultrasound if you don't have one in the office is a great idea. Um, I'd do it early. Um, and ideally you'd get somebody who's really skilled in ultrasound. You know, we've got great technicians here. In fact, many times we we portable ultrasound in ourselves and do the ultrasound. There are two approaches to the ultrasound that are important. One being dynamic ultraography where we actually have the patient move their eye. Um and many times a retinal detachment or a dialysis that appears flat on a stationary ultrasound will suddenly elevate and then re reattach um on a dynamic ultrasound. So it allows us to see even flap tears occasionally if you know how to do dynamic ultrasound if the vitrius is inserted into a tear then you can actually see that whip whipping activity in the eye and all of a sudden the flap will elevate and then like a trap door go back down. So it lets us understand you know what is um what is the mobility of the retina. uh in some cases you know there's been a delayed presentation of the trauma and if the retina is very very mobile then we know that there's not a tremendous amount of PVR but if there is a retinal detachment and on dynamic ultrasound the retina is quite fixed that funnel detachment doesn't seem to be moving very much then we know it's associated with PVR and it's a chronic condition and that's not an acute emergency that we would bring to the O immediately um so dynamic ultrasound gives us an awful lot of information both with regard to vitrius hemorrhage, retinal break, and the extent to which that detachment's been there or not. Okay. Sometimes patients come in with acute on chronic symptoms, meaning they've had a retinal detachment in the periphery, not been aware, and then they suddenly become aware of a chronic problem or the retinal detachment progresses through the center and they become acutely aware that they have a detached retina, but it's an acute on chronic progression. And ultrasound can be very helpful if there's a limited view. Uh and of course with with our standardized ultrasounds we we do all the fields and we look you know obliquely and um paracentrally sagely uh to get a series of views that will help us determine what's going on. And the other thing that's really interesting is because retina doctors are faced often with limitations of view. We get pretty good at looking at at through poor media. So we can often see the retina underneath that blood. Um, and so just having an exam, you know, just having an examiner look, uh, sometimes it it mitigates the need even for the ultrasound. One, one last thing I'd like to say about examining through, uh, vitrius hemorrhage, is that our scanning laser methods like the the optose um, or even a H Highleberg imager, even though we can't image peripherally with with these the H Highleberg, we can with the optose. um those laser scanning techniques um can get through blood tremendously well. You got to think of the indirect scope as sort of like a big flashlight in a fog in the setting of vitrius hemorrhage. We're using flood illumination from the from the video indirect to look. So, what I would recommend is that the first thing you do is to make your illumination spot size as small as you can when you're looking through a a hazy media because it it hones down and it reduces that that headlight in a fog effect where you you get white out. the scanning laser techniques. It's it's a single fine 100 micron or less laser beam that's being rastered across the entire fundus and that doesn't light up the the blood in any real way. And so these scanning laser techniques are far superior than most um indirect phalamoscopic exams or fundus cameras because we can see through blood. Um, so if somebody has an optose, that's the way to go. Even in the setting of a vitrius hemorrhage, if they look in and can't see, the optose can often uh get through that. >> I love that. That's such a great tip. Let's move to a surgical treatment after the exam. Let's say it wasn't blunt injury. We've got an open globe situation. We've repaired the globe. What are the times where then retina gets involved? either there's been uvia involved in the globe injury or they progressed to get an RD or PVR or something like that. Like when when do we loop retina in after a globe closure? >> Yeah, that's a great question. So, as a retina specialist, I always like to hear about what's going on. You know, if I if I know that there's an open globe, then I know that it's going to ultimately find its way to the retina service and we'll be better hand we'll be better equipped to handle it and schedule it and all that. Um there are several philosophies and and most most centers uh focus on the second philosophy. The first philosophy would be the patient has an acute um injury. Uh there's a vitrius hemorrhage. Um we're going to go in early and take care of everything at the same time. That's a little bit of a naive approach. It it sometimes has a role. Certainly in the setting of a neutracular foreign body, it has a role. So there's a um a penetrating injury of the eye with a retained intraoccular farm body, retina is usually going to get involved in that um very early. Um and in in the case of a perforation of the globe where an object goes in and goes out the other end, we typically like to wait because during vitual surgery, we're using an infusion line >> and the infusion line needs to keep the eye inflated. But if there's a a hole behind the eye, then we're going to wind up infusing the orbit and wind up with hydrated tissues and all of that. So becomes a big challenge particularly if we can't get back to that that exit site if it's so posterior. So there's a benefit in waiting to do the vitrial procedure because we can't keep the eye inflated in the way that we would want. And um the the concept of hemorrhage is more likely because the eye is inflamed usually. um by waiting we get the eye to quiet down the tissues to become less inflamed less uh coroidal uh dilitation less chances of coridal hemorrhage. So oftent times we defer any intraoccular procedure from a BR perspective uh to at least uh a week to two weeks after the trauma to allow the posterior hyoid to spontaneously loosen itself up and possibly separate and to allow those wounds to become more watertight just in the process of healing. Yeah, that all makes sense. >> So when you see basal attachment and they're repaired and you know so it's maybe let me back up and ask a question. So rupt scleros scar is repaired whether let's say before you see a break or before you see a detachment whether you repaired everything but it's been u you uva has been exposed you tuck things in or you had to trim some vitrius if you needed to. Mhm. >> And there's, you know, the ultrasound that shows hemorrhage, but things are attached. What's your normal time frame as evaluating that patient? As you said, you might wait for a season before letting things settle down and heal up or let the wall be have more integrity. When do you get involved? Because now, right now, we punt them to you right away, but tell us the world of day one, one week, two weeks. How often are you seeing them? How often you doing Bcans as you're preparing for some sort of intervention? >> Sure, great question. You know, that decision um the decision to do a vital procedure is informed by, you know, what does the cornea look like? Does the cornea have a big abrasion? Is there damage to the cornea that we need to to heal so that when we go in, we can actually see what we're doing. Um an assessment of the lens. Is the lens, you know, dislocated? Is it a patient that was that was pseudapakeic that has a dislocated intraocular lens? Is the iris damaged? Is there an ailary body cleft? You know, so these all factor into the timing of the surgical procedure and the planning of the actual operation. Um, barring barring something that would cause us to go in sooner, we do like to wait for structures to heal. We do like to reduce intraocular inflammation with topicals uh and possibly even systemics uh uh non-steroids or actually I'm what I mean is steroidal not non-steroidal treatments but we typically give topical steroids maybe even systemic steroids um and wait for the for the eye to quiet down before we go in. We assess the koid, the retina, and um silary body, which is by the way the most important structure in determining if if an eye is going to survive any of these procedures. The silar body is by far the most important anatomical structure >> because if the silar body is damaged or lost, we have no way of keeping the eye inflated. >> Um so hypotany is related to damage to the silar body. Um, and and that's probably the most important prognostic thing. We could reattach a retina, all that, but if the cere body isn't pumping, uh, we're going to have trouble keeping that eye from developing hypotany and eventual titis >> problem. So, that's an interesting fact. >> I wouldn't have guessed that, but I it makes sense what you're saying. >> And so, that's why we wait. We typically like to to to put the eye into the right place to undergo then surgery. How quickly do you see PVR happen prior to your first intervention or I mean in longer term follow-up concerns after your reattachment? >> Seems like that's the most dreaded application and your expertise. >> Yeah. Um PVR doesn't form immediately. There are there are low grades of PVR that are associated with intraoccular inflammation that may present early on. Certainly, you know, a retinal break, intraocular hemorrhage, um, and a retinal detachment are are three things that contribute to PVR risk. Uh, if the patient is a smoker, um, they have a much higher PVR risk as well. Um and if the retina is detached chronically if let's say the retina was a was detached and it was not noticed. Uh so if there was an occult retinal dialysis or detachment anteriorly that that someone didn't see a late a late repair uh late reattachment is associated with PVR. So that's why getting your friendly local retina doctor involved early is good. And then of course there's several principles of surgery that we we use to try to minimize PDR treat it op priori. It may be at an earlier stage or we know that the patient is at a very high risk. So for example, if I have a patient with a complex retinal detachment, let's say it was a blunt injury and um there was an open globe as a result of a equatorial blowout um of the eyewall under a rectus muscle, let's say, and the vitrius started to extrude from the eye like a tube of toothpaste and the vitrius base was taken with it. What we'll see there on the ultrasound or on the exam is a closed fondal detachment with the retina closed and inserted the oruserata inserted into the exit site into that open globe site and that that closed funnel will go right to the nerve. Okay. >> So those patients um can have remarkable outcomes remarkably good outcomes. Um however they are extremely high risk for PBR especially in the macula. So, we're talking about those patients. If we have a closed funnel detachment due to like one of those extrusion injuries, we can get them to read small letters on the eye chart and have great visual field. But what we see late is contracted PVR usually in the posterior pole that causes rotation of the retina and often central peripheral rivalry or even strabismic dipopia >> because the whole retina has been dragged down so much that it simulates a muscle imbalance and their CPR is central and peripheral displacement diplopia from the retina alone. Um so often times we'll use methtoresate. My mentor uh Dean Elliot at Massioneer he um popularized the use discovered that it was highly relevant. It was actually first used and discovered here at Mayo with Dr. Pledo and Dr. Bachri where they identified that injecting methotate into silicone oil was in fact safe. uh and my colleague Dean who actually trained me, he uh identified that weekly injections over uh a several week period over a total of 13 injections can greatly reduce the chances of PBR. And so if I'm dealing with a young patient that has a high risk of PBR, we may start methotate injections into silicone oil on the table the time of the primary repair and then weekly uh for 13 additional injections. So they're they're weekly for eight and then four additional that are every two weeks toward the end. >> Wow. >> And we can really greatly reduce PBR and increase outcomes. >> That's a big commitment though from the patients. >> It is. It's it's particularly challenging for patients who come from the Dakotas, let's say. But fortunately, we've got colleagues out there that can do the injections for us. So if I'm referred in a case from let's say Oaklair or elsewhere um retina providers there can can do those intravitrious injections and I can follow them the patients up periodically to see how they're doing. >> That's terrific that you said they can have really good outcomes better than you'd think. On my side as an ocular plastic surgeon I get people sent to me for an inucleation consult or anis consult that have been told you know there's nothing else there's nothing we can do. you had an injury, the retina's toast, you know, and sometimes they haven't seen you. They haven't seen our retina here and I'm not going to make that call and the patients are always saying, "Isn't there anything else you can do?" How do you know when it's end of the road versus we could reattach this and maybe get some vision? >> You know, I think really the only way to to know that is to send it to a rena doctor that specializ in complex, you know, repairs. Um it is interesting that there's a heterogeneity of training experience and um depending on who you see you're going to get different answers. Um so a doctor that let's say operates in an ambulatory surgery center may not be able to schedule a four or 5 hour case. Um whereas at Mayo we routinely do these kinds of things. So um the center that you go to the the the the actual surgeon and and their their operating room capabilities that that matters. Um but but it's always best to go to somebody who would be considered the end of the road. Um to to definitively help that patient in that process of understanding what the chances are that surgery could do something good for them, whether it's retina reattachment or inucleation and evisceration. >> Um but um you know when I was a fellow I was taught that there's no retina that we can't reattach. And that was the premise that that I spent most of my career on. It's very rare that we wouldn't go in and do something heroic to try to save an eye because we look at all vision as important. So um so yeah we we uh if however the eye is in ticis if the cornea is uh has has band keratopathy and the eye is shrunken uh where you see limal folds uh full thickness scar folds those are those are tricycle eyes and we don't operate on those we don't operate on patients with cystic retinal detachments where the retina on ultrasound has cysts because we know that the integrity of the neural neural tissue of the retina is gone. And when we get in there, we see that we have no no seeing retina. And of course, we we use um uh a transilluminator system, not an indirect, to assess light perception and projection. >> So we really come we really take a very take it very seriously assessing their vision function. I do a ultrasound biomicroscopy study which we have here where I can look at the integrity of the silary body. I look for blunting of the celiary processes to determine if that cereody is capable of producing aquous. >> So that that impacts my assessment of prognosis in a big way. If if the siliary processes look healthy, um that greatly increases the chances I'm going to intervene surgically to try to help that eye. >> So certainly there are eyes based on all of these um expertise imaging and exam techniques, you can say this eye has hope. There are going to be eyes that fairly clearly early on don't have hope whether the optic nerve has been evolved whether or not but in a ruptured globe situations my memory is that you know a d discussion of sympathetic opthalmia should take place in the eyes that are don't have hope. What is the current timing for that discussion and is that still something that's included in the discussion with the patient in those initial weeks after repair? >> That's a great question. You know, sympathetic athalmia is something that is chronically managed. Okay. So, it's not simply a matter of taking an eye out that doesn't look so good. um you know sometimes we'll do a heroic procedure save an eye and the patient could develop sympathetic opthalmia in the fellow eye with or without an inucleation. So so the evaluation and treatment of sympathetic opthalmia is a lifelong thing. Um, and I think it's important to to introduce the concept early on that, you know, our goal here is to save this right eye, let's say, and we're going to we're going to continue to monitor that left eye to make sure that it's healthy and and and can see long term, and we're going to recommend polycarbonate lenses, and we're going to examine you periodically to make sure that that the eye isn't undergoing inflammation as a result of the other eye's injury. And that's treatable. we can treat that with systemic medications and try to mitigate any any vision loss that could be associated. So, um we do heroic procedures when they're when it makes sense. We save vision when we can and we remove eyes when we when we can't do we can't do the the we can't reverse it and we and we continue to follow the fellow eye for for signs of sympathetic. >> That's perfect. Well, fantastic overview. That was just great. I learned so much. I think this would be very helpful. Um hopefully no one has to deal with any terrible trauma but maybe this can help uh some physicians along the way. So thank you Ray. >> I only had one more plug as the pediatricologist dealing with unilateral ambilopian in kids certainly remember to protect. >> Yes I >> wear protective glasses after in my after monocular injuries of all ages. So yeah thank you again for sharing this time with us. >> Absolutely my pleasure. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Opthalmology podcast on our website. >> Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.