Welcome to the Society for Technology and Engineering and Innovation in Neurosurgery. My name is Dr. Christopher Honey and with me I have >> I'm Kai Miller. Um I'm a neurosurgeon at Mayo Clinic. >> I'm Brian Clson. I'm a movement disorders neurologist at Mayo Clinic. This thing we're calling the Stein, Fireside Chats. What's its origin? Well, uh what Stein is is it was uh when I was a resident about a decade ago, we had this idea to uh basically to get functional neurosurgeons who are the the geeks of neurosurgery together uh just to spend uh time together at the national meetings and I would uh I would create these custom signs and when I was a resident uh they would charge people 10 bucks to uh show up and and everyone got a commemorative sign and would bring it um when and then uh it's now in its 10th year and in the past six years I've been at Mayo Clinic working with uh Dr. Brian Clawson and we just spend a lot of time uh thinking about neuroscience, thinking about neurom modulation and spending time together talking about interesting things. And we had this idea that a lot of the things that we do, we we give talks uh at conferences about them, but it might be nice to take each of the different lectures that we have and lectures that our friends have around the country and put them up in in in one place, but have conversations surrounding them. And so we came up with this idea of Stein Fireside chats. and we we think it'll be useful tool for trainee and neurology and neurosurgery, but we also just mostly we're thinking it'll be fun. So, >> yeah. So, that was the reasoning behind it. Um, the location that we're at is the uh world headquarters of Stein. It's a uh it's a pub at an undisclosed location in Rochester, Minnesota. >> I have I have a question just to start out, which is what is a functional neurosurgeon? Uh what what what are the other neurosurgeons? Uh the ones that don't do anything functional. >> Okay. Uh well, I should say this isn't necessarily even though neurosurgery is in the original name. It's it's not a neurosurgeon thing as so much as a neurologist, neurosurgeon, neuroscientist kind of a thing. A functional neurosurgeon. Uh so I'm a functional neurosurgeon and also a pediatric neurosurgeon. Functional neurosurgeons uh deal loosely speaking with disorders of brain circuitry. Um although uh there's also uh distributed uh nervous system circuitry. So uh for example people who have pain get peripheral stimulators but a lot of if you hear about deep brain stimulation uh treating movement disorders like we treat or um in epilepsy uh these are all uh diseases of circuitry and functional neurosurgeons are it's a specialty within neurosurgery where we focus on circuitry. So uh you know I I happen to specialize uh primarily in epilepsy um and movement disorders but uh pain is a very large part of functional neurosurgery and increasingly neurom modulation for a variety of other indications things like psychiatric uh disorders trying to create uh recovery devices after brain injury and if following stroke or trauma and we have a large initiative here at Mayo uh to develop this. So, Dr. Clawson, am I right to remember that you have a background in computer science and how does that play into your role as a neurologist? >> Yeah. Well, uh I think part of it um we were talking a little earlier about how even as a kid I um I learned programming from my brother on the Apple 2 Plus series of computers. And I think just kind of thinking along uh along those lines and getting into programming in high school and and then then learning about it uh in college I guess really set me up for a logical thinking process and that is part of why I went into neurology when I my father was a physician and and and I went into medicine but he's a rheatologist and seems like there's a lot of ambiguity in those diseases and I thought well boy neurology is a system now that's almost designed like a computer you know we have these hierarchies as we were talking about um you can think about memory in a computer you have the register which holds you know, things immediately and then it goes to this form of memory and that form of memory and um so it's part of why I went into neurology is I guess what I'm trying to say and then only later did I learn that actually actually neurology when you know when a patient comes to you with a neurologist it's really pretty ambiguous a lot of the times so it's not quite as straightforward as I thought but I think it it's helped me think logically and it helped me kind of acquire my neurologic knowledge and how to approach the the idea of where where is the problem in this particular case and then over time it's it's been a tool that I've been able to use for research to some degree for clinical practice but for research along now with Dr. similar uh where we're looking at these brain signals. We typically are using custom algorithms for the way that we're analyzing these. Um and another thing that I do in addition to the interoperative neurohysiology is movement neurohysiology in general. So a lot of this is in the in the in the outpatient setting. We'll use surface EMG accelerometry. And so I've um I've been able to use my my programming skills to you know build analyses for those sorts of studies that we do clinically as well. And so what makes your team different from other neurologist neurosurgeon teams? Uh what what's what's distinctive about your team >> other than just the fact that we're infinitely better than you know Mike Oaken and Kelly Foot at [snorts] Florida? They've got nothing on us. >> Yeah. Um well no I mean I think uh we are uh geeks for the electrphysiology so we record a lot of data and uh the data that we record is incidental. So we record during our DBS surgeries. We record during some of the epilepsy monitoring periods and we just we spend time having fun kind of hanging out together analyzing data. So, I don't know. Um, I guess we're uh small picture scientists, you know what I mean? Like we we like tinkering with the recordings that we have from different um settings and you know trying to come up with something that'll help individual patients I think is and we like hanging out with each other. I think you know that that helps you know >> but you know if Stein is about engineering and innovation would it be fair to say that you try to do a kind of work that is more innovative? >> Well so we do have um you know we do have scientific findings that have come out. We have devices that we're working on um for basically for the types of surgeries that we do and then we also have devices that we're working on for neurom modulation and that's as part of a bigger team. So uh I mean Stein in general is is sort of a hopefully it'll be like a larger well not it will be it is a larger community but hopefully uh this series of uh lectures and and uh episodes will bring in lots of folks from around the country you know like Kelly Foot and Mike Oaken from Florida who are you know well known for being not as good as we are and uh [laughter] you know learning learning from them and trying to integrate it into our practice but really building a community. >> Actually, I do have a question about that. >> Yeah. >> So, how does innovation spread, right? So, suppose that you develop a technology or a technique or your colleagues at Florida develop a technique. How is it that it moves to be adopted by other surgeons? Is is there some kind of formal process or is it more informal? >> Well, I mean, I I I have some good examples of this actually the you know, meeting for these uh these Stein events. I mean, I'm actually I don't know why I keep coming back to he's a stellar surgeon. Probably is why, but this guy Kelly Foot um you know, I I meet with him and we have a drink or two and I we're always just talking about the details of surgery, you know? So, how can you how do you put your incisions on the scalp, right? These things sound like, well, that's not very innovative. That's the kind of thing people are thinking about a couple hundred couple hundred years ago. But, um there are informal ways that we spread small innovations, right? Right. And then there are formal ways like publications that we read uh from each other. But a lot of the smallest innovations at least in neurosurgery and probably in neurology as well. >> I think the equivalent for us would be as we're as we're programming the devices, you know, different techniques, different different approaches um that we'll learn from each other as we as we act interact with conferences and other settings would be kind of the equivalent of that. these small changes that are all now now big kind of you know big innovations and and larger changes in practice in in medical practice a little different than in science because we're all uh bounded by a lot of regulatory structure around it. So to really push something through to clinical practice requires a lot of of that work as well as just the science behind it. >> Yeah. And the other thing I think is in the medical world compar compared with the scientific world uh you can check your ego at the door right like I'm probably one of the most we've known each other for 20 years I'm probably one of the most arrogant scientists you know um literally but as a surgeon you know at the at the end of the day it's not about you it's about these patients that you have right and so the innovations that you have there the whole goal is to do something that's going to help somebody and Um so the way that uh things progress is twofold. There's the formal setting and then the informal setting really does carry through. We have conversations about things. Um you know if I have a particularly difficult patient uh where I'm worried about let's say stimulating one target or another or I think this person has a different presentation. First thing I do is I get on the phone and or either text my colleagues or call them >> and find out if they've had that situation before. What do you do about it? and trying to synthesize that knowledge is not it's not always done right and um the hope is that we we can continue to do this and maybe we can get some of these things online um so that you know trainees and and other surgeons have easy access to it and then hopefully people can come in and tell us about about their let's say let's say there's a technological innovation I'd really like to have people here to talk about a new closed loop system they may have built maybe we'll have folks from industry >> you know one of my biggest heroes is uh someone from industry, Martha Morell, the founder of Neuropace. This was a neurologist who in the early 90s had this idea that you could record brain information, decode it online when people were having a seizure, and then stimulate to shut it down. And over a more than 30-year arc, she she took this from an idea into something that was tested, something that was implemented in a device, and now we treat patients with all the time. So it's not you know that the idea would actually be to interact with industry as well. So each each new innovation as it were each new engineering breakthrough um it's important for us to learn about them and talk about them and hopefully integrate them into the way we take care of patients. >> So it's there these there's three different kinds of ways that I'm hearing about information spreading. One way is publishing papers. >> Sure. >> Another way is talking to people at conferences or just on the phone as needed. kind of informal social network and then this third way is essentially via industry in some sense through these kind of trials and developments of technologies right >> how influential is each of these three channels in terms of like you know if you compare your practice today versus you know a decade ago let's say how which of these have you learned the most from or you know which of these have made the biggest difference to how you know how you are as a practitioner today from what you for a decade. >> Yeah, that's a good question. Um, well, let's take uh well, let's let's take something like the rechargeable battery, right? So, uh it was a situation where there was one of the companies had a pretty good rechargeable battery. And I thought, well, it was just available with one company and not with another. And thought, well, for my patients, if they can have a rechargeable battery, you know, every time you put in, let's say, DBS system, you got a 5% risk of infection. if I use a rechargeable battery, they're having less surgery, less likelihood for infection. That that's something that it's simply a tool that uh industry gives us access to. But you know, things like uh counter syncing your hardware into the bone. I mean, that's doesn't that there may be industry innovation. >> What is counter syncing? Well, for the case of counter syncing in the bone, you have hardware and uh if you if you're putting in deep brain stimulation electrodes here and here, you can if you just put it in with the commercial locking mechanisms come in place, there'll be little bumps that are up there. >> And you can avoid having those bumps by drilling down the outer part of the skull and getting it so it's flush. >> I see. >> And the term countersinking just comes from people when they put screws and so forth into wood, they would make it so that the screws sat below the level of the wood. >> Yeah. So, and and that that came, you know, that that wasn't an industry thing. It was it was driven by a number of surgeons including Kelly Foot. >> And and when you heard about it, was it through word of mouth or was it that surgeons were actually writing it like is it kind of like a you know best practices in neurology or best practices in neurosurgery kind of >> for that example a guy did my fellowship with Casey Halpern and he just he had learned it from another surgeon. He said, "Well, let's let's do this." Um, and so we started doing it and and then I kept it my own practice and that's how we do it. >> Is it the same in neurology? It sounds like what I'm hearing is that a lot of your day-to-day practice is mostly dependent on direct kind of mentorship and your kind of network of fellow clinicians and it's less the case that reading journal articles in your field has impacted your practice. Well, I think it I guess it depends when you think about deep brain simulation and programming and the parameter space being, you know, so wide and in each individual patient, the leads may be in a slightly different place. It's very different than um say treating Parkinson's disease or other neurologic disease medically where if you give them a certain dose of this medication, you can do that in a 100 people and really study the same intervention. Every time you do deep brain stimulation in a patient, it's actually a different intervention. And so I think in in that space where you sort of have a unique a unique situation with that patient, learning the tricks of the trade and learning these little um you know these little ideas for what to do if a patient has you know you can you can stimulate a patient with Parkinson's which is a a disorder of too slow of movement basically and you can have them get disynesia you know excessive movement from it and so there's ways that people have you know changed the stimulation parameter to sort of attenuate that and so knowing how people have done that and then ultimately as as enough people do that. There'll be a paper that comes out about it. But these papers about this sort of thing are really typically smaller, you know, smaller groups of patients. It's not like a hypertension study where they're looking at, you know, 10,000 patients on this specific medicine and what happened. So, I do think that even though it's important to kind of know what the literature is saying, um, I do think in in that area, we still get a lot by just peer-to-peer communication. >> So, that's in in a way part of what this podcast series is designed to accelerate. >> Yeah. Hopefully it'll democratize the word of mouth and you know we can we can set out the little things that we've learned but also bring people in uh who have insights where we would normally get them you know uh over coffee at a conference um but instead you know we get them over coffee at a conference and then uh have it have it out in the uh in the public through this series. Yeah. All right. >> Well, thank you. >> Thank you. >> Yeah. Well, hopefully it's the start of something great. Yeah.