Hello, my name is Dr. Trudy and I'm a surgical oncologist at the Mayo Clinic and I specialize in the surgical treatment of pancreatic cancer. In 2013, approximately 45,000 patients were diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, making it only the 11th most common cancer in the United States with a lifetime risk of approximately 1.5%. Common symptoms depend on tumor location and include weight loss, fatigue, jaundice or yellowing of the skin, abdominal or back pain, and new or worsening diabetes. Although not a common cancer, pancreatic cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer death in the United States. And as a group, only 6% of patients with pancreatic cancer will live for 5 years after diagnosis. It is also estimated that by 2020 more people will die from pancreatic cancer than breast cancer. Pancreatic cancer is a very difficult disease to treat because there are no effective screening tests. It has a tendency to spread to other sites before most patients develop symptoms and get diagnosed. And until recently, no good cancer drugs were effective. Like all cancers, patients with pancreatic cancer undergo staging, typically by CT or MRI, to see how advanced or widespread the cancer is. 50% already have evidence of metastasis or spread to other organs at diagnosis. These patients require chemotherapy alone for treatment. Of the other 50% without obvious spread, there's a wide spectrum from small tumors localized to the pancreas, so-called reectable cancers, to large tumors that involve critical vascular structures, so-called unresectable tumors, and then those tumors somewhere in between called borderline reectable. It is this group of 50% of patients without evidence of spread that our pancreatic cancer program in Mayo Clinic is trying to cure. Surgery remains the only proven potentially curative treatment. And through many years of practice and innovation by our pioneering pancreatic surgeons, we have mastered increasingly complex and advanced surgical procedures. This technical expertise has resulted in some of the lowest complication and highest success rates in the United States. As a result, the Mayo Clinic is a recognized center of excellence in the surgical treatment of pancreatic cancer. The five principles of a good pancreatic cancer operation include one removal of the main tumor, two achieving a negative margin that is not leaving cancer cells behind. Three, removal of associated lymph nodes. Four minimization of operative complications and five and most important maximization of long-term survival and possible cure for our patients. Now, nationwide, there exists two major flaws in patient treatment for pancreatic cancer. The first, patients that may benefit from surgery are actually being denied an operation. We know that up to one-third of patients with surgically removable cancers do not see a surgeon in consultation, resulting in only 50% of patients with reectable tumors having a potential operation for cure. Now, the reasons for this are many. However, there is an overwhelming pervasive nihilism and pessimism in the medical community for this disease and many patients are told there is no hope. Secondly, many operations are not being offered due to either a surgeon's lack of experience, technical limitations or unwillingness to perform a complex curative operation. The second major flaw is that patients that will not benefit from surgery are having useless operations. Many of these patients have positive margin operations whereas tumor is left behind and these patients have been shown to have little or no benefit from the operation compared to just receiving chemo and radiation alone. Second, 40% of patients do not receive the recommended chemotherapy after surgery which has been proven to improve survival mainly due to significant surgical complications. And finally, many patients develop early spread of cancer after their operation with up to 25% of patients developing recurrence and dying within one year of a seemingly curative operation. Now, these tumor cells were present before the operation. The key point is it's not the tumor that we see that is so dangerous. It's the tumor cells that we can't see that shortens lives. At the Mayo Clinic, we are not satisfied with this current standard and we are leading the way with a new strategy for our patients. We are utilizing a new and novel pre-operative team approach that starts with a comprehensive history and physical and an accurate staging evaluation. We use dieticians, nutritionists, physical therapists, and psychologists as many patients come in markedly malnourished, weak, and depressed at the time of their diagnosis. Patients then meet our worldclass medical and radiation oncologists and receive newly discovered and highly effective cancer drugs and radiation treatments prior to their operation. Finally, our cancer surgeons have mastered complex and advanced techniques and all patients undergo a selectively aggressive operation to give them the best chance at life after surgery. With this new modern pre-operative team approach, we can accomplish three things. One, we can avoid high-risisk operations in those patients that will most likely not benefit. Two, we can actually increase the number of patients currently eligible for a curative operation. And three, we can offer potentially curative operations to those patients who are told elsewhere that their cancer is unresectable. Finally, in addition to this new clinical strategy, we have an enormous research effort here at Mayo and pancreatic cancer. We have numerous clinical trials underway including a very important multi-institutional surgical trial that I am personally involved in. I'm also the director of a new program and scientific model of pancreatic cancer that uses actual patient tumors removed at surgery. This work is extremely helpful to find ways to diagnose patients earlier before the cancer has spread as well as to develop and test more effective cancer drugs before testing them on patients. This is a very exciting time for pancreatic cancer surgery as patients that once had little hope can now possibly have a chance at long-term survival. If you or your family member have been diagnosed with or are suspected to have a pancreatic cancer, the Mayo Clinic would like to consider you for a new treatment strategy or a second opinion if necessary. Thank you.