Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host Dr. Andrea Tulie >> and I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. In today's episode, we will be chatting with Dr. Dr. Andy Barkmeer, a veterinyl surgeon here at the Mayo Clinic about diabetic retinopathy, where we stand today in his care and his work on the effects of GLP-1 receptor agonists and SGLT2 inhibitors on diabetic retinopathy. >> Dr. Andrew Barkmire is a vitrial surgeon here at Mayo Clinic. Dr. Barkmeer sits on the executive committee for the DRCR retina network, is a member of the macula society, the retina society. He's heavily involved in clinical research involving diabetic retinopathy, retinal vascular disease, tele medicine, healthcare delivery, and complex vitrior retinal surgery. He is a past Mayo Clinic opthalmology program director and program director of the year and opthalmology teacher of the year award recipient. Welcome Dr. Barkmeire. >> Thanks for having me. >> We're so happy you're here. We love talking about retina. >> It's the best. >> It really is. >> I don't know about that. I made you say it. No, it's a it's it's nice to dive into our specialties and and just our expertise on topics that are just aren't atypical for whether you're an ocular plastic surgeon or me and peds and stbismas. Um just fascinating to learn from each other and so we appreciate the opportunity of doing that today given your expertise in diabetic retinopathy and some of your recent research. >> We have an awesome paper today that you led spearheaded this paper um that we're going to talk about as kind of a journal club and to talk about your work on this paper. I think it's really topical and important for treating diabetic retinopathy and then before that we'll just kind of talk about diabetic retinopathy in general. So the paper for our listeners is the comparative effectiveness of GLP-1 receptor agonist, SGLT2 inhibitors, DPP4 inhibitors and sulfonyl uras for sightthreatening diabetic retinopathy. Um this is in press with opthalmology retina at the time that we are recording. We'll link the article so that you all can see it. So we're excited to talk about it. Um, but before we get into all of this, can you just give us an overview on diabetic retinopathy? I know you and I were chatting. I mean, since I was in training, a lot has changed the landscape of intravitrial injections and anti-vef treatment, lasers. Kind of talk us through your algorithm for treating diabetic retinopathy and how it's changed. >> Sure. So the there's been a whirlwind of change over the last 15 years really and a lot of that started with the antivag medications which really changed how we how we manage diabetic retinopathy you know in all its manifestations but the you know diabetic retinopathy starts with taking good systemic care of of yourself and all of the medications is systemic treatments that we know to give people the best chance to not develop um diabetic retinopathy and then to lower the risk of progression. But once someone has sightthreatening diabetic retinopathy which um we really look at treating diabetic macular edema which is one of the top causes of vision loss and then proliferative diabetic retinopathy which is developing of the new proliferative blood vessels that can then threaten vision through vitrius hemorrhage or retinal detachment. There are a variety of treatments depending on how patients present and what stage they have and what the top risks are for them losing vision. So if we have a patient that presents to our retina clinic with diabetic macular edema, the first assessment is with an OCT. So OCT guides most of what we do for macular treatments these days. And we first assess whether someone has center involving diabetic macular edema. And our trials have really defined this based on which machine you're using and whether someone's male or female. And if you meet certain criteria for centerin involved diabetic macularema and your vision is 20 32 or worse then we start treating people most of the time with antivag agents. And we have a lot of uh nuances for how that's done. And everyone has slightly different practice patterns, but anti-veagif medications have been shown to have a very favorable risk profile and have excellent visual outcomes over the first two years and beyond. So that's how we treat people with center involving diabetic macular edema who also have vision loss past 2032 or 2040 depending on the situation. And then for people with better vision with or without center involving diabetic macular edema, we can either treat those patients with antivag agents. Sometimes we still use laser photocoagulation and sometimes we can observe them because we've learned from some of our trials including the protocol V trial from the diabetic retinopathy clinical research network that many patients with centerinvolving diabetic macular edema but still have good vision. They do just as well if you wait to see if they start losing some vision rather than treating right off the bat. So for diabetic macular edema we have these anti vagif medic medications we have laser which we still use sometime in select situations and then sometimes we use steroid medications for patients who don't completely respond to anti vagif medications or for some other situations. >> Sure. Okay. >> Can I ask one question about that? >> Of course. define center involving I mean I was trained back in the days of clinically significant diabetic you know macular edema in terms of uh you're it's really not a clinical 90 diopter lens thing it's the OCT and in terms of def if if your the phobial center defines you know center involving or is there anything else be around that that'll that gets you know does it have to be a certain size or certain area or just >> absolutely yeah so so the there's been so much clinical research on diabetic macular edema in particular that it's become very technical in how we look at very at specific um cut offs for treatment and who to treat in certain situations. So center involving diabetic macularema involves if the average of the central 1 millimeter zone on OCT is greater than for example 320 microns for a male patient on the H Highleberg spectralis machine that would qualify as center involving diabetic macular edema. For a female patient on the same machine, it would be 305 microns. Wow. And then on the Zeiss Cirrus machine, it would be 305 microns for males and 290 microns for females. >> Okay, >> you just dropped those numbers. That's so impressive. You guys are numbers people. We work with these every day. >> That's amazing. That's amazing. And then Okay, so that's our your DME protocol. Um, and then take us through diabetic retinopathy and how that differs or proliferative diabetic retinopathy. >> Yeah. So along the spectrum of diabetic retinopathy for people who do not let's say for people who do not develop diabetic macularema you can progress from mild diabetic retinopathy to severe diabetic retinopathy and then once you develop severe diabetic retinopathy you have about A-50% chance over the next year for developing proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Right? And then once you develop new abnormal blood vessels and fibrovascular proliferation in the retina, we call it proliferative diabetic retinopathy. And at that point, we have a new treatment strategy for patients in that situation. We're guided by trials such as the diabetic retinopathy study from the 1970s and the ETDRS, early treatment of diabetic retinopathy study from the 1980s and 90s. And those tell us who has who can benefit from pan retinal photocoagulation or laser photocoagulation of the peripheral retina to reduce the chance of um severe vision loss from proliferative diabetic retinopathy. >> And it also defines what some of the characteristics are of high risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy are. And we still use those criteria very very commonly to this day. We do however have new options including the antivag medications for management of proliferative diabetic retinopathy and the diabetic retinopathy clinical research network protocol s showed us that if you use these antiv medications to treat proliferative diabetic retinopathy or use the pan retininal photocoagulation you get relatively similar visual outcomes at both two and five years. Most of us still use pen retinal photocoagulation however because for people with diab proliferative diabetic retinopathy if you for some reason are not able to continue to follow up with your eye care provider and we've shown that a relatively significant percentage of people are not able to keep regular appointments for one reason or another. You have some more durable protection from pan retinal photocoagulation. And one of the things that we're really interested in studying more over the next few years is the effect of these combined treatments using both antiagraph medications and patent rental photocoagulation >> because in reality that's what most people are using in practice. We just don't have perfect data to guide us on what the best strategies are at this point. >> Makes sense that that would work. You know, one thing that really strikes me about the changes that have happened in how you clinically treat these conditions over the past 15 years, like you said, is how much the retina community has had to grow and evolve and change their practice patterns. And that's got to be challenging. I'd be interested to hear how you've seen it as a practicing retina doc who's who've been like right in the middle of all the changes from training like when you trained it was probably totally different to now. How do you as a community expect all the retina faculty or not even faculty just retina docs, retina surgeons to keep up with the times, keep up with the data? Cuz that's challenging for everybody like are you reading the new data? But it's it's imperative um in your specialty and I feel like that's kind of different than other places. What's that been like? Well, it's the we have the luxury of a wealth of data and information to guide guide us and diabetic retinopathy is one of the more common things that we see. >> So, this is something as a retina specialist we see day in and day out. So, we become very fluent in all the subtle treatment algorithms and we're guided and subtly shift those treatment algorithms based on new data that comes out. So within the retina community, there are some differences in practice patterns that are relatively subtle, but it's pretty well ingrained what we do. We still need to communicate that with everyone else to make sure that people are getting referred at the right time and to make sure that we sort of set the course for what the next phases of what we want to learn, what we want to optimize in these treatment algorithms. And that's where some of the upcoming clinical research will continue to guide us. in prior to stepping into this article that I think you know highlights the importance of systemic management um decisions on on eye complications I I'm I'm struck by in in the peds world we we don't see nearly the diabetic retinopathy we d their you know type two diabetes or type one are diagnosed and then often times managed and start we get them into screening protocols but their management's really changed even in regard in regards to their primary disease I mean the days of finger stick and insulin injections are still there in some populations. But share with us before we get into your article talking about newer meds just how the old med of even insulin what percentage of patients or what what what do you see in terms of how often pumps are being used or other you know glaucoma treatment or diabetes treatment insulin management um paradigms have shifted in terms of primary care. >> Yeah. So for type 1 diabetes, uh insulin is still, you know, the the the main stay of treatment and the technologies are are fantastic like the new technologies to monitor real time blood sugar levels to have insulin pumps that can respond to that without active um intervention by the patient or or the the the care team is really phenomenal. And we see that there's been a lot of improvement in glycemic control related to that. And we know that that's going to continue to pay off for these patients over time because the most critical features, the most critical clinical um indicators of what your risk of diabetic retinopathy complications are are duration of diabetes and how good your glycemic control is over time. So these new technologies are helping incredibly. And then on the type 2 diabetes front, the new medications that we're we're witnessing a whirlwind change right now. All of a sudden there have been dramatic differences in practice patterns after relative stability for you know a decade or two and that's going to be exciting to learn how to optimize the systemic care and then on our end as opthalmologists and retina specialists how to help advise individual patients and primary care teams to help us all take best care of these patients. >> Yeah. So so tell us about the inception of this paper. really you're looking at um these new medications for systemic treatment of diabetes and and glucose lowering therapy that have really only come out in the past 10 15 maybe 20 years. So so pretty new meds. We've got the GLP-1 receptor agonist, the um DPP4 inhibitors, SGL2 inhibitors. Those are kind of the main ones that you're looking at and they've all shown benefits in cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, but question mark in terms of what they're doing for eye disease, >> right? So, so this study was spearheaded by Dr. Roselina McCoy who is an internist and endocrinologist here at Mayo Clinic. She's now at University of Maryland and she had uh a grant from the U. Patient Center Outcome Research Institute to look at the impact of these medications on a number of different systemic outcomes including some cardiovascular outcomes. And then we teamed up to look at these eye outcomes because there is been a a an avalanche of new studies on these medications. And the real breakthroughs have been that these medications, specifically the GPL1, RA and the SGLT2 inhibitors have shown that there are cardiorotective and renal vascular protective um outcomes from these medications, which is new for people with diabetes. independent of of glucose lowering. Absolutely. That's what I thought was so interesting. So, they have something else anti-inflammatory or something else going on, neuroprotective going on. Yep. >> That's really cool. >> We always had these caveats for some of the systemic management that we haven't actually been able to show major macrovascular differences or um or even mortality outcomes with some of these medications. But the what we used to classify as these microvascular the the renal and the the ocular outcomes have shown benefits and we have a wealth of data on the opthalmology front for that. But these new findings have led to many many many new patients being prescribed these medications. But the way that these are have been studied for cardiovascular disease and these renal outcomes didn't lend themselves well to study the ocular outcomes. So we don't know what those impacts are. There was a study in 2016 called the sustained six trial that showed that over two years there was an increase in adverse diabetic retinopathy outcomes like vitrius hemorrhage or need to be treatment for diabetic retinopathy. But we didn't know exactly what to make out of that information. What we have known for a long time is that when you start treating someone who has not had good glycemic control and then they come under very good glycemic control, there can be adverse retinopathy outcomes for the first year or so. However, in the long term, people fare much better. So, what's unclear is whether we're just treating patients better with these new medications. So, we're just seeing the upfront um issues related to diabetic retinopathy, but it's still better in the long term. And we know going way back to the DCCT study in type 1 diabetes that it's very clear for the first 18 months that people didn't do quite as well with diabetic retinopathy when they're treated well with insulin >> when they have really tight control. >> Exactly. Yeah. And then but beyond that, they do much better. >> Okay. >> So, >> that still doesn't make sense to me. What pathophysiologically do? >> We don't know. >> We don't know. Okay. Yeah. It's it's unclear, >> but there's something about getting someone under excellent control that changes the the retinal conditions in the short term. So, these studies are highly motivated to show the cardiovascular and renal outcomes, and those lend themselves very well to one and two-year studies. But diabetic retinopathy outcomes don't do well for that. So this study was chosen to look at a large administrative database over 370,000 patients >> huge >> who received these medications out in routine clinical practice. So we looked at patients who did not previously have any evidence of proliferative diabetic retinopathy or diabetic macular edema who started treatment with one of these four classes of medications. And then we compared the outcomes whether someone was treated for diabetic retinopathy specifically for proliferative diabetic retinopathy whether it's laser or injections or they were treated for diabetic macularema with injections or laser. So what we found was that the patients who received these SGLT2 inhibitor medications were a bit less likely to go on to needing treatment for diabetic retinopathy related complications over the first several years. And that was really encouraging because we know these medications are also favorable for the cardiovascular outcomes and the renal outcomes. And also with these GLP-1 medications, we know that they have fantastic systemic benefits. We know that patients are started on these right and left these days and they did not have any worse outcomes for compared to the patients receiving sulfonyl uras or the DPPI medications that were used u more heavily in the past >> that last statement then that the they didn't have worse outcomes so that would suspect that the medication at least in the sustained trial you mentioned earlier that's that suggested that the GLP-1 um receptor agonist was ass might be associated with worse outcomes. Would this would that statement that you just make um the suggestion that it really was the insulin tightening of all these that maybe was the reason the sustained trial find that rather than a given medication being um having a side effect that we didn't understand earlier? >> Short a window. >> Yeah. And it's and it's interesting to speculate and um there are lots of different thoughts about how all these different factors are going to balance out and impact these rates. Of course, there are some confounders and these are expensive medications, the GLP-1 medications and the SGLT2 inhibitors. And um so whenever you have a expensive medication, you might have slightly different patients getting those medications. But at this point, because we lack any really gold standard highquality data, it's just encouraging to see that these medications that have these incredible other benefits are not clearly causing worse diabetic retinopathy outcomes. We we hope to have some more information in the next few years. There's a study that's called the focus trial that's looking at these GLP-1 medications simaglletide over five years compared to placebo compar compared to no treatment to see what the impact over a longer treatment time is. >> But we're not going to have information for another 2 3 years. So this type of study is very reassuring in in the meantime as we look to just guide patients um who are sitting in the chair next to us and also the the the primary care teams who are taking care of these patients. >> Tell us about the team you worked with and the source of data behind this great study. >> Yeah, so in addition to Dr. McCoy, this is a true team-based effort. This is a team with um experts in epidemiology, statistics and data science. And the data set is all adult enrolles over age 21 in the US Medicare Advantage Medicare fee for service plans and commercial plans between January 2014 and 2021. So you looked at um two and fiveyear outcomes for these three different meds and and like you mentioned the SLG2 um did I say that right? Yeah. The SL uh SGLT2 inhibitors had the the significant reduction um in risk of developing diabetic retinopathy. A a big risk. I mean they all they all decreased your risk but it was almost 40% risk reduction. 39% I think. Um but what was interesting to me and and this is probably a great thing the still the overall risk was really low for all of them. It was only like maybe 1% or a small percentage end up develing developing diabetic rhnopathy. So that's great. >> Absolutely. So like in an ideal world, we might study in a prospective trial with with patients who had a known level of diabetic retinopathy that was that had some relatively significant high percentage of converting to more advanced retinopathy. >> With this administrative database, we just all we can do is exclude that someone has prior proliferative diabetic retinopathy or diabetic macular edema treatment. And so we're taking people who are all at very low risk of of converting over to higher risk um sightthreatening diabetic retinopathy. So in that overall population that is not does not have a higher concentration of people at high risk of developing advanced diabetic retinopathy the rate of converting to sight threatening retinopathy was still relatively low. >> But your numbers are huge. Your patient numbers in each cohort. Yes. 50,000, 70,000, 200,000. And so the numbers are they mean they're meaningful because they're so big. But that was exactly my question, what you alluded to. It'd be so interesting to see if you started with people who already had a baseline diabetic retinopathy change and then see if these medications prevent progression to to more severe stages. >> Absolutely. >> That's where the money's at. That would be really hard to do though >> with a big data set. These these studies uh are very expensive and there are certain studies that um the that the pharmaceutical industry is highly motivated to to to hammer down and investigate and other things that um that we need to look at in other ways. >> Yeah. So on that note, I mean, as part of classic journal club, you dig through an article and you you mine kind of the value of what it's adding to our practices, but you know, looking back and your role in helping to lead this effort from an opthalmology perspective, you know, so the the greatest takeaways I think as we're understanding these drugs more, their safety and and certainly the potential differences between them, but going back any anything about for the readers out there not having this article in front of them, looking back, what ways would you have loved to have more data? or have maybe it's just power. Um but what about this study? It's a retrospective rather than you know other study designs, but if you could be a genie in the box and go back and start the study again. Anything about this study that you wish would have been better or needs further clarification or um needs to be taken into consideration when people read this article and start to appreciate the impact of these drugs. So as as we develop some of these really powerful data science options, these big data approaches to to really querying some of these, you know, impressively huge databases, there are some advantages and disadvantages. And the key is to just understand what questions you can ask well with different types of data sources. What are the inherent limitations? and tailor the questions and the interpretations to what the you know inherent limitations are. >> So we know that just looking at coding for example clinical coding like ICD9 ICD10 coding we know that we cannot reliably count on those codes for mild diabetic retinopathy versus moderate versus severe. Those are not reliable to use for where an actual patient actually is. you need to use fundus photos and really really um rigorous methods to do that. So for this study what we chose is we chose to eliminate some of the patients who had known advanced diabetic retinopathy and then consider everyone else about the same and accept that there might be subtle differences between the groups. uh because you get into trouble when you try to overread the data that you have and try to interpret things where the quality of the data cannot accurately give you what you're looking for. >> Yeah, that's perfect. I think this is a great study. Do you think this will change your clinical practice at all? So, this study makes it easier for me to say what we've commonly said is do whatever you can to improve your glycemic control, to monitor your blood pressure, your lipids, um some sort of weight control, exercise, all the things that we know are really good for all parts of you with diabetes. And maybe if someone's starting a new powerful medication that might rapidly improve their control. We might see them a little bit sooner in the screening, we might be a little bit more likely to to to keep our eyes open for some early progression. As with any um inst, you know, instigation of a new aggressive treatment. You want to see how someone's doing. Uh but just to reassure people that do what's best for you overall and we'll keep a close eye on your eyes and and take good care of you. Fantastic. >> Wonderful. Thank you for enlightening us on how this the care for diabetic retnopathy continues to evolve and change and your role in that. >> Yeah, thank you for your work. >> Absolutely. Thanks for having me. >> You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast on our website. >> Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.