Hi, I'm Matthew Thomas, a cardiothoracic and lung transplant surgeon at the Mayo Clinic in Florida. My expertise is in using minimally invasive techniques such as theoscopic and robotic surgery to treat conditions that occur in the chest, most commonly lung and esophal tumors, but also many other benign conditions as well. In this short video, I hope to give you a basic idea of how minimally invasive thricoscopic surgery is performed at the Mayo Clinic in Florida. Now, this is based on some of the most common questions that patients ask us when they are told that they are candidates for minimally invasive surgery. One of the minimally invasive techniques we use for operating in the chest is called videoass assisted thoracic surgery otherwise commonly known as VATS VATs. This is done under general anesthesia. Usually two or three small incisions are made on the side of the chest to introduce a camera and instruments through small channels like these. In some cases, we have even removed a major portion of the lung, including entire loes using only one incision measuring not more than an inch and a half or approximately 4 cm. This is called uniortal vats. Now, these are some of the instruments that I use to perform minimally invasive chest surgery. These thin instruments can go in through very small incisions between the ribs without needing to spread them. As you can imagine, this significantly reduces the pain and the recovery time after the operation when compared to the traditional operation where a large incision is made and the ribs are spread. One question that is very commonly asked by my patients is how do you cut the lungs and how do you keep the edges together from not falling apart? We have this wonderful instrument called a stapler that fires three rows of very small micro staples on the lung on each side to hold the edges together and then cuts in between with the blade. So even when the lung is inflated afterwards, the staples hold the cut edges together and prevents them from coming apart. A bag like this is used to remove the specimen by pulling it out through one of the incisions which is made slightly larger to about 3 cm or 4 cm. This prevents spilling of the contents into the chest. It's our protocol at the Mayo Clinic that while the patient is still under anesthesia, we send the specimen to our pathologist in the operating room who examines it under the microscope and confirms with us right away that we have removed the mass and that if it is cancer or not. If it is cancer, they also tell us if the margins are free of cancer. If it is proven to be lung cancer, our next step is to remove lymph nodes in the chest. This is called lymph node dissection and is an essential part of any operation done to treat lung cancer. The final stage and whether any further treatment with chemotherapy or radiation is required will depend on whether the lymph nodes have cancer in them or not. After the operation is completed, a chest drain like this is placed through one of the incisions. Now, this is usually removed by the first or second day after any excess fluid that had collected the chest has drained. Most patients who have had a VATS procedure done at the Mayo Clinic leave the hospital on the first or second day after surgery and can return to regular work by about two to four weeks. because of the special techniques and cuttingedge technology used in being advanced at the Mayo Clinic and the excellent teamwork between experts in different fields such as surgeons, anesthesiologists, oncologists and pulmonologists as well as many others. We have been able to successfully operate on many patients that were told that they were too high risk for surgery at other hospitals. So, if you or your loved one is considering chest surgery and would like to know if you're a candidate for minimally invasive surgery, you can contact us by going to our web page at www.myoc clinic.org and using the information provided there to contact us.