Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today, we have the opportunity to share a visit with Dr. Allison Early. She's a comprehensive and refractive surgeon at Cincinnati Eye Institute. And she has a particular forte in optics, refraction, and also ergonomics. So we're going to unpack a few of these topics on our podcast. Dr. Allison Early is a comprehensive and refractive surgeon at Cincinnati Eye Institute, where she also serves on the board of directors. She's a nationally known thought leader in new technology within ophthalmology. She serves on the American Academy of Ophthalmology's Membership Advisory Committee, the Women in Ophthalmology Communications Committee, and is well known for her social media presence in ophthalmology. Welcome, Dr. Early. Thank you, Andrea. Thank you so much for having me. I'm thrilled to be here. Really looking forward to our conversation today. Well, it's great to have you. I think you have such an inspiring career journey. And, you know, Eric and I are kind of siphoned here in the world of academic ophthalmology. So it's really fun to talk to someone who is excelling in private practice. And I think just setting the standard for new technology and innovation within ophthalmology and the way you've built and transformed your career is so inspirational. So I'm really excited to dive into all of that with you. so excited where do you want to start well i don't know you guys seem to know each other well you it sounds like you've had some history together and are well into social media i just the two of you together is a lot of wonderful energy and i'm excited to get to know you more share with me or package your career for me in terms of what brought you through to interests in corneal and refractive journey and landing in cincinnati and what your practice is like just kind of frame your career path for our listeners? Certainly. Well, I can start all the way back in the days where I met Andrea, actually, in, I think it would have been 2013, interviewing for ophthalmology residency. We crossed paths a few times, and at least from my perspective, just kind of hit it off right away, even in these very limited interactions at that point, and then matched in separate locations. But over the years, I think our paths just kept overlapping and crossing a little bit. So Andrea, as I'm sure everybody who is listening to this episode knows, is an absolute leader in social media and shining some light on the sort of other side of medical training. And so I think she's been a role model for so many of us. Back in those days, You really stood out, I think, because most of the conventional wisdom was to hide yourself online and not be identifiable or traceable. And so I think Andrea really was one of the first people who broke that mold in the medical field. So all of that to say, as I proceeded through residency training, which I did at The Ohio State University, I started to little by little share more about my life on social media and found that the interactions with other people were actually really fulfilling, especially when I was going through some challenging times in my life through training and early pregnancy and motherhood and being part of a dual physician couple, job searching, all of these sort of inflection points in the early career of really all physicians, but particularly, I think I've found a lot of really wonderful connections with other ophthalmologists. So around this time, 2017, 2018, people were starting to more broadly use social media as a sort of a personal branding and marketing tool, even in the medical field. And I will say in the early days of my practice out of residency, I siloed it a little bit. I wasn't quite sure how I wanted to meld or bring together sort of my social media persona with my clinical practice and I for for some time wasn't really sure if anybody any of my colleagues knew that I had a public social media and it wasn't really something that I talked about or that one bled into the other at all but as as things kind of developed and I became more confident and more connected with other people in the field I I realized actually what a powerful tool social media can be for both my own personal and professional development, networking, and even expanding my clinical practice and surgical skills to be where I am today, six years into practice. I am comprehensive, so I'm not fellowship trained, but I've been able to develop quite a busy cataract and refractive surgery practice, as well as just kind of adding true corneal refractive and lens-based refractive surgery several years into practice. So that's where I am now. Yeah, you have such an inspiring career journey to me, Allison, because I think you've built a really busy practice right out of training without having fellowship training. I'd love to hear your thoughts on you know how you kind of broke into high volume complex cataract surgery early in your training I mean we haven't been out that long and how you built such a busy practice you're on the board of a huge eye institute I mean you really have succeeded so early in your career and I think it's inspiring for young ophthalmologists to see what you can do and just how you challenge yourself with things that maybe you didn't learn in residency. And then I want to talk about how you decided to add refractive surgery, because that's something that a lot of us don't learn in residency. And I think it's intimidating adding something new to your practice that you didn't learn in training. So yeah, tell us about kind of your early career and how you built it and where you are now. I think that is really everyone's sort of top level thought about refractive surgery. And depending on who you talk to, you'll hear something different about the best way to learn it. Some physicians insist that fellowship is not necessary. You can learn refractive surgery while you're practicing. Others feel that fellowship really is necessary. And then there's quite a wide variety of fellowships. So there's more traditional academic cornea refractive fellowships. But over the last few years, there's really a growing trend toward private practice fellowships. This wasn't something that was quite as widely available in 2018 when I finished residency. So based on the advice that I got, I entered practice and I did express early on that I had an interest in refractive surgery. But it's a little bit tough because it's a cash pay procedure for most LASIK, PRK, RLE, ICLs. And so there's a lot of market competition, there's a little bit of proprietary technique and all of these things that are very surgeon specific. And so if you, you can absolutely learn refractive surgery, while you're in practice, there's one thing that you need for sure, which is a mentor. So if you're fortunate enough to have a senior surgeon at your practice who is willing to take the time to train you to teach you everything they know and to help you build your practice I think that's a perfect setup not everybody has that which is the position that I was in so I really have to credit my social media and the connections that I've been able to make actually through that platform that have put me in the position to be in touch with other refractive surgeons from all over the country. And I quite literally have said to some of them, I'm trying to learn how to do LASIK. Can I come visit your practice? Can I call you when I have questions about patients? And resoundingly, the answer has been yes. So some of my greatest mentors and the people that I've really leaned on, I would never have found if I hadn't started out by putting myself out there. So I think that another thing to touch on and, and is something that I have struggled with, and everybody at this point has heard of imposter syndrome. And so I have a little bit of that when I'm in the setting of people who have done four or five different fellowships and are so academically so many accolades. And I think, gosh, I'm just a comprehensive ophthalmologist. But But at the end of the day, no matter how many years of training you do or how many fellowships you do, and I'm sure both of you know, this is a field where you continue learning every single day. And no matter how much training you do over the course of your career, you will have to figure out new techniques, new equipment, new diseases are being identified. So there's really no protection that you won't have to learn something new or kind of put yourself out there regardless of whether you've done a fellowship or not. So that makes me feel a little bit like I'm in better company. I think that's wonderful advice. You know, Andrea is our residency program director here at the Mayo Clinic, and it's just that residents graduate with the sort of, or prior to graduation, prepare with this expectation they're trying to package it all in, but just truly in, you know, emboldening them and being lifetime learners and just continually enhancing your practice, whether you're in strabismus, like me, or glaucoma, the field doesn't stay the same. And even for people that do fellowships, you know, I've had many of my fellows come back and say, are you still doing it that way? And oftentimes the answer is no. And so that sense of all of us, whether you teach it or learn it once, we're all learning it twice, three times, and having that hunger. I really, you know, in the spirit of this being, you know, these podcasts being for people at all spectrums of their career, it's just a good plug to know that there are opportunities. It takes initiative like you've shown and relationships that you've grown to expand your practice. But at all stages of our career, learning new things, whether it's in research or in business management or certainly in techniques, it's a neat just celebration of how it has enhanced your practice, again, for anyone, whatever they practice might be. Yeah, I love that you utilized some connections that you had that weren't traditional mentors or people with whom you trained to say, hey, can I come learn from you? Can I come watch you? we have a little oculoplastics group and we all text each other and say like, man, I wish we could go watch each other operate because we would learn so much. So how, how do you actually go about that? Like if somebody really wants to add some new technique, like they want to do ICL or smile or like something totally new they've never done before, um, is your practice supporting you to have time to go learn these techniques or how do you, how do you even go about it? It seems very intimidating? So I think one way to do that that is often overlooked are wet labs and courses at the major meetings. So the academy meeting every year, for me, ASCRS. So there are actually hands on formal trainings that you can do. Once you get out of residency, there's really nothing stopping you from picking up any particular technique. You don't have to take exams to be allowed to do different things. So if I wanted to go start doing tubes and traps, you know, I could learn how to do it and I could do it. That's not something I have an interest in, but you can pick up techniques depending on what your interest is or what the need is in your region. So I know comprehensive ophthalmologists who do all kinds of different things, blephs and glaucoma and anything else. So I think that the wet labs that are available at the meetings are really something that is an easy thing to take advantage of because it's all right there for you. There are expert teachers there dedicating their time to do it. If that doesn't work out, then ultimately there is probably going to be some investment from you in terms of taking time away from maybe your clinical practice to go and do some observing or shadowing of somebody else and seeing how they do what they do. In my case, I felt that the time investment was going to be worth it in being able to expand what I can offer to my patients. So I think you have to look at it more from the long-term perspective and not so much like, oh, I'm going to be seeing fewer patients this week or doing fewer surgeries this month or something because I took two days off, I think it's well worth it in the long run. Sure. I love that. It's such good advice. So as a strabismus and pediatric ophthalmologist, I have to ask, Joe, you graduated a comprehensive ophthalmology, diverse practice, and then added these refractive pieces in. What would be the logical stepwise way if you wanted to add in refractive? is the first steps you know still LASIK and or the LASIK versions that we do now is it PRK is it you know what would what did you bite off first or what if someone's stepping into that arena is the first hammer of refractive to start doing while you later expand it to other things with gaining confidence well I can tell you what I did and then I can tell you what I would have done differently. I think for somebody who is an experienced and a confident intraocular surgeon, particularly, let's say an experienced cataract surgeon, I think absolutely the easiest thing to do is to offer refractive lens exchanges, which is cataract surgery by a different name. A refractive lens exchange is simply what the procedure is called when it's performed on somebody who has not developed an opacified lens, but more as a presbyope or sort of a dysfunctional lens syndrome patient. So a clear lens, you remove it the exact same way as cataract surgery, can use the exact same lens implants as you do in cataract surgery, just falls under slightly different category because there is not the presence of a cataract. So I think that would be definitely the lowest bar of entry. Following that, so the next sort of intraocular or next step I think that would be great for somebody who's comfortable inside the eye is adding Evo ICL, so implantable columnar lenses. This is a really wonderful alternative to corneal refractive surgery and something that happens inside the eye, the implant goes into the sulcus, incisions are very similar to cataract surgery. So again, just working from what you're used to, but modifying some of the steps. Corneal refractive surgery really is its own little wheelhouse. As far as I'm aware, and again, I haven't done a cornea fellowship, but from many colleagues who have done traditional cornea fellowships. Even in many of those, I think refractive surgery is a fairly small part of what's done. So corneal refractive surgery is something that is really only done for very specific purposes, which is vision correction. And that's just not always the focus of training programs. So to a degree, everybody is going to have to get a feel for it on their own. But refractive surgery in general, I think there's very easy ways to add it to your existing practice and picking up different skills along the way and keeping that mindset of just being open to learning new things, I think is really the key. Yeah, fantastic advice. So you've been kind of a leader in some of the tech space, like trying new lenses, trying new techniques, being really involved with tech and kind of new, new ophthalmology innovations. How did you get into that space? How, and how do you recommend others kind of break into that space and get comfortable with incorporating new tech into their practice? Cause I think that's another kind of intimidating thing that you've really mastered. Thank you. Thank you. I think that again with that, so small steps are really where you begin. I'll speak from my own experience as a residency trainee. I went to a program at Ohio State where we had a very high cataract surgery volume. The vast majority of those were standard monofocal lenses. So I think the first thing that somebody might get comfortable with in terms of technology is just really understanding astigmatism correction and toric lenses. And once you're really comfortable with that and you're good at reading topographies and understanding with the rule of stigmatism and against the rule of stigmatism and how to best correct it and toric lenses, I think the next step is very easy to get into premium multifocal lenses and EDOF lenses and light adjustable lenses. And they all sort of fill a different niche in terms of what your patients need. So for example, light adjustable lenses is kind of the newest technology coming out. And as somebody who's now been in practice almost six years, there are certain patients who just are not a great candidate for diffractive lenses or what have you, EDOF lenses. And so now we have a technology where we can sort of customize somebody's vision and really work with them post-operatively to give them exactly the type of vision that they're looking for. So adding little by little, I think, is the advice I would give there as well. And then really working with your local representatives from different companies and exploring brands and manufacturers that you haven't been exposed to before. There's a variety of IOL manufacturers. They all have really amazing technology. they all are really excited to put that technology in your hands and let you try it out and get a feel for what their implants or devices can do. So I think just making those personal connections with the reps in your area and hearing what they have to say and maybe select one surgery day where you'll put in all lenses from this or that manufacturer and just get several cases under your belt see how everything feels um so i think just just um taking that little bit of initiative to make those connections and then then you can make the decisions for yourself about what you want to offer your patients i think that's great great advice i i've often wondered especially for yo's i remember when i was a yo a young ophthalmologist um walking onto the the floor at AAO for in the where all the vendors are hanging out and it was a zoo and I knew there were optical tools mechanical imaging devices out there that I would like to figure out and learn more about but it was just so overwhelming and as you're saying just make individual steps and try one platform try one step with the advice of mentors and perspectives and then it leads to more but i always thought for someone like you that's a yo's for leader in your own right too that um it would be wonderful for young ophthalmologists to have at the beginning of academy or maybe in a cataract refractive meeting sort of a a menu of what their interest would be or what they would like to explore and give them sort of uh the hot locations and what to go ask for like okay now i'm supposed to go to you know desk number 94 just to give them a way to enter into that platform in those marketplaces to understand how to make the steps to learn about these new tools so anyway i just think it's your ingenuity your creativity your initiative has really blessed your career and i certainly just finding ways to package that so people wanting to expand their skill set can learn and do that. And your energy and enthusiasm behind your journey will help others through our podcast. Yeah, that's awesome, Allison. One thing you're also another expert on is ergonomics, which I really want to talk to you about. It's so important for cataract surgeons, well, really any surgeon of any age, but I think particularly our young ophthalmologists who are just starting in their career and have a long career ahead of them. And I know you've been a huge leader and very outspoken about taking care of your body, taking care of your back and neck. I know nothing about ergonomics. Would you give me a crash course on what I need to know to take care of myself as a surgeon? Yes. My number one recommendation is to work your core. We really need good core strength as particularly as ophthalmologists. Many of us operate in a seated position. And for those of us who are intraocular surgeons, we are using our both hands and both feet at the same time. So that core is really what's stabilizing our entire body. And that's where we see things start to fall apart and you start load bearing on your cervical spine and getting yourself into uncomfortable positions if you don't have really solid core strength. So the front and the back, don't forget about your back muscles. It's not all just about your abs. But backing up a little bit into how this affects ophthalmologists and why I think it's important. This was also just born out of my own experience as a resident. And there were certain rotations where gosh at the end of the day my neck was so sore and I couldn't really figure out I thought it probably had something to do with my workstation or the chair height or something I didn't really even have the terms to use but I knew there was something wrong and then as soon as I got into practice within about two weeks I was having that same upper spine and neck, more like muscle pain for me, tightness. And so I actually ended up sort of coincidentally speaking with one of my more senior colleagues. And he was the first person who I'd ever witnessed actually setting up the operating room to suit him, rather than making his own posture, meet the patient's bed, or meet the microscope. So little did I know that you can, of course, adjust the patient's bed height, adjust the microscope, adjust your chair. And there are ways that you can do that that are so beneficial to your neck and spine as you're both operating all day, seeing patients in clinic all day. So for those of us who are using a slit lamp or operating microscope, a couple of keys are to really avoid flexion of your neck or extension to a degree in the office particularly. So some of us will spend the majority of the day really leaning forward, extending our neck, and that's what really places that strain on the cervical spine. And this can actually lead to, there's data showing that musculoskeletal disorders can limit or even sometimes end ophthalmologists' careers prematurely. So this cumulative strain is what the term is that it's not, you're not throwing out your neck all of a sudden one day, but it's over many, many years of the same repetitive postures causing that strain over time. So little modifications that you can make in your everyday to really protect your neck and spine go such a long way. What do you feel about these custom chair like i see some people in our practice have custom ergonomic slit lamps and their chairs are different and the oculars are different some exam rooms here at mayo especially are all ergonomically optimized and i hate them i like can't see out of the ergonomic slits and i fall off the chair like doesn't work for me they weren't set up for everybody right no i know i know is that yeah so body type is definitely uh body type is a huge factor in all of this um so I don't know if it's what you particularly need but I think it's great that people are paying attention to it that's that's the first step is just really thinking about it and considering what we're using so sort of retrofitting the legacy equipment that we have you know probably will only get us so far but I think it's a great step in the right direction myself in both the OR and the clinic setting, I have very traditional equipment, I don't have any fancy, specifically ergonomic equipment in either setting. So my, my, my exam lanes, I try to just get the patient's chair foot rest out of the way, so that I can slide my caster wheels of my examination stool to where I'm fully upright. And I try to adjust the patient so that my split lamp ocular is at an appropriate height for me. And I think the key is to remember that you'll be doing this day after day, week after week, year after year in your career. So it's very important for you to be in a comfortable position versus a given patient, you know, may come in once a year or a few times a year for most patients and for several minutes at a time. And so if they're slightly uncomfortable, that's probably preferable to you, the physician, being uncomfortable day in and day out. I always recommend that if you can get yourself into a comfortable position 95% of the time, of course there are patients with physical disabilities or other limitations that might make you have to do an examination in a non-ergonomic position. But if you can get that to be just a small percentage of patients, I think the longevity of your career and your musculoskeletal health will thank you. I think as you were talking about earlier, you have a forte in tech, and certainly it is exciting that there is a little bit more sensitivity and awareness. My current fellow has a wonderful set of angled loops, and so she sits upright and looks at the field, and I'm leaning forward more than I should it through my loops and i you know those are the the steps that we all should be reflecting on when we look at the the technology at one point i was involved in a location that had an ophthalmology architects a dedicated full-time ophthalmology architect designed the clinic and we've talked about on the podcast having that person as a guest but i was struck after that at how someone has ergonomics ophthalmology specific designs not just what looks good and where you put the plugins and the light switches and all these things are so critical for the ergonomics of how we function day to day so just be you know people should just be aware of both how the your your room is laid out and certainly the equipment we use that these things are continuing to improve and i think you're you're you're highlighting that in your practice so early is a is a wonderful encouragement that sounds amazing i would definitely listen to an episode with that guest on it. But yeah, I mean, to your point, I'm a huge proponent of trying to do the best you can with what you have. Realistically, we all can't go out and purchase all new equipment. So I think there are small things that we can do with the equipment that we have that can really make a difference. Fantastic. Dr. Early, you are such a leader, so inspirational. You've given so much great advice to, I think, young ophthalmologists and those mid-career who need a little fire to optimize their ergonomics or add new surgical techniques. It's never too late. So thank you so much for sharing your wisdom and what you've learned. It's really wonderful. We appreciate you so much. Thank you for joining us. I'm so glad to be here. Thank you so much for having me. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic ophthalmology podcast on our website. Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.