I have been interested for the past 10 years in patients who have lost their um ability to communicate essentially or have begun to lose the ability to communicate. And this could be because they can't find words to use in sentences. So they might speak around a word. For example, they might want to come up with the word flashlight and they may say the the thing that you press the button and the light comes out the front as opposed to come up with the word. You have other folks who might have problems um producing sounds. So we may say the word specific and that person may not be able to produce the s or the spe for specific. So it comes out spec and they're trying to say specific. So I've been interested in folks like that for years and so got an NIH grant about two and a half years ago and um started recruiting patients with all of these different kinds of uh speech and language um communication type disorders. And I think probably about uh after 70 or 80 patients, it it's it struck me that a lot of folks that I had conversations with were were teachers. It reached a point where it was interesting because I thought if you walked outside and you spoke to 50 50 people, how likely it is that you know 10 or 20% of them will have the same occupation? There's something here. So I went back said to my group, have you noticed that a lot of the patients were senior teachers? And so um then decided to do this study and this the aim of the study really was to determine whether within this cohort or within patients that we were seeing that had trouble with their words and communicating was there a higher prevalence or higher frequency of teachers. The speech and language disorder cohort the 100 patients um within that there's subtypes. So everybody doesn't have the same type of communication disorder. One type is can't produce sounds. One type may be somebody doesn't know what a word is. So I may say um do you like popcorn and this patient in this type may say popcorn? What is popcorn? That word doesn't mean anything to them. That's completely different from somebody who um you know trying to get a word to come out and that word just they can't articulate properly. The tongue um the mouth doesn't move for that word to come out properly. So different. Why why would teachers uh be more likely to have problems with their speech and language? We thought about um ideas obviously we don't know the answer but one possibility we thought that you know teachers are um in daily communicate they communicate daily with students continuously from 8:00 or 7:30 to 5:30 and um in addition to that the way teachers communicate with students we suspect that they have to use proper grammar proper language um and so they're probably more likely to detect a problem communicating if if they have to write um a sentence and um a or a student have to write a sentence um they are well aware of what order words needs to be whether you split the infinity or not and so um we thought it maybe it's just a sensitivity issue it's you know their profession that allows them to detect this difference um um earlier I don't want teachers to read this study and believe that if you are a teacher you're more likely to develop this disorder That's we I definitely did not write that in the study because that's not what we found. We found that if you have a speech and language disorder, you're more likely to be a teacher. We we were not saying that if you're a teacher, you're more likely to to have this problem. So So if if a teacher reads this, they should not think that they are at any that that they're more likely to develop this disorder. That if you get it, you're more likely to be a teacher. At least that's what we we are finding right now. I think the next step is you know the numbers are I mean 100 is is is pretty big for a study for just three years. It's probably now one of the largest if not the largest speech and language cohort in the country maybe in the world. Um the next we would like to sort of um continue to recruit um patients with u with speech and language language disorders. I think the next step though really is I mean we're working on a lot of different angles here and this is this was just just something that I happened to not something I set out to find. It's something that I stumbled upon, but but hey, that's how I think the interesting things in science are discovered. Usually, it's the stuff you stumbled upon, not the stuff you set out to to look for. Um, but yeah, we need more numbers. Um, and we need to go back and and look and I don't know, maybe maybe there's something else um regarding typer teachers. Um, we were not sure. I I think the the message is that um you you you say something like Alzheimer's disease and you know my grandmother knows what Alzheimer's disease is but if I if I said to to to somebody you know I have a patient today and they have a proxy of speech or they have semantic aphasia no one have a clue what I mean and so I think it's important to recognize that not every degenerative condition because this is a degenerative condition um patients ultimately um um will die after probably having this condition anywhere from um 8 to maybe 10 years after it starts. They will die not from this not from speaking but from swallowing problems that ultimately develop. So I think it's important that people recognize this condition, recognize that um it exists, but not mistake it with with the the normal inability or difficulty that we all have in coming up with words sometimes. That's that's a normal part of of um of communication. not being able to come up with the word, you know, oh, oh, I, you know, retribution or or oh, you know, can I meet you in the in the and mezzanine in the tip of the tongue, it this is not what we're talking that happens to us all. We're talking about a condition that starts off with, you know, maybe saying um you know, you may go to the zoo and say, um, first you may say it's an elephant. The next year you come back, you say it's a big animal. uh three years after you come back, you say it's um it's a big gray thing and ultimately you have no idea how it's different from a camel. That's what we're talking about. A progressive disorder where the brain focal or parts of the brain shrinks and ex shrinks over time and that shrinkage starts really really focal small spot and then it it gets more of the brain shrinks. More of the brain shrinks. More of the brain shrinks over