Let's talk a little bit about the sexual function changes that occur during the menopausal time frame. So there are two big ones that occur. One is a change in libido. So women experience this change in sexual desire that goes from being more of a spontaneous sexual desire in younger years to a more willingness or receptive desire in menopausal years. So women may not have that innate drive to be sexual, but if the situation is right and they're not too tired and they're not going through their grocery list in the in their head and there's some privacy and the relationship is in a good place, then yeah, they may be okay. And the interesting thing is women actually experience arousal before they experience desire. So, they may be in a sexual situation and notice they're sexually aroused before they go, "Okay, yeah, this is a good idea. I think I'm in." Then they're into the sexual situation and things are okay. But it's this shift in going from the spontaneous sexual desire to this more responsive sexual desire that is surprising to women and to their partners because they've lost that that spontaneous drive to be sexual. And that's disturbing to many women and to their partners. So many women will come in complaining of this low sexual desire. Um there are many many things can that can play into this though and we go over this in our office with our patients and it takes a whole hour to go through these things. But we talk about the medical aspects and in the medical aspects that includes the hormonal shifts that go on and there is no doubt that the hormonal shifts are are at least partly responsible for this change. Often what we do is reassure women that they're normal because the messages they're getting from the media are that they are supposed to be sexual and wear lingerie and want to go out and attack their partner. But the reality is that's not going to happen for women in in midlife. They are not going to have that spontaneous sexual desire in most cases. So in most cases, it's going to be right time, right place, right situation, and everything works fine. We encourage women to be more planful about sexual activity. So, it may be that they have to set up a date night with their partner and be a little more planful about what are the ingredients that it takes for her to feel sexual. Does it take relaxation? Does it take exercise? Does it take a romantic setting? What are the ingredients that it takes? Sometimes just working on the emotional intimacy, that relationship with their partner, that's a very important element for women. If they're not feeling emotionally connected to their partners, they're not going to feel like being sexual. There are so many aspects that play into low libido for women. So, it's the biological, it can be hormones, it can be medications that a woman's taking. It can be medical conditions such as diabetes or neurological diseases. All of those things are the biological things. the psychological things. We could have mood disturbances. We could have anxiety or depression. We could not feel so great about our bodies. So, self-image, body self-image can be an issue in midlife. And maybe you don't feel like going to put on the lingerie. So, those sorts of things. Um, the psycholog or the uh socioultural is the last aspect and those things are how you grew up thinking about sexual activity. Was it okay? Was it not talked about? Maybe there are some messages from childhood about sex that make it a little more difficult. And then the relationship factors are a huge piece. So is there any partner sexual dysfunction? Sexual dysfunction in a woman's partner is a big issue. So that can cause dysfunction for her. But also the quality of the relationship. How good is that? Um is there privacy? Something as simple as a lock on the door can be a a something that's change a life-changing for couples. So, it's it's just taking stock of all of those aspects that can play into a woman's sexuality. So, is it going to be a pill that's going to fix this problem? Probably not. I I think women sort of come into their own in midlife when they when they realize they don't have to please everybody else all the time. At least I hope so. And that's what we counsel women on all the time. that they don't have to be something for everybody else all the time. And they really need to take time for themselves.