If you have been a listener of this podcast for a while, you may have picked up some common pillars of healthy aging that we talk about. The importance of activity and exercise to maintain independence, how strength training can optimize our functional health over time. But what about physical therapy? How does that fit in? And how is that different than, say, working with a personal trainer? And the biggest question is, who can benefit from it? This is Aging Forward, a podcast from Mayo Clinic about the science behind healthy aging and longevity. Each episode, we explore new ways to take care of our long -term health, the health of our loved ones, and our community, so we can all live longer and better. I'm Dr. Christina Chen, a geriatrician and internist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. In this episode, we are talking with our guest, Josh Militzer, who is a physical therapist, certified in geriatric PT, and has a heart and passion for working with older adults. We're so happy to have you here, Josh. Welcome to the podcast. Thank you. I am thrilled to be here. I'm excited to have a discussion with you about physical therapy and the power of movement as we age. So Josh, let's just get started by getting to know you a little bit more. Can you tell us a little bit about who you are, what you do, and what led you to a career path of physical therapy? Absolutely. So I am a physical therapist for Mayo Clinic Health System. I practice in Eau Claire, Wisconsin at Luther Hospital. So I've been there for about five years now. Through my schooling, I got to go to UW-Madison for grad school, go Badgers, and then University of Minnesota, go go first for a postgraduate residency program in geriatric physical therapy. And the older adults were the ones who kind of gripped my heart. While I was doing my residency program, I both got to live and work at a senior living facility. And just to see the difference in things like how long-term care is different than assisted living, is different than independent living, is different than memory care. And being able to experience that with my patients, some of which were my neighbors. That was just a very unique, informative experience to live among older adults and see how they function and don't function and see those different levels of care for them. It just made sense to me to help people who are not moving well to start being able to re-engage with the activities and the things that they enjoy. That is such a unique background to be able to live that experience and then weave your career into that type of journey. I love to start with a few myth busters here before we get into our questions, just your initial knee -**** reactions to these statements, because I hear this so commonly. And the first is, PT is only for people with weak joints or sports injuries. This is a very common misconception. It isn't just college athletes, professional athletes who benefit from physical therapy. Older adults, In some ways, each of us are athletes all throughout our lives if we take the view that maybe our sport becomes daily function and being able to run the marathon of having a full day of getting up, getting yourself ready, going out for your appointments, visiting your grandchildren. And just like an athlete will need to train to be able to perform the best they can in their sport, for an older adult, sometimes they need to intentionally structure movement and activity into their day so that they can accomplish all of the things that they like to accomplish. So I would encourage you to consider yourself an athlete and to think about how you might become the most functional and independent version of you that you can be. I love that. We're kind of running our own marathon every day we think about it. it may be a very small, simple marathon, but it still works. Absolutely. Absolutely. Number two, physical therapy is just about doing exercises that you can just look up on YouTube. Why even go to a physical therapist? It's all online anyway. Just like you said, Christy, the information is all available out there. I love when folks say, hey, I've been looking at some different exercises and activities and getting ideas for things that I can do online. That makes me excited. What makes me a little bit cautious about that is that the training that medical professionals undergo through their years of schooling, it helps them be able to identify the things that might be most relevant for individuals that might actually set them back versus helping them go forward. They're aware of just some of those nuances that can be missed if you don't have that training. So if you go in and you work with a physical therapist, they can make recommendations for the thing that is most appropriate for your particular condition and circumstance and goals. And it can help you feel that you're supported. You're not in it all by yourself trying to figure it out. A video just appeals to the mass public. It's not personalized. Yes. Okay, last question here. And I get this all the time. I feel fine. And physical therapy is only for people who already hurt. So I don't need it. The proverb that I think has been attributed to Benjamin Franklin, rightly or wrongly, is that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. And as we age and as we grow older, just because things aren't bad doesn't necessarily mean that they're as good as they can be. And as we start to age and we're noticing some changes, we're starting to notice that we aren't quite able to go as far as we were. You know, we have to park a little bit closer in order to not lose our breath when we go into the grocery store or maybe at the end of a long TV watching marathon with our spouse, they need to come over and kind of give a little boost to get us out of the chair. So we're still functioning, but we're not doing things quite as well as we could be doing. I think it is very beneficial to recognize that getting out ahead of something before it becomes bad can be a really great way to prevent them from becoming a bigger issue. Thank you, Josh. You answered the three biggest questions that I think people are turned off initially by physical therapy. So now that we've gotten those myths out of the way, we can dive into the details of why this is so helpful, why the foundations are so important. And then we can get into some of the illustrative examples that you have experienced throughout your training and work with other people. So from your perspective, as someone who's worked in the space every day and seeing the impact it makes, why is maintaining physical function so important in the context of healthy aging? So, Christy, I'm going to let people in behind the curtain just a little bit. One view of how to appropriately manage the geriatric or older patient is the five M's of geriatric medicine, things like making sure that medications are appropriately managed, making sure that individuals' minds or their mentation is as sharp as it can be for them, making sure that what matters most to them, their goals are focused on. The fifth M is mobility. Mobility is such a big deal for older adults because it allows individuals to engage in the things that they'd like to engage in. So not everyone's mobility looks like walking and engaging in their daily tasks. I was just working with a couple wonderful older adults yesterday who were getting the right wheelchair so they could maintain their independence and ability to do things in their home and community throughout the day. Mobility is such an important piece of healthy aging because it allows us to show up and engage in the life experiences that we desire to engage in. It makes those things possible for us. So it's hard when you lose mobility quickly, right? For example, if you were in a car accident, you lose your ability to move fairly quickly. But then there's that slower progression where someone gradually loses mobility over time and that can be more subtle and harder to pick up. What have you observed when someone loses that mobility? What happens to their well-being and their quality of life? as people start to lose their mobility what can happen is that their world can grow smaller and it can grow more scary as well folks are no longer able to go out in the community or engage in as many social opportunities they can no longer go to church or they can't make it to the fun family reunion the things that they are able to engage in start to be taken away or people no longer feel comfortable engaging in those things. And as those losses occur, that can also become a scary thing because instead of getting up each morning and thinking through all the things you have to look forward to, maybe the view instead is more of a, oh boy, how am I going to get out of bed and get to my bathroom? And today is shower day and I'm going to be worn out, but I still have to make lunch and these functional things as the walls kind of close in, it can be a very, understandably, a very frustrating experience. Right. And it threatens the independence where if you can't do it yourself and you have to have someone else do it for you and that kind of threatens their dignity in some ways. A hundred percent. Yes. Are there early warning signs that a caregiver can look out for, be aware of that someone is starting to decline in that trajectory? And then how does an early PT assessment help with that? Some of the biggest early warning signs that I see are things like more frequent fall events or near fall events. So if a fall event is defined as, you know, ending up on the ground unintentionally, a near fall would be something like, I started to lose my balance, but thankfully the chair was right there behind me, or I was going up the steps and if it hadn't been for my spouse, I'm not sure I would have made it up. So when that kind of event, either a fall or a near fall is becoming more frequent, that's one of the warning signs that function is becoming more challenging. Another very relevant one would be a change in gait speed. So in medicine, if you go to your doctor visit, the vital signs that the doctor would take, five of the key ones would be things like your heart rate, your blood pressure, your respiratory rate, your oxygen level. But don't forget temperature. Yes. It's been argued that the sixth vital sign is your gait speed because it can tell us a lot about your functional independence, your risk of something like a hospitalization or a re-hospitalization. So if a loved one is starting to slow down, that may cause you to ask, should we maybe start thinking about how therapy can help? Now, very briefly, Dr. Chen, I'll get to the second part of the question, but my occupational therapy and speech language pathology colleagues would be all over me if I didn't mention something about having more challenges with activities of daily living, like starting to appear more unkempt or maybe someone who's always valued putting on a nice set of clothes and having their makeup done before they go out, no longer doing those things. So having some of those challenges with living and being able to care for oneself, whether it's just because they can't do it physically or if there's a cognitive piece to that, I think that would be another warning sign as well, a progression of unkempt appearance or something to that effect, a messy house, that sort of thing. That's why I think it's so important that caregivers understand just how important they are in this whole assessment of how people are functioning, because we often don't realize, oh, I'm walking a little bit slower, or maybe I'm not doing the activities that I enjoyed doing before, because it can be so, so insidious and so slow that it really It takes that outside perspective to be like, hey, things are different this year compared to last. And by the time you're falling, gosh, that's kind of too late because a fall is a manifestation of multiple things happening at once, right? Absolutely. This is a wonderful way to describe fall events. And just like you were saying, Dr. Chen, the best way to prevent a fall is to intervene early and to help avoid a fall. But to the second half of your question, how physical therapy can help when some of these things start to happen, the underlying factors are some of the things like weakness, sometimes that internal factor of how strong someone is, or external factors like environmental modifications, like removing throw rugs, making sure that good supportive footwear is present, making sure that glasses prescriptions have been updated. Even things like discussions with primary care providers on if certain medications that should have been discontinued because the more medications people have, the higher their fall risk. So all these things can help to mitigate the risk of falling, reduce the risk of falling via early intervention and detection. So it sounds like the PT assessment is not just your physical state, but you're looking at everything around them as well, which is so different than, say, a personal trainer, who's just mainly focusing on getting you stronger and working on certain muscle groups. But it's that entire environment that make a big difference as well. Absolutely. Let's take some time to really understand some of the contributions to that physical decline that we were talking about earlier. So, for example, arthritis. When people have arthritis, their joints hurt and they think, okay, it hurts, so I shouldn't move it. I should just stay still. Maybe it'll go away in a couple weeks. But can you explain why that can be actually harmful by not moving your joints if it's hurting? Yes, I love this question. Basically, this paradigm, Schwartz's slippery slope of aging, That says that as we get older, what can happen if we don't actively seek to combat this is that we go from having fun to being functional, to being frail, to failing. And when something like arthritis sets in, what can start to happen is we go, oh, it hurts to move, so I'm not going to move. And I can still live my daily life, but the things that I enjoyed before, the fun activities, community level activities, golfing, pickleball, going for bike rides with my spouse, I'm going to kind of start dialing back on those things because it just seems a little bit too difficult and I'm not sure the work is worth it. So we go from being able to have fun down a notch into function. We can still do our daily things, but our world has gotten a little bit smaller. The next step along that continuum would be if we end up then becoming more sedentary, we can find ourselves then in a place where the functional activities we usually do, standing up from the toilet, standing in the shower, those things become more of a challenge. And maybe after a late night when we went to do a bathroom trip, we need a call in our spouse to help us off the toilet, or we find ourselves having to sit every time we shower because we just get so short of breath and nothing wrong with those things, but the ability to function independently starts to decline and then we start to become more frail. Then we start to become more reliant on caregivers, loved ones, those around us to help us be in the place that we are, whether that's at home or maybe that's a assisted living apartment with regular check-ins from caregivers, But the final step on that continuum is into the failure category, and that's when we can no longer be in the environment where we once were because we're unable to successfully function there. So perhaps what happens is that we then require a higher level of care. We go from home with a caregiver to an assisted living apartment or go from an assisted living apartment to a long-term care facility because that's the care needs that we have to be safe. So that continuum of how aging can look if nothing is done is not the only version of aging. And thankfully, through things like appropriate engagement in physical activity and exercise, Schwartz's slippery slope can be reversed. And it is not an easy thing. But people can return to doing activities that they enjoy. They can go from being frail individuals to individuals who get a good nutrition plan in place and they start building up their muscles and making improvements with their ability to function more independently and they claw those things back through their determination, hard work, and the guidance of the care team. Would you say that this principle is along the same lines of that phrase, use it or lose it? Yes. I feel like we say this, use it or lose it, like it's this negative thing. But if you use it, you can reverse it too. Like you mentioned, we can regain what we've lost. Yes. And should we be using the phrase, use it and regain it instead? Absolutely. So the interested listener can look up the WAMI-3, W-A-M-I-3. And this stands for the Wellness Aging Model Related to Inactivity, Illness, and Injury. We can increase the length of time that one can continue doing what they want to do through things like physical activity and exercise. Those who engage in these things, there is an embarrassment of research on how incredibly impactful exercise can be for conditions from osteoarthritis to cancer to heart failure. Engagement and exercise allows people to maintain their independence into older age, whereas things like illness, inactivity, injury, your ability to do things peters out if a lot of those factors are present. I think the hopeful takeaway in all of this is that there's something that I can do to maintain my ability to do what I want to do. And it's as simple and complex as regular engagement in physical activity. I've seen this happen many, many times that people do get better. And I'm just grateful for that encouragement from you. This is a very empowering message for people out there considering physical therapy who don't realize that they can dramatically increase their functional abilities and improve their quality of life. I like to kind of jump into specifics here because I don't think people really know what happens in the assessment room and then what they get to do with folks like you. And I just have a quick story to share here. I have gone to physical therapy three times myself, and it's embarrassing because I had shoulder pain the first time. I put it off for like six months. Yes. I pulled my shoulder doing a very poor form, lat pull down. Oh, no. And thought that maybe if I hung my arm for a couple months, it'll go away. Yeah. It did not go away, obviously. And it wasn't until I understood that it's not just my shoulder joint, it's my back, it's my scapular alignment. Yes. It's my core, like all of that. You had a good PT, Dr. Chen. His name is Chad. He works with Danny. And so it wasn't until I understood my own body that I was like, oh, I get it. And so anytime anything hurts now, I love it. So I would like people to understand why an isolated joint issue like knee or shoulder pain, it's not just the joint itself. It's everything feeding into that joint. What do you typically do to help someone who comes in with that isolated joint pain? So I'll use a case example that speaks exactly to what you were saying, Christy. Let's envision a patient who's maybe 83 years old and she comes in to the therapy clinic with a referral for outpatient physical therapy to regain her range of motion in her wrist after a fracture due to a fall. So when she comes into the clinic, some of the things that we will be looking at as physical therapists is that we would typically start with a subjective interview where we ask questions to this patient and maybe their loved one where we ask about the setup at home and what kind of ability she has to do things for herself if she typically needs assistance when she's getting dressed or before the fracture if she was independent with doing things. And then we inquire about if there's any sort of maybe adaptations or aids that she uses, if she uses a walker, if she uses a cane, if she has a shower chair, if she needs to navigate stairs in the home. So typically a physical therapy evaluation will start with a subjective history so that the therapist understands what the home environment and the function of the patient was. Also included in the subjective and extremely relevant is establishing with the patient why they think they're at therapy or what their goals are for being at therapy, making sure that the things that the patient is desiring to work on, to regain, that those things are being understood and addressed by the evaluating therapist. then the therapy examination will typically move on to objective examination where the therapist may do things like look at the motion of that arm that has been hurt but also the other arm just to compare the two sides and i think what's super relevant for a case like the patient we're discussing the therapist may then also move on to do things like well let's see how strong your legs are. Let's look at what your balance is like. You came in here after a fall and a fracture to regain your wrist motion and ability to use your wrist, but there were some things that likely contributed to why you had that fall event. And it's possible that they might find, wow, these balance systems in your body related to the way that your ankles react when you lose your balance and related to the sensation in your feet. There are some issues here as well that we can work to fine-tune and adjust to try to prevent another future fall event. So a thorough physical therapy evaluation will take into account the other body systems that may be contributing to the issue that the patient came into the clinic with. You just love the completeness and the holistic approach that your team does. How about a second scenario? Say after a long hospital stay, it's very easy it just takes one day of not moving to become more debilitated right for people who are then coming home and struggling to bounce back what do you do in that situation to just help as a whole their general health or general energy or if they're weak how do you work on their whole body i love it so this is where you might get a little bit jealous of us dr chen as physical therapists because we get to exist across a whole continuum of care when it comes to therapy services. So it isn't that physicians and doctors can't go into patients' homes, but typically the home visit for the doctor doesn't happen as commonly. I get to do home visits. You got to do home visits. Oh, excellent. It's my favorite part of my job. Well, then we relate in this way then. Yes, yes. I bring my resistance bands to show them what to do. Yes, you nailed it. As physical therapists, we have a whole continuum of therapy. So oftentimes one of the faces that you'll see in the hospital, if you're an older adult who's been hospitalized and there's concerns with your ability to function and move around, therapists work in the hospital to assess patients' mobility and to help them make improvements on those things. There is also therapy that can come into people's homes for home health therapy, occupational therapy and physical therapy. And that is such, just like Dr. Chen gets to experience, it is such a rewarding part of practice to be able to see people function in their own environment and to make changes at that level can be extremely powerful and lead to improved patient ability to actually carry those things out. When I work with people in the hospital, I don't get to see the home environment, but the home health therapists get to have their eyes on exactly the types of things that their patients are doing every single day. So after hospital stay, some folks will benefit from home health therapy. Another option is for outpatient then I'd be remiss if I didn't mention one other setting in which therapy takes place is after someone has been successfully cared for by the hospital team and their medical status is stabilized, sometimes people still aren't doing well enough to be able to safely return home. So thankfully, there is a setting of rehab. Sometimes it's at a very high intensity after something like a ****** or a spinal cord injury called inpatient rehab facility where folks receive a lot of therapy for a short period of time. Other times, it's a little bit reduced frequency of therapy, but it occurs in the context of something called like a transitional care unit or a short-term rehab unit. And those facilities exist to help bridge that gap between people being medically stable but not functioning well enough to go home and getting people back to being as independent and safe and successful as they can be. Thanks for explaining that so well. Back pain, let's talk about that a little bit here. I read somewhere that 30% of people will experience back pain someday. It might be more than that now. And I still have a handful of patients who do not want to do physical therapy. They feel like, oh, I've lived with this for a long time. It's not going to really help. It's not going to really impact my long-term joint health in any way. What do you say to that? How do you work with people with back pain and how does it affect the rest of their joints? Excellent question. So within the past few years, there's been a crisis of opioid addiction and pain medication. Reliance on some of those things are patients who have been having so much pain and a separate problem being created by some of the medications used to help manage that, leading to patients getting in this cycle of becoming very dependent on those medications. So when we work with folks in physical therapy, we don't just say power through it, suck it up. As physical therapists with the eyes and the skills that we have, we can put our hands on people in certain ways to help alleviate certain back pain issues. In the hospital setting in which I practice, one thing that I find to be particularly effective when folks are having notable back pain and they'll come into something like the emergency department is to start getting them moving again with the usage of something like a walker. to provide a bit of extra support to offload joints in ways that allow movement to start occurring without overloading those joints to the point that they can't tolerate it. I very frequently will go on and work with folks who look at me like I'm some kind of crazy. And to be fair, I work with folks to do things that seem impossible and we take it one step at a time to figure it out together but often what will happen as we slowly work through ways to move to minimize pain and how to start getting up and engaging the muscles around the joints that are painful and sore is that as folks kind of have some of that gentle movement introduced to those areas as those muscles are able to work in ways that are appropriate without overworking they can start to relax a bit a lot of folks will be walking down the hallway and they'll say josh i I actually feel a bit better, or at the least, I don't feel any worse, and at least now I know that I can do something. And it can be a very empowering thing to figure out how you can do things, even if you're hurting. And then sometimes to find as you do start doing things, it can take the edge off of some of that hurt. And I think one important takeaway is that there are non -pharmacological things that can be done to help manage some of those things. Thank you for sharing that because I think my observation is that back pain has been the biggest limiter for people. They're just in so much misery every day being in pain. They can't sleep at night because they're uncomfortable. And like you said, we may not be able to get rid of the pain completely, but at least work on it in some incremental fashion so that they can function better. They can have more flexibility, mobility, so they can do more without experiencing so much discomfort. And I've seen it from my end, the positive impact, and I'm glad to have your reinforcement that it does work. You just have to kind of give it some time and patience. It does work though. Absolutely. So the other big problem is that people go to PT, they do great, they go through a program, they've graduated, right? And they feel like, all right, I did great. I feel better. I don't need to do this anymore because I've completed this. And then there's often this sort of regression you see afterwards where the pain comes back. And I wish that there was a way we can help motivate them to continue this longitudinally. It's an ongoing process. It's not just one thing and it's done. So you mentioned earlier about the importance of motivating people and motivational interviewing and how we can improve that compliance. Can you go into that a little bit more? So there's been, this is likely on the low end of things, but there's been some research to indicate that perhaps around 13% of patients continue on with their exercises in a compliant manner. Compliant meaning they continue to do those things. So perhaps 87 % of folks, they have an exercise program that is established, but the ability to continue on with that does not occur. Now, I think maybe as healthcare providers, the cop-out answer to that is, oh, they're not compliant. And I would put forward that I think at times compliance is poor because we have done a poor job understanding what is meaningful and important to the patient. That we've come up with the goals that we have. We've wanted to see certain numbers improve and things progress in a manner that we feel is satisfactory without connecting the dots with the patient and seeing if the goals that they had, the things that they were hoping to focus on, the function that they were desiring to see returned has actually occurred or not. So during my training in PT school, I was introduced to this concept of a motivational interviewing. And essentially, it's a way of being with someone and asking certain pointed questions to help them wrestle with and try to resolve ambiguity, to work up within themselves what motivates them, what is important to them, what factors may help them or hinder them from stepping forward into a desired health behavior. This came out of addictions counseling, but it's since evolved to be a technique that many frustrated practitioners have found has breathed new life into their practice because they feel that they can better see their patients. and their patients can better talk themselves into the health behaviors that will allow them to perhaps live the best version of the lives that they seek to live. It's meant to promote autonomy. We support people in making the choices that they feel are best for them. Motivational interviewing isn't always successful in bringing about the health behavior that we might think would be best or desire, but what it can do as a clinician, like, oh, wow, you saw me in a way that I haven't put into words before. And as a patient, being seen in that way can be a pretty transformative experience. And then we send people home with a 15 pound weight that we have under our desk after a conversation like this. And when they felt seen, they have a plan for moving forward. The chances of that being successfully implemented are perhaps higher, and as caregivers, we have increased satisfaction, and it can help to address the very, very common spouse and student and practitioner frustration of, I come up with this plan, and then it doesn't move forward. Maybe the question is, well, how do we make that plan meaningful to our patients so we're coming up with the right plan so that it can be implemented? it. Josh, can you share one or two favorite success stories, perhaps moments where you were able to really help a patient regain their life in some way? You know, both being in geriatrics, I think the end of life stuff is a particularly precious time. We get to literally work with folks as they're at the end of their story. And when I was living in the nursing home, there was two individuals who were roommates, two fathers who had been missionaries together in Japan. And as they got older, they decided their living situation, they wanted to live with and care for each other. So one of these men had more physical challenges and was wheelchair bound. The other one had his own things, but he was healthier. And so he would care for this individual and they were able to live in their own independent apartment together via working together for things like transferring and getting ready for the day, that sort of thing. Every few months, the individual who was more wheelchair -bound would have a slow decline in function. He'd kind of go from frail to fail, and the question would be asked, okay, is it time to transition him to a higher level of care? But he would first have a pit stop over at the short-term rehab part of the facility, and regularly we would be able to get him strong enough and to provide caregiver training such that these individuals could return to living in their apartment together. COVID took many things from us, one of which was this dear individual. But I think what was especially meaningful to me about that experience was that this man got to live where he wanted to live until the end of his life. He never had to transition to long-term care. As the therapy team, we obviously played some small role in that, But the even bigger thing was his caregiver, his roommate, who said, we're going to do this together. We're going to figure this out together. And just getting to see that care that they had for each other and getting to be a part of facilitating that was very rewarding as a physical therapist. That's really sweet. I love hearing these stories of people taking care of each other. And thank you for sharing that. I do have a few closing questions as a tradition for a podcast. What does aging forward mean to you? And how do you personally age well? Like I said earlier, those who are older than me have just captured my heart. When I'm around them, I find it to be really meaningful to get to spend time with them. So to me, aging well means paying it forward to those that are older than us, the way that we respect them, but also remembering those who are coming behind us and setting an example for them that they can be proud of going forward with joy and positivity and saying, you know, this getting older stuff isn't for the weak, but it also isn't terrible. And there's some really incredible things that come with getting older and having more life experiences and being able to have a perspective that's different than when we were younger. I love it. Do you have a parting question for our listeners out there? Is something that they can think about as we close our conversation today about everything that we talked about. Who can you see today in a special way? Each of us has people that we interact with who come across our lives, and there is always the need for more light, more grace, and speaking words of hope to other people, words of life. So who can you see today who you can encourage on their journey, who you can help to know that you see them as a person and you are pleased with who they are. So for the listeners, I mean, an example of this would be Dr. Chen, I see what you're doing with this podcast to inspire practitioners, the patients of Mayo and across the world to age well and to take a view of life that it's not all getting worse, but it can be changing, but that can lead to some really wonderful things. You are doing that incredibly well. Thanks for guiding us as we listen to be able to do some of those things, too. Yeah. Well, thank you for being such a great partner in all this. And I think the world would all live better and feel better if we just had a personal physical therapist with us at all times. It should be part of like a Medicare benefit. You know, like we all turn 40, you get a physical therapist. And I'm going to choose you. You're going to be my therapist. There is some legislation on that right now. So there's the annual Medicare wellness visit. And right now there's the SAFE Act that if enacted, it would enable those who are at an increased risk of falling to have a preventative visit with a physical therapist. Oh, there we go. So fingers crossed. Good to know. Good to know. Well, thank you so much, Jess. Great conversation. Yes. And I do have a little bit of elbow pain, so maybe offline we could just maybe work on that. You nailed it. I love it. We'll get you fixed up. Okay, thanks. So that's all for this episode. Hopefully, you're feeling a little bit more informed, inspired, and empowered. If you have a topic suggestion for a future episode, you can leave us a voicemail at 507-538 -6272, and we might even feature your voice on the show. For more Aging Ford episodes and resources, head to mayoclinic.org slash agingford. And if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us on your podcast app. It really helps others find our show. Thanks for listening, and until next time, stay curious and stay active.