Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today, we get to chat with Dr. Jacqueline O'Banion, a world leader in global ophthalmology. We learn about global ophthalmology fellowships, what it means to dedicate a career to global work, and the future of our profession around the world. Dr. Jacqueline O 'Banion is an associate professor of ophthalmology and comprehensive ophthalmologist at Emory University. She is a leader in public health and global having completed a global ophthalmology fellowship and a master's of public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. She serves as the director of the Emory Eye Service Global Ophthalmology Program and is highly involved in O'Banion. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you. I'm excited to meet you all or virtually talk with you guys. Well, and we are excited. We've been doing podcasts now for some time and we're getting better and better at these virtual options. So to capture your expertise, wisdom and presence with us, even though it's virtually, we're excited about how this is working out. And so thank you for joining us. Yeah, thank you so much. We're excited for your expertise. We've done a few kind of global oriented podcasts. And I know there's a huge interest in the global space service outreach, and you're such an expert. So could you start us off and just tell us your career journey? I think it's all very unique how you got to where you are today and what you're doing today. Sure. Yeah. You know, I was always, I think looking back, most of kind of the why I'm where I am now has to do a lot with my upbringing. So I grew up in Texas. I did a lot of work as an interpreter in free clinics throughout the state or in Dallas. And I did, you know, trips to the border and things like that. And I just knew that international health was what I wanted to do. I wanted to have a role of service and fill a gap that I was seeing that was existing for those that were coming into the U.S. or those outside the U .S. So I went to med school full-on expecting that I was going to do infectious disease or emergency medicine or something along those lines because I thought that's what you had to do to be involved in global health. And I fell in love with everything in med school. I liked surgery. I liked medicine. I feel like that's a lot of ways that people find their path to ophthalmology. I actually went to medical school and said I would do anything but ophthalmology because my aunt is an ophthalmologist and my grandfather was an ophthalmologist and they're the only doctors in all of my family so I was going to do anything but that I did a rotation and up though at the end of my third year just as a like tip to them just I'll see what it is that you do but I'm not doing this and it ticked all the boxes and my grandfather at the time well it was he passed away before my third year but he used to tell me when I was saying I wanted to do infectious disease or something like that with global health he was like well you know there's Orbis and there's Mercy Ships and there's these organizations so you can still do that but of course I was a stubborn you know obstinate person and was saying no and then fell in love with Opso and just kept seeking opportunity. So I did a lot of international work when I was in medical school, and then I looked for a residency program that supported that. I ended up at DMADI Institute in the University of Oklahoma, partially because they had a, not mandatory, but a rotation that every single resident went on during their PGY-4 year. And that was really unique. Most of the places I interviewed said oh yeah sure you know you can find some opportunities and things like that and even during residency I you know went on trips to Peru with one of the alumni from OU and just kept seeking opportunities and I think having trained in a place that already understood the importance of global health and those experiences enabled me to get that traction. So I had mentors that really helped to fine tune that interest and understand what it really meant. And we put together a fellowship together and I had to come up with the objectives and how I was going to meet those objectives and present it to the GME office and to our chair and get, you know, their buy-in and approval and actually tell them how I was going to fund it and everything. So it wasn't, you know, a handed-to-me opportunity. It was something I had to really think about and create. And from there, it's just kind of built. So I feel like I just kind of babbled there. No, it's wonderful. It is. I think, you know, in particular, I mean, a lot of people do short-term mission trips or service trips or whatever they want to call them. But for the reason we're really excited about your presence with us is this track record you have. First of all, I didn't realize it was carving one out for yourself, but then using that as a foundation now to help residents have similar educational experiences. Share with me a little bit, or both of us, about what your, as you carve this out for yourself, what did an international ophthalmology year mean for you then? because I want to get into what it means at your program now, how would it be structured? So share with us, what did you put together in that year after your residency? Yeah, so one of my mentors, Lloyd Hildebrand, he really encouraged me to ask people that were already doing the work. And he connected me with various faculty from across the globe. And I just called them and had phone calls with them. And I talked with Jeff Tabin, I talked with Claire Gilbert, I talked with Graham Quinn, I talked with people from various, you know, views to say, you know, if you could have training to learn what you now know, what do you think that you should have? You know, what are the skill sets? What are those intangible learning opportunities that you wish you would have had or that you did have that really formulated where you are now? And so I think that was extremely helpful. Also, going to London and learning from the people that write the WHO reports, you know, that do all of the kind of pinnacle of all the research, especially within global ophthalmology or international ophthalmology, or as it used to be called their community eye health. You know, I think that was a huge turning point for me. And it also very much shifted my mindset from that idea that you talked about of the short term mission, that global health is much more than that. It's not a one week trip. It can be, but there's good ways and not so good ways to participate in those opportunities. And so that really started to shift my mindset and make me realize how much of our resident education lacks that. You know, it's not saying that there's anything wrong with our education. It's there for a reason. But we are taught to look at that one person in front of us and do everything we can for that one person. But when you're looking at populations, that might not be the answer. And so it really was a big mind shift for me on how to treat patients and educate patients and think more broadly and how to have an impact at the population level more so than at the individual level. That's so interesting. I'm curious, Jacqueline, when you have a resident who's interested in global work, how do you know when it's appropriate to do a global fellowship and you think, no, the education you want, really you need to do a fellowship versus I'm the kind of person who wants to do a couple weeks a year as doing a service trip where I form lasting relationships that go back to the same place every year. Like it's, it's still a great trip, but maybe you don't need to do a fellowship for that. Like where, what's the difference and what do you get out of a fellowship that sets it apart? I think, um, it's a difference in participation versus developing or leading. So if you want to be somebody that is developing those partnerships that is developing programs working on grants and funding and research then I think it's very important to do a fellowship if you are someone that wants to participate and learn the skills that's where having a distinction track or a residency track where you're getting some foundational knowledge where you can recognize who are good partners who are bad partners? What kind of impact do I want to have? And the other thing that I really stress with our residents is that so much of what we do here locally is global health work too, especially in low resource settings, county hospitals, our residency programs. I mean, the patients that we're working with is most often in teaching hospitals, the underinsured or uninsured. And so there's so many more ways to do it. But I find that giving that foundational knowledge helps to do it more responsibly and also to kind of foster that ethical, more responsible approach and just thinking about it. you know, when you're in your private practice, it's, you know, it's learning to think of the patient and understanding the challenges that they have to get there, that maybe not everyone can afford the new medications and finding patient assistance programs and just learning how to utilize resources. I greatly appreciate you describing it that way. We recently interviewed one of our colleagues, Ashley Bernheisel, and she very much shared similar appreciations that this is about a different mindset, not going in and doing the number, how many cases can I do, but it's more of developing long-term partnerships with appreciating the cultural, financial, disease, all the different aspects of care, and developing an appreciation for best impact based on the need and not based on what your surgical skill might be able to provide and it just is that you know kind of a really an um a different mindset of what do i what can i bring to the table to help the situation not what can i get out of the situation and i i think that was you know well said i think a lot of people historically have felt global ophthalmology is i'm going to learn to do m6 or i'm going to learn to do cataract sutureless cataract surgery really well and fast, and that'll make me a very big contributor. But I've been struck by how many people in even non-cataract specialties are doing global ophthalmology fellowships because of what you just shared, that this is not about cataract surgery only doing it novelty ways, but it's about approaching care situations in a growingly open eyes, research-wise, financially cost -effective way, partnering to figure out how to improve health in ocular and care for ocular conditions around around the world in whatever specialty. So can I ask you in your awareness in your program, what percentage of people are anterior segment surgeons doing global ophthalmology? because i've appreciated it's not all of them anymore it is not i mean and i think that's the old mindset and if you look back at you know what symposia and lectures used to exist for global ophthalmology it was always cataract it's cataract cataract cataract but i think the reason that it's shifting is there there's various reasons for it so one is when you take out that cataract you find other disease and then what so you need you know there's more and more need for learning you know for retina specialist or neuro ophthalmologist or glaucoma and so there's more and more need as we take out those cataracts the other thing is that you know with vision 2020 which was the world health organization and the international agency for the prevention of blindness is kind of group effort to eliminate avoidable blindness there was a focus they did research they found the five main causes they focused on vitamin a deficiency trachoma cataract refractive air and infectious causes and so in corneal blindness right um and they made an effort and they've educated a lot more ophthalmologists and in some countries what they call a cataract surgeon so non-medical people that are taught how to do cataract surgery. And so now they're, I mean, honestly, there's not a lot of reason for me to go and do a bunch of cataracts abroad, because there's people that do it all day, every day in that natural situation where they're used to the microscope or the power going out or not having ACE scans. You know, they're, they're much better at it than I am. I can go and help teach FACO. I can go, you know, we have partnered with um ace global and built an interior segment fellowship in honduras and i can go and help teach you know more advanced skills but they're better at six than i am because they do it every day now there are gaps that are out there in terms of a lot of countries educate that you know you finish residency and you maybe do 20 surgeries so there are gaps there where you can be really helpful in teaching, but it's the skills transfer. It's transferring that knowledge and those surgical skills, whether it's retina or glaucoma or cataract or cornea, so that they're able to do it for themselves and continue beyond that one week that you're there. You kind of mentioned how there was the old school way of thinking that was cataract, cataract cataract and maybe just go and do high volume surgery to help prevent blindness in those 300 patients or however many you treat during your couple weeks there versus the new school which is more education focused and more you know developing these programs and all this stuff has that is that how the fellowship has evolved over time as well where now you're teaching more education and like what's the boots on the ground like what do you learn in fellowship i'm trying to understand like if i was a global ophthalmology fellow what would i do what would i be learning it's you are learning those surgical skills you know there's a lot to be said for you know as you say working in the bush it's learning how to handle surgical complications when you don't have all the things that you have here it's learning how to practice ophthalmology in the clinic without cultures without you know all of the imaging that we have so there is a lot of skills building, but it's also learning systems. You know, you're in a clinic or a hospital setting and you have somebody that comes in with CMV retinitis and you're like, okay, do we have, you know, medications here? And they're like, no. And you're like, okay, well, how can we get them? Surely you have them in the hospital. Well, how do you compound that? How do you make it? What does that mean? How do you work with the pharmacist? How do you work with the ministry of health to get medications into the country? What are some alternatives? You know, it's a lot of learning about the entire health system, the economics behind it, the capacity building of training nurses, training, you know, the ophthalmologist can't necessarily see all the patients and do all the surgeries. So how do you train others to go out and screen? And how do you, what are they screening for? Where do you learn to set that bar of who to refer in and who to to say, you know, I'm sorry, we don't have anything that we can help you with right now. You know, it's, so it's, again, it's looking at that bigger picture and learning how to work within health systems. So I think it's very kind of split. It's, it's learning the practical skills of practicing and operating in low resource settings, but it's also learning the health systems, building blocks, and how those work together, and what you can do to have a greater impact. It's also learning just global health in general and efficient use of resources and cultural competence and ethics in, you know, high risk or vulnerable populations. Sure. And you can apply those skills that you learn in one situation to lots of different situation that makes sense wow all right i'm gonna sign up i'm ready here at mayo we've certainly tried to facilitate international experiences for those interested residents um and then creative a lot of creative opportunities or avenues or partnerships we have but um share with us just in your view of programs that have an official global ophthalmology fellowship how much is it most of them are a year my understanding is that okay and in the year how much of that year will be spent um at their home institution preparing to launch and then when they launch are most of them constructed to be located at two sites three sites rotating over the year or are some of them you're going to go to this location in nepal and stay the entire year i mean what is what's your perception about the landscape of the schedule for most global ophthalmology program fellowships? I think you've been reading Ashley's paper. So she and I have been working on this. And she has a manuscript that she's putting together now talking about this exactly. So it's very varied. So in the beginning, because of the funding mechanism, our fellows were full time in Ethiopia. but we found for a few reasons that there was a barrier there you know not everybody wants to do that and as more fellowships came um came into the the field we needed to standardize things and create one match day and participate in the sf match rather than having things be rolling and staggered but most of the fellowships i think from um um our research was like eight of the ten at the time programs were funded at least partially by local clinical work so working within the the university system and so they're kind of split 50 50 depending on how much funding they have from outside mechanisms um the other thing is it varies like for me it there I'm when I did my created my fellowship my husband and I had already spent three years separated and had then had one year together in the same place and then here I was wanting to do this global fellowship and leave the country and she's like wait a second and so you know we'd learned from our long distance that two months was our kind of breaking point where we, you know, just that relationship, that communication gets harder. So I'm very sensitive to that with, with all of the applicants that come through. And I tell them that, like, I will make it work for your personal life. You don't need to get divorced over a fellowship. So, you know, for us, it's often two months abroad, two months back home and kind of alternating that way. I do think that you need to be there at least four to six weeks. And even then that's kind of questionable in a, in a, you know, foreign situation to really start to understand the challenges. Anything shorter than that, you're still in that tourist mode. It's so temporary. You're not learning how to go to the grocery store, how to, you know, work on your own in the clinic setting a lot of times so I think the longer you can be in a situation the better but each of the programs are different and that's something that we've struggled with all the programs together you know we've been meeting for I don't know seven or eight years at academy we just all go get lunch and talk about the programs and what should we be doing how do we formalize this should we have core curricula but again everyone's program needs are different sometimes you really need somebody that's knowledgeable in retina or sometimes you don't and so it's being flexible but creating a common core for competencies and knowledge so that when somebody graduates from a global epidemiology fellowship you have an idea of what their skill set is wonderful yeah actually seems complimentary to what we experience in residence somewhere between that two months and three months or to four you know if they rotate for on a given service for the first time as a pgy3 for two months by the end of it they're just getting to the point of some competencies and understanding not just of the procedures but the relationships and the workups but by three or four depending on the situation it really they're getting to another level of depth and I it seems very comparable to the the experience you're talking about internationally yeah absolutely one thing we're really excited about is the global ophthalmology summit this summer and I'm going for the first time I'm really excited to learn and you've been huge in terms of leadership for that conference can you tell us about the summit what it is this is the third year I believe so what is it what do you do there what makes it unique tell us all about it yeah you know it um as it's been an evolution so like i said we used to it the annual academy meeting just the fellowship directors get lunch and talk about our programs and ways we kind of work together and that involved to creating kind of a boot camp for the fellows and so the first year we planned it happened to be covid so we did it virtually and we put together a curriculum of I think it was two days the first year of saying these are the things we want our fellows to understand about global ophthalmology and then we did it in person the next year in Park City and we all had so much fun together not just the fellows but the program directors and the other faculty we brought in just learning from each other finding ways to work with each other building off of what each other has built and are looking to do and we thought wouldn't this be great if we could bring others in and kind of grow it from there and we were lucky that the academy had had one of the first academic global ophthalmology symposia and i guess that was 2021 22 and it was so popular we had to move rooms in the middle of the session and so it kind of gave us that confidence to say i think there's an appetite for this i think people might come and so we started planning it in 2022 and it was way more successful than we thought we and I think almost 200 people that first year and then the following year this last year it was here in Atlanta and you know it's very much what we're trying to all of global health is breaking down these silos it's learning how to work within systems in between systems so you have to learn how to work with a non-profit you have to learn how to work with the academic center the government all these things so what we were really working and trying to cultivate was a community of openness open club open communication and open collaboration and break down those silos that exist in all of medicine, but especially in global health. And we wanted to also break down the silos of, you know, ASCRS had an international day, retina, ARS has an international day and all these different organizations, but no one's learning and talking to each other. So no one is, you know, from diabetic retinopathy learning from how we're screening for cataract surgery and that sort of thing. So the whole idea was to bring everyone together. And it's been so much fun. It's just a great community it's um it's a small community and so you really get to know each other um i think the residents and med students that come really enjoy it because they get to meet you know the the experts in the field because it's again a small community so you serve them at lunch and it's been a great way to learn from the people making the policy as well as the boots on the ground that are implementing it and so it's a very diverse curriculum with a lot of opportunity for involvement amazing i think i'll be internationally at the time but i will say it makes me all the more sad i'm going to miss it yeah i'm so excited you're able to go we've had some residents attend and they say it's just incredible and i want to see it for myself so i'm excited to go and learn because it's a completely foreign situation for me so it's going to be great But thank you for all your work. It's really amazing, Jacqueline. I have one more question for our listeners, because we do appreciate there are a lot of individuals that are comprehensive ophthalmologists that tune into the podcast that are not, that are just in private practice as a comprehensive ophthalmologist. Is this meeting in Portland, the Global Ophthalmology Summit, is it primarily geared to, and I know the answer, but I want you to share, geared to individuals that are involved in program development or going in these fellowships and or invested in these or is it is there a program or a part of the meeting or a majority of the meeting that is really conducive for someone to say it's been too long I've said I've wanted to do international trips and serve in a different way and I don't know how to make that step share with us whether what would be your advertising plug for that latter voice i think it's absolutely for that that group so we really try to give again that bigger picture just so you know what it is you're a part of when you're that that one individual but also the the access points so we do skills labs so that you can learn how to do extra caps or small incision cataract surgery. We also have kind of a speed dating or a network event with all the NGOs so that you can meet these different organizations, find out where they're working, what they're looking for, and partner with them. There were a lot of people last year that I know of that are private practice here in the Atlanta area, and they made connections with different nonprofits and are now going on trips with them. And again, it's working within that larger system and partnering with the local institutions abroad. So I think it's a really good place to make those connections and find those access points that can seem very daunting when you're sitting on your own in your own practice and you don't have necessarily those doors open to you. Well said. Thank you. Yeah, that's a huge challenge and really exciting that those resources exist. So thank you so much for your work. Thank you for explaining and breaking down global ophthalmology to us. You're such a leader, Jacqueline. It's great to see you. Great to chat with you. Thank you for being here. Thank you for what you do. Thank you so much. Thanks. We'll talk soon. Bye. Okay. Take care. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic ophthalmology podcast on our website. Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.