Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your co-host, Dr. Brittni Scruggs. And I'm your co-host, Dr. Eric Bothun. We are here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today, we're joined by Dr. Richard Lindstrom, a visionary ophthalmologist whose influence extends far beyond the operating room. As a pioneer in cataract and refractive surgery and a leader in private practice, Dr. Lindstrom has also been at the forefront of shaping the business of eye care, navigating private equity, practice growth, and the future of physician leadership. This is a conversation you won't want to miss. In this podcast, we have the opportunity once again to sit down with Dr. Richard Lindstrom. If you have not searched the first podcast, please do. You'll hear about his journey and a variety of his stories and expertise in terms of innovation in your private practice. In this podcast, we're going to talk about a leadership journey that he's had throughout his career, and both early on at the VA during his private practice and at the end in private equity and transition. So we welcome back to our office, to our podium, to our auditorium, Dr. Richard Lindstrom. Thank you. Honored to be back. So I shared a little bit. I know more of your history because we have a shared history at the University of Minnesota. But we're here back now talking about leadership and perspective on change management, perspective on whether that's running a clinic differently or maybe who owns the clinic and who manages the clinic differently. We'll get into private equity at the end. I know you a little bit from your history at the University of Minnesota and even at the VA. So we talked about your career journey first. At the VA, when I was there as a resident, everyone knew that the place ran differently because once upon a time, **** Lindstrom ran it differently. I certainly know in my career how hard it is to get change even of how we administer eye drops or call patients back or run the photography department differently to make it more efficiently. And I am delighted to be at a place that runs patient care well, but I'm excited just to talk a little bit about you of managing a practice. And so I would love to, my first question is, take us back to early in your career, taking on a role of leading the VA, knowing it's a place that needs updating, change, and process. Talk about your leadership journey there and what happened. Yeah, I'd be happy to. I believe leadership is, you're not born to be a leader. it's learned and and you learn uh by observing other leaders and also starting out in smaller leadership positions and then your responsibilities over time can can grow so so i was you know blessed to have some leadership opportunities when i was younger and uh i was in a fraternity at the university of minnesota and i was uh in my three years there rush chairman one year vice president the other uh the next and president the third year so i learned quite a bit there even traveling to the national leadership uh school and uh and and basically being educated about about leadership uh i grew up in a family where my father ran a company so i got to observe his his leadership uh for my whole life basically while he was still alive and uh and so i i didn't show up basically in Minnesota without, you know, having had some opportunity to exercise leadership before and also having some good mentors. Let's talk about the Minneapolis VA. So I've been in the federal system. I've been in the state system, University of Minnesota, and I've been in private practice and I've been in private equity. We'll talk about that later. They're all a little bit different. So, but there are some things that are similar. And number one, you have to really be knowledgeable about the system so so fortune i would say fortune favors the prepared mind so one needs to get themselves really well educated about the system and how the the system works and that was certainly the case at the minneapolis va is that i need to understand how to how to manage up so who i needed to manage up to but i also needed to understand down and then there's also the horizontal issue you have to deal with your colleagues and your your fellow faculty members, your residents, et cetera. So it's a learning process and a planning process. When I got to the VA, it was very dysfunctional, and we weren't really providing high-quality care, which I wasn't comfortable with. I think the vets deserve to have very high-quality care. And number two, we weren't providing really an ideal educational experience. And number three, we didn't have a facility that would support it. And number four, we didn't have a staff that would support it. So I had to basically solve all those problems. And fortunately, while I was there, we built a new hospital, so I was able to redesign the clinic. And basically, what the federal government wanted me to put in for an eye clinic was not what I wanted to put in for an eye clinic. that would be a good place to see patients efficiently, but also a good teaching environment. And so I just held out. And what I learned managing up is that the chief of ophthalmology at the Minneapolis VA had to approve the architectural plans before they could proceed, and I refused to sign off on those. So I knew that I had some power. I had the chief of staff supporting me in that, and finally they said, okay, what do you want? We'll give you whatever you want. And I had taken the time to design the ideal clinic that I wanted for the VA that would provide both a good teaching environment but also enhanced quality of clinical care. So that was basically being firm and being a leader and holding out for what you believe in, but also having trust. I had to have the trust of the chief of staff to let me do that. He could have refused, but I had his trust, and then I had to have basically the trust of the staff under me to be supportive as well. Then I needed to restructure how we saw patients, and to get that, I needed to have more support. There were no ophthalmic technicians in the VA system. There was no GS number. People didn't know what that is. There's GS1 through 15, and you have to have a job description and be in the federal register. So I had to create a job description for an ophthalmic technologist, ophthalmic technician, and ophthalmic assistant and optician and I had to work with the federal system to get those approved and then I had to hire those people I had to get the money to do it but we were able to do that working with our chief of staff because he believed in what I was doing and that I was primarily motivated to both enhance quality care of the regional vets which were the regional Veterans Center, but also to enhance the teaching mission, and that was very important in the VA, which was very closely affiliated with the university. So I was able to get technicians that would then do the basic testing that we do in almost every practice today, but it used to be we residents, when I was a resident, had to do it all ourselves, and now you could get, you know, a technician to do a visual field, or you could get a technician to do an A scan, a power calc, whatever, and it gave you more time to see patients. Then I had to create a whole new appointment system, etc. But in every situation, there's a lot of communication. There's managing up, managing down, managing horizontal. And then it takes, I would say, the three, I call it the three Ps, the same three Ps that are necessary in innovation. And that's persistence, perseverance, and patience. You know, it takes time. You need to tell the story multiple times, get people on your side but we did create a whole new system uh that was actually quite efficient and and i think a little bit unusual for the va system and beside providing high quality care created a high quality educational experience so but it didn't happen overnight it took it took a a few years and it took some extra effort yeah so you use the word leader several times and and kind of sharing your story and I think I'm getting a sense of what what you think makes an essential leader but one of those things seems like you have to be persistent you have to be a good communicator you have to be an advocate for yourself right in your field and for what you feel like is important for patient care my question really is about being a leader in these different I guess clinics you got you have the VA clinic you have an academic clinic you have private practice you have your companies So how does your leadership hat change and what makes an essential and really great leader across all of those very different roles? Well, there's some skills that are consistent in all those settings. And we have two ears and one mouth, and I always say that we should listen twice as much as we talk. And basically that's how you learn is you go to people seeing what their pain points are in the system and ask them how they might resolve the issues that you are facing. So be a good listener, critically important. Meanwhile, you're building trust with that constituency, whatever constituency it is, which can be, as I said, someone at your level or someone above you or perhaps someone who reports to you. But at all those levels, trust is critically important, And it takes time to build that trust. I think you need to know more than most about the institution, the situation, what the rules are, how things work. And they work differently in every one of those settings. And so the leader, I think, really does have to fully understand the system. And then it's critical to recruit quality people around you. So, I mean, to get a lot done, you need to delegate a lot. And so one does need to recruit some quality people around them to basically exercise, if you will, the thoughts that you have as a leader. And then the three P's, as I said before, you have to be persistent, perseverant, and have patience. It just takes time. And I'm a big believer in kind of what they used to call Kaizen in the Japanese system, which is incremental improvement. You can't make it totally different in one day or one hour. You might have a vision. That's why I like the five-year plans, a vision of where you want to get in five years, and it's going to take you maybe five years to get there. And then incrementally work towards that. And I think it works for most things. We incrementally try to become better clinicians. We incrementally try to become better surgeons. We incrementally try to become better leaders. and then basically go to some leadership schools as well and have mentors of your own that can help you when you need help. I had the opportunity to be involved in a three-year leadership course in my journey as a physician, and I do, I would echo that. I think if you don't have a mentor that will help you in your leadership journey, having these specific training windows of your time can be quite insightful and encouraging and, you know, challenging. But with that, you just realize kind of the work that's needed. And your own backpack that you're bringing into the situation is already there and what you need to add to it. And every institution has them. I did the American Academy of Ophthalmology's leadership school. Maybe you have as well. ASCRS has had leadership training. And, you know, as an example, in a society, what we did at American Society of Caterpictive Refractive Surgery is we would bring people into clinical committees, just participate in the clinical committee. Then if you performed well in that position, then you could chair a clinical committee. And then if you performed really well in that position, then you might be invited to serve on the governing board and then sort of work your way up. Academy does things pretty much the same way, right? You start with small positions just on a committee. If you don't perform at that level, you'll never be a leader, right? But if you perform really well, then you might be recommended to take a leadership position. And then leadership just builds on itself over time. And you fortunately or unfortunately find yourself with bigger and bigger challenges as you go up the ladder of leadership. But usually it takes a while to get there, so you have that opportunity to get better at it before you're given the big responsibilities. So after your first 10 years at the university, at the VA, you transitioned into private practice. You know, my understanding is some 80% of ophthalmologists are still in private practice. It's probably changing over time and different group health care management systems. But can you comment on, in your leadership journey and your perspective of the joy and also challenges of private practice compared to the VA system or an academic medical center, what about private practice allured you the most and what fed you and encouraged you over your career? Yeah, I think actually it's about 70 % of us in ophthalmology are in private practice and about 30% are in some form of institutional practice or private equity group, for example. And ophthalmology actually has more people in private practice than any other specialty so that are independent and in a practice setting where they have some independence. I would say not dealing with the institutional rules and regulations that I described I had to get myself educated about is one of the really attractive things. When I went out into private practice, I was in solo practice, so I could basically make decisions myself without multiple meetings with others. You still had to manage horizontally and down but not so much up because you were in a position to make change, and it happened faster. I think for the person who's clinically motivated, and that's the primary thing they want to do, is much more efficient. You can make a much more efficient environment than most institutions can for seeing patients. So if you're in a private practice like ours with a clinic setting and an ambulatory surgery center adjoining, it's extremely efficient. You can see more patients per hour in the clinic. You can see more patients per hour in the OR in a more efficient fashion. Patients wait less. You can hire the people that you need without having to go through a process to be able to get the help that you need. And then you can create the environment that you want to as far as making them enjoy their workplace. So I think private practice in many ways is a lot easier, to be honest. And I said this in the first podcast, but I think typical academic doctors, you know, work quite hard to do all the other things they're asked to do, including teach and do meaningful clinical or bench research, meanwhile being an outstanding clinician and seeing a lot of patients. So most academicians actually have to work a little harder, and actually they get paid a little bit less. So I always say you work six days a week to get paid for four in academics, and you work basically four days a week to get paid for five in private practice. So when we were having our conversation on the last podcast, you did mention clinical trials, and you said, well, in private practice back then, that wasn't as big of a draw to private practice. You weren't doing the clinical trials. But then now as I guess people are entering private practice with the expectation that they will do clinical trials, maybe even more than some academicians. So my question is, how has private practice changed over your career? And maybe in the next 10 years, where do you see it going and change? Well, we've been undergoing, in quotes, a great consolidation, right? Or, you know, typical practice in Minneapolis, use it as an example. Most of the doctors were solo practice. Maybe there was a group or two that had one or two or three doctors. Now there's consolidation into larger groups is occurring, which allows one to afford professional management and deal with all the external pressures that we deal with perhaps a little bit more effectively. The reason that I'll wear my academic hat now a little bit from a company perspective, being on multiple boards, is that we do most of our clinical trials with private practices these days because we don't have to deal with quite as difficult institutional review boards and we don't have to pay the indirect expenses, right? And so I'll give an example, a name institution, not yours, but an equally famous institution that really wanted to participate in one of the clinical trials that we did recently, which was the endothelial cell transplantation project, we finished the trial before they got approval to start. And we really wanted the surgeon in. The surgeon really wanted to be in, but we completely recruited the entire trial before that surgeon admitted a single patient into the trial because there's so many signatures that are required in an institution. And it doesn't matter which institution. Whereas in private practice, you just have to have one interested investigator and then make sure that person has the support staff that they need. And it's pretty easy in the private IRB to get IRB approval. And companies, in my experience, are extremely ethical and careful about it as well. So it's cheaper and faster and easier in private practice. So most clinical trials are done in private practice except for the ones that require patients that are only in tertiary care centers, right? So if you have a patient population that is primarily only seen in a tertiary care center, then you need to go to the tertiary care centers to get them. But for a typical trial of a new ***** emulsification machine or a new intraocular lens, even much easier in a private practice setting. we've talked about a number of the things you've helped to lead both either at the va or in private practice and innovation and research um in leadership there's definitely conflict and i you know there are times in which people don't agree what the right path might be or they or there's performance issues between surgeons or with staff and so leadership is hard it's one of the reasons why people just just say let me just stay in my clinic i don't want to deal with all that. Can you share kind of what you're equipping and or how you recommend someone is equipped or approach meaningful challenges in the leadership journey, let's say in your private practice, how you approach them? What advice do you have for others? Well, I think there are different kinds of leaders. There's the classical charismatic, you know, follow me leader. And, you know, then there's the, I was more of a consensus leader, you know, I get myself educated, educate my colleagues, build consensus, build consensus. And if we weren't able to build consensus, even though I thought something was a good idea, we didn't go that way. So another thing that leaders need to be a little bit, I think, sometimes is flexible and have two ears and one mouth, listen to your colleagues and why they don't want to go in a certain direction or why they don't want to build another office and you want to build another office because they don't think it'll be successful or we don't have other people to staff it or whatever. So I think probably the better leaders are those leaders who are, listen to their colleagues and are consensus leaders. And that was sort of my style. And it just takes time. As I said, you have to spend the time with your colleagues. They have to trust you and you have to basically convince them that the vision that you have is good. And you continuously need to meet. And I met with my partners when I founded Minnesota Eye Consultants. We would meet weekly, and, you know, quarterly is not good enough, right, to make meaningful change. So we would meet weekly and after clinic on a Monday night and have a little something to eat. And so that was Monday night away from families, but that was what allowed us to, I think, build the kind of practice that we did and talk through all the alternatives and make better than Avery's decisions, and then you're going to make some bad decisions. One other thing that I think is true, though, is that sometimes it's better to make the wrong decision than no decision, and so sometimes in the end, you know, a decision needs to be made, and, you know, whether that's going to be, are we going to open a Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville or not, you know, and I'm sure there was a lot of debate, and is that the right city, and on and on and on, And finally, you know, someone needs to someone needs to decide either either an individual or sometimes a board, which which can then be a majority deciding. So. So the rise of private equity, if we if we could go there for a second. So it sparked a lot of discussion. And some of our listeners might be in the process of changing jobs or trying to figure out, is this job right for them? And it's private equity. So my question is whether or not you can go into the potential benefits and also potentially downsides that people really need to consider when they're choosing a job. And just before we – as you do that, can you frame that discussion with – if you didn't listen to the first podcast, your current practice described the number and volume and what it was like as your practice moved into a private equity relationship years ago. And then I want to – I'd love those answers. Yeah, I can personalize it a little bit. So Minnesota Eye Consultants, which is the practice that I founded, we were 24 years old when we joined a private equity group eight years ago. We spent three years making the decision. We had ten partners at that time. We had a successful practice with three offices and three ambulatory surgery centers. And we wanted to open a very large center in St. Paul on the east side of town. And to meet the demand that we expected to have, when we did our plans, it would be $6 million. And so the way you capitalize that as an independent private practice is you go to a bank and you borrow $6 million. and every partner has to sign a personal guarantee for that $6 million. So we had younger partners who were already in debt and signing personal guarantees for more money that they had. And so our primary motivation actually was to look for a source, a capital partner, to help us continue to grow at the pace that we wanted to grow. And so that was a critical issue for us. And we spent three years picking that capital partner. Culture is critical, and there's several private equity groups out there. I think right now about 15% or 16% of ophthalmologists and about the same percentage of optometrists are part of private equity, so 85% are not. Private equity is clearly not for everyone, and I'll talk about the good and the bad in a second. But realize also that every private equity group is not the same, and they have different cultures. And so look at the participants, look at the practices in those private equity groups, or if you're looking at a practice, look at the senior partners and junior partners in that practice, and do they have a desirable lifestyle? So you need to go and watch them in the clinic, watch them in the OR, find out where they live, maybe if you can visit them at home and if what those partners that will be you in 5 to 10 years look pretty good to you then that's a worthwhile place to look to practice and that can be whether it's an academic center whether it's an institution like the Mayo Clinic here or whether it's a private equity owned group of practices And so are the senior partners and mid-career partners and younger partners happy? Are they busy? Are they living well? And can you imagine yourself enjoying doing what they're doing? Because that's where you're going to be in five or ten years. So that's what got us started. We have doubled the size of our practice. We did build that big office in St. Paul, which has prospered, and we've built another one since then. and then we were the first practice in what we call in our group which is your unified vision partners we're in minnesota north dakota california and texas we're now 32 practices and so another advantage of joining a private equity group is in a sense you're diversifying your risk because a single practice might be in a difficult environment or go through some difficult times, but in a sense you have a mutual fund of practices. So if you were a partner in a practice joining, you now own equity in a mutual fund of practices. And in a sense, Mayo Clinic with Jacksonville and Thotsdale and the Middle East and the like, they've done something somewhat similar to diversify their risks, right? And I think that's probably some wisdom in that as well. And then you can hire professional leadership, you know, and so when you get larger, you can higher, really high-quality just like a corporation can. So you bring in the MBAs, and the MBAs do a better job of evaluating risk and reward opportunities and really looking at return on investment and some of those kinds of things that not many ophthalmologists are as well prepared to do as others. I still think it's important to be equity integrated if you can, and certainly I was equity integrated at the University of Minnesota. I wasn't equity integrated at Minneapolis VA system. But I think if you can and you're going to go into private practice, it's nice to be equity integrated with your practice. And so learn how you become equity integrated and then seek a practice environment, whether it's private equity or not, because many private equity companies will allow you to be equity integrated as well and then and then look for that opportunity as well which I think is one of the things that private practice offers that an institution doesn't you know you can't own equity in the Mayo Clinic you can't own equity in the Cleveland Clinic or in Minneapolis VA or Henneman County Medical Center or University of Minnesota so for many people it's that's a fun thing to be an equity integrated now as I mean Can you share with us, because you were one of the first groups in Minnesota, we were talking earlier. I was the first. That became private equity, had a relationship with private equity in that regard. What's been your reflection over that sense of physician management, engagement choices that you have in how your practice is managed and or not managed by the local nidus of physicians themselves? Yeah, so we have a local shareholder board of directors that someone from the home office leadership comes to all of our meetings. So we now have an MBA sitting around the table whenever we are having a meeting, and they, as I said, they look carefully if we're going to get ready to build a new office or whatnot. Are we going to the right location? Are we negotiating all the contracts properly? Are we likely to get the return on investment that we want to so we can continue to grow? I think that part has been meaningfully strengthened in the group. It is an access to capital. Nobody in our practice has any debt anymore, and so that's a good thing. It used to be quite expensive to buy into our practice, so for a young doctor, now there's no buy-in, right? So it's just like there's no buy -in to the Mayo Clinic. You don't have to buy in to be part of the opportunity here at the Mayo Clinic. And you don't have to buy in to Minnesota Eye Consultants anymore. And you have an opportunity to earn our own equity still in our practice as a younger doctor. How does that work? Just share with me. What different models are there? Because I understand. So as I look at our experience, I would say for the 10 partners who joined private equity, It's been really good, okay, overall. And so the biggest challenge is to create the right opportunity to continue to recruit the best and the brightest who will have all these other opportunities out there in front of them as well where they can join a practice where they can become an equal partner over time or if they prefer an institutional environment, they can join a practice with all the advantages that an institution can offer. We need to compete for the best and the brightest. And so we need to have a competitive salary these days. And, I mean, I lecture a lot to residents about these issues. The starting salaries are getting meaningful now in ophthalmology, $300,000, $350 ,000 to start. Often you have to pay a signing bonus. And then many of the doctors that are joining a private practice do want an opportunity to earn equity. There's two ways to do it. It's the same way the corporate world does it. Number one, you can buy equity at a discount to its current value. So every year you calculate what a share is worth in Unified Vision Partners, and then we can let new doctors buy in at a 20% discount, for example. That's number one. Number two, we can actually allow them to earn equity through performance. And I think the best private equity companies have both those opportunities. And then basically we become competitive. But the private equity companies that are struggling are ones that are finding they cannot recruit as well as they used to be able to, the best and the brightest that they used to be able to recruit because other opportunities look more attractive. And so we need to pay competitively, and then we need to provide opportunities to earn equity. and be equity integrated if that's what the young doctor's looking for. And I must admit, I'm not in this sphere during my career of an understanding, but I've understood there is some risk that you might have a private equity relationship in your private practice or transition to that, but then at some period down the road, the private equity itself could be changed or purchased or transferred without your consent or, you know, that the original partner you have might change. How much of a risk is that, and how often are private practice disgruntled because their private practice marriage they originally made changes and the new partner is not quite what they first agreed to? Yeah, well, that's correct. And so if you're wearing the private equity company hat, right, they've basically gotten money from a pension fund or a university, and they're basically investing that money into a consortium or mutual fund of practices, if you will, that they hope will grow in value and then that they will sell someday to someone else. And there's little fish and medium-sized fish and moderate and all the way up to huge fish, right, in the private equity sector. And then there's also the opportunity of, if you get really big, of going public, you know, and becoming a public company. And so along the way, there will be leadership transitions. And we're still with our first owner, so we haven't experienced that. There are three private equity companies that have changed ownership, and I'm friends with many of my colleagues who have experienced that. So far, it's been okay for them. And it's not – typically the founding private equity company will retain an ownership position in the acquiring private equity company. And the doctor who is a shareholder in the first private equity company will be given the opportunity to either roll over some or all of their equity. So you can take out – people call it the second bite of the apple when a new acquirer comes in. You can sell some of your shares to the new entity, or you can keep them all and roll them over. And I think each doctor, depending on what stage they are in their career and what they see in the future opportunity of the businesses, will make that decision just like they would if you acquired a small company, acquired by a bigger company. And the doctors are critically important, of course, and they'll continue to be important. But you're right, you won't get to choose who is your next private equity partner. And I think one of the fears that many have is that you might not like who is your next private equity partner. And that is actually a risk, so that's a risk. And the way that risk is manageable is that you can leave. Right. And, you know, I think you can decide to not not go forward with the company, depending on what state you're in, to be honest about it. You have to look at the non-compete laws. Are they enforceable or not? Which nowadays they're not so enforceable. If you want to stay in the same community, you know, will you be allowed to practice independently? Often you can negotiate an exit if you do it in a high-integrity fashion and just let the selling private equity company know you're in advance, you're not going to go forward. You decided you want to do something different, and that's certainly possible. Any pitfalls or concerns or things? For a private group right now, considering looking, You've shared a few thoughts on that journey. But any things to, you know, if you look back and said for a private group, I recommend this or I wouldn't do that. Any things that you can, for any groups out there, considering private equity relationship? Like I said, I think it's a little bit the same process as if you're not joining a group that's involved with private equity, is to go and interact with the practice that you're going to be joining. and talk to the senior doctors, the mid -career doctors, and the younger doctors and get as strong an insight as you can into how happy or unhappy they are, how it's working for them, watch them in a clinic, watch them in the OR, see a little bit of what their private life is like if possible. Because, as I said, you'll be them in five or ten years. I think that's still the best way, no matter what kind of a practice it is, that you're joining. and you will learn a lot doing that and private equity isn't for everyone. I would also say it's interesting that everyone isn't for private equity meaning that being on the board of directors of our private equity company there's a lot of practices we don't want and so I think probably private equity may evolve to maybe 20% of ophthalmology, 80% will be other consolidators and also independent private practices because there's probably only about 20% of ophthalmology practices that really can grow, want to grow, are motivated to grow, and actually in the private equity model, growth is critical. All right, we have a few more minutes to wrap up, but I have a question that requires you to bring out your crystal ball because I want to think about the future for a second. So I'm going into my fifth year being in practice after fellowship And despite a short time, I've already seen a huge amount of growth in my own field. Smaller gauge vitrectomies. We have now home monitoring for our patients for OCT. I have an AI scribe I use. All Mayo doctors are offered an AI scribe. So in our first podcast, you talked about AI. You talked about robotics for cataract surgery. So looking 10, 20 years, how do you think ophthalmology is going to look? And I am very curious about this robot. yeah well there's some some critical issues that are occurring uh that actually i think are maybe good for most ophthalmologists number one every year 150 more of us retire than are trained so every year 150 more ophthalmologists retire every year than are trained so you're going to enterprise let's say you finish your residency today you're going to enter practice with 18,000 ophthalmologists, and if you practice 40 years, which I think you will because you're younger and are going to live longer, when you retire, there will be only 15,000 ophthalmologists. So we're going to be in demand is the bottom line, and so that's a good thing. But so who's going to make up the slack? Every year, there are 500 more optometrists. So optometry is growing so when i entered uh ophthalmology there were twice as two optometrists for every ophthalmologist now there are three and in in 2035 there'll be four ophthalmologist and so so that there's going to be more of the primary care medical care is going to be delivered by by optometry and then many senior ophthalmologists choose to evolve into medical ophthalmology before they retire. And so I think we'll have a group of medical ophthalmologists as well, and then physician's assistants. So we're going to find ourselves moving more towards surgery and complex case management, even in private practice. And this is a little controversial, but the model that I would like to see us evolve toward is what I call ophthalmologist-led integrated eye care delivery. I think it's we opportunity to be the leader of the changes that occur in eye care. If we don't, there are others that would be happy to lead, but I think we're in a position to lead, and we'll have integrated eye care delivery. Thank you once again for a delightful podcast, just sharing your insights and perspectives and wisdom. I appreciate you being here and sharing your time. Very fun. I Enjoyed it. I enjoyed it. Look forward to listening to it myself. It's always fun. Thanks again. Yeah.