Welcome to Mayo Clinic Sleep Medicine Podcasts, a series for physicians, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other health practitioners treating sleep disorders or interested in learning about state -of-the-art advances in sleep medicine and sleep health. I'm your host, Dr. Michael Silber. And I'm your co-host, Dr. Mithri Junna. We are both consultants at the Center for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Our podcast this afternoon is on The Commercial Driver with a Sleep Disorder, is driving permitted? In our last podcast, we discussed sleep disorders in pilots, especially sleep apnea. Today, we welcome back Dr. Eric Olson, a board-certified sleep specialist and professor of Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, to discuss an even more common scenario, that of sleep disorders in commercial drivers. Eric, let's consider the not unusual case of a 45-year-old commercial truck driver with a BMI of 37 who presents with snoring and observed apneas by her partner but denies any sleepiness, particularly when driving. Do federal DOT rules require laboratory polysomnography, or will a positive home sleep apnea test suffice for decision-making? So we have to be careful on anything we'll be talking about on this podcast, and that the rules are limited, and really most answers will be based on consensus or expert guidelines in this area. When it comes to the testing modality, it does not have to be done by polysomnography. There's no rule that states that is necessary. But if a home sleep apnea test is performed, the verbiage is that there has to be some way to control the chain of custody. That is, you have to be confident that the patient will be the one that actually does the test, and the results that you get back are from that patient. So I think if that trust exists, there's no problem with doing the home sleep apnea test. If you have doubts, then I would defer to polysomnography. Okay, so if the test is delayed a month from the time you first consider that diagnosis of sleep apnea, does the patient, or for that matter, the sleep provider, need to inform the DOT medical examiner that the patient is being investigated for sleep apnea and perhaps shouldn't drive until the test? There's no compelling need to inform the medical examiner that's doing the commercial driver's license medical examination. However, where the sleep specialist, I think, has the role is does the patient have attributes that would make you concerned about them continuing to drive while you're awaiting the workup to be completed? So the three big areas to look at would be, number one, does the patient actually report feeling sleepy during the day or during their work shift? We know that most drivers are reticent to make that admission. And so if you obtain that history, that would be someone to be very cautious about allowing them to continue to drive while you're awaiting the workup. The second would be if they have a history of a drowsy driving crash. So were they involved in a single vehicle crash, for instance, or one in which they acknowledge that perhaps sleepiness was involved, that's another individual that should be pulled from driving while you're awaiting the workup. And the third situation would be where you have strong index of suspicion that you're dealing with very severe obstructive sleep apnea, in which case that would be another situation to counsel against driving until the workup is complete. And you You may need to partner with the DOT examiner if you are considering pulling the, or recommending that the driver be pulled from service while you're waiting to complete the workup. So it seems just using your usual clinical judgment you'd use for any driver in the situation. Okay, so the study's done. It shows an AHI of, say, 16 per hour, moderately severe. The patient doesn't want any active treatment. Can she continue driving commercially? So if you look at this from a numbers perspective, from what exactly is the AHI, the medical expert panels that the DOT has used to provide guidance in this area have generally recommended treatment without question when the AHI is 20 or greater, or when the AHI is less than 20 events per hour, but combined with excessive daytime sleepiness. So in this particular situation, I guess I would use input from the patient and recognizing that that may not always be completely reliable about the presence or absence of sleepiness. If we're looking at it strictly from the AHI standpoint, consensus opinion would suggest no, treatment was not absolutely mandatory. If you combine that number, though, with a report of sleepiness or some of those other concerns we talked about, then I would say, yes, treatment should be encouraged. OK, well, let's change the scenario. Let's say the AHI was 25 per hour and indeed she starts on CPAP therapy. How long must she remain off driving, if any time at all? And how should the sleep provider assess adherence and when should that be done? So this is a gray area. What consensus opinion is available would suggest that perhaps after one week of treatment, the patient could be considered to be cleared to go back to driving. And what information is out there at the DOT would suggest using the CMS criteria of four hours a night on at least 70 % of nights. So that's one potential area that you could work around. Now, obviously, you would want to combine that compliance with what the patient is telling you symptomatically. Do they feel better since they started therapy? Do they see resolution or marked improvement in their sleepiness in particular? Now, of course, as you mentioned already, most commercial drivers and their studies confirming this sort of deny daytime sleepiness. So is it sufficient for this driver to say, oh, I'm no longer sleepy or I never was sleepy? Or do we need something objective such as the maintenance of wakefulness test? So there is, again, no firm guidance on this. And I think this goes back to using your best clinical judgment. I think if there are doubts about the veracity of the patient's reporting of symptoms or they're in a particularly delicate safety situation, like, for instance, they transport hazardous materials, you may have a lower threshold to use an MWT to guide you as to next steps. But there's no regulation that indicates that an MWT must be performed before a commercial driver can return to work. Okay. So let's change direction. Consider a different patient who you've diagnosed with narcolepsy or idiopathic hypersomnia. Sleepiness seems well -controlled with medications. Can this patient hold a commercial driving license? So the short answer is no. This has been looked at on multiple occasions. There have been petitions to DOT about this matter, and they've held firm that narcolepsy and idiopathic hypersomnia are disqualifying conditions to hold a commercial driver's license and be cleared to drive. With that said, they also state that the use of stimulants, for instance, you might argue someone who's sleepy despite adequate treatment of CPAP, if they're using modafinil and report that they're feeling better and your clinical judgment is that their symptoms are resolved, whether or not with an MWT, theoretically, that patient could still be cleared to drive. But to answer your question in a more narrow sense, central disorders of hypersomalance are considered disqualifying conditions for commercial driving. So when you say they might be cleared to drive, you were referring to the specific condition of residual sleepiness, adequate treatment of sleep apnea, not narcolepsy or idiopathic hypersomalance. Correct. Correct. Okay. What about potentially sedating medications? We learned in your last podcast, the FAA is extremely strict with sedating medications of any sort. Is the DOT just as strict? So the DOT has no such list as maintained by the FAA. So there are no absolutes here when it comes to what medications are allowed or not allowed for a commercial driver. Here it falls back on the judgment of the treating physician. And if they feel that the patient is not at risk for operating a commercial vehicle under the treatment conditions, whether it involves medications for restless legs or other conditions, if it's felt that that dose is stable, effective, and not impairing the patient's ability to drive safely, then there is no absolute contraindication to using those medications and still clearing the patient to drive. So what I'm taking away from this is the DOT regulations are less rigid, less carefully specified than the FAA ones, and there's more flexibility. And perhaps you could clarify that, again, just as with pilots, the final decision is not with us as sleep specialists, but with the DOT medical examiner. Am I right in my understanding? All your takeaways are correct, but yes, the sleep specialist does not make the final determination. Now, if they're working in conjunction with the DOT examiner, the DOT examiner may want to know what is your opinion, but the sleep specialist does not make the final call. Good. Well, thank you again for sharing your expertise on this much more common situation. Are there any other final messages you'd like to leave with our listeners? Just again, operate as if you would for any patient and use your best clinical judgment when making decisions with a commercial driver. Right. Well, thank you very much. We hope you enjoyed this podcast. If so, please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in sleep medicine and sleep health. Thank you.