Welcome to Mayo Clinic Sleep Medicine Podcasts, a series for physicians, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other health practitioners treating sleep disorders or interested in learning about state-of-the-art advances in sleep medicine and sleep health. I'm your host, Dr. Michael Silber >> and I am your co-host Dr. Maitri Juna. We are both consultants at the Center for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. >> 15 to 20% of US workers do shift work. Either night shift or rotating shifts. It's long been known that shift work is harmful to health with profound effects on workers sleep, alertness, and physical well-being. How can sleep medicine providers optimize sleep and wakefulness for those who do shift work? To help answer this question, my guest today is Dr. Robert Oja, associate professor of psychiatry and a board-certified specialist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Rob, thank you for coming on today. Let's start off with a business which needs to provide services round the clock and does this by rotating workers through different shifts. If you were asked as sort of an expert to advise the business on designing optimal shifts, what would you suggest in which direction should workers rotate and how long ideally should they stay in one shift before changing? >> Yeah. Well, I think the as far as the direction they should rotate should definitely be clockwise. They should delay gradually delay their um the time in which they're working. So, starting with morning and then going to uh the evening and then the overnight shift. Um and that's been there's at least one study by Sizler that shows that that's uh um the most readily adaptable for rotating shift work. As far as length of time, I think that the first two shifts are pretty I think they're one is pretty readily able to adapt. So I would say maybe 5 days first shift, two days off, 5 days second shift, two days off. There's actually NIH guidelines for rotating shift for the overnight shift which recommends no more than three nights of overnight shifts in in the rotating setting and then with a minimum of three days off. So quite rapid rotation. Um from your experience, how often is this ideal rotation in place? My own experience just working with shift workers even if that's not their predominant problem for which they're seeing me in the sleep center that seems to be very unusual. I see such randomness shifts moving in any direction variable durations. Regrettably, that seems to include um health care workers doing shift work who you would think that healthcare institutions would know better. >> Yeah, my experience is the same. Um obviously I have a selection bias because I'm seeing people because they're having sleep difficulties, but uh I'm thinking of nurses in particular that I've seen and their schedules are totally unpredictable. two two nights and then a morning and then um certainly not paying any attention to the clockwise recommendation and just all over the map, >> right? Yep. Well, let's talk now about such a shift worker. Let's discuss a shift worker who moves to night shift, say ideally from an evening shift. I know you served on the ASM task force that developed guidelines for the management of exttrinsic circadian rhythm disorders including shift work sleep disorder published initially in 2007 based on this practice parameter and more recent advances. What can the worker do to prepare for the night shift and then while at work keep as alert as possible? Is there a role for stimulant medications? I know there's some I believe FDA approved um or should we avoid medications during the night shift. So tell us about preparations and during the actual work period what advice would you give to that shift worker? >> So remembering that guideline and it's been a while now that was 2007 but the only recommendation provided for shift works at the standard which was the highest level at that point was strategic napping. Um so essentially napping before the shift or during the early part of the shift showed market improvements in neurobbehavioral performance uh measures of sleepiness etc. I think that um there was one study that I can I remember that that showed that nap lengths greater than 50 minutes um actually impaired the daytime sleepout. So the general recommendation would be for a sleep bout of 45 minutes or less considering one's individual propensity for sleep inertia and also in determining that length of nap either before the shift right before the shift or during the early part of the shift if possible. Um so that that's one um um strategic napping. Um, bright light in the workplace has been shown to be very very helpful for um, circadian um, acclamation for the workers that are waiting working straight night shifts. And typically those studies administer bright light between 4 and 6 hours and it and um at the at the beginning part of the shift and it can be intermittent. I can think of one study where they had nurses uh, seek bright light every time they were charting. Um there's some situations where individuals are in front of computers so they could receive bright light on a more consistent basis. But bright light in combination with avoiding light during the commute home to avoid the advancing effect of light has been shown to be quite effective with u um enhancing um acclamation to that night shift schedule. Um stimulants I think there's definitely a role for them. Um as you said there's two medications that are FDA approved for that purpose. Modafanyl and arm modafanyl. The um guidelines at that time also discussed use of methamphetamine and which was shown to be effective but um thought to be too risky from the standpoint of abuse liability. But um modafinyl or modafanyl I I'm aware of at least one study with modafyl that describes decreased near mississ accidents when using modafyl at the start of a shift during the commute home. And actually with our modafanyl it showed improved performance on a simulated driving study during the commute home um when using the stimulants. Coffee is another option. Um the guidelines also reviewed use of caffeine was also shown to improve uh neurobbehavioral performance, decrease sleepiness. There's actually one study that showed a synergistic effect if you did naps and caffeine. I think the only issue with caffeine is that since it's not in a in kind of a controlled tablet form like modafyl or arm modafyl, there's some risk of it interfering with the the daytime sleep period. >> Right? So that sounds helpful. I would imagine most practitioners are sort of wary about prescribing prescription stimulants for something that is not an intrinsic disease um but an extrinsic socially driven disorder which it is for some people. Um certainly I haven't rushed into prescribing modafan or have you often done it for shift workers. You know, I I I I've done it several times, but I think one issue, and I I know we'll talk about this, is that oftentimes daytime sleep isn't optimized. And so, I don't really consider it to be shift work disorder unless there's some optimization or at least a good-hearted attempt at optimization of the daytime sleep period. But I I do find some people that are doing their best to get enough sleep and seem to be getting enough sleep and still that circadian dynamy is causing fatigue and sleepiness at work. So, I prescribed it. Not many many times, but I've definitely prescribed it. >> And the idea of a nap early in the shift doesn't sound terribly practical, does it? Before the shift, that's be easy. Not easy, but possible. But I can't imagine too many employers saying, "Well, an hour or two into the shift. Here's 40 minutes for you to go have a nap." >> Yeah. The only situation where that might be practical is if you're an on call like resident or something and and you're just responding as needed, then then it might be practical at the start of the shift, but you're right. Otherwise, it's quite impractical. >> Right. So, you mentioned a little bit about the dangers of driving home after the night shift and you said avoid light. Um, tell us a little bit more about how long before the drive home they should avoid light. Is it correct they if it's early morning and the sun's risen already they should wear we we always say wraparound dark glasses um h how and then once they're at home what should they do how should they optimize their daytime sleep and won't you comment also again we talked about stimulants what about the role of hypnotics once they're home yeah so first of all the um at least the simulated studies have has very much shown that as you say when the sun comes up wearing the wrap wraparound glasses um making sure that they're safe for driving um is definitely helpful for as far as reaclimation and enabling the individual to shift the circadian rhythms or to delay the circadian rhythms. Um as far as what they should do once they're home, this sounds really obvious, but I I find it's just a lot of patients don't protect the bedroom environment that they don't protect it in the same way they'd protect it if they were going to sleep at night. So being in a darkened environment, making sure that they can't be disturbed, making sure that their phones are off. Um making sure that um responsibilities uh um for example, um picking a child up from daycare are limited at that time. Um so really protecting that that sleep period just as you would the nocturnal sleep period. Um there's are there are a few studies of melatonin um at a wide range of doses that show a definite benefit as far as subjective sleep quality but also some develop development of tolerance over time. The the advantage of using melatonin in that way in addition to its hypnotic properties are that it would be taken at a time that would be expected to promote a phase delay. So I think that's very reasonable. I think hypnotics if melatonin is not successful is very reasonable. There have been studies with Z drugs and benzoazipines um I would probably lean more towards the the the Z drugs um these days um that have shown improved subjective sleep quality and a lack of daytime or I'm sorry a lack of nighttime impairment on the shift. One thing that neither agent shows either use of melatonin or the use of standard hypnotics is improved alertness during the night shift even with improving that nocturnal sleep but subjective [snorts] sleep quality is improved and it's a so it's kind of a a quality of life factor >> right and I think even with addressing everything night workers still don't get adequate duration or depth of sleep during the day so whatever you do it's still really a problem for many of them. >> Um, so let's move now to a night shift worker who's not rotating but doing full night shift or every five days or four nights I should say four or five nights they have two three days off what should they do now you might think theoretically they should maintain their schedule they're on night you know they their circadian rhythm presumably over time is adapted to the night shift but I you know that's hardly practical what what do you advise on the days off? >> Yeah. So, I agree. You know, the best thing to do would be to maintain that night shift schedule, but it's really limits family time and and and patients don't want to do that. There is there is a study there was a study done and I use this recommendation on on occasions when I see shift workers. There was a study done at Rush University. It was a simulated shift work study where they um they had adopted something called a compromise sleep phase position. And what they did is they had the individual had three night shifts and then slept during the day. I think that their allowed sleep period was from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. after working from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. or something like that. And then on the the night after their last their third shift, they slept during the day as they usually did. But then on their subsequent nights off, they sort of continued to avoid light during daytime hours, but slept at a schedule that was in between a conventional schedule and the nighttime schedule. So that the time they were allowed to sleep was between 300 p.m. and 12:00 p.m. And with the pattern of avoiding light and receiving bright light and avoiding light on the commute home during the workplace, they showed that the individuals with that partial circadian re-entrainment had neurobbehavioral performance and sleep parameter values that were akin to those that were completely shifted. M >> so I think that's a a good recommendation to give to people if they they're sleeping from 300 p.m. to 12:00 p.m. they still have some time for family time to attend appointments, things like that. So it's a called a compromise sleep phase position and I've recommended that pretty frequently. >> Oh, that's that's interesting. Yeah, that's certainly a possibility. Now, we sometimes have patients who ask for a certificate to say they should not do rotating shift work for health reasons. Let's not get into what the reasons might be. I mean, somebody's got narcolepsy, for instance. It wouldn't really be good for them to do shift work. There are various reasons, but let's just um assume that you think it's reasonable. How do you address this question of certification of um of the sort? The only thing I can tell you is I've only done that a couple of times and I think um the reason is that most uh most employees are, you know, fear retribution or or or fear um um some kind of disciplinary action if if they um ask for a change in shift. But the time that I have done it, I've just described that the individual has shift work sleep disorder. I provide an ICD code. I say that they've optimized daytime sleep. So, I've done it on maybe one or two occasions and then just asked the individual, would you like me to send this to your supervisor? And and and I did so, >> right? Um, something I've leared to do, I don't know if if it's done that often over the years for all certificates where some sort of limitation is being asked, whether it's shift work or some other limitation on work is I always give send the letter to the patient with in an open envelope and say, read what I wrote. If you're comfortable with it, take it to your employ employer or HR department because I've I've always been concerned that if I send a directly um and things go wrong exactly as you've described, the person gets fired, they're disciplined, um they're biased against. Um sometimes they may say it's the way you worded it. So that's the way I've always done it. It's your responsibility. Read it and see you're comfortable with it. Yeah, that sounds like probably a better practice than what I've done, but I've done it on so few occasions that I haven't really developed a a standard yet. That sounds like yours is more much more cautious and and prudent, I think, than mine. But um it's just the way I've done it. The other thing is, which certainly I don't think either of us are experts on is the ADA, the Americans with Disability Act. Um, and patients who are asking for it should try be sure that they understand what it does promise and what it doesn't promise. I, as I understand it, and again, I'm not an attorney or an expert. Um, adaptations must be made if they are still allow the job to be done within the basic parameters of the job. If they were hired as shift workers, night shift, that's what you were hired with, that is the job. I don't know to what extent they can say that they can keep the same job if they can't do that. But that would have to be sorted out by lawyers and HR personnel, but it's not the amount of limitations that an employer is forced to make are have got limitations. >> Yeah, agreed. >> Well, Rob, thank you for sharing your expertise with a very difficult and challenging situation affecting so many people. Are there any final messages you'd like to leave with our listeners? >> I think the only one is that I would say that I see this uh complaint fairly infrequently in the sleep center. And so just bringing the the public and the you know all our listeners public healthcare providers that this is something that a sleep medicine provider can help with and to um not shy away from seeking attention if it's a a difficulty that you're encountering. >> Right. That's excellent advice. Thank you so much. >> Thank you. >> We hope you enjoyed this podcast. If so, please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in sleep medicine and sleep health. Thank you.