Welcome to Mayo Clinic Sleep Medicine Podcasts, a series for physicians, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other health practitioners treating sleep disorders or interested in learning about state-of-the-art advances in sleep medicine and sleep health. I'm your host, Dr. Michael Silver >> and I am your co-host Dr. Maitri Juna. We are both consultants at the Center for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. >> The child who has difficulty sleeping can be a source of intense distress and disruption not just to the patient but also to the parents or caregivers. In this podcast, Dr. Robin Lloyd, associate professor of pediatrics and a boardcertified sleep specialist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, discusses the assessment and management of children who cannot sleep. Robin, thank you for coming today. The second edition of the international classification of sleep disorders had a special category of behavioral insomnia of childhood with subtypes of sleep onset association disorder and limit setting disorder. But when it came to the third edition all these individual c categories of insomnia and children for that matter in adults as well was subsumed into a single diagnosis of chronic insomnia disorder. In other words, the field changed from splitting, I guess, into lumping. In your extensive experience since then, does this work for first decade children with insomnia? >> A great question, Mike, and I'd just like to thank you for inviting me to be here today to speak about this important topic. It's a common problem in childhood that we know impacts up to 30% of children. And it's a common problem in in folks of all ages, but unfortunately it's not addressed regularly in the pediatric population. With this, we know that there can be very negative impacts of sleep deprivation related to brain development. Negative impacts on physical, emotional, social development. It can definitely negatively impact the quality of life for both the child and the caregiver, the whole family unit. So in answer to your question, I tend to be a splitter rather than a lumper. And I still use the in clinical practice the subtitles or subsections of behavioral insomnia of childhood related to sleep onset association or related to um limit setting difficulties by the parents. When we think about these, they very well describe oftentimes what happens with the child when they're trying to go to sleep. So, a child who is significantly dependent on their parents' presence in order to sleep transition, they are going to naturally be unable to put themselves back to sleep when they have normal awakenings overnight and they'll want to go back to that situation that they have at the beginning of the night where the parent is close by helping them transition to sleep. So often times we see these kids because the parents complain of nocturnal awakenings when really it's more the child has a normal awakening but does not know how to put themselves back to sleep without parental presence. The limit setting describes when the parents have a harder time setting limits around bed. So oftentimes these kids will do what we call curtain calls. So the parents may say, "Oh yes, we have a wonderful bedtime routine, but 2 hours later, little Johnny's still coming out, asking for a drink of water, asking for a hug, remembered one more story they needed to tell. Oh, now they have to go to the bathroom." And so bedtime gets protracted. And so often times there there are issues with the child falling asleep readily because the parents aren't setting those limits. And then similarly in the middle of the night if they have a normal awakening they may have a difficult time transitioning back to sleep without these um interventions with the parents. Oftentimes there's a combination of both the sleep onset and the limit setting. I think they're great um descriptions of what's going on. So I still use them in clinical practice. >> Great. That's that's so helpful from a practical perspective. Now, in preparing for this podcast, I looked through the titles of articles on PubMed in the last two or three years in the category of childhood insomnia, and I was struck by the number of recent articles dealing with the influence of social environment, including parental mental health and and abuse on childhood sleep. Can you comment in your experience with a sort of general sleep pediatric um practice of how important are these factors and if they are how should a sleep specialist or for that matter a primary care physician not trained in psychology or psychiatry try to elucidate these factors without causing irritation or embarrassment etc and trying to find out and probe a little into this. Um I'm sure you have some help for us on this. >> Sure. So I think this is indeed a very very important issue to get at especially in a child who had been sleeping well and then all of a sudden there's a big change. Usually there's some sort of behavioral issue behind it and oftentimes it is related to stress or uh family changes, family dynamics, mental health, abuse, uh substance use kind of things in the background. Now, sometimes people are are good about offering these things. They'll say, "Oh my gosh, I mean, she was sleeping great until we moved into our new house and and our room was on a separate level." And and they'll offer these things. But as with everything in medicine, it's important to ask. And the way I try and ask it is just without judgment, without any kind of feeling behind it, just normalizing the situation and just saying something to that effect that often times when we see a change in sleep or when there are sleep difficulties, it can be a a manifestation of the child trying to process stressors and trying to manage these stressors when they're trying to fall asleep. And so I just ask right out, have there been any changes in the family situation? Is there any marital discord? Are there any new pets? Is there a new baby? Has there been a death in the family? And I think unless you ask, you won't necessarily find out. And again, people don't oftenimes volunteer this information. >> Do you sometimes interview the children alone with the parents out of the room or is that just difficult to do? So in the younger children, especially in the first decade of life, that's that's that's more difficult. And certainly in in adolescence, I like to interview them without their parents because oftentimes um they won't tell you things that they would say on their own. So I had one young woman tell me, this was a couple weeks ago, she said, "Life is just better when I'm high." she didn't want to say that to her mom because she had just come out of a substance abuse program. And so I think it's important that um with older kids indeed they're interviewed independently. If there are concerns about abuse that's a whole other ball of wax and that's a whole different process and typically there are more issues going on than than sleep in and of itself. um but just trying to get to stressors that may be uh complicating the child's sleep issue. I think it's fine to ask with the young children uh with the the parent in the room. We know that children have different temperaments and different responses to stressors and sometimes parents are surprised to to hear what really is triggering them. And you know, sometimes it's something really simple that that really is upsetting to them. And so often times if it's just normalized and spoken of openly, I think that's the the most helpful way to approach it. >> Well, I think that's that's very helpful. When I see late adolescence, which I very often do, you know, 18 and 19 year olds, I almost always send the parents out for that to the child alone. And I've never had a parent who's felt who's expressed discomfort with that. um thing which I teach our fellows and residents is it that you have to be comfortable with asking for me if it's adult patients about um abuse in the past whenever I see parasomnia patients for instance especially if I think it's a non-re parasomnia I will ask them outright is there history of any abuse of childhood and I ask them very overtly physical sexual abuse and I get very frank answers usually Mhm. >> Good. >> Yes. >> Well, two behavioral techniques suggested for the management of childhood insomnia have what I've always thought were rather strange names, especially to me as a sort of adult sleep specialist. Extinction therapy. It's always struck me. Are we extinguishing the child and and bedtime fading, which is also sort of got this seems strange to me. Could you tell us briefly what these are and how they are implemented? >> Sure. Yes, they are kind of funny names, but but great descriptions. So, um when we're talking about extinction therapy, we're not talking about dinosaurs or anything like that. Um, basically extinction therapy is kind of a systematic ignoring of the child around bedtime so that there's a clear kind of establishing this is the end of the day now it's time for sleep. So the old way when I was a kid was the unmodified extinction method or basically the crying out method whereby the parents set an established bedtime and they said it's time for bed and basically they did not interact with the child until morning when there was a certain wake up time. And if the child cried or protested or became very upset, there was just no engaging. And and that certainly has been found to be highly effective. However, people don't stick with it. It's very unacceptable to families and um because they they have a hard time listening to their child crying or protesting. Then say after half an hour they go in and oh they're the savior. They're comforting their child and it's okay we're here. Then that only reinforces that behavior. So the child learns well if I cry and protest and carry on for a half an hour then then mom or dad will come in and save me. So while traditionally as I mentioned it's very effective if people stick with it. Um in the old time studies they would say you know stick with it 3 to 5 days and and you're golden. But now when people give in um don't stick with it or or when the child has an extinction burst on day two then they give in it. It just is not an effective therapy. So, we do something called a graduated extinction approach whereby it's a little bit more gradually um tapering the parental presence around bedtime. This is very effective again if people stick with it and are consistent night to night. I think it's important to note too that the parents have to be consistent between each other. So, kids will always go to the weakest link. And so I have so many parents say, "Well, you know, I know I can do this, but he can't do that." Or the dad will say, you know, I I can do this, but but I know she's going to give in. And so, so it's one of those things where the parents or all caregivers, as a matter of fact, have to work together and say, "Okay, this is our approach, and this is what we need to do." And in the long run, it's a gift for the child to learn to sleep independently and to learn how to be able to self-regulate and be able to transition to sleep and stay asleep throughout the night. And so that's the way I try and approach it is this is a gift you're giving your child and also your family because if you can help the child learn this skill, this is going to serve them well. but it's also going to serve the the family well. So the graduated extinction approach um you can start in a child who who isn't having a lot of separation anxiety. You can start by after having a nice bedtime routine, you know, maybe two books, a couple of singing some songs, maybe some words of assurance or prayers, you know, 10 to 15 minutes, and then say, "I'll be back in a moment." and come back and check on them. Now, each child's different. Again, their temperament can impact how they feel, how how they respond to changes, and it's kind of up to the parents to work that out. Some kids, it might be a matter of seconds, but others, you can wait maybe a minute or so and then come back, brief reassurance, you know, I love you, thank you for staying in your bed, I'll be back in a moment. And then the moment it's gradually increased so that they're learning that skill on their own without being stressed out knowing that you're nearby and knowing that you'll be back to check on them. and kids who are used to having the parents glummed dried on them. And it's amazing some of the things we we see where the child's wrapped around the parent and playing with the hair and the mother's using a special thing to stroke the arm and the dad's rubbing the feet and there's so much engagement. We have to kind of pry them apart. And in those situations, what I usually do is I have the family start at the bedside. And I say, "Okay, after your nice little bedtime routine of 10 to 15 minutes, we're going to have you sit at the bedside instead of in the bed." And you guys can hold hands or you can pat the back. So there's some contact, but it's again a gradual tapering of the parental presence. And then every three nights they're going to gradually work away from the bed. And then once they get to the door, they'll do the checking method. So that's a very graduated extinction or tapering of parental presence around sleep. Very effective. Needs to be consistent between parents, between all caregivers, and needs to occur all nights of the week. So parents may say, "Well, I don't work on um Wednesday and Saturday and Sunday, so it's okay if they stay up late." No, children do best if they have a consistent routine, a consistent behavioral approach all days of the week. When it comes to bedtime fading, this helps address the problem of insomnia uh at sleep onset. And this is typically more related to um kids who may have a different circadian preference. So say a parent wants a child to go to bed at 7 so that they have sufficient sleep opportunity, but yet the child's natural circadian preference is to go to bed closer to 9. What can happen then is the child's kind of unsettled, trying to fall asleep, struggling, and they just don't fall asleep until that 9:00 hour. So, what bedtime fading does is it first kind of assesses, well, when does your child typically fall asleep? And, you know, you identify that. I we ask parents to watch, say, over a week or two. And if they say, oh, yeah, 9:00 every night they're asleep. So, we start there. And then we gradually, so rather than trying to put them in bed at 7, we start putting them into bed at half an hour before their natural time, doing the bedtime routine, and then backing that up by 15 minutes every week or so, as long as they're falling asleep within that reasonable time. And gradually backing them up until they get to that point where they have um the desired bedtime. that allows for sufficient sleep opportunity. Now, sometimes during this bedtime fading process when you're establishing uh this this routine and gradually fading, there's a little bit of sleep restriction and so that helps push the sleep drive a little bit. And so, um with this, it's a little bit gradual, but it it can then entrain the the child's circadian with the desired bedtime. So along with this, of course, it's important that there are good sleep habits. So, um, I can't stress this enough. You know, sometimes people say, well, you know, I just let them watch TV because they're not sleepy or I just give them their tablet or or, you know, other light sources, that sort of thing. It's important that the bedtime routine is that 10 to 15 minutes and that it's consistent, it's quiet, it's pleasant, and that the rise time is consistent with nice bright light exposure. And that will help help with that kind of gradual fading of the bedtime um so that we end up falling into a nice um consistent routine, a nice consistent bedtime that allows for sufficient sleep. >> It seems today that almost every child seems to be taking melatonin. Is it effective? Is it safe? Um do we ever use prescription medications for childhood behavioral insomnia? So [gasps] melatonin is an interesting question and indeed Mike uh so many children are taking melatonin these days. A recent study just published in 2024 showed that almost 20% of 5 to9 year olds had taken melatonin in the preceding month. We've seen a significant escalation in melatonin use over the last 10 to 15 years. And with this, we've seen more poisonings and um reports of ingestion to the um poison control centers. There have even been deaths reported. So um yes, melatonin is ubiquitous and and in our country, it is not FDA regulated as a medication, but rather as a dietary supplement. So people are using it because it's available. We don't have good literature to support this use in typically developing children. In kids with neurodedevelopmental differences such as on the autism spectrum or um ADHD, this can be very helpful as an adjunctive therapy. Now, in terms of other medications, um there are no FDA approved medications for insomnia and childhood. So anytime a medication is recommended for sleep, it is used off label because sleep problems are typically if they're associated with a lot of behavioral difficulties, they don't just have sleep problems, but oftentimes behavioral difficulties during the day. So, we like to work closely with our behavioral specialists about helping manage psychotropic medications that may aid in sleep because these kids don't always just have problems related to sleep, but rather 24 hours a day. >> Well, thank you, Robin. Um, thank you for all that very valuable information. Is there any final simple message you'd like to leave with our listeners? Yeah, I think the vast m majority of sleep disturbances in children are are going to be behavioral in nature successfully managed with behavioral therapy alone. The behavioral therapies are durable, longasting, they don't have negative side effects. They've been studied there. There aren't uh problems with long-term psychologic impacts for the child, the parent. Um indeed, the opposite is true. If the child's sleeping better, everyone's happier. So, I think that's good. I want to make sure that everyone remembers to screen for primary sleep disorders such as obstructive sleep apnea or restless legs. Um, so often we see yes, there's a primary sleep disorder and a behavioral problem. And so I think it's important to address both. Of course, we're always available for u help, the friendly sleep specialist if if you ever need help with your sleep difficulties in children. >> Thank you so much. Thank you. >> We hope you enjoyed this podcast. If so, please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in sleep medicine and sleep health. Thank you. >> [music]