Okay, everybody. You are seeing our six speakers. Five of them or four of them are recipients of kidneys or kidney pancreas. There are a mix of living donors, and deceased donors. And there's a couple of caregivers on too. Okay? So I'm going to turn it over. And we're going to start with we'll go Bernie Lisa, Mac and Frederick. Okay? And I want you guys to introduce yourselves and your caregivers here, okay? Go ahead and take it away, Bernie. Thank you very much, Pat. Appreciation. Really glad you have this opportunity to talk to everybody today. Hopefully, you'll learn something not only from us, but just ask as many questions as you can. My name is Bernie. My wife, Sharon. My wife, Sharon, is both a donor as well as a caregiver. I have received a living donor almost five years ago. It was a kidney, kidney only. I can tell you a long story, but the main thing is that the The whole idea I can tell you is that the whole thing is a process and that you will go through hell in order to get to the point where you can get your kidney. You finally get it, you'll feel fantastic, and then the journey really begins. I'd like to just let everybody else talk and then I can come back and tell you my whole story. But the important thing is that I am a living kidney donor recipient. Should I say recipient. Lisa. Yes. My name is Lisa, and I am also a kidney recipient. I had my kidney transplant eight weeks ago yesterday, exactly two months. And I am also a recipient of a living donor. My sister was approved to be my donor at Mayo and a couple of other centers, and we selected Mayo because Mayo, and Mayo is the best fit for us. So I agree with Bernie. Certainly there's a lot of thought and high level of anxiety leading up to the surgery. But it's important to know that beyond the surgery, certainly a couple of weeks after surgery, things really start looking up and you really do start feeling better if you can just grind through. It does look up and it's definitely a much brighter future on the other side. No no cause to be afraid. I would had a lot of anxiety leading into surgery because I didn't have a lot of information about what to expect afterwards. So I thought that's why I want to join this group today because I think it's important for people that are on the list waiting to know what it's like on the other side of surgery. So again, like Bernie, I'll be back later if you have any questions or want to hear specific things about my story that includes the National Kidney Registry that we did use as a resource for sourcing a kidney and I can explain more about that later if Pat hasn't already previously explained about that. So I will hand it off to Mac now and let Mac introduce. Oh, I'm sorry, my caregiver is here. It's my son Logan. He was my caregiver, and he stayed with me for the whole 30 plus days that we were in Jacksonville and he was a very good caregiver. Took excellent care of me. Mac. Oh. My name is Mac Lawrence, and I am from Jacksonville born and raised here. And I received a deceased donor kidney and when I got the call, it was initially told to me that, okay, this may or may not, you know, be all systems go call. So just stay on standby and be ready. And as soon as I got to me she gave me a call at 10:30 the night before and said, Can you be here at midnight? And I was like, Okay, that's when the nerves really did set in. And as soon as I went to the emergency room and checked in at Mayo, the process started like within 10 minutes, the lab, radiology, the nurse practitioner from nephrology. She gave me a lot of good information and put me at ease as well. And the anxiety was around the surgery initially. But then I came to realize that that was the easiest part. It was the education, you know, post surgery. And the follow up appointments. And quickly, you realized that if you do exactly as you're told and follow Mayo's advice and process and keep all of your appointments, everything works out great. The nursing staff, everyone was kind. They were all gracious and generous. Even the patients who I encountered who were I'm sorry, transplanted for other organs. It's almost like we had that common link together where you started seeing familiar faces. And I received my organ on April 18, which was 11 days before my birthday. So it was an early birthday gift. And Every day, I just kind of wake up happy and like, I don't believe this happened because I was supposed to undergo the annual reevaluation to stay on the list. And I felt a little defeated thinking, Okay, I've got to go through all this again. But if you want the Organ, that's what you've got to do. And I received the call prior to any of those appointments that I had to that I was actually scheduled for. And I couldn't say that I would have been more pleased anywhere else. It was great care, great staff, great everything. Absolutely. And if anybody has any questions, just scream out, scream it out. Actually, we're going to wait for the questions. So Frederick, go ahead and introduce yourself. My name is Frederick Radford. I want was born and raised in Jacksonville. I have gotten a pancreas and a kidney. On the same day from a deceased donor. My caretaker, she had a doctor's appointment at the last minute today at three, so I told her she could get what she get at the park. She could hop on for a minute because I don't know if she got there yet or not. I'm here. Oh, what, does she go? Yeah. Thank you. Okay. Miss Pat will have to put your picture. Okay. Give me a minute. Okay. Go ahead and keep is Logan. Yeah, you had to go to the gallery. But right quick, you know, if you got any questions. I'm here. I got two at the same time. Just like Mac, I got mine two days before my birthday. So I got my phone call within six months of me getting on the list and within two days of my birthday. So you got all the questions you want to ask me for two organs. I'm here. One organ. I'm here. So we all here for that. Okay. Your caregiver's name is Diane, right? Yes. Diane, can you what are you listed out here? Are you on with your name? Diane Borowski? Yes. Yes, sir. Okay. I see. All right. So I'm to add you on here. And hopefully hopefully that isn't going to mess. So now we see we're seeing seven things, right? Yeah. I see her name. No her. Diane, can you turn your camera on?  We lost Logan. What I'm still here. I see. I see everybody, but Diane, I see her name now. Okay. Diane, do you have a camera? Oh I think she just fell off. Okay. All right. We'll just keep it like this and we'll let Diane talk to if she wants to. Okay. So what I want to ask each of you to answer a question for me. What did you find the most challenging? And this is patients and caregivers too. What did you find the most challenging through this whole process? I'll go first if you'd like. What I found the most challenging was not feeling immediately better the next day, like I was just expecting I don't know what I was going to waltz out of the hospital feeling 100%. It didn't happen exactly like that, and that was a little bit challenging from a morale point of view. I was a little challenging. And then settling into feeling better gradually over two weeks. That was a little challenging for me and just getting used to the new routine of medication, not taking medication because all of us on here have been taking medication for a very long time in large doses, but getting used to the taking it at certain times and a certain doses and being aware of when your doses have to go up or go down in accordance to the blood work that the hospital is doing on you three times a week. Making those changes was a little challenging. Thank God, my caregiver was there because he was on top of that much more than I was because I couldn't even tell one medication apart from another the first three weeks. He did. He could, so he was on top of that. That was the most challenging part for me. I'd have to say. Yeah, for me, it was probably staying on top of the medication. I'd say we had a pretty good support system. We had the whole family there. And if you're traveling to Jacksonville from another place, you know, you probably want to be in a comfortable setting, maybe like rent a house or if you can get a larger accommodation. So if you have a lot of family that can come with you. But yeah, I mean, the hardest thing is probably, keeping up with the medication the first couple of days. And for her, like she said the hospital, I think it's what the first four or five days she has to stay in there. And you know, trying to keep her company and making sure that she's not alone. You know, me and my brothers and my dad, we were all rotating time with her throughout the day. But yeah, that's probably that's probably the hardest for me. My perspective, I agree with everything that Lisa said, so forth. I'm going to give a different type of challenge. And the challenge my perspective was that we were living in Georgia at the time. I actually got on the list while I was in Georgia, on there for a couple of years, expanded to South Carolina and then expanded to come to Florida with Mayo clinic. It was several years without necessarily getting any notification with regard to getting a donor. I guess was waiting for a kidney. And at that point in time, I was looking. The challenge was to find a living donor to be able to reduce the time frame associated with that. I had a few people that actually came to the table tested. Both of them, of course, unfortunately, were rejected for multiple reasons. My wife actually wanted to have that opportunity as well, and she initially was rejected for a ridiculous reason in the state of Georgia. We came to Mayo Clinic. I was accepted at Mayo. My wife in turn had the opportunity to be tested, and she was accepted by Mayo Clinic. We're talking several years from the time to that point in time. And from the time that once my wife was accepted as being a donor, we were we waited and waited several months. Finally got a phone call, saying that there was a chain that was being built, and I would be the third person on that chain. At that point in time. It was several days just before the operation. I got a phone call back from Mayo Clinic, saying, unfortunately, the chain broke. That meant that I was not going to get a kidney. Then about two months later, I had the opportunity. I got a phone call from Mayo saying that there was a woman in Arizona, part of the Mayo Clinic family who was being austruistic. In other words, she did volunteer to have a kidney. It just happened to be a match for me. My wife actually was my caregiver and my donor, a donor. The challenge was that once I got my kidney, she was not only going to be my caregiver, but she had to give one. That same week, we actually when I had my transplant, her recipient had a problem and did not accept she wasn't ready for the kidney. So my wife did not become a donor at that point in time. She was my caregiver. Sooner. Soon Sooner than plan. And she actually donated a kidney about three months later to that exact same person. So that was my challenge. So you did it to the National Kidney Registry? No. We actually five years ago, the way it worked is slightly different than it is today. But necessarily what happened was it was within the Mayo family, the three locations of Mayo, they checked there first, and that's where I actually got my donor through. Okay. Okay. Mac or Frederick, when have you talk about what your biggest challenges were? For me, one of my biggest challenges was to immediately start making urine, you know, once I was discharged to home. You know, your bladder shrinks greatly. So it's like I was up ten times a night, you know, having to excuse me, urinate. And it took about a month before I guess my bladder increased in size where I'm actually down to maybe once or twice a night, had to get up and use the bathroom. That was the biggest challenge besides preparing my own medicines because for the first several weeks, my sister did it, and she realized, ok, you're going to have to learn to do this yourself. And when you look at all of the bottles, I realized it was a lot easier for me to take a sharpie and write on top of the bottle caps. The names of the medicines or at least an abbreviation for them, rather than individually going through each bottle, okay, this one, no, yes, no, yes, and arrange them alphabetically inside of a shoe box lid. You know, and that helps me daily when it's time to, you know, set up my medication for the day that I'm not lifting bottle after bottle after bottle after bottle. You know, I just followed the schedule the updated schedule and having to post every time I see the physician, any changes in the medication schedule or dosage or new medications that are incorporated, you know, keeping meticulous notes and adding to the date that all those changes occurred. But the most challenging part was making urine again, getting up in the middle of the night because I hadn't in almost ten years. I don't know. Was that helpful or not? I have to tell you when when we're doing evaluations for patients, that's usually the number one thing patients say is we want to be able to pee again. And I always sit there and go, really? Okay. Well, long distances. It's like you took that for granted. Now it's like, Okay, I've got to make sure I go before I leave home. And sometimes once I arrive at my destination, but it's in a happy way now. Exactly. Okay, Frederick, tell us a little bit about your journey, and you wear the kidney/panc. So I want you to talk about that first few days because kidney / pancs the first few days are usually not very pleasant. So I want to talk about that. Okay. So The hardest part for me was my dad had put in for mal as well. He only had one kidney. And it took me a long time to accept the fact that if I'm going to live, I need to put one down there. And we got the same name. I just I have a middle name and he doesn't. So that was the hardest part for me to go ahead and to make that decision to do it. I was on PD for two years. So it took me just that long to go ahead on and try Mayo because of my dad. That time in the hospital, I spent two weeks in the hospital. And I was in pain every day. But the reason why I was in pain cause they explained it to me. My kidney wasn't hurting. It was that pancreas. And they explained to me. The pancreas don't like to be touched, don't like to be moved, and sit there to touch it, move it, touch it again, move it. That's why I was in so much pain. And that pain lasted probably a month. Month, month a week. That would have lasted. Far as my medicine. She did all that. She did all that homework. And then she taught me at the house. So I didn't have to worry about doing the little schedule. They had to have you write down and write down how much you took and I didn't do all that. She did. So that was my part of that was the hardest part was my dad and the two weeks I sitting in the hospital because I was in pain. You know, and then they can't really no pain medicine. They just give you like, tylenol I know it ain't doing nothing for my side. So did you have a lot of stomach upset? Did you have a nasal gastric tube, and all that a lot of stomach upset at the beginning? No. It took a long time to go to the bathroom. I could urinate, but the other part I couldn't do. And they tried everything up under the sun to get me to do it. So Okay. Harder part for her, she wanted to tell you, I probably gealing with me. Okay. So Diane, what was the big challenge from your end? The biggest challenge was dealing with him. He's very stubborn and very set in his ways. So getting him to adjust to taking everything on time and having him follow a schedule. That was very I can't really say frustrating, but it was just a job in itself. Yeah. Okay. Now what I want to do, I want to open it up and let you guys ask any questions. If you want to ask a question, just unmute yourself, try and go one at a time though, and ask your questions. Now, we do have Tameka, who's one of the post coordinators. We have a couple of the post coordinators on. Hopefully, they can answer questions if these folks cannot. But we're going to let the patients answer the patient questions first. If you have a question, go ahead and just unmute yourself and come on. I just have a quick question about the re evaluation after a year. I heard somebody mention that. I I just wondered because, like, I've had to fight my insurance company so many times just on this initial one, and just wondered how that would work in the future. I just if the insurance doesn't pay, then do they just you come off the list or how does that work? Well, are you talking are you post transplant? Are you pre? I haven't received a transplant yet. Okay. So what you so you're having a problem with your insurance paying for the evaluation? I know I got them to to do it this one time, but I hear I heard you talking about if you didn't get your kidney yet or your trans whatever organ you needed, that they had to go back after a year and be re evaluated again. Is that something that is an issue? Cause I don't know if I'm going to, you know, it scares me with the insurance companies. So you usually do come back every year or two. Bernie, how many years were you here at Mayo? Once I got to Mayo, it was done within the first year. Okay. I don't have that issue. I I did not have to go through multiple reevaluations in Georgia. Or Florida.  So usually you're reevaluated every year or two, depending on what else you have going on medically. So yeah, you do have to come back. So that's what Mac was talking about is you do have to come back and get reevaluated. If there's an issue with your insurance, always just reach out to the transplant financial coordinators and see if there's a way that you can fix that. Okay. Okay. Okay. I guess I'm lucky because the insurance company paid for everything, you know, without question, so I don't want to call the name of the company, but I highly recommend it to anyone who's on Medicare, you know, an advantage plan that has given me and approved everything I've needed during this whole process. And you can call them out. Humana. Okay. They've been really good, really good. I mean, and if I've had questions, I call them and they have no problem giving me good information just the same as the nurses or the doctors. If there's something I'm unsure about, don't be afraid to ask a first time and if you're still not clear, ask a second time. Because I realized one thing about myself post surgery, you're still somewhat sedated because you've been under general anesthesia, you've been on pain pills, and there's a lot of things that you may have been told that you're not exactly clear on until much later when you get out of your brain. Don't be afraid to continue to ask questions because I found myself getting a little snippy and short with my sister because there were things that I know. I I either had heard or just forgotten, but I was just still foggy and fuzzy from the anesthesia as well as the pain meds. Yeah, that foggy brain goes on for a couple of weeks at least right? Sure. Okay. Any other Anybody have another question? This is open forum, guys, so jump in here. Can I introduce myself? I'm my name is Michael Morris, and I was listening. I couldn't figure out how to unmute you all. Or unmute me. And I had my surgery in March of 25th of last year. And basically, I got a friend of mine from work. His wife's best friend's daughter was killed in an accident and me and her matched up. If you can say perfect, it was perfect. Everything across the board matched. And through the whole process, I've had no no issues, no not one day of pain. If you can believe that, not one day of pain. They've done the biopsies and I didn't know they had, you know, things like that. But what helped me was having a positive attitude all the time. I knew when my kidney was coming. We were waiting on it. And when we got ready to go into surgery, my doctor was all pumped up, my nurses were and the guy that was pushing me into surgery goes, there's your kidney, you want to see it. I said, heck, yeah, let me see it. I got I got 25-year-old young female's kidney. We're going to meet with the parents coming up pretty soon. But I have a picture of her. And this part. It gets hard. You know, you know you need a kidney. But when I was on dialysis, I see people who have been on dialysis there for years. I was only on it for maybe a year and a half. And there was this little 8-year-old girl in there and I'm saying to myself, why am I getting this and not her? You know, I'm 65. I've lived a good life and everything. But anyway, from the day that I had the surgery to this moment right now, I still have not felt not one bit of pain. And a good thing that helped me too was the nurse that I had up in my room. She had had two kidney transplants herself. So she actually walked me through everything that I was going to be feeling. A lot of the stuff I never felt. And she was really surprised the day after the surgery. She goes, you think you can walk. I said, I know I can walk. So we took off around the building, you know, and she goes, man, you're ready to go home already. And, you know, having a positive attitude really helps a lot. And this is my caretaker. This is my wife, Michelle. And when it comes to doing our pills, she had them all separated in those little pill boxes. And the only thing that would mess me up is you get 90 day order. And then after five, ten days, 30 days order, they call you and tell you time to switch. So I'm left with all these bottles full of pills. But it's okay. But as for I would say doing everything that the doctor tells you to do. Yeah. And what they tell you, you take it to heart, you do it. You know. Today, I feel great. I feel like a younger version of me. I know. I sometimes I tend to want to go out and do more things more and more than I am. But I I think it all comes down to your attitude if you know, mind over matter. Yeah. And for you guys who got kidneys, congratulations. Thank you. And for the lady that was talking about her insurance, man, I ain't had to pay a penny. You know, so insurance companies do good. I mean, they I ain't heard a word from. Yeah. And I'm so thankful. Okay. Well, thank you for sharing your story. We appreciate that. Does anybody else have any questions? I do. Go ahead. I'm Carol Little's wife. He's in dialysis today. And my question was, does with any of the recipients have other medical issues? Like he has heart issues and he's diabetic you just muted? Yeah. Unmute. Yeah. I can answer that. So I had a we're trying to get that down so that he can you get back active. I was a type two diabetic for 25 years prior to transplant. Okay. So that might have been an issue with regard to maybe why my kidneys had a problem. And during the evaluation process, I found out that it was not because of my diabetes. It was related to some medication that I've been taking that caused a problem with my kidneys. Right. I also might have had some issues with regard to some coronary heart disease prior to the actual operation. Yes. And I had gone through several nuclear stress tests as well as I had a nuclear stress test on a Friday prior to my Monday transplant. And it just so happened that I did have an issue after the operation that caused me to end up having a bypass two weeks after my kidney transplant. Oh wow.  All I can say is that Mayo clinic is a fantastic organization. They do a great job in testing you beforehand. They try to minimize any issues. Trust your doctors. Let me just take call, one second. Well, I would like you to step in here and just says as a caregiver and as a donor. That Mayo clinic is a team. It's a team for the people and their families, and I wish people would really take heed of that. It is available to them. I'm not sure everybody does take. But to this day, I and I take to heart some words that my coordinator, Christine had said. And as a donor, and those that have been fortunate enough to get your organ is that you and the one whoever donated it or whomever you got it from has allowed the opportunity for quality of life for all of you and your caregivers. I never really thought about that. I was only concerned about getting into the program for my husband. But when I met my recipient in Jacksonville, she had been on dialysis for seven years, a teacher who could no longer do that. I gave her a hug and she thanked me. She no longer needed dialysis. And that was very powerful. And here go my tears on that. But I just want you to know that the Mayo is a team and it's a family. And for whatever area you are, whether you are the recipient, the donor, or just, you know, a caregiver, and it's more than just a caregiver. Caregiver is a lot of things at different times. Their stress level varies. So the one thing I told my recipient and her husband, take care of her, take care of yourself because even caregivers need care. And you know, to add on to that, you know, Mayo was they were, you know, they were on top of everything. They would micromanage every little ever little thing going on with my mom, you know, if there was like a small spike in the protein levels, they would call us, they would tell you have to come in to schedule an appointment on Saturday, whatever. And, you know, it was very reassuring to have that. You know, like Maybe in some circumstances being micromanage it's annoying, but in that circumstance, you really want to know that they're on top of it. And we had looked at other places at Jackson Memorial Hospital here in Miami. And it just wasn't it wasn't as intensive, you know, they weren't they would take like a week to call back. They were very lazy with it. Jackson's not as nice as Mayo, also. Like the campus. I'll say is, if you're someone who's of faith, you know, maybe you're religious or not, I think that also really helps a lot. If you're whatever religion you may be, you want to hold on to that. I was going to mass every day and my mom was able to go. She was going. I was praying a lot, you know, and just praying for a good outcome. And just not worry too much, but there's always a little bit of worry in the back of your head, but if you're someone of faith and stay positive, then you can the grass will always be greener. With mine when I got in the room because my mine was so fast. It was like they called me on at 1:53 on a Sunday and say, Hey, we got this, this, this, this, this. Is a 12%, this is this. You in you in Atlanta. I said, No, ma'am. I'm right here in Jacksonville. Right here in Jacksonville, right here in Jacksonville. Can you be here at 3:00? Yes. Just that quick. And we were down there. My brother, then, my son came and stuff. But we was down there. The lady told me when I took my pump off because I was a diabetic ever since I was seen, 16, 17. She said, you don't need that no more. I'm like, What? You ain't going to need that no more. Okay. Doctor said, we that line you got. We're going to take that out. You ain't going And they ain't lied to me. I haven't put that pump on ever since. They took it from me. I took it off and pulled the line out and everything. I ain't never touched that pump again, so I had to put it back in the box that it came in. I noticed myself almost a year now that I'm still getting used to, like, eating certain things. Certain things as a diabetic. I didn't eat. right. So and I'm still looking at stuff like how much carbohydrates in this, how much is in this, how much is in that? I'm like, but you don't got to do that. But I still do it. I still look at it. So you know, that's what the illnesses I had, blood pressure, diabetes, and my doctor said, it was my diabetes that caused my kidneys to fail so soon. So he put me in for both of them. And with my evaluation, stuff like that, they didn't come back and tell me anything different. It was just, you know, and I went to other places too first. But they was like, I feel like they give me a run around because if you do this, you do this, they'll wait a month later, two months later to tell you, Oh, you forgot to do this. I'm like if I forgot to do it. Why didn't you tell me two months ago? Right. But that's how they did. And like the young man said, here, Mayo was a family. It's like, doctor your nurses going to call you back. They're going to do everything possible. They work with your schedule. Because like I said, I'm up here. I'm in the process of moving back to Jacksonville, but I'm still up here. If I need to do something, I call to, Hey, I'm coming to town, you need the blood work. Yeah, set it up. They set up my blood work for me. Yeah. So everything and I come to town regularly. So if whatever they need me to do, I do it. So it was like a family. So I would have definitely agree with him on that. So I'd like to just say one or two things about the post transplant team coordinators. They're actually fantastic. It's been going on for five years now and needless to say, if I have any issues or I have blood work, and I need to make sure that You know, I'm talking to my nephrologist that I follow with. I just I always talk to my my coordinator as well, post transplant. And if I have an issue, immediately talk to them and I do that mainly through the portal, and they usually respond the same day. We have multiple communications back and forth. They've assisted me several times, which has been fantastic. All I can say is post transplant, life is not always easy. I've gone through two sets of rejections of my kidney. It's not easy, but it works. I just hope that other people don't have to go through it as well. Well, in Bernie, that's something that does happen to some patients post transplant. Talk about the treatment for that. What did the team have you do? All right. about rejection. Sure. It was at the end of my first year evaluation. They did a biopsy. They checked it. They said everything was fine. The next day after we got home, I got a phone call saying, Well, you know, there's a possibility that there might be an issue. We'd like you to come on back. And I said, fine. Not a problem. We did something called plasma pheresis, which basically cycles the blood out of your system because my antibody started attacking the actual kidney itself. They actually changed a formula within my my plasma and recycled it back in and everything was fine. At my second year evaluation because I had a biopsy and had this issue the first time. Again did another biopsy, and they solved this problem basically through a steroid. It was five days w steroid injections, and since then, I've had no issues at all with regard to rejection of the kidney. But don't think that once you get it, everything is easy, easy street, no problem, just take you meds, no issues. You've got to constantly take your blood work, constantly have medication modifications. Constantly go back for your evaluations at 1, two, three, five years, whatever it is. Make sure you don't miss them and definitely rely on your coordinators, post coordinators, post transplant coordinators. They do a great job. Yeah. I was going to ask you all a question. What about have any of you all done any traveling yet since you've had your surgery like out of country and stuff like that? We were told basically about a year to travel out of country. I'm. my coordinator said I could probably travel domestically, but I think the key is to kind of be close to some place if something did happen, I could have access to medication or access to a medical facility. So no international travel. We were just talking about that before the group joined and 2025 is going to be a big year for travel in our family. Right now. Right now we're standing down. That's a point to that you don't mind past 12 months. Can you hear me? I can hear you. Yeah. Oh, sorry about that. I just wanted to let you guys know that there is an option for us to do essentially like a travel consult with infectious disease. It's not something that I even knew about until fairly recently. So it's a nice offering that we have. And they can kind of go over with you the specifics of what to expect associated with where you might be going. So there might be different vaccinations that need to be had or things like that depending on where we're thinking about going. That's just something to kind of keep in mind to your guys point about travel. Really. You just I guess you just reach your coordinator, right? Yeah. You can let us know if it's something you're interested in, and we can arrange for the travel consult and it's specifically with Because that's where a lot of the concerns come from, at that point with travel because when we're going to areas in other countries, there's a lot of things that we might need to consider or worry about that we wouldn't hear in the states. So in general, the rule of thumb is that we prefer folks if you're going to travel to stay domestically for that first year. But if you do need to travel or visit a loved one overseas, whatever it might be, you can let us know. We can arrange for that consult. And we can arrange for it anyway if you just want to learn about it or considering travel at all. So Wes can they look at that after the first year, too? Is that what you Yeah. Of course. Yeah. At any time. It's just really crucial, I think in that first year and the education that we give you know, cautions against overseas travel during that time. So I think it's really kind of nice that we offer it during that time because we can kind of give this meeting that might outline the risks and rewards, you know, of the travel. How about on a cruise ship? Yeah. Yeah. That's that's tricky. I would caution against it in the first year because you're getting a lot of well, you could be getting a lot of international patrons. And you're confined. So it is kind of risky, but I have had patients that do it. You know. And going on a cruise, you're probably you're not going to a lot of countries with very advanced medical care. You know if you're doing like a Caribbean cruise or something, you know, unless it's like a European cruise, but, you know, if you're like in Costa Rica and you have a issue with your kidney, then it's a big deal. Yeah. Yeah, it's a big factor to consider, you know, before you step into it. Okay. I get afraid of the idea of a cruise, because when you watch the news and see norovirus and so many things spreading on cruises that I don't know that I want to do one until maybe years later. Yeah. Yeah. My name is Lamarche Napleson, and a caregiver from my wife Janie. And I was a recipient of receiving a kidney back in 2018 from Mayo everything is working well. And Thank God Thank God first, you know, he gets the credit because I don't know if I would have made it. I started out with cancer. I was on the list for I was a kidney dialysis for 11 years. And then they had to take care of that first, then they had to take the other issues. And my wife who has been there for me all the time. Now shortly after I got my kidney, she got hers. I mean, she got her Or she had started her kidney dialysis, so it's so unfortunate, but I know, you know, she going to be all right because I know pretty good much about it. And my coordinator was Lieutenant Tameka Hayes. Did y'all get it? Lieutenant. She's going to be upset that you didn't make her general, I think, but right web she is the general, you know? And you can let her know that said that. I sure will. I'll pass on the words. All Jokes aside. She took care of me I wanted the hard ones. Shortly after I got my transplant, I went out to Pizza Hut. I tore it up. Guess what happened. She said, Mr Stapleton. Why is your potassium so high? It was in a danger zone. She knew exactly what to do. prescribed me some medicine. And took care of that, see, it's just because you got your kidney, don't mean you can just shoot out real fast and do your thing. It's a slow process getting back in, especially me myself. I was on dialysis for 11 years. And by the time I had got my kidney, I had a problem with urinating because of the prostate and everything blocking it. So they had to do the plunger deal Okay. With me, with the catheter, you know, and that wasn't a good thing. But I went through it, okay? And I'm alive. Thank God. That's what I wanted to share my story. Not too bad yourself, Wes. Well, thank you, sir. Hope you're doing great this afternoon. Nice to see you both, by the way. thank you. So any other questions? You guys have to have questions. So Lisa is the reason we're having this group because I met with her and she was like, we need to do this. So you guys have to have questions. These are the folks you need to ask miss John F. I have a question. My name is Linda T. I am a caregiver. And he is a blood type O Is it true that it takes a lot longer because it's a special blood type to find a kidney? The O's and Wes you might be better at this than I am. The O's take the longest because O's can donate to anyone, but only O's can donate to O's is my understanding, right? Oh, yeah. That's correct. Anything we can do to help the O situation? Well, anyone living or You can go for the living donor, and we're really pushing hard in the social work appointments on those NKR microsites. Yeah, that lets you get the word out to everybody. The microsites are free. They give you a coach that helps you figure out the content and how you can find a donor in your circle. Then they give you free business cards that you can hand out everywhere you go and all of that is free. When you run out of cards, they give you more cards. So we've literally had people come in that have gone to that NKR microsite and they come through, they come direct to the transplant centers to donate. You may not even know them. I may have picked up a card somewhere in Publix or Walmart or wherever, and they will fill out that application. So look at the microcsites, and it's out there on the YouTube videos for Mayo. Through the National Kidney Registry also. right. Okay. Yeah. And what's important about the National Kidney Registry, you may have covered this before is that it offers the donors an additional protection, which is, you know, deceased donors, people that receive a or I guess I don't even know about the deceased donors, but with the NKR, the live donor, they get essentially is called a voucher. In the event that that donor ever requires a kidney themselves or somebody, their family requires a kidney. They go to the top of that list. So they get they get to get basically call in that voucher, whether it's for them or for a loved one of theirs that needs a kidney to have access to a live kidney to a live donor kidney. So that's an additional shield for them, which is an important consideration when donating a kidney. So my sister did that they're doing that to encourage donation. I think that's amazing. Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't have to be in my case, it was a directed donation to the National Kidney Registry. My sister did it directly for me through the registry, so she got the protection. But it doesn't have to be a direct donation. It can be maybe you have a loved one that's compatible with somebody else that has a loved one, they're not compatible, and you're not compatible, but you can cross match and do paired exchanges and create basically a chain of donations and opens up the pool of possible candidates, not just to local, but even just throughout the country, you know? So NKR says that they they say that they can usually match you within a year. So. They are worth looking at. We just got started. We just got on the list. Okay. Good. I think there are any questions out there with regard to what does it feel to be a donor, talk to my wife or ask questions because she'll tell you exactly what it is to be a donor and how to feel what it feels like after being a donor. I have a two part question. Okay. Go ahead. The first part of the question, do Mayo have first of all, my name is Derrek I've been doing dialysis for two years. The first part of my question is that, do you have a list of acceptable hospitals around the US that if you do travel, that you know, you can stop in. If you get a call from Mayo team, you know, hey, we need to get some labs or this is the place to go? Is it a list available that we can download and have? And then my second part, My second part to that question is that my caregiver is going to help me through this process from the pre and post. And so I was hearing about the medication if you have taken at the exact time. Is it any leeway of 5 minutes early or 3 minutes early to take the medication? And the reason why I'm asking that, I don't like to be late or taking my medication or doing anything. And so I was wondering if it was a leeway in that aspect. As a recipient, yeah, there's a little bit of leeway, not a whole lot. They like to keep it sort of 12 hours apart, whether it's eight and eight or nine and nine or ten and ten. The time is is not relevant. I think it's just to span between the times that's what's relevant. But they try to keep it as close to 12 hours as they can. At least in my case, in the Kidney case, I'm not sure about the Pancreas case or the double organ case, but in my case it's 12 hours and they try to stick to that within 15 or 20 minutes for that. Yeah. It's you to do is to actually set your alarms on your phone and your watch. And you'll get four and five, whatever it is a day, depending upon how you want to set your alarms. I set up an alarm at 8:30 and 8:30, but I also do it at 8:40 and 8:40 to give myself another 10 minutes to say, Hey, did you forget to take it the first time? So it's important to be able to do that. So you just need to be able be on a schedule. And if you missed it, you also have to do it. Wes, do you want to answer the other part of the question too about the centers across the country? Yeah, to my knowledge, that's not something that we have a list, from A to Z of transplant centers, that would be a great idea. But in terms of labs, we do provide lab slips for folks that are either aren't from here or they're going to be traveling, but we want to continue on a set schedule. We'll give you a lab slip that can be used typically anywhere, but definitely a places like Quest and LabCorp. Now, I always tell my patients, of course, it's not like coming here, where we're going to have your Tacro that afternoon. It usually takes a few days, unfortunately, it's just part of the process. We live in an imperfect world. So anytime you add parties to the mix. Usually there's a little bit of time added to us receiving the results. But it allows us to follow folks who aren't geographically here or who may be traveling for a set period of time or what have you. So we do continue to follow labs outside of being here, if that helps answer that part of the question. And as far as the timing, yeah, I will tag onto that a little bit, too. Folks get kind of hung up on that perfect time. And there's no such thing. You know, you're going to be a little early some days or you forget to take it even, or maybe you take it before lab draw when you were supposed to take it after. And we're talking about your tacrolmus, or Prograft, or cyclosporin you know, the immunosuppressants. The key is honesty and, you know, letting us know because we're very forgiving. Things happen. But if we're told one thing when another thing happened, then we could be making a change off of a false value, and that's never good. So if you forget to take a dose or take an extra dose, it's fine. Just let us know. Same thing with timing issues. Honesty is key. Now General Tameka, would have told you no Yeah. Go ahead. So I had gotten disconnected. I don't know if you guys could see me, but if you have an iPhone, you could set your medications on the health app, and you could put the times and everything and it'll remind you, and it'll tell you the exact medication. You could set it, you know, it's like, I have to take Valcyte, I have to take tacrolimus, I have to take cellcept, whatever it is. And you put it on your phone and it'll remind you and it's connect to your health app. It's very specific. So Okay. So one other thing too with the hospital situation, if you were admitted to another hospital, if you're having an issue, and you're out of town, we coordinate with other hospitals all over the country every day. So if you're having a problem, your number one point of contact is your coordinator. So you want to call them, and then they'll navigate with you the rest of the way. Okay. Yeah. And to add to that, depending on where you're at, and what stage of the process, how far out from transplant you are, what mix of issues you might be dealing with. They may look at doing things like a hospital, a hospital transfer and trying to get you here since we were the facility that transplanted you. Now in certain scenarios that might not be appropriate. The hospital that you're in might be perfectly capable of handling whatever mix of issues there are. But that's usually decided physician to physician at that point. But we are usually in the mix and trying to get lab results from that hospital and share them with our doctors, our attendings here. So that, you know, the right hand knows what's going on in the left hand, which oftentimes in health care is an issue. So we as coordinators, I think, try to do our best to facilitate that gap and make sure that, you know, you're being cared for appropriately, no matter where you are. Now, we're running short on time, but does anybody else have any other questions? This is a group. You're not going to see this group too often. So ask these folks now. This is John F. I have really a couple simple questions. Number one is the suture area, and I guess this would be for guess Berne if there is, how long does it take before you don't feel that? I mean, I feel it all the time. I've got five years and I can tell you that it does get better. It does take some time. Sometimes you'll end up with some scar tissue. So I'd say that it took a good, maybe even close to a year before I can say that it felt fine and even now five years post. Yeah. There are times you get twinges and so forth, but relatively speaking, it does just mature and goes away. And then the second question is, I have tremors in my left hand, and that's my dominant hand. So does that subside or just have to live with it? That's mainly tacrolimus related, if I'm not mistaken. That's a. It happened to me. Yeah. Your body does it does take time. Maybe Wes, you can answer this better than I, but it takes months. Good months, maybe if another year. Yeah, that's true. Some folks, everyone's different, the way they call it pharmacogenetics. The way your body processes, things is going to be completely different than everyone else. It's tough even though we're really trying to dial that medication in. It's still tough for it to be perfect. It could be that we have a range, a goal range, say your goal range is six to eight. If we're running you on the higher end of that range, maybe that's not good for you because it's causing these issues. But that is usually an issue that we do see from what we call supra therapeutic are too high of a level prograp or tacro. So like I said, everyone's different. It's a tricky answer on that, but in general, that means we probably need to lessen that dose. Now, there might be reasons that the physicians haven't in your case if you're at higher risk for rejection. No two cases are the same. So if there's a reason the MDs are choosing to do one thing in your case, but chose something else in another case. Even though it looks similar on the surface, there's probably reasons behind the scenes why they made that choice. But for short answer, you know, there could be an issue with your tacro or it might be a little too high, potentially. You know, I think that's a good point to say, and all of these patients know this. And if you're having any issues or any side effects, make sure that every time you see the team you're telling them that. Because something one month may not mean anything, but when you're having that for six months straight, it may mean something else to the team, so keep bringing up things. Absolutely. And just for instance, if a goal range is six to eight, but John, say, we were running you closer to the higher end of that range, If we didn't know that bit of information that you're having the symptoms, we might not try to run you at the lower end of that range. You know, We have those ranges for a reason because some folks have side effects from a very small change. So, you know, there's there's things that we can try for sure to help with that. That brings up another question in that is I was just recently released from Mayo to my nephrologist, my outside nephrologist. And so does he control my tacrolimus or do you guys still control my tacrolimus or whatever it's called? So I'd have to look at your chart specifically to really to give you a solid answer on that. But what we've been doing is trying to transition folks at a certain time frame when they're stable, and, all their labs look good in terms of their kidney function. They're not having CMV or BK, they're not experiencing rejection. That's when we would kind of hand the reins over to a local nephrologist, knowing that any one of those things could change and we might need to wrap our arms back around you. But if things have officially been transferred over to your nephrologist, they should be managing the tacrolimus. But you know, we step in for a variety of reasons. And if we do step in generally, we would manage the immunosuppressant. So I guess it just depends on what's happened. I'm not super familiar with your case. That's fine. And I'll call him in regardless because my tacro is at 8.9 right now, which is they've been trying to keep me, you know, under that seven marker. Definitely. Yeah. It sounds like you're kind of sensitive to it very as it is. So if you're above the goal range, I mean, we could afford to bring you down if you think about it three points you know, to six. Yes. So that would probably be a tremendous help. So I know that we work our team works hand in hand with the nephrologist. So even though you've been handed off if the nephrologist ever has questions, they can reach out to us. Or you listen to your listen to your nephrologist, but definitely keep the coordinator in the loop because personally, I listened to my coordinator more so than my nephrologist. You so you're very lucky, there's no doctor on here. I'm back. But the issue I had was, I think it was associated with the prednisone, because when I was on the higher dose before I started titrating down, I would be writing with my right hand just fine, but my left hand would be the one that was actually shaking. And once I got down to the lower dose, one pill a day, it stopped. Yeah. So I yeah, they reduced me from 10 milligrams to five on the on the prednisone. And but, you know, the shaking was because I wasn't on prednisone at first. So the shaking was there before that. So I think it's a tacro and it's fine. I mean, it adds to conversation and my tea stays nice and cold. But Other other than that, I mean, I have no complaints. I'm totally blessed. You guys are amazing. I can't tell you how thankful I am for what we've accomplished together with you guys and my donor. I'm so thankful that we have this forum that we can actually ask questions and talk to folks and go through what I go through. So it's an amazing thing, and I thank you all very much for being here and helping out. Yeah. We're at the end of our time. We're actually a little overtime. I want to thank Lisa and Bernie and Mac and Frederick and your caregivers. You guys, you really are the people that know this. I've never had a kidney transplant. I don't know what it feels like. I don't want to know what it feels like, and they need to hear it from the people who have experienced it. Thank you guys a lot for doing this. Thank you, Lisa for recommending this. Thank you All the time. Great that's what it feels like. All the time. Okay, guys. Thank you again very much. And everybody have a good month. We'll see you back next month, okay? Thank you, everybody. Everyone. Thank you. Everyone.