So, I'm Bob West. I'm an associate professor at Sunni Upstate Medical University in Syracuse, New York. And I just gave a talk entitled The Emperor Has No Clothes: 21st Century Healthcare in America. And the takeaway message from this talk was that um we have a entrenched established medical establishment um and medical education system in the country that has not kept pace with changes in society or technology. that uh both society and technology have moved far ahead while medical education and uh in large part medical practice by doctors today have not kept up with those changes. Two of the big ones that I mentioned were genomics and the internet. The internet meaning healthcare, social media and empowered patients uh teaching each other, training each other so that they're uh vastly more educated than they had been in past. uh times and in many cases are now uh more trained than the doctors that are treating them in their specific diseases. It's no uh no attempt to discredit our wonderful health care system. It's just to point out that changes are needed. It happens as societies evolve and the changes have not yet occurred and my goal is to help uh implement the changes that we need to see. The trigger is to have awareness I think on the part of medical educators um to change the way that the curriculums are run they're established in medical schools to incorporate technology much more than they do to incorporate the empowered patient uh to incorporate patient voices uh that are now uh patients are so well trained uh some of them and their specific diseases, they can focus unlike doctors who have to know broadly about many different diseases. And so, um, awareness is a key. And so, actually presenting at a conference like this in terms of just bringing about that awareness, that's what's important. And as more of that message gets out, um, the more our health care system will benefit. We'll see the changes that need to be implemented and patients will be getting more of the uh treatments that they they really deserve and and long for.