Welcome to Mayo Clinic Sleep Medicine Podcasts, a series for physicians, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other health practitioners treating sleep disorders, or interested in learning about state of the Art advances in Sleep Medicine and Sleep Health. I'm your host, Dr. Michael Silber. And I am your co-host, Dr. Mithri Junna. We are both consultants at the Center for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Thank you all for joining us for today's podcast titled The Discovery of REM Sleep. The field of sleep medicine is relatively young. Many date it from the discovery of REM sleep in 1953. Recently, a controversial article was published in the Journal, SLEEP, suggesting that REM Sleep was actually discovered 27 years prior by Russian investigators. My guest today is Dr. Michael Silber, professor of Neurology at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science and a board certified sleep specialist, who wrote an editorial to accompany this article. Mike, thank you for joining us today. Your editorial titled "Who Discovered REM Sleep" starts with some fascinating descriptions of the work of Eugene Aserinsky and Nathaniel Kleitman. Credited with the discovery of REM Sleep. Could you tell us something about the relationship between these two famous researchers? Thank you. Yes, it's really a fascinating story. Nathaniel Kleitman was born in what is today Moldova in 1885. Now Moldova has got a little bit of publicity recently because it lies just west of Ukraine. And its border provinces also have a mixed population of Russian speakers and Moldovians. So we've heard a little bit about Moldova. Well, in 1885, it wasn't a good thing to be Jewish in Moldova with pogroms occurring. And Nathaniel Kleitman, as a young man, went to what was then Palestine. During the First World War, it wasn't easy to be in Palestine as a Russian citizen, which he was, because Palestine then was controlled by the Turks, and he was in danger of being arrested during the war. Right, during the war, he therefore left for the United States, and in 1915, arrived in New York pretty penniless. Despite that, he somehow managed to get a master's degree at Colombia, and then went on and got a PhD in the University of Chicago in physiology and remained there on the faculty for close to 20 close to 35 years, He became the preeminent and probably only sleep researcher in the United States and did amazing things like living in the Mammoth Cave for some time to learn about Circadian rhythms and wrote his famous book "Sleep and Wakefulness." In 1950, Eugene Aserinsky arrived as a graduate student at the University of Chicago. He was hardly a conventional student. He didn't have a degree. He had studied dentistry, pre-med, social science, Spanish, but never completed his studies. He'd worked as an explosives expert in the military and as a social worker in civilian life. He was married with a 6-year-old son. He arrived, interested in doing a PhD in organ or systems physiology and found that almost everybody in the faculty, the University of Chicago and the Department of Physiology worked in cellular physiology, which really didn't interest him at all. And the only person who worked in the broader areas of systems physiology was Nathaniel Kleitman. He later wrote many decades later that sleep was, perhaps the least desirable of the scientific areas he wished to study. He described his first impression of Kleitman as a man with a gray head, a gray complexion, and a gray smock. He got the impression, quite understandably that Kleitman wasn't particularly impressed with Aserinsky, either. Nevertheless, he took him on and assigned him the job of studying eye movements in infants. And so for several months, Aserinsky stayed awake at night watching infants sleep and got nowhere at all. At the end of that time, he read about electrooculograms, how you could record eye movements, much the same way as we do in PSGs today. And he started studying this first in his 8-year-old son, and then later in many other subjects. And he identified soon the strange period of apparent sleep with changes in breathing, changes in EEG, which was available, of course, and made the seminal discovery and when he woke up the subjects, they reported they were dreaming. At first, he thought he was simply identifying artifacts, but then realized that this was really true. He wrote about it 43 years later, and utterly amazingly, he wrote that Kleitman had only a tangential role, that he worked under conditions of almost total independence and almost bizarrely, considering that Kleitman was his supervisor and thesis advisor, he wrote that he had misgivings about giving Kleitman any authorship at all. Nevertheless, of course, when the paper, the seminal paper was published in "Science" in 1953, both of them were credited as authors. Aserinsky gave up sleep research pretty much after he got his PhD. He taught at various universities and died rather ironically at age 77 from a motor vehicle accident in which he was thought to have fallen asleep at the wheel. Kleitman lived on and on. And some of us had the incredible privilege of hearing him speak briefly at age 100 in 1995, at one of the sleep meetings. He passed away a couple of years after that. So that's some of the early history of the relationship between these two. Very interesting, indeed. And what about Bill Dement? What role did he play in the discovery? Well, Bill Dement of course, went on to be a leading sleep researcher at Stanford, and also a leading advocate for the sleep field. And if anybody over the decades could represent sleep, it was Bill Dement. As a medical student, in 1952, he decided he would like to work with Kleitman and Kleitman took him on, and he joined the team. He spent many nights studying sleep. And he and Kleitman eventually said that there are five stages of sleep, and the fifth one, of course, is what we today called REM sleep. Later, Dement wrote in his book that he made up the name of the stage REM Sleep. Perhaps that's true because he did join the panel, which put together the famous Rechtschaffen and Kale's Manual in 1968, which identified REM Sleep as a state. But it's a little more nuanced because Aserinsky and Kleitman, way back in their original article, described "rapid eye movement periods", maybe not a state. So it's always difficult to know who did what first as we're hear in a few minutes as well. So, let us now go back in time and talk about the newly discovered Russian paper from 1926. Was REM Sleep really identified so many years prior? Well, this is really fascinating. Dr. Denisova, who's an associate professor of psychology at the City University of New York, found this Russian paper, translated it, and wrote a very erudite commentary on it in which she put forward the thought that, in fact, REM Sleep had been discovered all those years before in Russia. What these investigators did, strangely with the same name Denisova, though she has told us that she's not related as far as she knows, Denisova and Figurin in 1926 studied infants and found some part of their sleep where they breathed variably. They had increased body movements. They identified through half open lids, horizontal and vertical eye movements observed, and these periods had a periodicity of about 50 minutes. Now, the EEG was only discovered several years later, so there was no electrical activity recorded at all. It was all just conventional observation, but it certainly sounds as if they identified REM sleep. So should we say that Denisova and Figurin are the real discoverers of REM Sleep? Well, I argued in my editorial that we should not, even though they clearly identified some of the phenomena, and my argument was that they only identified it in infants. They studied four adults and said they couldn't find it for some reason because it was only in infants. They never identified the relationship to dreaming. They thought it was due to "age related peculiarities" and didn't identify it as a fundamental part of sleep. And as far as we know, they didn't do any follow up research, though they may be, again, untranslated later articles that they did. So for all those reasons, I think we should credit them with the observations. But the discovery of the state, I think still goes to Aserinsky and Kleitman. Do you think that Aserinsky and Kleitman were aware of this paper? Isn't that an interesting question? Well, Kleitman could talk, speak and read five languages, including Russian. In their 1953 seminal paper in SLEEP. They do not cite this Russian Denisova and Figurin article, but in their 1955 subsequent paper, they do cite it, but only in their introduction without any details about it at all. So I looked at my edition of Kleitman's "Sleep and Wakefulness", a later edition in 1963, and he does discuss the paper briefly in a few lines, but he doesn't mention the eye movement. He mentions the body movements and the breathing, doesn't mention the eye movements. Now, Dr. Denisova from New York, managed to get hold of the original edition published in 1939, and the article was cited then. So did Kleitman know about it? I suspect he read it, but why they didn't cite it or discuss it in their paper in detail. Maybe they thought it was unimportant and didn't really - it wasn't really related to their work. Maybe they didn't want to cite it. I mean, this is a history mystery. And, of course, we'll never know for sure - the details. I should say that Dr. Denisova wrote a spirited rebuttal to my editorial, saying that I was quite wrong, and we should certainly credit Denisova and Figurin with the discovery. But that, you know, it was a really a nice controversy of what factors you take into account to decide who to ascertain discovery to. And I think the trend in medicine today in which we're taking away eponymic names largely because it's so hard to know who did what and who should really be credited from it is probably, in some ways good. But of course, it does give you a less idea of history when all those names go away. These are very interesting historical perspectives. I think many specialists are very interested in the history of our discipline, so very interesting. What messages would you like to leave with our listeners that you think could be helpful in today's practice? Well, I think first of all, the discovery of REM sleep was really the fundamental seminal start of Sleep Medicine. In the early 1960s, it was discovered that narcolepsy is characterized by early intrusion of REM sleep, and that fundamental biomarker of narcolepsy couldn't have been determined if we hadn't discovered REM sleep at least ten years earlier and maybe before that. So I think it's important in terms of our understanding of Sleep Medicine and how it evolved. I think it's important for sleep physicians, all physicians to understand how discoveries don't always come bang, bang, like that. They often evolve from other people's work or at least they were pre-discoveries, and we all stand on the shoulders of giants. And finally, for our younger colleagues, I really encourage young physicians in our field, Sleep Medicine, but in any field, especially in Neurology, read the history of your discipline. It gives you - apart from how fascinating it is, it gives you such a richer insight into how things evolve and how we understand and why we understand where we are. Our future is very much based on the past. Thank you so much for joining us today, Mike, and for sharing your perspectives and insights with us. Thank you. It's been a pleasure. We hope you enjoyed this podcast. If so, please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in Sleep Medicine and Sleep Health. Thank you.