Hi, my name is Sahar Saddoughi and I'm one of the cardiothoracic surgeons here in Rochester, Minnesota. Thank you for joining us and welcome to The Deepest Cut. Here, our goal is to really get beyond the surface and understand how background, culture and hardship has shaped our team, including our surgeons, leaders, and our professionals. I have the pleasure of introducing Dr. Juan Crestanello, who is the Department Chair for cardiovascular surgery It is truly an honor and a pleasure to interview him as one of the very few minority Department Chairs in cardiac surgery. I can imagine having that title. It's been quite up and down adventure for you to get to this spot. So I'm really looking forward to hearing about your journey to becoming a cardiac surgeon. Thank you Dr. Saddoughi. It's a pleasure to be able to speak to all of you about my personal story. I was born in Uruguay in South America, and I trained in medicine there. I went to medical school. And after medical school, I made the decision that I wanted to be a cardiac surgeon. And as such that the best place to train as a cardiac surgeon was in the United States. Obviously, coming from abroad is not easy, and at that time, there was no internet. And the way to learn about the steps that needs to be taken in order to, to train in the United States was by the word of mouth. And then based on that, we learned that you had, there was a series of tests that we had to take in order to be able to train and then eventually practice in the United States. And we took those tests and then when I apply for residency, it was obviously not qualified to become a, to get into the residency, general surgery residency program. And therefore I started doing research for three years. And after that I started general surgery. And then I came to Mayo and I was as a trainee in thoracic surgery. And I finished my training. And after that I became an attendant first at Ohio State, and then I came back to to Mayo five years ago. So that's an incredible journey. I mean, to have those hardships along the way. Nothing was ever handed to, you know, to fight through those ups and downs. How did you stay so resilient through all of that? Well, I always wanted to be a cardiac surgeon and it's important to have a focus on what you want to accomplish. But also use every single opportunity that is, or every single door that opens to you in order to use those opportunities. And being able to be successful and obviously it's a question of, you know, how hard you tried, the opportunities that opened to you. But also it's very important to be aware that there's many people down the road who help us. There's many individuals during the course of my careers that they took a chance on me and allow me to succeed and be where I am today and without their support, mentorship, and advice. But more importantly, having given me a chance and taking a risk on me, on somebody who came from South America who was barely able to speak English when I started, took a chance and allow me to train and succeed. That's truly incredible, like to hear about that. I mean, just from not having a lot of English and now being chair of cardiac surgery, that's truly amazing. When you sort of think about your background and those experiences, how is that interactions helps your patient care and you as a surgeon? Well, I'm very sympathetic with the, with people who are not from the patients who are not from the United States and they are having a serious health situation and they are having difficulties to communicate with the healthcare team. That's a situation that when I face with, I put myself on the situation of the patient and how difficult it is to be being in a foreign land, not being able to speak the language, and being sick, trying to use all the resources that we have in order to translate for the patients, as well as being able to spend the time and explain whatever situation the patients are going through. And also understand the cultural issues that different patients from different parts of the world, how they react to the disease, how, what their expectations are. Those things are different for different individuals from different backgrounds. Yeah, I'd like to go back to some of that resilience that you had mentioned about these doors that opened for you and you were able to get to where you are. I'm sure that through that process, a lot of doors were shut. When you saw these doors shut for you, how did you get beyond that? Did you lose hope in yourself or how did you maintain that focus through those things? Well, I think that this life isn't up and down and you have opportunities that open to you, but also opportunities that have closed to you. At the end is the summary of all those opportunities that make your journey. The positive ones, the negative ones. But every situation where you have, as you say, a door that shuts, later on, there's always a door that is open.  Most of the time the opportunities that came after that door closed are better than the opportunities that you potentially would have had if the first door had not been closed. I think that it's important to stay focused. I think it's important not to lose hope and have the determination as well as the support system to allow you to go through these things. I was fortunate always to have the support, the support from my family. First from my parents, but then after that from my wife and of course and my children. who were essential in order to achieve, to achieve all the successes that, that I had achieved. But also all my mentors and my colleagues like you, who really are essential in order to support our daily activities. So I wanted to just touch about bias, touch on bias. It's all around us. And as the chair of cardiac surgery, I'm sure that you face bias and your team faces bias. So how do you handle that and what advice do you give to people? Well, I think that bias prevents our ability to assess the situation correctly. I think we have to be curious and learn about what the situation is. Ask questions, ask questions about the background about different individuals that you're dealing with. What perspectives they have, what backgrounds how those backgrounds and perspectives have affected the way that they react, the way that they face the day to day activities, a job at home. Having the time and effort to inquire about all these different perspectives in active as well as in a passive way. In a way that every time that we interact with a different person or a patient, or a member of the team and put ourselves in the situation, help us to overcome that potential biases. Yeah, I think you bring up two important points. One, as we diversify our team, it actually provides better care to patients because we have more perspectives to give. And to the internal talk that when we're faced with bias, that we have to sort of step back and say, let me try to share my background to help educate the people in front of us. And say we're actually more similar that maybe meets face value. So thank you for that and I appreciate you taking the time today.