Welcome to Mayo Clinic Sleep Medicine Podcasts, a series for physicians, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other health practitioners treating sleep disorders or interested in learning about state-of-the-art advances in sleep medicine and sleep health. I'm your host, Dr. Michael Silver >> and I am your co-host Dr. Mri Juna. We are both consultants at the Center for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. >> Snoring is common in children and sleep apnea is overlooked by many pediatric providers. To discuss the diagnosis and management of obstructive sleep apnea in children, my guest today is Dr. Julie Bourne, a boardcertified pediatrician and sleep specialist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Julie, thank you for coming on today. When you are referred a child who is snoring, what additional features on history or examination do you inquire about to determine whether you think the child likely has obstructive sleep apnnea rather than some benign um pure snoring? Thank you so much for having me today. Um, some of the features we look for is how frequently are they snoring? If they're snoring more than three nights a week, that's a flag to kind of do some further investigation. Are they mouth breathing at night? We should breathe through our nose at night. So, mouth breathing at night is something to be aware of. Are they moving around a lot in their sleep? Um, are they doing any what we call airway protective maneuvers? So, are they sleeping with their mouth open and their neck extended or sleeping on their tummy? Um and um do they have any daytime sleepiness? And in kids, daytime sleepiness can be they can seem tired. They can maybe nap when they have given up naps, but it can also manifest itself with hyperactivity and having trouble paying attention in school and behavior issues. >> Okay. So that's very helpful. So those are are somewhat different things from we as adult sleep specialists would look for. Y um >> Julie, you were a member of the American Academy of Sleep Medicine task force in which concluded that home sleep apnea tests were at that point not appropriate for the diagnosis of sleep apnea in children. Now as I understand it this really hasn't this recommendation remains the same eight years later. The majority of adults as you know with uncomplicated sleep apnea are now diagnosed by home sleep apnea tests and we know that laboratory polyomnography is expensive and it's stressful for children and stressful for their parents sometimes. So with all the advances in diagnostic technology, why are we still recommending laboratory studies for routine sleep apnnea in children? >> That's a great question. Um Mike, I I think that the literature is being reviewed to see if that recommendation should be changed. However, um you know, I don't one of the issues is there are many different devices out there and they all use different technology. So um knowing which device would be good at picking up sleep apnea in children is challenging. Um sleep apnea in children um is a little bit different than adults. As we've already discussed, we don't have great a great clinical um way to know which children snore have a high pretest probability of sleep apnea like you do in adults. You know, adults the home sleep apnea test is designed to um diagnose moderate to severe sleep apnea. And in children, moderate to severe sleep apnea often comes with a much lower AHI than it does in adults. So knowing kind of um you know what what will pick up on those signals is is a challenge. Um and we still lack a lot of comparison to the gold standard in the literature to know what what is going to be an accurate test for our children, which is really important because firstline therapy for children is getting those tonsils and adoids out. And so we want to make an accurate diagnosis so we're putting the correct children through a surgery. Are there have studies been done comparing it? I mean, you said there's going to be a new task force. Are there actually studies out there suggesting that really there isn't anything which would be accurate enough? >> I mean, the studies that are out there are usually pretty small small sample sizes and um have have had mixed results so far. >> Right. Good. Okay. Well, we look forward to hearing the new um recommendations if they are changed. So you mentioned that it's a little different measuring them in adults from children. So remind us how the criteria for mild, moderate and severe sleep apnea differ in children from those of adults. >> Yeah. So in children um an obstructive apnea hypopnia index greater than one is considered abnormal. Between one and five is considered mild sleep apnea. Greater than five is [clears throat] moderate. Um f between five and 10 is moderate obstructive sleep apnnea. greater than 10 is considered severe. Um we're also encouraged to look at other factors during the child's sleep to determine severity and that includes degree of desaturation um increased worker breathing and airway protective maneuvers. As we've discussed, you know, kids can um really contort their bodies into positions to open up their airway and they're more um prone to partial airway obstruction and prolonged partial airway obstruction than actual apnea um events. Okay. So really for adult sleep specialists that's a very different set of criteria. It's important for everybody working in sleep medicine to be um definitely aware of that. So as you mentioned um adeno tonslectomy is the first line therapy for most children with OSA. So let's talk a little bit about it in 2025. I mean the procedure has been around forever but hopefully we're better doing it now. So first question would be do do children have to stay in hospital or is it an outpatient procedure and what are the risks because that's the first thing I would imagine parents are going to ask you. >> Yeah. So some children will need to stay overnight. Many children will be treated in an outpatient fashion. So children who are younger um definitely less than two will spend the night um just because they are at higher risk of complication or if they have if there's severe sleep apnea prior to surgery noted on a sleep study then those children will stay overnight. Um the main risk factor is going to be there may be some respiratory um difficulty post-operatively and and that is most likely again if someone comes in at a young age or with um a high um a higher um a more severe sleep apnea prior to surgery. Um and then bleeding is the next most common risk either at the time of surgery or within the first two weeks of surgery when that um a shower or scab can kind of fall off and and cause bleeding. And obviously bleeding in the throat is is a concerning thing. So those are kind of the main the main risk factors. Um and tonslectomy used to be done very commonly as we're kind of all aware of and and very um frequently for children. Um it's getting more and more um guidelines on on tonslectomy are getting more and more conservative. the guidelines for um is is like seven strep throats in a year or the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea are the two main indications now for getting those tonsils out. >> Well, some some of those complications sound a little scary. I mean, I've just had a new um grandchild and you know, as a grand grandfather or >> Yeah, a parent you hear bleeding in the throat, respiratory compromise. I presume these are rare and the vast majority children just sail through the procedure. That's >> absolutely >> okay. So how effective how effective is it? >> Um and I suppose a follow-up question would be under what circumstances do you restudy children after to find out if it was effective or do you just judge it symptomatically? >> Yeah, great question. So about 80% of the time it's going to be effective at taking care of sleep apnea. So most typical children who have sleep apnea that's mild to moderate and have enlarged tonsils that sleep apnea is going to be taken care of um with um the surgery the tonslectomy um we do restudy a certain subset of children particularly those who have um more disease prior to surgery so definitely se moderate to severe disease um before surgery or if they have some risk factors to have residual sleep apnea after surgery. So if they're are overweight or obese um if they have um a syndrome like down syndrome tric 21 that has a high risk of sleep apnnea throughout the lifetime um some other syndromes like prader willy or neuromuscular disease we will restudy those children after but most children um don't need to and and will have their sleep apnnea taken care of. Okay. So, let's say you go over this with the parents and they say, "I I don't want this. I I don't want my children I've read it up. Tonsils are necessary for immunity or whatever. I don't like the risks. I don't want my child to have surgery. What conservative therapies are available as alternatives?" And I suppose this leading out from that, the parents are going to ask you, will they outgrow this? I mean, do I have to treat this at all? Does it do they outgrow it as they get older? >> Yeah. So, um there were the 2013 chat study which was the randomized control trial that randomized a certain set of children to watchful waiting and a certain um set of children to early adnotonslectomy showed that up to 40% of children can outgrow this within 6 months. Now, we don't have longerterm follow-up beyond that to know if these children then um got sleep apnea again. Um but um definitely watchful waiting particularly if there's not a lot of daytime symptoms and if the sleep apnea is mild is very reasonable. Um but but followup is needed to make sure that um things get better with time. Um and then there was another study that looked at a smaller group of children that were at the younger age group. Um the chat trial was children aed 5 to nine and um the other trial looked at um younger a younger age ch children and those children also out a high percentage outgrew in about um six months. Um and again we don't have kind of follow-up data beyond that. So definitely an option. Um other options include um what we call anti-inflammatory therapy. It's off label use of intraasal fluticazone or monoluccast to um decrease some inflammation in the nose and that's an option and children um can certainly use CPAP and we do have children on CPAP most of the time those children have had their tonsils and adoids out first but that is an option particularly if the tonsils aren't real big. >> Okay. And then what about other surgical techniques? Are there other things apart from tonslectomy and adenoidctomy that may be helpful in a subset of children with sleep apnea? >> Yeah, very you know very unusual but it can happen. Um sometimes getting those lingual tonsils out particularly in children with down syndrome can be helpful. Um >> uh sometimes children need another um adoidctomy the adoids could can sometimes regrow so sometimes that's an option. um a certain small subset of children and particularly young children and infants who have luringo malaysia benefit from a superglatoplasty to treat obstructive sleep apnnea that is associated from their luringo malaysia. Um and then there are um you know occasionally we can they can try um in children who are very hard to treat some of the other um surgical techniques those are not um well as well studied um in children and so knowing out outcomes is is quite a bit of a challenge. Um and then um in children with Down syndrome, we now have the option to use hypoglossal nerve stimulation, which is a really um amazing kind of breakthrough for that population that has a lot of obstructive sleep apnnea through its life lifetime and can be very challenging to um treat with pap therapy. >> There's some jaw procedures that have sometimes been recommended. >> Yeah. So yeah, and thanks for thanks for bringing that up. So some infants with pierro bandan syndrome or micronathia can have mandibular distraction um in the infancy that can also treat their sleep apnnea. >> Okay. Now one one more question. You know we've been talking about children. Do these all these things apply to adolescence. Where's the cut off when we say change the criteria from pediatric um definitions of mild, moderate, severe into adult? What what what's a reasonable cut off? If you're a physician seeing somebody who's 15 or 17 or just turned 18, when do we apply a doubt criteria as opposed to pediatric criteria? >> Yeah, great question. So, according to the scoring ASM scoring manual, we can do that anytime after the age of 13. Um, and can use adult criteria between 13 and 18. It's really at the discretion of the sleep sleep provider. Um my personal approach is to use pediatric criteria until they're 18, but I interpret um the sleep study results within the context of their age. So an 17 or 18year-old who has an AHI of four and meets pediatric criteria for obstructive sleep apnea, I'm probably not recommending that they use PEP for that um because it is it is pretty mild. Um but you know um that's kind of my approach. But anyone above 13 can technically be you scored using adult criteria. Now with the new hypopnia rules which include the new hypopnia rules for adults which are 3% desaturation or arousal really match the pediatric hypopnia rules now too. So it's a little bit less of a difference I would say in how you score them. >> Oh that's that's important to know. Thank you. >> Yeah. >> Um well thank you so much for sharing your expertise. Are there any final messages you'd like to leave for our listeners who are predominantly sleep medicine providers but maybe also phys um health care providers who don't specialize specifically in sleep medicine? >> Yeah, I think you know one thing about pediatric sleep apnea that's really important to know is that um you know again kids aren't often especially adolescence they're not showing a lot of daytime sleepiness. It's more that hyperactivity and attention issue. So if you have a child particularly if their sleep apnea has been treated or if it's in that mild range and they are showing daytime sleepiness um significant daytime sleepiness um continue to pursue maybe some of those other sleep diagnoses such as um you know does this child need an evaluation for narcolepsy? Is this child getting enough sleep at night? Um does this child have a circadian rhythm disorder? Um because again it's it's pretty unusual for children to be falling asleep during school because of their sleep apnnea. Oh, good. Thank you so much. >> Thank you for having me. It's a pleasure. >> We hope you enjoyed this podcast. If so, please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in sleep medicine and sleep health. Thank you. [music]