This is Health Matters, a podcast from Mayo Clinic, where we discuss the latest medical advice, news, and research to help you live a happier and healthier life. My name is Kristen Meinzer. I'm a writer and journalist. In this episode, we're talking about headaches and migraines. Does your head hurt? Does trying to figure out why your head hurts make your head hurt even more? Nearly everyone's experienced a headache at some point, but not all headaches are created equal. For one person, it could be a minor inconvenience, while another person might be forced to drop everything and lie down. And if your head hurts more than once in a while, or hurts a lot when it does, you could be missing an important diagnosis. That's why this episode, we're joined by Dr. Amal Starling, a neurologist at Mayo Clinic in Phoenix, Arizona. She's taking us on a tour of the world of headaches from your garden variety tension headache to what some people say is the worst pain imaginable. Dr. Amal Starling, welcome to the show. Thank you so much for having me and thank you so much for talking about headache today. Such an important topic. So to start, I want to ask you about this meme that I think a lot of us have seen before. It says types of headaches at the top and there are four panels. Each panel is labeled as a different type of headache with different sections of the head highlighted red. In panel one, it says migraine with the forehead highlighted. And in panel two, it says hypertension and the back of the head is highlighted. Another panel says stress and there's this red band around the entire head. And then the last panel is the entire head covered in red. And it says something like Christmas music. So this meme, I think, has given a lot of us the impression that headaches actually exist in different physical parts of the head. Is that actually true? I do think that it can sometimes be misleading for patients based on the location. They end up thinking, oh, this is related to stress or this is not related to migraine. And it is true. There are certain types of headache disorders that do have a predisposition to a certain part of the head. But in general, that meme is actually not accurate and can really lead to a lot of misdiagnosis. For example, although there are some individuals who can have migraine on one side of the head, there is about 60% of patients that can have migraine that affects both sides to the head. Well, let's start to tackle some of these misconceptions. But first of all, what are the different types of headaches? That is a question that would require days of a podcast because there's over 200 different types of headache disorders. Wow. So where do we even start? So first of all, what is headache? So I treat the word headache like a symptom. Like people can have headache as a symptom. Other people can have fever as a symptom. And what are the causes of fever? Well, it could be the flu, it could be COVID-19. Similarly, there are many headache disorders such as migraine, tension-type headache, cluster headache, or other things that we call secondary headache disorders when something else is causing the headache, like if someone has a brain tumor that causes a headache, and then they can have headache as a symptom in addition to other symptoms. However, there are some headache disorders that are much more common than other ones. One is tension -type headache, but the one that is common and most disabling is migraine. In fact, migraine is one of the leading causes of disability worldwide based on the World Health Organization Global Burden of Disease Study. And can you explain exactly what is a migraine? How is this different from the other 199 types of headaches? Migraine is one of those headache disorders that has head pain or headache as a symptom. But as my patients always tell me, migraine is not just a headache. Although the pain involved in migraine can be very disabling, there are many other symptoms in migraine that can be equally disabling or for some people even more disabling, like the light sensitivity, sound sensitivity, smell sensitivity, motion sensitivity, and nausea and vomiting. So with a migraine, a headache is just one of the many symptoms as opposed to the migraine itself being the headache. I like the analogy of asthma. So people who have asthma, they aren't having asthma attacks maybe every day, but they have the underlying lung disease of asthma. And on certain days they have asthma attacks. So similarly in migraine, someone with migraine has the disease of migraine every day, but on certain days they have migraine attacks. There are some people who may have a couple migraine attacks in their entire life or maybe just a couple in a year. And then many of my patients may have multiple migraine attacks per month or even per week. Oh, got it. Let's get to some of the other types of headaches. Let's start with tension headaches. So tension-type headache is the most common or most prevalent headache disorder worldwide. Tension-type headache is a primary headache disorder. The head pain is mild to moderate in intensity, and it does not have associated features of sensitivity to light or sound or smell or motion sensitivity or any nausea or vomiting. So we call it a featureless headache. The vast majority of tension-type headache never come to see me as a neurologist or a headache specialist. They may take something over the counter and that will resolve it and they never get to a subspecialty level of care. And what about cluster headaches? So cluster headache is one of those headache types where the location of the head pain is actually very consistent with the diagnosis. It is side -locked. it only affects one side of the head. And typically it's right around the eye. People will describe this pain as the most severe pain known to humankind. There have been studies that have looked at individuals with cluster headache who have also gone through labor without medications or epidurals, or people who have had kidney stones. And all those headache have described cluster headache as more painful than those other very, very painful conditions. In fact, unfortunately, in this population of cluster headache, there's a high rate of suicide because of the severity of this pain. And it's associated with what we call autonomic symptoms, where people have redness of the eye, droopiness of the eye, tearing of that eye, nasal drainage just out of that one nostril on the side of the head pain or even flushing or redness of the face. The other thing that's very, very different between cluster and migraine is that during a cluster attack, people are physically restless. I have seen several patients who have had a cluster attack in my office and they cannot sit still. They are up pacing back and forth around the room rocking back and forth if they are sitting down. And in fact, my first cluster patient that I saw during a cluster attack was a very kind and calm gentleman. However, during an attack, he ended up punching the wall in the office and his hand went through the drywall. And after his attack, which we treated with high flow oxygen, he was profusely apologetic. And that is very different from migraine attacks. During migraine attacks, when I ask people, what do you do during a migraine attack? Do you need to walk around or do you want to be as still as possible? And they say, oh no, I have to be as still as possible. I have patients with migraine who say they'll be laying in a bed. And if someone walks in the room and sits down on that bed, that gentle movement where the bed kind of moves and someone else sits down on it will worsen their head pain. So that's a really good differentiating characteristic between cluster headache and migraine. And I know you can't touch on all of the hundreds of other types of headaches, but can you give a preview of a few different types? Another headache disorder that we'll commonly see is something called trigeminal neuralgia. So a trigeminal neuralgia is more typically down here by the jaw. The quality of pain is very different. It's like an electric shock-like or lancinating pain. And it's like volleys of pain that will go down in that jaw distribution, or maybe even in the middle of the face. And it can often have what we call mechanical triggers, like drinking or eating or talking, or even touch on that side of the face, like putting lotion or makeup or washing their face, or even the cold air, if that comes on the face and air conditioning or the wind from even just a gentle fan can trigger it. And we'll typically have this volley of pain for several seconds or several minutes. And then it actually hits this phase called the refractory phase, where people will have resolution of those episodes of pain and even touching the face or eating or drinking during that time won't actually trigger another episode. And the reason that I like to bring that one up is because if it gets misdiagnosed as migraine or tension type, it can really lead to this underdiagnosis and undertreatment of a very debilitating disease. Now, if somebody listening right now is suffering from head pain, is there a way for them to know, oh, this is definitely a migraine or this is definitely a cluster headache? How would they know? So cluster headache is actually quite rare. Whenever someone is having a headache, based on just pure prevalence, and if that headache is resulting in impairment of function, it is most likely migraine. Migraine affects one in five women, one in 16 men, and one in 11 children. And so especially if it is a woman, it is And a screener is just three simple questions, and it's pin the diagnosis, P-I-N. If someone has a headache and they have photophobia or sensitivity to light, where they'd rather be in a dark room versus a bright room, the I is impairment of function, or if they have nausea where they feel sick to their stomach, they don't feel like eating, maybe even if they vomited. If they have two out of three of those things, sensitivity to light, impairment of function, or nausea, it's most likely migraine. The thing is, though, some people out there after a night of partying might wake up the next morning and have all these symptoms. But in that case, that's probably not a migraine, right? It's true. If it happens a one-off here and there, perhaps it is not migraine disease. But if people notice that they're having to live a very structured life where they cannot have too much changes in stress, They changes in their sleep regimen if they know that if they drink red wine, even just one glass in it will just trigger an attack. If they're having recurrent headaches, even if they feel like it's triggered or even if they feel like sometimes it's just out of the blue, it's most likely migraine. And the vast majority of migraine goes undiagnosed and thus undertreated. Why do you think migraine is undiagnosed in so many people? There was an epidemiology study that looked at why is it so challenging to get appropriate care in migraine and they looked at three healthcare barriers. The first one was talking to a clinician about their symptoms. The second one was getting the right diagnosis and the third one was getting standard of care treatment options for migraine. About 25% of individuals who have migraine are successfully crossing all three of those healthcare barriers. And the biggest drop-off is that people are not even talking to a clinician about their symptoms. And migraine is a genetic neurologic disease. And so it's very possible that you have a family history of migraine and you're like, well, these are headaches that mom lived with. This is just normal. And it's not. My husband, he has migraine, but it wasn't until he reached effective treatment that he realized that he had a daily headache, probably had a daily headache for years, but he didn't know it because he actually forgot what it felt like to not have a headache. And this is something that many of my patients will report to me. Once they get effective treatment, they're like, I didn't know not have a headache. And then unfortunately, there's a lot of stigma in migraine. There's a lot of stigma in pain disorders, and there's a lot of stigma in disorders that are more prevalent in women. And because migraine is both a pain disorder and it is a disorder that's more prevalent in women, there is such a high degree of stigma. I myself have migraine. And I remember when I got my first diagnosis, I was in college and I had something called Aura. So my diagnosis was pretty simple for the clinician because of these visual symptoms that I had. But the treatment that was offered to me was, you're a stressed out college student. You have two majors. You need to reduce that down to one major. You need to stop working because that's causing too much stress and you need to go get massages. And I wanted to be a double major and I needed to work because I was a poor college student and I couldn't afford massages because I was a poor college student. So I walked down to the local drugstore and I treated myself with over-the-counter medications, which might not have been the best thing for me to do. All right. We're going to talk about better things you could have done, but first, can you explain what those auras are? Two of the main types of migraine is migraine without aura and then migraine with aura. About 25 to 30 % of individuals who have migraine will have some type of aura that occurs, maybe not with every attack, but with a certain number of attacks. Aura is defined as a transient, meaning short-lived, focal neurologic symptom that will be present for typically 20 minutes, but less than 60 minutes. Typically, it occurs before the pain phase of the migraine attack. And the various neurologic symptoms that can occur are visual symptoms, sensory symptoms, or even speech symptoms. The most common aura is visual aura, where people will have flashing lights, squiggly lines, or geometric designs in their vision. And they're typically will move across their visual field. People can also have sensory symptoms where they get tingling that may start in their fingertips and go up their arm and then maybe even travel into their face. And then some people can have speech symptoms. A couple years ago, there was a journalist who was doing a piece on video. All of a sudden, she wasn't able to talk and then a couple of the words that came out were kind of word salad. And people, of course, were so worried that maybe she was having a ******. But this journalist later came on and said, I was having a migraine attack. I have these speech symptoms typically before the onset of the pain phase of the migraine attack. Oh, wow. There are so many different kinds of headaches. To determine what type of headache you have, there are a few helpful distinctions. First, there are primary headache disorders and secondary ones. A primary headache disorder is one where the headache is the main condition. In a secondary one, the headache is caused by a larger underlying condition. The most common type of headache is by far the tension headache. Most people with these never see a doctor because the pain is mild to moderate and over -the-counter meds are usually sufficient treatment. But then there's migraine. While head pain is one of migraine's calling cards, it has other symptoms as well. If you have two out of three symptoms in the acronym PIN, that's photosensitivity, impairment of function, and nausea, that could indicate migraine. Migraine attacks can also happen with or without auras, which are transient visual, sensory, or speech symptoms. Now that we better understand what these headaches are, let's talk about the why. All right, let's now talk about why migraines and headaches happen and why they happen to certain people. Something that you've mentioned is that females in particular are more likely to have migraines. Yes, there's many different pieces of evidence that lead to the hypothesis that hormones are involved. Like I mentioned, one in 11 children can have migraine and actually pre-puberty, boys will have migraine more commonly than girls. However, during puberty is when girls or women will start having higher prevalence of migraine. It's this change in estrogen that seems to be a big trigger for having migraine attacks. And so we also know that over the course of a woman's life, there are different times where migraine will be more common and more severe. So prior to starting your period, there's a drop in estrogen that occurs. And often that can trigger migraine attacks. And then during pregnancy, once women will get to their second or third trimester, the estrogen level is very high and incredibly stable. And when there is no change in that estrogen level, migraine actually often does quite well. There's actually some data that shows that breastfeeding can be protective after delivery. And that's likely because it reduces those estrogen fluctuations that can occur. And then during perimenopause, there's actually huge fluctuations in estrogen, peaks and valleys. And so we do see that there's a higher number of migraine attacks that can occur and more severity of migraine attacks. And interestingly, that's often when people will present because things are more severe, more frequent and more disabling. I see a lot of women around that perimenopause time period, they'll come to my office and then we actually uncover this long-standing history of migraine that had been undiagnosed and thus undertreated their entire lives. And then once people have gone into complete menopause, then the estrogen level is actually very low and very, very steady. And so again, someone will have remission of migraine during that period of time when there is less fluctuations in estrogen. And so there's definitely a hormonal contribution to migraine and estrogen changes is a trigger. Can you clarify what you mean by trigger? Is that the same thing as a cause? I love talking about what is a trigger and what is a cause because many people will come to me and be like, I'm getting migraine attacks because of stress or foods are causing my migraine or whether changes cause my migraine. And I will reiterate to patients that migraine is abnormal function in the brain and that there is a genetic abnormal mutations that are present that can lead to vulnerability to migraine disease. But then there are multiple triggers, right? So if someone has migraine disease and they may have a trigger, like they have poor sleep or they have a high stress situation going on right now and there's a weather change and all of that can trigger a migraine attack or their period triggers a migraine attack. Got it. So the overall disease of migraine is caused by our genes, but a trigger is something that prompts a specific attack like hormones or stress. Can food trigger migraines? A lot of my patients will say, when I eat bananas, it triggers a migraine. When I eat kiwi, it triggers a migraine. Red wine is a very common word. Red wine triggers my migraine attacks. And so what I tell my patients with regards to food triggers is that if there is an obvious trigger for you, by all means, I want you to avoid that. And then the patient and I together will focus on raising their threshold so that they're less prone to triggers triggering individual attacks. Now, there's also been some interesting research looking at things that we used to think were triggers for migraine attacks. So for a long time, we thought that chocolate was a trigger. And there was a diary study that was done asking patients to track when they were craving chocolate, if they ate it or not, and if they still then got a migraine attack or not. And they looked at many different triggers and found that when people craved chocolate, whether they ate it or not, it still was followed by a migraine attack. And so then people were like, wait, is chocolate actually a trigger or is craving chocolate actually a part of a migraine attack? And we've now learned about this other phase of this migraine attack called the prodrome or the premonitory phase. And this is again, before the onset of the pain phase, people can have neck pain, fatigue. I even have a couple of patients who have euphoria where they feel hyperactive for a couple hours before the pain phase of a migraine attack, or they crave certain foods, sweet and salty foods. And a lot of these symptoms actually mapped this part of the brain called the hypothalamus. Before the pain phase, the hypothalamus actually lights up and you can have food cravings as a result of hypothalamic function. And that that might actually be the beginning phases of a migraine attack where people have euphoria or really, really extreme fatigue or food cravings, like they crave chocolate. And so that world of triggers is really still not well known in the scientific literature. Fascinating. All right. So let's talk about some of the other headaches and what would be the cause versus what would be the trigger for those. So for example, the tension headache. Given that it is not a headache type that often is presenting for care, there's actually less that we know about tension type headache than we do know about migraine. The literature doesn't understand triggers for tension type headache as well as it does for migraine, but we do think that it is abnormal function in the brain that is leading to tension type headache. What about a headache that comes from drinking coffee, for example? Is coffee triggering a primary headache disorder or is something else going on there? Let's talk a little bit about the coffee or the caffeine piece. So there are, of course, the secondary headache disorders where it's not just abnormal function in the brain, but there's something else that is contributing to this headache. And two of the most common types of secondary headache disorders are related to substances. One of them is actually just over the counter pain medications. So as I mentioned before, I was doing the wrong thing where I was just treating my frequent headaches in the past with over the counter medications. So things like ibuprofen or naproxen or acetaminophen, and often those ones that have ibuprofen migraine, Those are ibuprofen plus caffeine or acetaminophen plus caffeine. And so we know that especially in individuals with migraine, there's a secondary headache disorder that can occur as a complication of frequent migraine attacks where people are using those over-the-counter medications more than 10 to 15 days per month. And it can actually in and of itself trigger a secondary headache disorder called a medication an overused headache disorder on top of the reason that they're taking it. Now, caffeine, caffeine is in those medications. And then of course, we as humans use a ton of caffeine in coffee and tea and sodas. And caffeine is interesting in that it can be effective for a headache when you don't drink it often and then you have a headache attack, like a migraine attack, and you drink caffeine, it can actually help with the individual migraine attack. But if individuals are drinking caffeine on a daily basis, they can then suffer from a secondary headache disorder called a caffeine withdrawal headache. And so I have patients that will come to me and they'll say, I get a headache on the weekends, but during the week, I'm actually okay. And now I specifically ask them, in the morning, what do you eat for breakfast? Well, I don't really eat any breakfast. I just have some coffee. And what about on the weekends? Do you drink coffee? Oh, well, no, because I sleep in. I don't really need to have my coffee because I'm not going to work. And I'm like, well, you're probably having a caffeine withdrawal headache. And there's actually been studies that show that headache can occur if people are having an intake of 60 milligrams of caffeine on a daily basis, which is actually not that much coffee. Now, in addition to talking to your patients, is there like a scan or something like that you can do of their brains to better understand what kinds of headaches they have? When someone has a secondary headache disorder, we can get a brain scan, we can do a blood test, and we can identify physically where is the lesion. However, in migraine, there isn't a brain scan that confirms the diagnosis. There isn't a blood test that confirms the diagnosis. It is somewhat of an invisible disease. Unfortunately, a lot of these people with migraine are told, I don't know what's wrong with you. Your brain scan is normal. However, the patient knows they do not feel normal. And the lack of validation in that encounter can actually cause the person to never seek medical care again, because they feel like they're being told that it's all just psychologic and that they're just not strong enough. When it comes to migraines, a cause and a trigger are two different things. The cause of all migraines is underlying genetic disease. But things like food, stress, weather or hormone shifts can trigger migraine attacks. But before you decide to give up chocolate, you might want to think twice. Recent research suggests that a migraine lights up a part of the brain that makes us crave certain foods or behave in certain ways. In other words, both the craving and the migraine could be symptoms of the same migraine attack. And it wouldn't make a difference if you indulge or not. Some other types of headaches are caffeine withdrawal and medication overuse. Fortunately, once you recognize the pattern, you can change your behavior to help address these. But perhaps the most important thing is what brings relief. Let's hear what you can do at home and when your doctor might need to step in. So let's get to the big question. How do I make a headache go away or have headaches less often? Are there lifestyle recommendations you make to your patients? The overall theme is consistency and the reduction of fluctuation. I always call it my seeds for success in migraine management. So S-E-E-D-S. So the first S is sleep management. Ideally, we want people to get seven to 10 hours every night, just depending on what their body needs. But the key is consistency. So waking up around the same time, going to sleep around the same time, and then good sleep hygiene. One of the very common things right now is with our smartphones and all the devices that have that blue light, which can really interfere with sleep. So making sure that you turn off all your devices for about an hour prior to planning to go to sleep is really important. The next E is exercise. Getting about 20 to 30 minutes of aerobic exercise at least three to five times per week is really helpful for migraine. In fact, there's studies that have compared aerobic exercise to our preventive medications and found that they were both effective. So exercise can be just as effective as some of our prescription medications and really better for your overall health. And I recommend for some of my most debilitated patients to start slow, such as doing water exercise, like getting in the pool, using a recumbent bike, or even getting out there to walk. The next E is eating regular healthy meals. I really recommend whole foods, healthy fats, less processed foods, avoiding food dyes, avoiding artificial sweeteners and preservatives. The D is avoiding dehydration. Drinking quite a bit of water can be helpful and if it's in the summertime and they're sweating a lot, it's really important to get electrolytes back into the body as well. And also keeping a headache diary. And the reason that that's so important is if you are working with a clinician and healthcare professional regarding the frequency of your migraine attacks, it's really important that we see the pattern of your migraine attacks. And that's also how we know that things are improving or staying the same. And then the last S is stress. It's not a reduction of stress. We all have stress, but it's stress management. And this is using techniques like biofeedback, mindfulness, relaxation, cognitive behavioral therapy to really learn how to manage our stress. You mentioned eating regular healthy meals, whole foods and so on. Are there any specific diets that are known to help prevent migraines? In all honesty, there actually hasn't been one specific identified diet that is effective for the treatment of migraine. I will say that anecdotally, when my patients go gluten-free or they go to a whole food diet or they do a no sugar diet, many of them do better, but it's not a specific diet. And one thing that my patients will tell me is they're eating out less, and they're eating processed foods less. And so I think cooking food at home, having less processed foods, which eliminates any of those dyes or all the artificial sweeteners or all the different preservatives, I do think that in general, that is better for overall health and seems like it also is just better for patients with migraine as well. So at what point does the average person know it's time to have a doctor assess what's really happening with my head? Honestly, if individuals are having head pain that impairs their function, I want them to seek professional care. Because even in individuals who are having a couple migraine attacks per month or even per year, they also deserve treatment options for those individual attacks? Because again, this is an unpredictable pattern of attacks. And so what if that one migraine attack that you have per year occurs the day before you have a major deadline due at work, or you have a test that you need to take in college? I want you to have an as-needed acute medication that you can take that brings you back to normal function within two hours. Now, definitely, if someone is having four or more migraine attacks or headaches that result in impairment of function per month, they definitely need to seek care because that's when we need to initiate not just as -needed treatment but preventive treatment. We have data that shows that if we don't effectively treat individual attacks, that that could lead to an increased frequency of attacks in the future. We also have data that shows that the strongest risk factor for developing chronic migraine is having frequent migraine attacks. So we want to intervene as quickly as possible. Once somebody makes that doctor's appointment and goes in, what tips do you have for having the conversation? You already said that there are going to be some doctors who are going to be a little dismissive, maybe because their patients were assigned female at birth and pain is not taken very seriously. So, what tips do you have for having this conversation to be, you know, listened to? One thing is, before you go in, having a list of questions and also a list of your symptoms and when they started and how they've progressed, and also specifically, how many days out of the month are you having head pain? And many times my patients only concentrate on those days where their head pain is severe. And so when I ask individuals about headaches, I say, tell me about how many days per week or per month do you have a headache? And they'll be like, oh, probably about one day a week. And I'm like, okay. So about four days out of the month, you have a headache. And that means about 26 days out of the month, you are completely free of headache. And they're like, well, no, I have a headache almost every day. But four days out of the month, I'm having to miss work. So for individuals that are seeking care, it's really good to write down how many days do you have headache that's mild, moderate, severe? What medications are you using? How many days are you using it? And also, what are all of your symptoms? Not just pain, but what are all the other symptoms? Do you have to be in a dark room? Do you need to be in a quiet room? Do you want to move around or do you have to be as still as possible? Do you feel nauseous? And there's actually some resources through the American Migraine Foundation, americanmigrainefoundation .org, And they actually have a great patient guide with a list of questions that will really guide that conversation. And then if you as an individual are then dismissed by the healthcare provider where you don't receive a diagnosis or you don't receive migraine -specific treatment options, I recommend for you to find a new clinician. Don't give up at that moment. The Maker Migraine Foundation does have a doctor finder widget, but there's not a lot of us. There's only 700 board-certified headache specialists in the nation, and there are about 40 to 50 million people living in the U.S. with migraine alone. So general neurologists also manage migraine, and also there's a lot of amazing primary care providers that do very good migraine management, and that care may include a referral to a neurologist or a headache specialist if their initial therapies have been ineffective. And once the therapies begin, are there certain medicines or in-clinic treatments? We have many, many different treatment options that are available. Some that are oral medications, some that are injectable medications that one would deliver themselves at home, some that are injections that are administered in the clinic setting or in an infusion setting. We also have neuromodulation devices. These are external devices that can be worn for a short period of time that can help with both prevention of migraine and as-needed treatment of migraine. So for the as-needed treatment of migraine, there are oral medications that are migraine -specific. The most common class of medications are tryptan medications. There's a newer class called G-pants. And then for the prevention of migraine, that can be taken daily. Again, the G -Pants, which can be used acutely, but also for prevention, taken every other day or even daily. There's injectables that are kind of our newest class of medications, and those are once-a-month injectables or a once-every -three-month infusion. Also, we use onabotulinum toxin A injections or Botox injections. As people know, that's used cosmetically, but onabotulinum are also used in many different medical conditions, including in migraine. That's an in -office treatment that we do once every 12 weeks for individuals with chronic migraine. Now, one of the barriers that we have in our treatment of migraine and even other headache disorders is that we still don't have personalized medicine where I can do a blood test or an imaging study and it will tell me which medication is going to work for you and which one is going to give you side effects. And so the conversation that I have with patients is based on your clinical history, this is what I think is going to be effective. But it might not. Just because the first or the second group of treatment options was found to be ineffective doesn't mean you should give up. Continue to work with that clinician. Let them know what has worked, what hasn't worked, and they will continue to work with you to tweak things until we find a better option for you. This sounds all so encouraging, but question, How do they know? Is it time to just pop a couple of ibuprofen or is it time to call the clinician? What is your advice there? If you are having headache that is impairing your function and you're not finding effective treatment with over-the -counter medications, please seek a healthcare professional. It is something that we can diagnose and that we can treat and we can manage and we can improve your quality of life. It can be treated. It can be managed. There are experts like you out there, Dr. Starling. Thank you so much for sharing all of your knowledge and all of your reassurance today. Thank you so much for having me on today. For better headache management, remember the acronym SEEDS. Sleep hygiene, exercise, eating regular healthy meals, avoiding dehydration, and stress management. It's also a good idea to keep a headache diary so you and your doctor can look back to find patterns. If you have head pain that impairs your function in any way, it's worth seeing a doctor. Having migraines of any kind means you're at risk of more frequent and severe ones in the future, so it's better to get treatment early. There's a range of oral medications, injectables, infusions, and neuromodulation devices doctors can offer for migraines and other conditions. Some treatments could be daily, others monthly, and some just as needed. It might take some trial and error, but you deserve to find a treatment that works when you need it to. Okay, that's all for this episode. But if you've got a question, a topic suggestion, or a follow-up question about this episode, you can leave us a voicemail at 507-538 -6272. We might even feature your voice on the show. And stay tuned for the next episode of Health Matters, The Gut Microbiome. So there's claims out there saying you'll use this gut cleanse, do a colon irrigation. No, no, no, no, please do not. Please do not. For more Health Matters episodes and resources, head to mailclinic.org slash healthmatters. And if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us in your podcast app. It really does help others find the show. Thanks for listening. And until next time, take care and stay healthy.