Hello, I'm Victor Burnett, endocrinologist at Mayo Clinic in Florida, and I specialize in thyroid disorders. And here today with me is Jeff Janis. Hey, everyone. My name is Jeff Janis. I'm a head and head cancer surgeon. I specialize in thyroid and parathyroid surgery, and we do a high-volume surgery here at Mayo Clinic. And I'm delighted to talk to you today about thyroid surgery and some of the nuances of post-operative care with my colleague, Dr. Burnett. So it really depends on what surgery has been performed. If you are a patient who has had your total thyroid removed, then, of course, you're going to need to be on thyroid hormone replacement. If you have what we call a hemothyroidectomy or a lobectomy, where it means one of your two lobes is then removed and maybe the isthmus, which is the middle part that kind of connects the two lobes together and is a small amount of thyroid tissue, then the risk of developing a hypothyroidism where you need thyroid hormone replacement varies on whether or not you have underlying thyroid hormone issues like Hashimoto's or also known as chronic thyroid hormone replacement. lymphocytic thyroiditis. If you don't have any of those issues, maybe 15 to 20 people out of 100 will need some type of thyroid hormone supplementation after they've had part of a thyroid hormone. So they won't need a full replacement dose. Maybe their thyroid can still make 80 or 90 percent of what they need, but they'll need to take a small daily dose of thyroid hormone to make up that small gap. If you do have Hashimoto's or lymphocytic thyroiditis, then the rate goes up to more about 50 percent. Another thing that will impact is if you're diagnosed with thyroid cancer, sometimes we want the TSH level in a little bit more of a narrower range and a tad lower than we might if you don't have a thyroid cancer diagnosis, and so that can impact the need to be on thyroid hormone, and that would increase the rate of people ending up on thyroid hormone if we're trying to shoot for, say, a TSH of low normal of 0.5 to 2. I'll kind of build on that a little bit, Vic. So for those of you who are wondering, so what does this look like for me after thyroid surgery in broad strokes? Yeah, if you have a total thyroidectomy, you're going to need thyroid hormone supplementation. And And typically, the surgical team, not typically, always, the surgical team will start you on a weight-based dose of thyroid hormone immediately after your surgery. And that typically is a 1.3 to 1.5 microgram per kilogram dose of thyroid hormone. And it'll be started as prescribed to you. You leave the hospital with it after your total thyroidectomy. And then we do labs about four to six weeks out to kind of see how things are responding and tune that dose to make sure it's going to be appropriate for you and that you're getting the hormone that you need. You know, notwithstanding some of the things that Dr. Burnett talked about, like TSH suppression, et cetera. For lobectomy, kind of the same deal. Actually, you don't leave the hospital with thyroid hormone, but we do check your labs after surgery to make sure that you're not one of those, you know, 10 to 15, 10 to 20 percent people that needs a little bit of supplementation in order to maintain, you know, youth thyroidism or appropriate thyroid hormone function after your hemithyrodectomy. So if half is removed, we'll check your labs after surgery, a few weeks out from surgery to ensure that you're, you know, that you're a new thyroid and that you're not going to have weight gain and that sort of thing. And one additional thing, as I'm listening to Jeff, it reminded me. So there are some patients who are on thyroid hormone coming into their surgery. They already had thyroid failure and then they had the thyroid removed because there was a nodular concern. And those patients, of course, will most likely continue just about for sure. their dose might change, and now if they have less thyroid or that's around to produce thyroid hormone, they might need a dosage increase, and we would check them again about four to six weeks after surgery, and the timing is based on the half-life of thyroid hormone, and it takes, which is a week, and it takes about four to six half -lives to really reach stability of the thyroid hormone levels. And actually, let me ask you, every single patient, because of the internet. They always ask me the same thing in clinic, and I'd love to get your answer documented for those who are curious. Every patient asks me like, hey, I read on the internet if I take subliminal thyroid hormone that I could have weight gain. Can you talk about that a little bit? Because I know people are curious about it. Almost every patient asks me about it, and I'd love to hear what an endocrinologist, thyroidologist with many years of experience has to say about it. Sure. I think if you're a patient and you came into your thyroid surgery and you had like an overactive thyroid, that adds a different dynamic where when things are settling down, there could be some weight gain. But by and large, patients that have had their thyroid removed for a nodule or thyroid cancer need not necessarily have weight gain just because they require thyroid hormone. Now, it is important that we get those follow-up labs. And I always tell people it's always good to have a good diet and exercise program and such anyway, but no, you don't have to have weight gain because if you do have diagnosed with hypothyroidism, we are treating it. The weight gain would be from an insufficiency of thyroid hormone, but we make sure that you get adequate thyroid hormone levels and such. Now, many people in the U.S. are overweight or struggle with their weight already before they have thyroid surgery, and that's going to continue to be issues. and we try to work with patients on that, but it can't necessarily be ascribed to requiring thyroid hormone in and of itself. So basically, if you come in with an overactive thyroid, there may be some challenges, but for a regular, you know, taking this, taking a thyroid out for a nodule or for a cancer, et cetera, provided that you tune that hormone level to an optimal range, which we do, one should not experience weight gain under normal circumstances. Correct. There's no reason that patients should say, oh, I'm going to be on thyroid hormone. I'm going to end up having weight gain. That wouldn't be expected. Okay, great. Thanks. So this is an interesting question. And giving some historical perspective, back in the 90s and early 2000s, the trend was that almost everybody, especially if you've got a total thyroidectomy, receives radioactive iodine. um it was then further research was done it was really determined that uh you know people would say patients are doing well they're doing well with the radio iodine but then we finally had patients who didn't get radio iodine and they were doing well and so when you really looked you realized there are people uh one if you've only had part of your thyroid removed we're not doing radioactive iodine so this is really based on the patients who have needed a total thyroidectomy And now what we do is instead of one size, one shoe fits all, is we actually look at the patient and individualize and say, okay, they're a low-risk thyroid cancer patient. The data is they're not going to benefit from radio iodine. We're not going to give radio iodine to those patients. There are patients who we categorize as high-risk thyroid cancer who pretty universally will benefit or are thought to benefit from radioactive iodine therapy. We can expect to treat those. And then there's an intermediate group of patients where their thyroid cancer wasn't super aggressive, but they maybe had some, one or two worrisome features, and their risk of recurrence is a tad higher. And there's really probably subgroups within this. There's low intermediate and higher intermediate. And on the lower intermediate, many times we're not going to do radio-odontic, but we're going to have a discussion with the patient, pros and cons, and talk about things. Sometimes what we do is we reassess with a blood test called thyroglobulin, which helps us look for presence of residual thyroid tissue or tumor in an ultrasound. If that looks reassuring, we say, yeah, we don't think we're going to do the radio iodine. And then if it's more concerning, we will, considering that low intermediate group. And then with the higher intermediate group, we probably lean towards radio iodine. But again, we try to make this a very patient -centered discussion to educate the patients on risks and benefits, because that can be like some dry mouth and other long-term risks with the radio iodine. They're pretty low, but they're not zero, and so we have this discussion. And then again, as Dr. Janice mentioned, we do this in a team approach. We work closely with our radiation oncologists, also our nuclear medicine docs who do the scanning and such. And we have a thyroid tumor board where we have multiple specialists, and if there's a debate on a particular case, we'll discuss back and forth, and we'll come back to the patients and say, yeah, we would lean towards radio iodine for X, Y, and Z reasons, and then we'll answer questions and such. So I think it's really an individualized type approach. And I would say just giving everybody radio iodine in this day and age would be out of step with the guidelines and what we know. Yeah. And so as you two are watching this and are thinking about thyroid surgery, if you're saying, well, what necessarily would make a thyroid cancer low risk? can mean it sounds like cancer. It all sounds high risk. Well, smaller tumors that don't have extra thyroidal extension where they're coming outside of the shell of the thyroid gland that are not greater than four centimeters, that aren't invading the vasculature, and that aren't metastasizing the lymph nodes that are in the central compartment of the neck, those are tumors that are more lower risk, and those are tumors that, as Dr. Burnett said, But in the normal circumstances, we really wouldn't consider radioactive iodine for those patients. When some of those things start to pop up, however, those more aggressive features, that's when we give stronger consideration to the implementation of radioactive iodine. And, you know, it's just for those watching, well, what makes something high risk? That's what's making those are high risk features and those things that we look out for. We try to match the extent of surgery to those high-risk features, meaning that we'll do more in cases where people have these kinds of things that are present on imaging or in the operation. And then we have to sometimes treat people more, things like radioactive iodine after surgery, in cases where these types of things are present. And I'd like to make the listeners aware, we're sitting in here and taping in September of 2025, and just within the last few weeks, the American Thyroid Association has released the updated guidelines of the management of thyroid cancer, and there are sections that have addressed the use of radioactive iodine and factors that might increase or decrease its use. And also, I participate in something called the National Comprehensive Cancer Network as the Mayo Clinic representative, and we also come up with algorithms for treatment and when radioactive iodine would be something to consider more seriously and when to maybe avoid radioactive iodine. So I have a lot of experience in that, and I've also worked with groups that are both in the U .S. and Europe and had discussions about these issues. So I have a lot of experience with this, and I'd say it's not a black and white answer. It's a gray zone, and it's good to have somebody that has a lot of clinical experience and has evolved with this on an academic thing, too, to really help guide you. we'll kind of put things in terms of a thyroid cancer right so in the event that um you have a total thyroidectomy for a thyroid cancer that's behaving more aggressively immediately after your operation uh we're gonna we're gonna check your parathyroid hormone level we typically do that the night of the operation and we check a series of calciums uh over the course of the evening following, morning following your surgery. The reason why we do this is during thyroid surgery, we kind of perturb or disturb the parathyroid glands. Parathyroid glands are, the only they have to do with the thyroid is that they are around the thyroid, para meaning around, and thyroid meaning thyroid. You have four of them. There are two on each side, and we have to move these off of the back of the thyroid gland in the process of removing the gland, and by doing so, sometimes the blood supply will get a little bit upset with us and they can secrete less parathyroid hormone. Parathyroid hormone is responsible for resorbing calcium from your bones to maintain calcium homeostasis in the body. And so when we do this, how much calcium levels can get low. So we carefully manage the both the monitoring the parathyroid hormone and the calcium levels right after surgery to ensure that you don't get low calcium. Low calcium that thankfully doesn't happen very frequently. It happens in maybe 10 to 30% of patients on a temporary basis. And then permanently, it's in less than 1% of patients who get a total thyroidectomy, at least in our hands. So it's very rare that people have permanent issues with calcium, but we do want to manage it and monitor it short-term to ensure that you're safe. Following that, like we addressed before, a few weeks after, three to four to six weeks after your thyroid surgery, we're going to get thyroid function studies to ensure that your thyroid hormone level is appropriate based on your Synthroid or your levothyroxine supplementation. And then you're also going to start to engage in the core triad of monitoring after your surgery if you've had a thyroid cancer, and that really being serum thyroglobulin, epithyroglobulin antibodies, and neck ultrasound. That's really where this relationship that we have with our endocrinologists who monitor these patients long term is really, really special here because we have the ability to kind of hand the patients off seamlessly to our endocrine colleagues who do a lot of this monitoring. I'll have a big comment on testing frequency and what you guys are looking for as you're monitoring these patients long term. Sure. Thank you. So, and I think, you know, we're constantly checking on things as well postoperatively. If there are a few cases where there are calcium-related issues, there will be a handoff from our surgical colleagues to us as far as helping patients with that if it becomes more subacute or, I guess, lesser cases, a chronic issue. And then, as is mentioned already, we talked about we want to know your TSH and T4 levels and make sure they're appropriate. And, And again, it's not just ensuring you get the appropriate amount for being hypothyroid. We also give a little bit extra thyroid hormone to make the TSH go lower because the TSH at S stands for stimulate. And if you had thyroid cancer and there were any cells that microscopically were left behind after surgery, we don't want those stimulated. So then at six to eight weeks after surgery, we're looking at that TSH and we may say, oh, it's good for being hypothyroid. I think we got you replaced that way. But we need to adjust a little bit because we want the TSH a little bit lower because you have this history of thyroid cancer diagnosis and such. And what we do with that TSH can change over time, meaning early on, we might want that TSH pretty low or almost undetectable. And if you're doing well a year or two in, we might say, oh, it can be low rate detectable. And then it might even allow it to rise to low normal if you continue to have a very good biochemical and anatomical response after surgery and such. So I think that's an important testing. The thyroglobulin, again, is a marker for thyroid cancer, but only when there's been a total thyroidectomy because normal thyroid tissue makes a thyroglobulin as well. And it's fair to say when you've had a total thyroidectomy but haven't had radio iodine, sometimes you'll have a very low-level signal of the thyroglobulin. But with a good or great surgeon like Dr. Janus or Dr. Patel and people on our team, we can have it where the thyroglobulin is extremely low or even sometimes undetectable after surgery. And again, if you've had a partial thyroidectomy, we're not going to use that thyroid lobin level because it's going to measure normal thyroid lobin production from benign cells. And so it doesn't help act as a tumor marker. Then it depends if we've had a total thyroidectomy, we think you need radioiodine. Then we get into doing nuclear medicine iodine scanning, where you're given a small tracer dose of iodine.