Good morning. Uh welcome everyone to our first uh thyroid tumor live Facebook discussion. I'd like to start briefly by introducing myself. Um my name again is Mabel Ryder. I am a consultant here at Mayo Clinic. I've been here for about four years and I was recruited from Memorial Sonketering Cancer Center where I had been uh uh worked previously with a focus for seven years on endocrine uh cancers specifically thyroid. Um at Mayo I here I specialize in both benign and malignant thyroid disorders and you uniquely I have a joint appointment in medical oncology where I also specialize in advanced cancers endocrine cancers the majority of which are thyroid. Um, we see a wide scope and depth of thyroid disease here, particularly thyroid cancer and a broad spectrum of both very low risk, intermediate risk as well as advanced thyroid cancer patients. Um, for our discussion today, I'm joined by my colleague, uh, Dr. Travis McKenzie within the division of surgery. Um, and I'd like to have Travis introduce himself and tell us a little bit about, um, his specialty and interest in thyroid. So, my name is Travis McKenzie. I'm an endocrine surgeon and I work very closely with Dr. Ryder. I have expertise in uh thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal and pancreas surgery and a large volume of my practice is actually um thyroid surgery and operating on a thyroid cancer. So I thought for our viewers um before we talk a little bit more in detail about our approach to thyroid nodules and um and our surgical approach to thyroid cancers, I'd give everyone or we would give everyone a brief scope of our practice. um to get a sense of what we see and and what and how what our volume is. So I think the most important thing that has given myself and um surgeons like uh Dr. McKenzie expertise is that we have a very high thyroid nodule um practice where between our thyroid nodule clinic, our thyroid um clinical uh clinical practice and radiology, we see over a thousand patients annually with thyroid nodules and many of which um ultimately are selected for fine needle aspiration or biopsy. Uh we're benefited by um very highresolution comprehensive neck ultrasounds um that we review with our expert radiologists together with us as endocrinologists and with our surgeons um to to really assess these nodules and whether we need to biopsy them. When we do select um certain patients or nodules for biopsy, more importantly, our biopsy results when completed are uh the results are often available within hours for our patients. And I think this is really unprecedented um Travis in our practice that patients especially traveling from a long distance coming for evaluation of thyroid nodules. We can biopsy that nodule and get the results within hours. That's right. And things happen very quickly here. And one of the advantages of that is when you're seeing a patient, they get a a thyroid nodule biopsy, they can see the surgeon for surgical planning the same day. Um which so things happen very quickly. In addition to our uh fine needle aspiration um turnaround, what's important is we have expert cytoologists who are interpreting um our FNA slides. And I can't um emphasize the importance of this enough in that our cytoathologists are really world's experts in thyroid and thyroid um pathology of thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer. And this means that many of our biopsy results have definitive results in at least 90% of cases. and only 10% of cases is sometimes surgery required to determine whether there's cancer or no cancer. Um, next of course as I've introduced Dr. McKenzie and the reason I invited him to join us is that surgeons are very important part of our practice and and um importantly surgeons with a really high volume practice of thyroidctomies. We have a team of four endocrine surgeons here at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester and all of which are high volume endocrine surgeons which has implications and we'll talk more about the risks of thyroid surgery but it has very strong implications with regard to the risks with surgery. Meaning the higher volume surgeon you are the less chance of something bad happening during or after surgery and we certainly see a very large volume of thyroid cases here and really complex cases too which plays into the expertise here. Right. And I think one thing that Travis, you and I really enjoy about our practice is that when a patient needs thyroidctomy and when we consult with you all our expert surgeons, we see the patients together. So you come up to our clinic, our floors, um we discuss the patients together, you see them, we go in and see them. And so the patient is really getting a a nice multid-disciplinary approach in real time. And this is really the true quintessential multid-disciplinary approach and that we're evaluating the patients beforehand together, looking at images together and we see the patient together. The patient isn't seeing different providers at different places at different times. This all happens together and all these great minds are functioning together to decide what to do, what's best for the patient. Yeah. And we also have a very skilled set of interventional radiologists when sometimes surgery may not be the best approach or there's an alternative to surgery. we um have interventional radiologists where we can sometimes consider uh approaches such as alcohol ablation um for different thyroid disorders. Um and then lastly over the last nine months we've established a very multidisciplinary comprehensive thyroid tumor board which you and I really enjoy and learn something from every meeting because we discuss both simple as well as complex cases and what um and we get opinions from a wide group of experts in the room on on real time management often. Yeah. So I think um we'll um after this brief introduction and um as questions will start to filter through I think it's important to start the discussion on thyroid nodules because these um are extremely common and um our approach has importantly evolved and improved I would say over the last several years. And so here at we at Mayo Clinic in the last few years developed um in collaboration with our Mayo Clinic enterprise in Arizona and Jacksonville as well as within the Mayo Clinic Health Network developed an ask the Mayo expert algorithm for assessing and evaluating and managing thyroid nodules and this tool then will help the primary providers and patients who perhaps see less frequently thyroid nodules and where to get started. Um, this algorithm was timely, Travis, because as you know, the American Thyroid Association also uh last year published their updated guidelines on approaches to thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer. Um, and maybe we'll get into a little bit of that, but what do you think about the new guidelines and how overall it's impacted your practice? There are some very important changes with the new guidelines that affect uh how we work up nodules in regards to which nodules we biopsy. um and size plays a big uh criteria in that. And in addition, in my practice, the new guidelines have um um suggestion of thyroid lobectomy, meaning taking out half of the thyroid versus the entire thyroid based on the size. So there's more sort of a more liberal approach in regards to what you can do for a nodule that's 1 to four centimeters. Do you have to take out the entire thing or can you just get away with taking out half of the thyroid? Yeah, I think that's very important and so we'll certainly come back to that um then as we um proceed. So one of the first things I talk with patients about when I see them in the office is um u that nodules are common within uh the general population. So if you sample a 100 patients that come to Mayo Clinic, I tell my patients that 70 out of those 100 patients or 70% will have thyroid nodules. And I don't know that every all patients understand that. So it's a very common diagnosis and a very common problem. And most often Travis these are diagnosed incidentally. They are. Yeah, images are done for a lot of reasons nowadays, whether those be ultrasounds, CT scans, MRIs, PET scans, and these nodules are picked up. Yeah. And most often, I think patients um have uh no symptoms of these nodules because they're often small. And if it wasn't for that incidental other CT scan in the emergency room or for other reasons, they would have not known they had nodules. And that does factor into our clinical assessment and approach um ultimately for patients. Um and one of the questions that's already coming through which is going to lead into our discussion is with all these um nodules that are common 70% of the population should all nodules be biopsied or is an ultrasound sufficient for some without a biopsy? Very important question. And so this leads into our discussion about since there's a sea of nodules, 70% of the population has them, which ones are cancer? Um and in our general population and in natural na uh in national databases only 5% of all these nodules are cancer. So we have a sea of benign nodules or not cancer and we have to somehow identify of those um nodules which 5% are cancer which do we need to biopsy and which potentially do we not need to biopsy. So we rely very heavily on clinical symptoms and features and as well ultrasound. So ultrasound features really are our gold standard in evaluating thyroid nodules. Um and there's specific ultrasound features that we look at that helps us stratify whether a nodule is likely benign for which we don't need to biopsy or whether a nodule is low suspicion in which case small ones we may just watch or larger ones we may biopsy or whether the nodule is clearly suspicious. And if it meets a certain size threshold of less centimeter or greater, we would routinely recommend biopsy. So Travis, can you talk a little bit about the ultrasound features that you pay attention to or that are that we in the literature know are associated with thyroid cancer? Sure. So certainly size is a very important one and based on the new ATA guidelines that we uh discussed, small nodules don't necessarily need to be biopsied in most cases and by small I mean usually less than a centimeter. nodules that are larger are more suspicious. All things being equal. Um I look for things like the echogenicity, which is a term roughly for density. We can tell that based on ultrasound, but uh a hypocoic nodule, as we call it, is more suspicious. Certainly, we look at the borders of a nodule. It's very smooth and rounded. That's less concerning. If it's heterogeneous or lumpy bumpy, so to speak, that's more concerning to me. And then we also look at the lymph nodes, and we're going to discuss that as well. Yeah. So on ultrasound features and in our AM or ask the Mayo expert algorithm, we developed a scorecard with Dr. uh the assistance and expertise of Dr. Maitra Patel in Arizona who really broke down many of the ultrasound features into um something that we can uh quantify and add up points. And so that um the points um relate to is the nodule solid or cystic. So, a purely cystic nodule is really less than 1% risk of cancer, and most of those don't need biopsy. A nodule that's mostly cystic and has a little bit of a solid component, most of those are also benign or not cancer. A nodule that's entirely solid, so it's a ball of cells with very little fluid, um, that could be benign or cancer. We then look, as Travis said, at the echogenicity, how bright or dark it is on ultrasound. And the darker the nodule is on ultrasound of a solid nodule, the more it's a suspicious finding. The borders are very important and irregular borders um are suspicious. We look at microalcifications, which is a very helpful feature on very good high resolution ultrasounds. And if there are tiny dots of calcium in a solid nodule, that gets a point um because it's a suspicious finding. And then there's things like taller than wide which is just a specific unique category. Um um and altogether if you add up the scores for a very dark or hypocoic nodule with irregular margins with micro calcifications the risk of cancer for that nodule is greater than 80%. And if that nodule then is a centimeter or larger we think it's appropriate to biopsy that nodule. If it's less than a centimeter, even if it's suspicious, as data we may get to um talk about most often, even if a cancer, but less than a centimeter, they're often benign behaving. And that's data based on here from the Mayo Clinic as well as from Japan. And I'll point out with ultrasound um for from the patients perspective, it's a relatively easy thing to go through in regards to there's no radiation. So there's a very low risk with that and it's noninvasive the ultrasound itself and it's a non-invasive test and it gives us a lot of information as the endocrinologist or the surgeon going forward. Right? So benign features of nodules are um nodules that are brighter on ultrasound. So brighter than the normal thyroid we call that hyperaccoic and nodules that are very regular again fluid fil um are tend to be low suspicion. So, we use the ultrasound features and then we use size to determine which nodules to biopsy. Um, the olden days used to sort of be let's biopsy everything, any nodule. And we've really moved away from that because again, we know very well that most nodules are not cancer. And even though a biopsy is fairly straightforward and in 20 minutes we can have it done and in a few hours we can have the answer, I think it's not the best approach. I think a riskbased approach determining which nodules really should be biopsied and which could be followed on yearly ultrasounds or every few years is is a better way to go and it it subjects patients um through a more those patients with perhaps suspicious or larger nodules are the ones to biopsy other patients with incidental non-symptomatic nodules that looks low suspicion could just be followed so um so once we decide to do fine needle aspiration the standard of care is to do ultrasound guided biopsies. And this is really important and I think it's done nationally now. In the olden days, it used to be you palpate and feel where the nodule is and put a needle in. Now, because most of the nodules we identify are incidentally found in most patients, we can't feel them. Ultrasound guidance is really important to target precisely that nodule. Um, and here in Rochester, we have a thyroid nodule clinic where we do the um biopsies as well as that's done by radiology. And really what's important again is our cytoathologists. Our um reviewing thyroid nodule FNA specimens. I think there's an art to this. It's not so easy. Absolutely. Um you have to make sure there's enough follicular cells present on the slide to even make a diagnosis. And then you have to really have a depth of experience in looking at thousands of these and knowing what the outcomes are to really get a sense of which nodules are clearly benign, which nodules are clearly cancer. And for those indeterminants where you can sometimes have what we call funnyl looking cells on the slide, it really takes an expert cytoologist to classify that definitively as either not cancer or suspicious for cancer. Um and so nationally um cytoathology um is used um to classify thyroid nodules and often it's the Bethesda classification scheme that's used. This is a category of six different um FNA categories where FNA uh results fall into and this is either number one the cell the FNA is non-diagnostic which means there's just not enough cells there to make a diagnosis of benign or cancer. And interestingly in our data set at Mayo Clinic by Dr. Moria Stan in our division showed that of those that we get that are non-diagnostic which is fortunately very few those that do get rebiopsied or go on to surgery to get a definitive result are mostly benign. So that's reassuring but if a FNA is non-diagnostic that means there were not enough cells for the cytoathologist to view that and we would recommend a repeat biopsy. The other category um besides non-diagnostic is benign and fortunately that's where most of our biopsies fall. Right? So these are cells FNAS that have plenty of follicular cells on it and none of those follicular cells or the majority do not have suspicious findings. And it's important to note that most of the diagnoses that we make of papillary thyroid cancer, you can make that by the appearance of the cell under the microscope. And in our practice, Travis, we have a really good false negative rate um with our cytoologists, right? So, what does that mean to you as a surgeon as far as the false negative rate? Yeah. So, when we get a benign FNA, even let's say it's a larger nodule, three or 4 cm or it has it's smaller, but it has some s suspicious features, but our FNA says benign. So, the false negative rate being low would suggest that if it says benign, it's very likely to be benign. And unless there's another indication to operate, like the patient's having symptoms because the big nodule is compressing things, compressing on the esophagus or the trachea, really that doesn't need to be uh taken out because it's very very unlikely to be a cancer. A cancer. Yeah. So I think again I reassure patients and we're very comfortable in reassuring patients when we do get a nodule that's biopsied and the cytoologists say it's benign. In our practice um here in Rochester, our false negative rate is less than 1%. Nationally, it's less. It's 5% or less. And and we're slightly even better at male. And I think that's a big advantage. Some institutions with a let's say 3cm nodule, three and a half centimeter nodule, with a benign biopsy, they'll still recommend taking it out because they're concerned about a false negative. Yeah, that generally doesn't happen here, right? And and I do see patients um with with large nodules that on biopsy are benign and a patient's having no symptoms and they ask me, "Dr. Writer, do you think I really need to have this out? Maybe my surgeon at home or my doctors at home say, "Oh, that must come out." And maybe in 10, 20 years ago, we used to do that. But I think our practice has taught us that while it may grow over time and it may cause you symptoms, if you're not having any symptoms now, you and I would feel comfortable with saying you can watch that. Very comfortable. Particularly related to the expertise of our pathologists making the call of benign. When they say benign, it's going to be benign. Sure. So 10% of our FNAS do fall within what we call an indeterminant category where the fine needle aspiration is often called um follicular neoplasm or suspicious for follicular neoplasm or the other category is suspicious for herthal cell neoplasm. So neoplasm means a tumor and we don't know whether that is a a benign tumor or like an adenoma or whether that is a cancer. And what defines these categories as tumor is really invasion. Invasion of the tumor through the capsule and invasion of the tumor into the blood vessel. And so that's why we call these 10% indeterminant. Which means that on just fine needle aspiration where we pull out individual cells, we don't have enough information or the cytoathologists don't have enough information to say is this cancer or not. And the standard of care has been um in in our practice to refer these patients for what we call a diagnostic lctomy. It means we have to go to surgery to prove whether it's cancer or not. And in our practice the majority do end up being benign not cancer but about 12 to 15% are cancer higher than the overall um outcomes for thyroid nodules. So surgery is important. Um fortunately in our practice because of our expert set of pathologists only 10% roughly of all our FNAs done annually fall in this indeterminant category as compared to nationally and non um expert centers as high as 30% of FNAS may fall in indeterminant categories. There's a a category called atypia that most of our pathologists never use other than once or twice a year. And when they use the category atypia, generally it is something that's very an unusual tumor. Right. And I'd like to point out a a big difference with our practice here at the Mayo Clinic from the surgical perspective is when we have a biopsy in FNA that suggests something is a follicular neoplasm or a herthical cell neoplasm within that indeterminant category. Something we can do here is we can take the patient to surgery, take out half of the thyroid, not the entire thyroid, but half of the thyroid. And at the time of surgery when a patient's actually asleep, we can very accurately make a diagnosis if that is a cancer or not. Most other institutions can't do that. What they do is they take out half of the thyroid. Patient wakes up and goes home. They find out what the result is about a week later and if it's cancer, they have to go back to the operating room in many cases to take out the other half of the thyroid. That turns one operation into two operations. So that's a big advantage in regards to what we do here. And so again, Travis, so when you take the patients to surgery here, you're able to do this because while the patient is still on the O and you haven't closed yet, we have pathology in the background doing intraoperative frozen review. Yeah, it's fantastic. So literally the pathology lab is directly across the hall from my operating room. So we take half of the thyroid over to the pathologist. They have a team of pathologists and technicians that look at the entire thyroid that we've taken out and the entire capsule of that nodule to determine if there's any invasion there. And so they can again very accurately say this is a cancer or not a cancer that helps us decide what to do with the other half of the thyroid during surgery. Right? So I think most centers don't offer intraoperative frozen review and I think that does help um the scope of the surgery. Um it is true that today there's um some patients may not need completion thyroidctomy even if it is cancer but it's nice to know all of your options immediately at that one time point and often you would have discussions with the patient before surgery. If we do find cancer are you more inclined to have the total removed or half the still and or be okay with half the lobe removed as well. Right. We do discuss that upfront before proceeding to the operating room so we have a plan in place regardless of what we find during surgery. Sure. And then the final c two categories of FNA results using the Bethesda system are either suspicious for papillary thyroid cancer or um positive for papillary thyroid cancer. And when we get either of these results, suspicious or positive for it's really greater than 75 to 80% chance that it's it's thyroid cancer. And there's very few I think that I've seen in my last four years here that have been called thyroid cancer and we're not cancer. So we have a um and and I think nationally that's fairly standard. I think most um pathologists in many centers making a diagnosis of papillary thyroid cancer is fairly straightforward. Um occasionally we do get a lot of second opinions um patients who have had a diagnosis of thyroid cancer and they may be coming to Mayo either for a second opinion. What kind of surgery do we need or do I need surgery? And we always our first step is to always request slides. We request the outside pathology slides reviewed here by our pathologist to confirm the diagnosis and I would say in many cate in many instances it's consistent straightforward by most centers where we get um maybe have a change in review is when we get a second opinion for the herthal cell neoplasm where the um people don't know what should we do with this herthal cell neoplasm do we need to go to surgery often if we just um request the slides we don't even rebiopsy. Sometimes we would rebiopsy the indeterminate nodule. Other times we would just request the slides and wait for our cyto pathologist to review those outside slides. And if they re-review the slides as benign or as cancer then we have definitive way of treating that. If they say I agree this is a follicular neoplasm then we move forward. Okay. So we have a question that we could pause for and it and it says when should someone seek a second opinion and they don't completely say for what exactly is it for just the thyroid nodule to FNA or not or is it a second opinion on the results of the FNA. So Travis how about um when should a patient if they have a nodule and they've been told oh you need biopsy or no don't need biopsy. What do you think? I think it's always reasonable to seek a second opinion. Um, if you're uncomfortable with what your endocrinologist or surgeon or family practitioner is telling you, seek a second opinion. Um, there's not really a downside to that. So, I'd say do it if you're thinking about it. And many times primary care providers may be less experienced in evaluating thyroid nodules. And so if you're at a center that has endocrinology expertise or has surgical expertise that um has a high volume thyroid practice, I think um because ultimately what we may be talking about is surgery and that has important implications. I think it's important to get that expert second opinion for wherever you are in in in your settings. particularly with how the practice has evolved. Um I think seeing somebody or getting a second opinion by somebody who does a lot of this. Yes. They're going to be able be able to offer that opinion that may change what the recommendation is. Sure. Sure. Um the other time where pe that I would perhaps encourage a second opinion as well as for nodules that are biopsied and on cytoology we get follicular neoplasm. I think um those and really the second opinion is an expert cytoathology review if it's not been done. If you're in a center that has excellent thyroid expertise and extra expert thyroid cytology um then you can proceed accordingly. But if you're in a center that may not have a lot of thyroid expertise on cyto cytology, sometimes you can simply send your slides for a second opinion or you can come go to an endocrinologist at a center that does a lot of cytoathology and say can these slides be re-reed and that's what we do a lot of at Mayo Clinic and again because nationally 30% are called indeterminate whereas at Mayo only 10% are many of the ones we see get reclassified and that may change the recommendation for surgery which is a big deal. Exactly. um we didn't talk very much about molecular markers and how um the field has evolved for these categories of indeterminant thyroid nodules. So there are for those indeterminant follicular neoplasms or herthle cell neoplasms there are molecular markers available now at least three or four different um um uh um platforms that are available to try and predict whether these nodules really need to go to surgery. try and enhance which one should go to surgery because there's a higher risk of cancer and which ones don't need to go to surgery because they're likely benign. We have some limited experience with some uh at least one of these panels that in our practice because of our pattern of cyathology actually wasn't as helpful. Um we learn because in the end we have very good set of pathologists and so we need these molecular markers very seldom um in our practice but there are some molecular markers available that might be appropriate in different practices that might help steer patients more towards or away from surgery. So I think this is a good segue then to start to begin in in um the last half our discussion to talk about thyroid cancer because this field as you alluded to has um really changed a lot with the new guidelines from the American Thyroid Association. Um so when I see patients and again we're going to talk focus mostly on those thyroid cancers that are 1 centimeter or larger that are proven on fine needle aspiration to be either suspicious or positive for thyroid cancer um and what our next steps are. So if it's a patient that I'm seeing at the Mayo Clinic and they've already had their ultrasound at Mayo, they're done in terms of a comprehensive neck ultrasound because our ultrasounds, when we order an ultrasound at Mayo Clinic, it's a high resolution ultrasound that includes a very thorough assessment of thyroid nodules and their characteristics. But importantly, it also does lymph node mapping without even knowing whether there's cancer there or not. We get a determination of what the lymph node status is, right? and it's interpreted by an expert radiologist who is very experienced with looking at things like lymph nodes, thyroid nodules, etc. Right? So many um um centers or less many other practices outside experienced thyroid practices um offer very good ultrasounds for the thyroid but may not have comprehensive evaluation of the lateral neck of lymph nodes. And this is very important for a surgical planning strategy and to help limit the number of surgeries to ideally one for the patient. So if a patient comes to Mayo Clinic and they've not had their ultrasound at Mayo Clinic, we require that they have um a comprehensive ultrasound with us before often seeing the surgeon or at least before surgery. So we get a lay of the land so to speak. Um, and this because we're talking about papillary thyroid cancer, it's important to point out that although again, and it's important to point out that most patients do very well from thyroid cancer, 90% of patients do very well um from their disease and only 10% um do poorly and and or have high risk disease. Um so we're talking about the majority of garden variety classic papillary thyroid cancers today. So most do well. So as we and this is a surgical disease but in order to have a good surgical um um outcome both having an experienced surgeon but knowing a lay of the land with good ultrasound and whether lymph nodes are involved in the central neck if you can see them or the lateral neck is very important. It's it's exceptionally important for me to understand before an operation what I'm dealing with in regards to the primary thyroid nodule. Are there other thyroid nodules that are present on the same side or the opposite side potentially? And do those have concerning features? Are there concerning looking lymph nodes in the central portion of the neck or potentially the lateral neck? And that that certainly influences the type of operation I would perform. Sure. Now, we've talked a little bit about surgical expertise and why that is important. So, Travis, can you talk to us um about the risks of surgery and why then surgical expertise is so important? Yeah. So in very experienced hands which certainly at the Mayo Clinic we do a lot of this here. Um the complication rate is very low. Most of the complications the important complications are 1% or less. The most important complication we always discuss with patients is injury to the nerve that controls the voice. So the recurrent lingial nerve it's called. Patients have one on each side and that controls the vocal cord on each side. If that nerve is injured, that can lead to a horse voice that's either temporarily horsearse or potentially a permanent injury that's causes permanent horarsseness. The risk of a nerve injury is very low. It's about one in 200 in experienced hands. Most of the time when there's an injury, it's a temporary injury. So the voice comes back over the course of weeks to months. So that's a very low uh rate, but it's very significant and that it does have implications with regard to the patient's voice, which is important in many cases. Sure. Another risk is bleeding. With any operation, that's an important risk. with this operation is exceptionally important because the neck is a very small space. Even a small amount of blood can cause constriction of the windpipe and that can be a life-threatening emergency. The risk of that fortunately is about one in 300. So that's a very low risk. And then finally, if we take out the entire thyroid, the parathyroid glands can be affected. Those are four small glands about the size of a lentil that sit right behind the thyroid. You have two on each side. If those are either injured or inadvertently removed during surgery, that can lead to a low calcium level after surgery. As a permanent problem, the risk is less than 1%. As a temporary problem, meaning a slightly low calcium that requires Tums or some other over-the-c counter calcium, about 15 to 20%. So, that's pretty significant. It is. Um can you talk about um where the nerves sit to the nerves to the vocal cords because patients are have read about this and often are concerned about will the surgery impair their voice and what makes where those nerves sit in relation to the thyroid and relation to the surgery puts them at risk or makes them susceptible. So first of all they're very small and can be difficult to identify if you're not experienced in identifying these nerves. And again, there's one on each side and they sort of run right next to the trachea behind the thyroid and behind the parathyroid glands. So when you're mobilizing the thyroid to take it out, you do encounter the nerve and you have to know how to identify it and protect it because the thyroid is in very close proximity to the nerve. Okay. The nerve is roughly the size of an angel hair pasta or smaller. Oh, that's very small. Very small. Wow. Tiny. Okay. and how routinely if a patient one of the symptoms that patients may have with thyroid cancer most have no symptoms but some will present especially if they have had larger tumors with horarsseness of your voice. So, how do you how is that important as you're planning surgery? Right? That's very important. That's one of the questions we always ask patients when we're evaluating them is have they had any voice changes because a a nodule particularly a cancer can potentially grow and invade that nerve that's sitting right next to the thyroid gland and that can affect the voice pre-operatively or before the operation. So if we have any concern for that, either based on voice changes or potentially an ultrasound that shows concerning findings, we would evaluate their voice beforehand with what we call a direct laryangoscopy, which means essentially looking at the vocal cords and determining if they're moving appropriately before the operation. I'll point out we also use a nerve monitor during surgery. Ask for that. Is there anything you can do since this is so important? We all need our voice and um it's important for everybody. So what can you do or are there things you do in the surgery to help limit or reduce the risk to those nerves? Right? So most importantly is the experienced surgeon having someone who does a lot of this and by a lot of this I'd ask your surgeon do they do at least 50 thyroidctomies a year? If the answer is no then the risk may be higher. Um we do use the nerve monitor as I mentioned that's essentially a little probe that allows us to identify nerve tissue. Um when we touch the probe to the nerve we get an audible signal and says yes this is nerve or no it's not nerve. Okay. So that can help us identify the nerve. Is that something that's do you think routinely used by thyroid surgeons throughout the country? Um I would say the majority of thyroid surgeons utilize that nowadays. Not all though and not all are experienced with that. Okay. Okay. And you said a number there because I'm I always tell patients who are coming for second opinion who maybe can't get surgery at Mayo Clinic often for insurance reasons or many other different reasons. and they ask me about surgeons at home and I usually I'm not familiar with them and I say surgeon with high volume practice. So what's the magic number? 50 I would say is the magic number. There's a lot of literature looking at volume of practice based on complication rate and again if a surgeon does less than 50 a year a year I'd look elsewhere. Okay. Now it's interesting you would think that thyroid cancer is complex. Experienced surgeons are doing all these operations. That's not that's not actually the case. throughout the country about half of thyroidctomies are done by low volume surgeons in community practices and we know the complication rates higher. Okay. And okay so we've talked about the surgery. Um we'll come back to how we select patients for the type of surgery but what's usually the length of stay. What can patients expect if they have a newly diagnosed peplary thyroid cancer and they've been recommended to undergo surgery? What's usually the length of stay in the hospital and the recovery time? Right. So the operation itself takes about an hour and a half to three hours depending on if we're taking out one lobe or the entire thyroid. Uh the patient usually is in the hospital overnight. Although occasionally if we take out half the thyroid, we send the patient home even the same day. And by home I mean away from the hospital. I prefer them to stay sort of close in the area in case they have any concerns they can get to me and I can get to them to take care of them. Um but generally the hospital's just overnight. The recovery usually patients take about a week off of work depending on what they do. Pain is actually pretty minimal with this operation. Most patients do okay with just Tylenol or ibuprofen. We do offer stronger pain medication if they need that, but most patients have minimal pain. Okay. Can you talk a little bit about the incision? Patients very much want to know what it's going to look like. And um and this is important because it's in an area that potentially would show if you're wearing a low collared shirt, for instance. Yeah. So, we like to make the incision low. So, when a patient is in neutral position without their, you know, neck extended, it's kind of right in the area of the clavicles. It's usually two inches or so depending on the size of the cancer we're removing, occasionally larger. Again, the most important thing is we're able to see the nerve and protect the nerve and the parathyroid glands. And if that mandates a slightly larger incision, that's what we do. Okay. But we do try to keep it as small as possible. Um, we hide it in a skin crease, which is very cosmetically favorable. And a lot of these incisions, you can't even see they're there. I was going to say I walk into the room for many patients sometimes and I can't tell they have to look for them, right? Yes, I do have to look for them. Um and so I think patients really like that and it's important. There are some centers um that do different surgical approaches. Um can you talk a little bit about that just briefly? Sure. There are different ways to take out the thyroid. I think you're referring to potentially a robotic transaxillary thyroidctomy which means taking it out from the armpit behind the ear um through the mouth under the lip for instance. We haven't adopted that approach because really there's not a significant advantage and there's also a questionable disadvantage with regard to increased complication rate with things like going through the armpit and injuring the nerves that control the arm for instance. Yeah. Um so we have not adopted those alternative approaches here at Mayo and I would say in general surgery which is where you are we also have Dr. Jan Casper Bower who has some training in that and for the right patients with very small thyroid it may be an option but it's again patient selection has been very key to that sure and I wouldn't compromise the oncologic or cancer operation for saving the incision size right so that might be approach say if it's a benign lesion for some reason that's that's small okay so let's talk about um our most evolved area today which is the approach do you take out half the lobe? Do you take out the entire lobe and lymph nodes? Um, I would say that up until several years ago, our standard of care has been a near total thyroidctomy. This was for any papillary thyroid cancer. Often even if it was less than a centimeter, but up to five, six, seven centimeters. So even one, two or three centimeter papillary thyroid cancers biopsy proven with or without lymph nodes that look suspicious. Our natural or our general approach was a near total thyroidctomy. And the rationale I think for that is to decrease the risk of recurrence from the surgeon having to come back and see the patient and taking them back to the O. But what we've learned over time and appreciated is that for the most part again this is um a fairly manageable treatable disease and that 90% of our patients do very well with one two three four cm thyroid cancers even if they have several lymph nodes involved. Um, which now begs the question, do we need to take out the entire thyroid or not? What are the advantages of lobectomy from your standpoint? And I can talk from a hormone standpoint as well. Yeah. So, two major advantages. One is the hormone thing. I I'll let you discuss that. The other big advantage is if you're just taking out half of the thyroid, you're not putting the other half of the structures in the neck at risk. So, very importantly, we discussed the recurrent langial nerve that controls the voice. If you're not taking out that half of the thyroid, let's say on the left side, you're not putting that left nerve at risk. So the nerve injury rate, particularly both nerves, is cut in half. In addition, if you're not going to operate on that side, you're not going to put those parathyroid glands at risk. So if you're just taking out half of the thyroid, the risk of a low calcium after surgery is essentially zero. And so you dramatically reduce the risk of surgery by just taking out half half the lo. Yeah. And so from an endocrine standpoint where I see patients back post-operatively um when you take out half the lobe the benefit I tell the patients is it may preserve your thyroid hormone function and we tell patients that roughly three and four will have preserved thyroid hormone levels as measured by a TSH four to six weeks after surgery and may not require um thyroid hormone replacement or um high doses of or full replacement. Um so that's an advantage and um some patients because of thyroid cancer we may put on thyroid hormone replacement to suppress that TSH for the first few years. Um but um many patients may not require thyroid hormone replacement and that's one advantage especially when we're talking about those follicular neoplasms that we don't know um if they're even cancer or not. Um secondly the hypoparathyroidism or low calcium is a big problem in patients. It's very treatable, but it's often difficult to treat. So patients can have calcium levels at very high, very low if all four parathyroid glands aren't working. And this requires patients taking very high dose Tums or calcium plus even prescription level vitamin D. It's a big deal. It's it's a low risk, but if it happens, that's a very big deal. Yes. And you know, patients think, well, it's easy because I can just take some Tums and we're going to be fine. It's much more complicated than that. It is. It is. And so if we can avoid that or limit that risk by first skilled surgeons, even if you have to take the whole s thyroid out, but even by our skilled surgeons, occasionally this happens, it does. Um, taking half the lobe minimizes that risk, right? And when we're talking about thyroid hormone replacement, there's a question that's come through about what's the best uh thyroid replacement drug after removal of the thyroid for papillary thyroid cancer. Um, and so our standard of care for anybody who is hypothyroid or needs thyroid hormone replacement, whether it's for Hashimoto's, an autoimmune condition, or whether it's because we've done surgery, is levothyroxine or synthroidid. And this is um uh thyroid hormone in the form of T4, which is what the um 80% of the normal thyroid produces, and it's given in steady state levels. And so this is our standard of care. I would say that um one of the reasons we also recommend lobectomy and maybe from um the question is what thyroid hormone to give. There are many patients who we put on replacement after a near total thyroid ectomy with levothyroxine or synthroidid and we see them back TSH levels are perfect but they don't feel so good. They have what we what patients refer to and we refer to as hypothyroid type symptoms where they just don't feel well and their thyroid levels are perfect. And these are difficult patients and different difficult scenarios because it's difficult from a thyroid hormone standpoint to affect these symptoms. Once the TSH is perfect, it's it's either not thyroid related or perhaps um adjusting thyroid medication and adding a T3 cytol may be an option, but it's often difficult. Whereas if you can take out half the lobe for a lowrisk thyroid cancer and preserve some of your endogenous or your own body's T4 T3 or thyroid hormone secretion that is really optimal. So, so I think we would say that um as we're um kind of nearing the end of this of our session and it's gone by pretty quickly, Travis is um we really carefully select patients um for the type of surgery whether it's lowbectomy or near total thyroidctomy. We do and I'll I'll again point out it's a multi-disiplinary approach. So, it's not just Dr. Ryder or myself deciding it's all of us together. Yes. And with the patient preference now in there, um there are some patients who are adamant they want the whole thyroid removed. And there are some who for other reasons want just half the thyroid removed. Unfortunately, because this is a disease that on long-term surveillance is also very manageable even if you do develop a recurrence. Um many options can are available to patients where we didn't have that or didn't give that to patients before. So I think as we've all become um aware of and appreciate that thyroid cancer while common is very treatable and most patients do well we now are evolving into a more appropriate treatment for patients and in including patient preference um in this. So you know after we see patients back after surgery regard whether they had a lowbectomy or near total thyroidctomy we um reassess their thyroid hormone levels and their tumor marker if that's appropriate at about four to six weeks after surgery. Anything from a surgical standpoint as long as the patients are doing well the incision looks good they're not having low calcium symptoms they generally don't need to come back and see me. Okay. Certainly if they have any concerns or issues then I always see them back. Okay. So then I usually or I or my colleagues or endocrinologists then take over these patients and I think our role is to keep them away from Travis as much as we can. Um but thyroid cancer can recur. papillary thyroid cancer can recur and most often if it recurs it's in the neck within lymph nodes in the neck and so many patients we see on a yearly or bianual basis where we do neck exams um thyroid hormone levels tumor markers if that's appropriate and neck ultrasounds and this will identify the majority of recurrences and if so if we do get a recurrence then sometimes we can get Travis involved our surgeons for reoperation that's been the standard of care but we also have here alcohol ablation that was really developed and by Dr. Haye and Dr. Bob Lee and Dr. Reading here at Mayo many years ago where we can if a tiny little lymph node has come back and it's only one or two um in a patient who has been heavily um operated on in the past we can inject that with a little bit of alcohol and avoid surgery and that's a big advantage in select patients because surgery can be difficult in reoperative cases. So the nice part about being here is you have multiple options and again this multid-disciplinary approach where you have experts in surgery, experts in ethanol ablation or injection of alcohol into these nodules and we can together with the patient decide what the best and safest approaches. Sure. So we have just a couple minutes left um and questions um may uh come through. In the meantime we can talk about um anything else you want to emphasize about our practice and our approach. Travis, those are the major things. Yeah. So, we do have um there are some nodules that are cystic that are not cancer, but they cause either cosmetic reasons because they're big lumpy bumps in the neck and um people may not like that visually. Sometimes we can see um they can cause compressive symptoms even though they're not cancer. And so, sometimes we operate on these or sometimes we can with our interventional radiologists pull out some of that fluid, inject back alcohol and that shrinks it and controls it. So again, um it's nice now as we've evolved our practice to have both operative and non-operative less invasive approaches for patients with thyroid nodules. That's right. And I guess one thing I would want to point out is the speed at which things happen here. And I think that's very important. Um you know patients come here from far away oftentimes and they can get things done very rapidly. They'll see the endocrinologist, have their ultrasound, the biopsy, see the surgeon all sort of in the same day or two days, have their operation potentially the next day and then fly out a day or two later. Yeah. I wasn't sure I believed that when I joined here. When I was recruited for Memorial four years ago and I was told that you could get your um ultrasound, biopsy and surgery within the same week was impressive and it can happen. That's very unique. Yeah. So, well, great. Well, thank you Travis for joining me today um and for this uh Facebook live session. Um I know there's may be questions that we didn't get to every question, but we'll certainly go through those after this session. And um of course we're happy to answer those questions that we didn't get to um as we move forward.