The thyroid is just this little organ that sits in front of the trachea. It does so much for us, and with these endocrine disorders that involve the thyroid and parathyroid glands, they can be incredibly disruptive for people. We all have four small little parathyroid glands in the back of our thyroid, and they regulate calcium in the body, so they're quite powerful. As we get older and in some disease states that we get some dysregulation, which consists of enlargement of one or more than one of the glands, that is what we call a parathyroid disease. Unfortunately, sometimes these glands can become overactive. It's usually a benign condition, meaning it's not cancer, but it can have negative side effects on bone density, how high your calcium goes, which can make you feel ill. It can cause osteoporosis and other bone issues as well, so it can have significant impact effects. As the calcium levels rise. Sometimes the cells within the thyroid gland tend to grow. If we see something that we're suspicious about or we do a biopsy and it ends up being thyroid cancer, then we discuss further therapies after that. We do fit the criterions being a high volume thyroid and parathyroid center. We also have surgeons on our staff that qualify as high volume surgeons, and the reason why that's important is outcomes are extremely important for most diseases treated with surgery, your first shot is your best shot, so we try to make sure that that, first of all, we understand the extent of a patient's condition or the, the extent of their cancer, and that we form a treatment plan that takes care of it and takes care of it. The first time. The tumor board is something that I run. It involves various specialists, so the endocrinologist, of course, the surgeons, and then we have other disciplines, radiation oncology, the nuclear medicine providers. We have a pathologist that often comes in a radiologist to review, and we all have different experiences and we can kind of share our experiences that may apply to that individual to make sure we're all on the same page as we move forward. This collaboration is, is key. The breadth of experience across the team is, is very unique in a way that is just a seamless transition of care from one specialty to another. Patients can expect a unique experience when they come here. We even have a care hotel, which is a relationship with a hotel across the street from our campus where patients can come in day prior to surgery, get most of their testing done, see a surgeon, see an endocrinologist, get any additional imaging they need, have their surgery done, and then go to the hotel the night of surgery, and then go back home. That's a, a beautiful model for consolidating care and to make sure that we're doing a wonderful job for the people we treat. I think it's important that patients come here and leave here feeling like they've been heard, that they've been understood, that they've been able to participate in their treatment planning and in the, uh, treatment process. I like a happy patient, so it's, it's very rewarding to me to have a successful operation that I come and talk to a patient's family and say, everything went great. We got all the cancer out, and no problems, no surprises. What I enjoy most is the fact that most of them have an excellent outcome, . So I like delivering good news to my patients, and that's the case with most thyroid cancer patients. The needs of the patient comes first, and collaborative care provides the best care for patients.