I'm Dr. Martina McAdam, assistant professor of family medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Scottsdale, Arizona, where summertime temperatures can soar into the three digits throughout the summer months. But no matter where you live, the warmer summertime temperatures can pose an extra problem um when trying to maintain a healthy active lifestyle. During physical activity, the action of working muscles produces heat. This heat increases internal body temperatures. body naturally compensates by producing perspiration. As sweat uh evaporates on the skin, blood close to the surface is cooled then recirculates and decreases body temperature internally. Without adequate hydration, this cooling is not possible. Dehydration results from an imbalance in the body supply and demand for fluids. Symptoms can include fatigue, lightadedness, headache, muscle cramps, in more severe cases leading to disorientation, loss of consciousness, and even death from heat stroke. The first step in preventing dehydration is staying cool and out of the sun. Whenever possible, limit physical activity to the early part of the day or late afternoon and evening when outside temperatures drop. If you need to be out at midday or if you choose to run on your lunch hour like Renee Eisenbays, one of our amazingly fit nurses at the Thunderbird Clinic, then Renee has some tips to help you prevent heat related injuries. Thank you, Dr. McAdam. First, start off by wearing light colored and lightweight clothing. Also, sunscreen, adequate sunscreen, a hat, and sunglasses with UV protection. Also, I I hydrate prior to going to run with 16 ounces of water two hours prior to running and then another eight ounces of water 30 minutes prior to going out. During your exercise, it's very important to drink 8 ounces of water every 10 minutes even though you're not thirsty. Some runners will carry a fanny pack with their water bottle. I like to carry my water bottles in my hands. They also act as weights. And most bicycles will have a water bottle holder on them as well. Thank you, Renee. Monitoring your individual fluid intake is also really important. And don't use thirst as your only trigger. By the time the thirst mechanism kicks in, you may have already lost 2% of your body weight and fluids. That can cause a decrease in ability to cool uh your body temperature um as well as decrease your work capacity. For most athletes, weighing before exercise and after exercise is an excellent way to monitor fluid loss. This is especially important if you are starting a new exercise regimen or there's been a change in the weather. Weigh each time on the same scale with the same clothes. Any weight loss is an indication of fluid loss. Replace every pound with 16 ounces of water. If you have gained any weight after you've exercised, this is an indication of overhydration and you may want to not drink quite so much next time you exercise. Monitoring your urine output is also a good way to monitor fluids. Um, a normal urine output is 1 and a half to 2 L per day, which is actually quite a lot. Urine should be either clear or light colored. Dark concentrated urine is an indication of dehydration. Patients often ask what to drink. If you're exercising for less than 90 minutes at a time, then water is the preferred rehydration fluid. Exercising in short bursts will not likely deplete your body's electrolyte stores. If you're exercising for more than 90 minutes at a time or are out doing strenuous labor for longer periods of time, then a lightly flavored sports drink may benefit you. Sports drinks provide the necessary electrolytes as well as the energy uh required to sustain long periods of intense activity. However, for the casual jogger or lunchtime athlete, sports drinks are more costly both in money and in calories. Just remember to avoid caffeinated beverages and alcohol because these act as diuretics and will actually increase your fluid losses. And remember, whether you're hiking in Phoenix or playing hockey in Minnesota, your body will thank you for keeping it well hydrated by performing better and lasting a lot longer. For more information about this and other health topics, log on to www.mmailcl clinic.org.