This is a perfect day. I have a lot of good memories of this place. When I was a little kid, my dad would take me and my brother out here and we just roam through the park. It was a big adventure. Everything was a lot bigger back then. Tom Smith lives in Missouri. I just moved to Smithville because I do like fishing and we're right by the lake, but the cancer popped up shortly after we moved there and and that kind of stopped my plan for fishing for the time being. He was uh diagnosed with a rare neuroendocrine cancer of the pancreas and he had seen some other oncologists in Kansas City and they had recommended chemotherapy. Neuroendocrine cancers are not very responsive to chemotherapy. I was questionable as to whether that was the best course of action. Well, I thought that this would be a good place for an econole. Dr. David Varane at Mosaic Life Care is Tom's physician. We're a family practice uh primary care location and so we see all types of people. Dr. Dr. Vicram Gupta is Tom's oncologist and a big fan of the electronic consultations, e-conults available to Mosaic Life through its membership in the Mayo Clinic Care Network. In difficult situations where things are not as black and white, getting another opinion is uh very important to see what specialists uh could do because we're general oncologists. It's kind of an easy way to get a second opinion. Dr. Traxxel Growthy is a Mayo Clinic oncologist but also get the opinion of a an institution with even larger expertise where we have the benefits as physicians to be subsp specialcialized at no additional cost to patients. Econults are used for a wide variety of fields cardiology, orthopedics, pediatrics and more. Helping Tom get well that called for experts at fighting cancer. So Dr. Bar assembled his request. I can select the type of documents that I want included in the econult did the appropriate paperwork and things happen very rapidly after that. I called his referring physician right away and we discussed uh the situation. So within 2 days we had this very very detailed result where he re reviewed the scans outside records hisystologology and results of the EGD. The e-conult recommendation, hold off on the outside doctor's suggestion to start with chemo. Surgery first, then chemotherapy. That's what would give Tom the best shot at a cure. I think for patients, they get the benefit of two worlds. Tom gets the benefit of Mayo Clinic's expertise and treatment from the people he knows right in his own community. Time, money, and a life. It's really boils down to those three things. No one appreciates that more than Tom. Most people with pancreatic cancer don't survive. I feel very very fortunate.