- If you want your people to get the best care, you need to go to the best place. This program is how you do that. I'm Lisa Leslie. I work at Hydro-Gear and I am the benefits HRIS administrator. - Hydro-Gear is a US manufacturer of drive systems for the lawn and garden industry and other associated industries. A few years ago we went through a, what we call a healthcare transformation. - Our goal is just to get people to get to the best care that they absolutely could for their condition. If you do a search on the top hospital in the world, you come back with Mayo Clinic. - When we started the complex care program, I don't know that we knew what we were getting into. Now that we've been through it for several years, we realize the cost is actually better than somebody seeing numerous specialists and not getting answers and waiting for appointments. It's a much better experience for the employees and quite honestly, it's a much better program for us as a company. - You should consider the Mayo Program because this is an opportunity for you to go and have multiple tests done within a week's time and actually get answers to your situation instead of the months that it would take for you to do that at home. - Many of our employees are in rural areas, so they don't have good access to expertise that they might need, and this program allows them to get direct access quickly to world class experts. - They can be referred to Rochester, Minnesota to Jacksonville, Florida, or to Arizona. From the employee perspective, when they come to Mayo, their hotel, their flights, their mileage, whatever they do is paid for them. - The travel benefits for people coming to Mayo, I think they're a game changer. I think we find many of our employees literally would not get care, would not come if the travel benefits weren't there. - We've had so many people come out of this with life changing diagnosis or confirmation of diagnosis that they actually know how to proceed with the rest of their life and know that they're doing the right thing. - You know, what a stroke of luck that this came to us and we were able to engage in this, and we have had numerous life-changing stories from our employees, and there's no doubt our company has benefited from it as well.