Hello everyone. My name is Dr. Kyara Britinger. I'm a preventive cardiologist here at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. And I'm extremely excited for our final three-part series, our third episode for the new dietary guidelines for Americans with a good friend and someone I very much look up to, Dr. Steve Capetsky in our preventive cardiology division. Dr. Steve Capetsky is a cardiologist at Mayo Clinic. Interestingly, and a really fun fact is he originally was an interventional cardiologist before coming to the best side, which is now preventive cardiology. And he has written numerous articles for peer-reviewed um publications and scientific journals. He's received multiple teacher of the year awards in both our department of internal medicine and cardiovascular disease. His research interests include the role that lifestyle, including diet, exercise, and proper nutrition, play in risk prediction and the development of cardiovascular disease. He also has special expertise in statin intolerance, especially in our population affected by familial hyper cholesterolmia. He also is the author of an amazing book called Live Younger Longer. Welcome Dr. Capetsky. How are you doing today? >> Very fine Dr. Kalora Bettinger. Thank you for having me. >> Okay. Well, as you know, in our first episode, we had Dr. Darius Mosafarian come on and give his take on the new dietary guidelines. Tara Schmidt, our wonderful dietician here at Mayo Clinic, then provided some practical guidelines. So really this episode is to hear about what you think is great takeaways from the new DGAS, what probably needs to be discussed a little bit more for the viewers out there and how do we translate these dietary guidelines for Americans into real world cardtabolic care. So I'll set the stage for you there. >> Thank you. So the guidelines come every 5 years as you know and these were a lot different. The best thing there were a couple of best things about it. One was the last guidelines were 70 pages. This was 10 pages. That's that's a plus I think for patients. Simple. Uh the first line of the guideline I think is great. You know, they say eat more real food, you know, and um that means they want to get away from the ultrarocessed foods. In fact, they put in there uh some foods actually to avoid. They're all highly ultrarocessed foods. The um one thing that they really got bright was saying don't eat these foods that are readymade etc. And the data is very good that we're eating many many more than we should and it's you know leading to our early death early dementia cancers other things. So I think and this is the first guideline that really came out and kind of focused on that point and I think it's really important for Americans especially young Americans you know my age group we eat about probably 60% of our calories as ultrarocessed food younger Americans your age group 70% up to 75 in some groups so not you personally of course >> you could call me younger >> yeah yes the um but clearly it's something that we need to pay attention to to help our patients Now, some things that uh you know are a little uh there's some confusing things, but there always isn't a guideline. It's always that way. You can't come out and be black and white and everybody agrees. >> And one of the confusing things is you can call it a pyramid, you can call it a triangle, you can call it a plate. I think it's like a triangular plate is what they're they're um you know their pictures that they had. And I think that the picture actually reflects and along with the the print uh version it reflects what we recommend. You know, eat about 10% of our fats as saturated fats. uh you can have about three ounces of red meat and uh in in the Mediterranean diet which we promote here and is one of the most studied diets we have that shows it reduces multiple things not just heart disease but cancers and Alzheimer's and uh other uh diseases that nobody wants to have. So the the diet as they give it to us, you have to take it in totality, >> not just the picture uh you know not just the recommendations but all together in a very small short package and it does need some interpretation I think from dieticians from physicians from nutritionists you know to help patients really do what's best for them. >> And that's fantastic. I'm glad you talked about that and I'm glad you said three ounces because for somebody like me and many there are others out there, what does three ounces of >> protein even mean? So, we're hearing in the guidelines eat more animal meat doesn't really matter um as much as saturated fat, but you mentioned 10%. So, it could be misleading the headlines because in the details it does say 10%. So, what is 3% to the average consumer out there? Yeah, 10% uh it can for some Americans can be three bites, you know, an ounce. Some people eat an ounce of red meat in one bite and you get three ounces. Now, that's that was in the Mediterranean diet that's been, you know, very studied, the 3 ounces of red meat. And remember, red meat is not just pork or beef. It's also dark meat poultry or light meat poultry with the skin on. So the problem is if you go out with your spouse to a honeymoon or a restaurant for your anniversary or birthday and they bring you a three ounce steak, you say, "Where's the manager? What is this tiny [laughter] little thing on my plate? We're so much used to eating, you know, a bigger portions." And so portion size is important. Obviously, frequency of eating is important, and we're all eating probably about four or five times a day, not just three times a day. And then the density of food is important. But uh really uh the ultrarocessed foods fit into you know three of those categories to be honest because we're snacking on on quick foods like ultrarocessed food. We are getting a lot of calories and we absorb more calories in the ultrarocessed foods. So I think that you know clearly we need to put this into a package that works for our patients. So what do I mean by that? Well, help them interpret this and not get not get caught up in the controversies, not get caught up in the politics, and there's a lot of politics unfortunately going on these days, but start to focus on what really can benefit them. >> And if you look at the picture of the um you know, the triangular picture uh and say how many things are in there? Well, you know, there's there's about you know, 35 different uh things on that in that triangle. Now, 14 of them, 42% of them at least are fruits and vegetables. >> And these guidelines say, you know, eat a couple of fruits and three vegetables a day. The uh, you know, things like carrots, broccoli, tomatoes, squash, um, you know, bananas, avocado, uh, those things are all good for you. And if you think if you look back in our history on this planet, we have eaten, our species has eaten about 50% of our calories as carbohydrates with fiber. And fiber is a non-caloric carbohydrate. And I tell patients that because the only place you find it is in things that grow from the ground. It doesn't come out of, you know, animal products. And uh so you can eat something that'll fill you up and doesn't give you calories. And that's where all the fruits and vegetables fit. Now, the second thing on the picture is um is, you know, protein, dairy, and meats. And some people have trouble because it's on the top, but you know, this isn't a pyramid. In fact, it's an inverted pyramid, a triangular plate. And um I think plates are, you know, people understand plates a lot better than they understand pyramids. I remember one pyramid, it was a bunch of lines coming down from the top. and [laughter] uh and that was really confusing. But the protein, the meat, the dairy, you know, that includes some beef, some pork, poultry, egg. Uh again, if you're only eating 10% of your calories of saturated fat, you can't have a lot of these, >> right? >> You have small amounts. Cheese, a couple of little dice equivalent of dice of cheese that's in there. A couple of the dairy things, they're saying to eat two or three dairy things a day, but a couple of the dairy things are fermented, you know, like cheese and yogurt, which we know are actually very helpful uh for us. Uh they do have whole milk in there because whole milk has more protein. You know, 8 glass has about six or eight grams of protein in it. And then they have some butter, but you just can't eat as much as you want of everything you want. And that's the thing to remember. They do have three different types of seafood. You know, some shrimp, some salmon, some tuna, which we know is very helpful. So, so the uh you know, the meats, the proteins, uh people have heard this, you know, eat the red meat, but that's more the hype. That's more the um that's more the gotcha, you know, the the clickbait. When you look at the actual >> you, you know, you look at the at what's in here in this guideline, I think it's quite reasonable in that regard. It does encourage olive oil, avocado oil, nut oil, things like that. And then the third section of the of the triangular plate is uh the whole grains. And people say, "Oh, where the where are the legumes?" Well, they're there. You know, a bean is a legume. A peanut is a legume. You know, it has things on there like peas. They are legume. They're a little more starchy, a little, you know, carbohydrate in them. Um, but they really do have legumes on here. So, um, they have a couple of nuts. They have some walnuts, walnuts, some almonds, um, and some whole grains. And, uh, they put looks like they got raisins in one of the whole grain cereals that they're eating. Uh, they have a whole grain bread. So, I think this really fits with the Mediterranean that we've been uh, encouraging patients to eat for years. >> And I love that there are so many tidbits um, that I want to rapid fire back at you um, as in which is worse, right? Because you mentioned butter. So, what's worse, butter or coconut oil for people out there? >> Well, some people really raise their their LDL cholesterol with coconut oil. That's right. In fact, the head-to-head studies have shown it's you raise it more with coconut oil or palm oil than you do with butter. >> Yeah. So, one of the most mismared health foods out there is probably coconut oil. Do you agree or disagree with that? >> Uh, overarketed, I would say. Yeah. >> Yeah, for sure. And then when it comes to the ultrarocessed foods, right, we talk about um well, what's available to Americans now? And right now the food supply is 60 to 70% ultrarocessed foods. So now like let's fast forward to seeing a patient in the clinic. Um very busy day at work and they don't have time to prepare fresh foods and vegetables and whole grains and meal prep and do all the right things, right? and they have the [clears throat] education and they go to the grocery store and 60 to 70% of everything they see is ultra processed. How do you pragmatically get them to now >> kind of slowly change in the direction that we want for them to have an improved anti-inflammatory lifestyle and an improved gut microbiome etc. Well, again, it's it's all about the plate, you know, and um try to eat, you know, three meals a day on a plate. You can visualize a plate. You can see what's on it. Where we get in trouble is the snacking. And, you know, snacking uh is easily 500 calories very often. And so, the data has shown that people are eating at least 400 calories at least four or five times a day. And that's 2,000 calories. And then that's uh the snacks are less. You know, meals are usually 1,00 to,500 calories. So, you easily get over the number of calories you should take. >> So, I tell folks when you do want to snack, find something find the best thing you can eat to snack. Uh and that is not something in fact they actually um have on their on their um on the uh booklet that came along with this diet. They say don't eat these um you know, ready to eat meals. be careful with flour tortillas, be careful with crackers, you know, be careful with white bread. And they've, you know, singled out those four foods, which uh, you know, I would have added in like sausage and hot dogs, things like that, too, which have a lot of chemicals in them you don't really need or want. >> Uh, but clearly they're trying to say, you know, when you do eat, eat a whole food. Eat a carrot, eat an apple, you know, eat a a small piece of meat, eat a piece of cheese, you know, eat some nuts that really, especially the cheese and the nuts really sate you, you know, nuts have good fat that fill you up >> and uh keep you full. But you don't need, you know, 10 handfuls of almonds. Try just eating 10 almonds, you know, >> because that's where you get in trouble. There's a lot of calories there. >> And have some fluid with it, but don't drink your calories. I think that's something we have gotten into the habit of doing in this country. You know, it's not just sugar sweetened beverages which are, you know, ultrarocessed, but also they're the uh, you know, the herbal drinks. I mean, herbal drinks are great, tea and coffee, but when you start putting, you know, some caramel syrup in it or chocolate syrup or sugary, you know, things that have a lot of calories, that's where you get into trouble. So, don't eat calories because our species uh has never really drank calories. We've drank fluid to quench our thirst and we still do. We don't think of it as a calorie. And that's where we get into real trouble when with uh with drinking our calories. So if you want to have something, have some water. Have some sparkling water, something like that. Have some tea, a coffee, but don't put calories in. >> Yeah. And I agree with all of that. Do you think that as a species though our pallets have evolved to now be addictive to these forms of foods of ultrarocessed foods and in that case somebody who spent the last 10 years or all of their adulthood eating these ultrarocessed foods they might not want to go for the carrot right they might not want to go for the hard-boiled egg. Do you have any advice for those listeners out there where you know this transformational like day and night type of a change may not be as sustainable for them? >> Yeah, try to find something you like that's healthy. It may be a small thing, one bite or put something on it that you like uh like some uh spices that are lower calorie. You can make something that's kind of mundane and something very tasty with some good spices and there are a lot of them out there. So try that and do it in small portions and start to fill your plate with that before you add these other things. You know, start to pile up all the things that aren't as healthy for us. And it's a slow process. You know, we all tend to think, okay, I'll change, oh, doctor, I'll change my diet tomorrow. I promise I will change. I will only eat, you know, carrots and and uh and paper, you know, cardboard, something like [laughter] that, which, you know, isn't going to last more than about, you know, 20 minutes. But I say, you know, just take one bite at a time. It really is a small change. Why is one bite? Because we know that one bite can make a difference after a couple of years and lowering your heart attack rate. One bite of a ultrarocessed red meat which has a lot of chemicals and sodium in it. Uh one bite less can lower your your risk. Trading that red meat for a legume or a black bean or something like that can start to lower your risk. So just do little things over time and find ways that you like to eat them that really do, you know, fulfill you and s you and and please you. >> Yeah, I think that's a great kind of step-wise approach to that. And so I guess what I'm thinking about next is for patients out there who are told for the first time they have pre-diabetes or metabolic syndrome or cardiomatabolic disease or kind of elevated blood pressure and they're very averse to starting medications. Right. You and I both have patient populations that are kind of, you know, at that threshold. They're not in that elderly population yet where kind of medications, >> you know, the train has left already, I say. And so how does nutrition how can they change their nutrition to avoid fullout diabetes to avoid kind of that visceral atyposity that kind of normal weight obesity where all of those cardioabolic factors like your HSCP your high sensitivity C-reactive protein your lipids your triglycerides right your insulin resistance do you counel patients individually based on their kind of phenotype or depending on how they distribute their fat versus skeletal lean muscle mass, if they're insulin resistance, and what types of food you push forward to them >> to kind of help them with their goal, which is to avoid medications in their future. >> Yeah, great question. And clearly, it's not only about the diet first off, it's also about the physical activity. It's how they manage their stress because stressed people eat more foods that aren't good for them. It's how healthy their sleep is because they don't get good sleep, then they get more hungry throughout the day. So that's really important and we can't forget about that because it has to be looked at in totality. The second thing is, you know, some of the foods are a little better to eat. Um, you know, maybe a little bit of red meat, a little bit of of fermented dairy, you know, yogurt, cheese, things like that. A little better to eat in terms of the diabetes. Maybe an egg, you know, don't you don't need have a three egg omelette with three uh yolks in it. Maybe you can have a three egg omelette with one yolk in it, you know, and put something else in there uh that you enjoy. Uh clearly, you know, if you uh in the way you eat, where you eat, what you're doing while you eat is very important. So, say you get on watch TV, you after a while you think, "Oh my gosh, you know, who who's been eating all this food, [laughter] you know, and you're thinking of something else." You know, the the eating should be this the center part of what you're doing. Maybe with your spouse or loved ones or families or friends, that's great. But don't do it while you're doing something else like driving the kids to the soccer uh practice, you know, because then you just woofed something down that you really wish you wouldn't have done later. >> Yeah. And that's it's really important because what it sounds like you're describing is just mindfulness and mindful eating. And it's so interesting that you know when I meet people across the world and they say you know Americans they're always in transit when they're drinking a cup of coffee when they're eating something and you guys carry around these large jugs of everything in food and in pockets and in this and that where you know there's special tea time where we focus and feel the temperature. We smell the aroma and [clears throat] really slow down and take the time. But you know, this is what our society has evolved with this convenience, very quick bait, getting through everything. So, if we could slow down and actually pay attention to what we're doing, especially when it comes to eating as food is medicine, it's super important to slow down. And so, you know, I love that that that you mentioned those things. Um, another question I have is, you know, when it comes to the media and the headlines, how do you combat that with patients? I have patients tell me they're on the lion diet, right, which is a more aggressive form of a carnivore diet where they're using a rudimentary extra gut for processing where, you know, it's a severe form of almost the paleolithic diet. And in some forms, right, they could associate this particular diet with whole foods and say, "This is probably similar to the DGAS." And as preventive cardiologists, you and I, you know, how do we meet them in the middle >> to to to help them see this, right? Because they could find a podcast out there. They can find on chat GPT, on Google, you could find any bias you want that is partial to your beliefs. But at the end of the day, we're not ran by industry as cardiologists. At least I hope not. We want just the best health for our patients. >> Yeah. No, it's so true. And I do think that a little bit of education goes a long way in speaking to patients at a level they understand. And that is to say, you know, calories uh do matter. We know that from the GLP-1 drugs that have us eating less calories than we lose weight. You know, you talk to people that have um that are in movies and they need to lose weight for a movie and they they go to a nutritionist and they'll tell them what to eat and tell them exactly how much weight they're going to lose after six or eight weeks. You know, this is this it really is about the calories. So, help them understand that, you know, that the calorie uh really counts, but also a calorie is not equal. You know, ultrarocessed calories are really you gain more weight from them. you absorb them better, you get more addicted to them. A lot of things happen that aren't good. Now, the ultrarocessed foods, people, you know, and you've talked to them, Kyle, and they'll say, "Oh, doctor, I don't eat I don't ever eat junk food. I never do." I say, "Well, do you eat ketchup?" "Well, yeah." Okay. Half of ketchup is, you know, ultrarocessed sugar. Or, "Doctor, I eat only organic." In fact, one patient, I said, "What do you have?" He said, "I have these bars." I said, "Well, you know, what's in them?" He goes, "Well, here I got one in my bag. Show it to me." And I said, 'You know, this may be organic, but it's organic ultrarocessed, you know, high fructose corn syrup. And uh, you know, and so you can't you can't assume that something that says healthy or organic on the outside is really good for you. And the patients, I I actually recommend that they use the Yaka app, Yuka. It's a free phone app. You aim it at the barcode on a on a food at a point of purchase and it'll tell you within seconds, as you know, what's in it. >> And it'll give you not just, you know, calories and sodium, but also what are the additives. >> And the additives, if you need to go back to your high school chemistry book to figure out what these additives are, then don't buy [laughter] us, right? >> There's there's too many uh you know, too many compounds in there that aren't natural. And um you know, the in the ultrarocessed foods, I think they're slipping into our diet much more than we ever thought. I mean, literally, it's well over half, twothirds of our diet. And that's everybody. I mean, we we're all because why? Because, well, you know, at home, we can control what we eat. What about when we go to a friend's house? What about when we go to a restaurant? What about when we go to a ball game and buy a hot dog or something? You know, it happens. And I just have to tell patients, you know, life happens, right? >> You go to friend's house for Fourth of July picnic or something. you know, have the potato salad from grandma, you know, that's great, but just don't do it every day. And uh when you can control it, control it as much as you can. >> Yeah. And it sounds like what you're saying is like food culture around events and life is really important in terms of quality of life. And I and I can't agree more. Now, you mentioned GLP-1. And so, interestingly, it's, you know, not the elephant in the room, it's the skinny elephant in the room, actually. And so, Many people out there are probably on some kind of micro dose of it, right? Because we know of the anti-inflammatory effects outside of just pure weight loss. And how would somebody who's managing these micro doses or regular doses, maintenance doses of GLP-1 receptor, >> how would you apply the new dietary guidelines when they're already feeling pretty satiated, nauseous, and they're eating, you know, 800 to,200 calories? what should they be going for first when they are eating >> and one thing about GLP-1s they can retach us how to eat and that's very very important we've forgotten you know kids in this country up to age three have the healthiest diets of any children in the world by age nine our kids in America have the worst diet in the world why is that at age five or six they go to a friend's house get some super sugar s you know puff cereal and they come home and say mom dad I'd like some of that cereal and their and their diet plummets in terms of quality. So what about the GLP1s? Well, number one is don't drink your calories, but do drink at least three lers of fluid a day because the you know the the motion of your gut, the paristalsis, which is the activity that propels the food through the gut, slows down so much. You have to drink more because otherwise you'll get so constipated because the food just sits there and all the fluid comes out. >> Secondly, eat the really good stuff first. because you're you're going to run out of room, you know, you're not going to have room in your stomach. What do I mean by the good stuff? Eat, you know, some protein, you know, and not the protein that is a bar, you know, you can buy in a bar that's in a wrapper that says, "Oh, this is if you're on a GLP-1, eat this protein bar." No, eat a pure piece of, you know, a smaller piece of pure meat, chicken breast, you know, something like that. uh have something uh the only thing I will say to drink calories is maybe a protein drink that you make with a you know a smoothie with putting some fruits and veggies in there, little ice, maybe some protein powder you whey or something like that that you know that's reasonable. But you're doing that that'll start to fill you because it has all the pulp and fiber in it from the fruits and the vegetables that you grind up. So, a couple of things there. And then, uh, and and for the, you know, the sweet stuff, if you want something sweet, that's okay at the end, but get some get some, you know, dark chocolate, you know, and you'll have to find your percent, you know, 70% dark chocolate can be a little bitter. You maybe more down to 40 to 50%, whatever, and work your way up. >> But, you know, still enjoy things, but just be smart about it. And um and the point is you will then learn after you go off the GLP-1 or even if you're when it's the end of the week that you're on it uh where there's less effects, you'll learn how to eat better >> and enjoy it more. And that really is important and it empowers people I think. And many of my patients just as yours have told you, doctor, I don't have that voice in my head anymore telling me to eat. And uh right, >> that's really really important. And that's where it fit, you know, works into the addiction of alcohol and smoking and things like that. >> Yeah. And I really couldn't agree more. It's almost like these GLP-1 receptor agonists and all the um dual agonist and triple agonists that are coming down the pipeline are really going to be the answer or the antidote to this convenience culture ultrarocess kind of society that unfortunately has evolved because of you know every the science technology. not enough time to do anything and sit down and be mindful. And so I definitely appreciate all of those tips that we all could learn from. So in the final 60 seconds or so, give us your Dr. Capetsky live younger longer. If I could see you, not everyone could come and see you as their preventive cardiologist. What is the kind of elixir would you say um when it comes to food and longevity and overall health? Yeah, it it's really one bite at a time and I can't emphasize that enough. Every bite we know is important. Be just as careful what you put in your body as you are careful about the, you know, the gasoline you put in your car or the uh detergent you use to, you know, clean your clothes or something like that. It is so important what we put in our body and we just we treat it as, oh, it's just a tube. I'll just put it in. It'll it'll just go right through me. It won't affect me. That's not true. And it can really make you so much healthier. Uh be uh start to learn where the ultrarocessed foods live in your diet and in your day because they will sneak in there. And if you want to have a bite, you know, I I love Oreo cookies. I have been known to buy a bag of Oreo cookies, eat half a cookie, and throw the rest of them away. You know, that's just especially at Halloween when they got the the orange and the black ones. Those are so cool. So, you know, still enjoy it, but be smart about it. That's really, really important. And then last is um you know, try to take care of all of you. You know, not just the stress and the sleep um but the exercise, those things. You know, the leg bones connected to the hipbone and how you eat is also affected by how you sleep and how you mitigate your stress. Notice I didn't say get rid of stress since none of us can get rid of stress. It's ubiquitous in the world now. And uh that's especially true for the younger generation. They're the most stressed generation we've seen in our in our society ever in this country. Uh there are little things every day, don't give up on it. You know, if you don't do a perfect job today, hey, you know, with your job, uh you know, your occupation, whatever it is, you come back tomorrow to work and you try to do better. The same with your diet. If you mess up and uh eat some things you shouldn't have and you feel real bloated or full or or feel uh kind of embarrassed, you know, just learn from it. Go on the next day and and try to do a little better one bite at a time. >> One bite at a time. And I'll leave it at that. That is a wonderful wonderful advice. And um we super appreciate all of these facts and tidbits and advice you've given us, Dr. Capetsky. And so, thank you so much for joining us. And that concludes our three-part series. Thank you so much everybody for joining. >> Thanks for having me. At Mayo Clinic, relentless learning fuels worldclass care. I'm Dr. Rajie Gulati, [music] chair of the division of interventional cardiology. If today's episode gave [music] you a fresh insight, imagine what a full course can do for your patients. Head to cveducation.mayo.edu [music] and explore our live and online programs, our quick on demand modules, and our [music] CME accredited master classes created and taught by the very voices you [music] trust here. Join thousands of clinicians who've already turned curiosity into expertise. Level up your practice now at cveducation.mayo.edu.