- Hello everybody, this is Kyle Klarich coming to you from Rochester, Minnesota in cardiology and cardiac surgery. We are here with the Interviews With the Experts today. Today our expert is, and it's my pleasure to introduce Dr. Kevin Greason, associate professor of surgery and phenomenal surgeon at Mayo Clinic in Rochester. I have the topic that we will be discussing is the difference between surgical aortic valve replacement and transaortic insertion, transcatheter aortic insertion of aortic valve replacement. So sometimes referred to as TAVI, sometimes referred to as TAVR. But for the purpose of this discussion we will discuss it as TAVI implantation or insertion. Right Kevin? - Right, good morning, Kyle. Thank you for having me. - It's great to have you here. So Kevin, when we talk about or transcatheter approaches to aortic valve insertion, we know that the surgical approaches have become so safe, durable, patients do very, very well for long periods of time. So now we have this new, relatively new procedure that's also beginning to get a lot of traction. As you know, we're doing a lot of them at Mayo and I was wondering if you could just give the audience an overview of what groups of patients you really think are meant to have the transcatheter approach versus a surgical approach in today's technology? - Thank you, Kyle. That's a great question and I think it all boils down to the TAVI procedure offers a less invasive option for aortic valve treatment of aortic valve stenosis and less invasive in that it can be done through a puncture in the groin and it does not involve the cardiopulmonary bypass machine. I mean those two advantages are huge for TAVI procedure. And we live in a patient-centric environment and I think our job as a aortic valve expert is to give the patient all the information they need so that they can make the right decisions for themselves. And sometimes we do color that by telling them, you know, you're not a good TAVI candidate or you're not a good surgery candidate. And we just have to be honest with them right decision for themselves. - Do you think that there is a difference in certain endpoints? Like maybe we could, I think probably the most important one to many patients is what's the risk of death related to a surgical or transcatheter approach? - So we're fortunate in that there have been several large prospective randomized studies that have looked at the comparison of surgical versus transcatheter aortic valve insertion. And in general, I tell patients that the risk of dying from the procedure is the same. And as far as we know the data that we have out to eight years, there's no difference in mortality whether you have surgical or transcatheter aortic valve insertion. Now most of those studies that were done were done in 85 year old people, and those data are not necessarily applicable to 60 year olds. But it's something that we can talk about in the consultation room. - How about stroke? That's also been raised as something that we worry a lot about with any interventional procedure and any surgical procedure. Is there a difference in rates of stroke related problems? - That's a great question because I don't think there's a surgeon alive who would've thought that TAVI could be done with a low risk of stroke. But it turns out the risk of stroke is the same, at 30 days, the risk of stroke is the same with TAVI and surgery. - That's impressive. Really, I have to say that I was one of the doubting cardiologists at the time too, just based on our previous experience with balloon valvuloplasty. We knew that there was a risk of stroke with those that was quite high. - I tell patients the risk is about one to 2%. - That's great, one to 2%, that's fantastic. - And most people fear stroke more than death. So that's an important conversation to have. - That's actually a really good point. And I said death might be the first thing that people worry about, but I think you're right. My experience, patients worry more about living with a debilitating stroke than dying with a procedure. So that's a really important point and that it's only one to 2% is very low. So 98 to 99% of our patients could get through either a surgical or a catheter implantation with what very low risk of stroke. So that's fantastic. - Yeah and most of those strokes are mildly debilitating. - Mildly debilitating. Okay. - Yes. - Even better. How about the groups? Or maybe is there a certain group of patients that you tend to steer in the direction of surgical valve replacement versus transcatheter implantation? - So when I see a patient there's two things that I look at in that regard. One is age and the other is the CAT scan. So age-wise, most of the TAVI procedures have been done in elderly people. And we know how a TAVI procedure may or a TAVI, the TAVI valve will last on an 85 year old, we don't have that information in somebody who's 60 or less than 60. So that's kind of a black box and we need to kind of put that out there to the patient that that is an unknown. But I spend quite a bit of time looking at the CT scan to determine is this patient a good candidate for a TAVI procedure? Are there findings in the aortic root that make me worried about doing a TAVI procedure? And I'll just be honest with the patient and tell 'em, you know, that a TAVI is a bad option for you, I would recommend surgery. And most patients hear that, understand that and are willing to, you know, change their mindset about what they're gonna move ahead with. - And you mentioned durability. I think that you said that you can pretty much guess how long a valve is a TAVI valve is gonna last an 85 year old but we don't have that data for a 60 year old. But what is that number? How long do you quote an 85 or 80 year old that their transcatheter aortic valve implant will last? - Well this is what I tell patients. You will wear out before the valve will wear out. Now I don't have a crystal ball to know for sure but we're not seeing any signal that TAVI valves break down early. I mean, I think an a biological surgical aortic valve is gonna last probably 10, 15 years. And I think that's all we'll see with the TAVI valves. There is one study out there called the NOTIONS trial that has patients out to eight years after surgery or TAVI and there is no difference in structural valve deterioration in those patients. - So at least up to eight. Yeah, so that means that at least out to eight years we are pretty convinced that they track each other very closely. - Yeah. - In surgical. - I think there's only like 145 patients in each of those study arms. So it's not a huge study, but it is encouraging - And it does suggest that we'll be hearing more about this in a few years. So that's good news. - Yes. - How about the risk of other things? For instance, the pacemaker we hear, we watch- - So that's- - For that complication. - Yeah, so that's where the big differences come. So I focus on several areas when I'm talking about risk in surgery versus TAVI. One is dialysis renal failure, that's less with TAVI procedure, respiratory failure, much less with TAVI procedure, blood transfusion, much less with the TAVI procedure. Now that ratio switches when we start talking about pacemakers. So in the prospective partner three study, there was no statistical difference whether you would get a pacemaker with surgery or with TAVI procedure. But that's kind of an anomaly, in our kind of real world experience here in Rochester is that your chances of needing a pacemaker after surgery is about 5%. Your chances of needing a pacemaker after the TAVI procedure is probably about 15%. But not all those TAVI patients had heart block, a lot of 'em had a new left bundle branch block in the setting of already having like a first degree AV block. And we're just a little nervous about sending those patients out without a pacemaker. It's not that they need it definitely but we're pretty sure they needed just for safety sake. - Right, just an abundance of caution then to put, send them out since we- - Yeah. - We don't know for sure. And I think everyone's aware that probably the transcatheter procedure has a shorter recovery than the surgical but can you articulate a little bit further how, what the differences are there? - Right, I tell patients that if the TAVI procedure goes well, they will probably be better in one day. Surgery's gonna take 'em probably two months to get over that. Now that doesn't mean to say that we should never do surgery, but all things being equal, you know, your chances of getting up and being back to normal after your TAVI procedure are much greater. And I've had patients who the first time they get up to walk after a TAVI procedure tell me that they can breathe now. That's pretty impressive. - Yeah, that is. That's fantastic. I think it's an amazing new technology that's really not that new but we're certainly learning that those inoperable patients, high-risk patients and now intermediate risk and even low-risk patients are reasonable TAVI candidates. - Yeah. - Could you agree? - Yeah, you know, I tell patients that, you know, we have the iPhone seven version right now of the TAVI valve. Who knows what it's gonna be when it's, you know, the iPhone 14 or whatever, you know? - [Kevin] So I'm excited about it. - So it's pretty clear that for an older patient that has appropriate anatomy based on your CT scan evaluation, those patients would, we'd steer them in the direction of a TAVI. - I would agree. - In those patients who have unfavorable anatomy or may need some other surgical procedure, I.e. some sort of a mitral or tricuspid valve or coronary artery bypass grafting. And even that's plus or minus because you could approach that percutaneously as well. But mostly patients that are straightforward aortic disease would be steered towards a TAVI unless they're young and young, I think is getting younger, is getting older all the time. - I get older too, yeah. - So you said 60 or below? - Yeah. - Is that kind of, so that's between 60 and 85. How do we make that, that's a tough group, isn't it? - Yeah, so you know, that's where oftentimes those additional comorbidities come in, so, you know, when we do a TAVI procedure, we're really just focusing on the aortic valve. We're not treating their atrial fibrillation, we're not treating their mitral or their tricuspid disease. And certain nuances of coronary disease are probably best treated surgically. And that's an important discussion to have with the patient because surgery does offer the option to do a left atrial appendectomy which can have a significant stroke reduction effect on them with their atrial fibrillation. And also, you know, dealing with the mitral or the tricuspid valve regurgitation. I tell patients that with a successful TAVI procedure, there's about a 25% chance their tricuspid or their mitral regurgitation will get better. There's about a 25% chance it may get worse and there's about A-50% chance it's not gonna change. But we know with surgery that we would be highly effective at making their mitral or tricuspid valve regurgitation much less. So that's just where it comes into the each patient is an individual and you need to sit down and go through those additional comorbidities with them. - Right, so I think this has been a really comprehensive discussion in general, but what you're saying is that in general it's great to think about TAVI in the whole mix but for an individual patient, we need to take into account all the other comorbidities that they have in other organ systems and all the other comorbidities they have in the cardiac system as well. And once that's done, then we can make the final recommendation based on those. - Right, yeah. But I think most patients would still choose a TAVI procedure 'cause it's so much less invasive than surgery, so. - Right and how risky is, you mentioned cardiopulmonary bypass as being one of the things that, you know, raises the anti in favor of TAVI because we don't have to do that, we don't have to do general anesthesia. Are there, is that, what's the risk that you would apply to that cardiopulmonary bypass general anesthesia kind of realm at this point in time? - Yeah. So there's probably two things that really fit into this question. One would be blood transfusion. Obviously when you go on a cardiopulmonary bypass, your chances of meaning a blood transfusion are gonna be there probably 30 to 50% with an aortic valve replacement. And the other one would be renal failure or just acute renal injury. Now the good news is, is you know, the chances you'd end up on dialysis are pretty low to begin with but they're certainly higher with a surgical procedure than they are with the transcatheter procedure. And both of those complications are related to the cardiopulmonary bypass. - Thank you for clarifying that. That's great. Are there any other final points you wanna make about the discussion, surgical versus transcatheter aortic valve implantation? - No, I think the most important aspect is, you know, framing it around the patient-centric discussion and letting them understand all the nuances. It's not a five minute discussion it's probably a 35, 30 or 45 minute discussion. And it's best to have their family there too. Especially when you're talking about, you know, a high risk procedure in an elderly patient where you're gonna tackle some of those additional cardiac comorbidities. It's best to have the whole family there so that all questions can be discussed and answered prior to, you know, whatever procedure you're gonna do. Because, you know, sometimes TAVI don't work out. And that's disappointing. And in those situations, oftentimes we will do surgery. - Right, so you have to be prepared to intervene surgically if the TAVR doesn't work out the way you want it to. - Right, correct. - Yeah, so I think you make a very good point that in today's world and as it should be, things are patient-centric. And if a lot is shared decision making that goes into the planning for a cardiac procedure especially when it comes to aortic versus, the aortic surgical versus aortic transcatheter implantations. - Absolutely. - Great, well I think this has been really informative and it's been great to have you here and you're very knowledgeable on this subject and I know you do both. And so you have a very balanced view of both surgical and transcatheter approach to aortic valve replacement. So I'd like to thank you for taking the time outta your busy schedule to participate with the Interviews With the Experts and have a nice rest of your day to you and our audience. - Thank you, Kyle, you too.