All right. We'll go ahead and get started. So pharmacist Tom at your service today titled my presentation Transplant Pharmacy. Thank you 2025 with gratitude 2026. All right. So first of all, we want to thank you to all the members of the multidisciplinary transplant team. We appreciate you so very much for your service each and every year. And a special thank you on this special day, Thanksgiving, and every day thereafter. after. First of all, when you need to choose a pharmacy, a lot of times this is getting taken care of in the pre -transplant phase before you're listed. You want to do this to avoid delays in discharge on the back end. Pharmacy must consistently stock transplant medications. They can do overnight processing and delivery. They're familiar with transplant medications. types of pharmacies local retail mail order and specialty we use three specialty pharmacies here and the social work team gives you a list of those in the pre-transplant phase to choose for your selection so that you're all set to go for the post-transplant phase insurance and billing pharmacy must be able to bill multiple insurance plans pharmacy must be able to provide cost estimates. So they'll give you a little price break. You'll report that back to social work and they'll tell you how to do that. Must be a network and pharmacy choice will depend on your insurance, obviously. And then one point that I put is never let your insurance lapse. Never let your insurance stop you from taking your medications. There's always a means where the pharmacy could help you out, give you a few to tie you over before your insurance gets back on track or social work can assist with that. The main thing is you don't want your organ to reject because of insurance. There are ways around that. So thank you very much for insurance. Ask questions. What is the name of the medication? What is its purpose? So each medication on your med list you should know what it is for why are you taking it how long you're going to take that for we go over that in our one-on-one visit with pharmacy and if you forget to take a dose same thing there food or drinks to avoid we go over that in your one-on -one consult as well and the consults and also i'll go over those here as well side effects report those in clinic and also how coordinators have a means of how they want you to report those because there's maybe different things we can do to help alleviate any of those maybe it's another med or maybe we can adjust some things. And then also we're always, as pharmacists, checking for any interactions. We say, just take what's prescribed. The herbal products can interfere with the immunosuppression herbal teas, but regular teas are okay. Types of medication. So it's really going to fall into three categories. It's either going to be the immunosuppressive medication, anti -infection or it's going to be a miscellaneous medication. So for the immunosuppressive medications, three drug combination doses may change over time and medication adherence is very important and you'll be on some form or forms of immunosuppression for lifelong. So antivirals, antifungals to help prevent those infections from occurring in your miscellaneous. That would be like a cholesterol med, blood pressure med. Immunosuppressive medications are listed here. Your first class are your calcineurin inhibitors, tacrolimus, also known as Prograf. The other one in the family is cyclosporine modified. Second class up is your anti -metabolites, so that would be mycophenolate, also known as CELCEPT. And the other one in that family is azathioprine, prednisone in its own class, and then your N-TOR inhibitors, serolimus or everolimus. Immunosuppressive, we use for kidneys the most common combination, tacrolimus, also known as Prograf, mycophenolate, also known as Celsept and Prednisone. And thank you, immunosuppressants, for keeping the organ in our bodies. Here's your, some FYI, some things that could occur. Doesn't mean you're going to get it, tacrolimus. Sometimes some patients get some potential tremors during the first part of therapy as you're getting used to it. in when you're on a higher goal range, that should tend to dissipate with time. And once we hit that one month mark, our goal range does drop. That may potentially even there allow those to go away. If you did get tremors, a lot of times it's two hours after you take the medicine when it's the highest in the bloodstream. And then that should trickle down in your bloodstream until it's time for your next dose. So if you did get it, it's usually more momentarily. And some patients get this, some do not. Also, we watch your blood sugars, your blood pressure, cholesterol, making sure those are within normal limits. Watch your kidney function. For mycophenolate, it could cause some GI discomfort. Maybe taking it with food helps alleviate that. If needed, we could adjust the dosing the dosing frequency or we could go to the enterocoded version as well and we're watching your blood cell counts your CBC which is your complete blood cell count part of your regular set of labs prednisone changes in mood insomnia could elevate blood sugars and blood pressure as well. Here's your anti -infective medications. For antibacterial, we use sulfa or Bactrim. That is to prevent *** pneumonia. And you're on that for six months. If you are allergic to that, we do have alternatives. Pentamidine is inhalation therapy in place of Bactrim. That is every 28 eight days for six months, or we could go to another oral version, which is Dapsone or even Tovaquone. Antiviral, we'll use Valsight, and you're on that for three to six months, or a Cyclovir, which is 30 days. That, depending on which one you're on, you're on one or the other, that is dependent upon the viral testing of you, the recipient, as well as the incoming donor organ. Anti-fungal. For kidneys, we use Nystatin oral suspension just until you're discharged, and that is to prevent thrush and pancreas or kidney pancreas transplant patients will use Fluconazole for the first month. That is our anti-fungal for that patient population. Anti-infective medications, Bactrum, says increased risk of sunburn. Our transplant patients, you're going to wear sunscreen, so that kind of takes care of that to remedy that side effect. We're watching your kidney function. Your liver enzymes are part of your labs, could increase potassium, could decrease blood cell counts. That's all monitored in your lab work. Your antivirals, decreased blood cell counts, that's more so related to valganciclovir, but we are monitoring that accordingly. Here's some miscellaneous medications on Dansetron, which relieves nausea. Here's some anti-constipation meds to help prevent or treat constipation. the pentoprazole or omeprazole to help relieve any heartburn or reflux insulin to help with any blood sugars keep those maintain blood pressure meds meds to help with cholesterol meds to increase magnesium tacrolimus could lower your magnesium so we're replenishing it with a supplement if needed. And then those last two, lokalma or potentially K-exalate, we usually use lokalma here and that's to lower potassium. One of the side effects from tacrolimus could raise potassium. So we are keeping everything within normal limits. For management of any of these side effects, nausea and vomiting. Maybe taking it with food helps alleviate that. We could go with ondansetron as needed. For constipation, we have meds available to help with that. And there's your omeprazole or pentoprazole to help with any reflux or heartburn. For to prevent, while you're on these immunosuppressants, you're a little more increased risk for skin cancer. We want to prevent sunburns from taking place, which could lead into skin cancer. So we say wear a sunscreen SPF 30 or higher. Watch those cloudy, hazy, overcast days where the sun could burn through those thinner level clouds and burn you that way. And also not a bad idea to wear caps or hats to protect the top of your head. Birth defects. This would apply If you are, one, a transplant recipient, and two, a woman of childbearing age, you would have to meet criteria for both, then we would say use one or two forms of birth control depending on the method used, or there's abstinence, or if you want to have the glorious gift of having a child, then just have those discussions with your transplant team, and we could do an alternative plan for you. So if this did apply, they would give you a brochure outlining this in the hospital, and they would go through that with you. Blood pressure, cholesterol, and sugars could be elevated. We have meds available if needed. One caveat, some patients are on prednisone. When you're on prednisone, your sugars possibly could be elevated, and then therefore we use insulin to help manage. Let's say you are on insulin. As they taper the prednisone down, the insulin needs get adjusted as well. And usually when you're on lower doses of prednisone, most patients are able to come off the insulin if it is prednisone-induced high blood sugars. So some patients are on prednisone, sugars are within normal limits and therefore no insulin required here these can be uh your new year's resolutions they could you could use these uh and all of them even for your new year's resolution uh for coming 2026 and every year thereafter these are very important points take your medications every day and on time. So for instance, we usually go with an 8 a.m., 8 p.m. schedule for twice a day immunosuppression. You want to take it as close to those times as you can within the hour to keep nice rhythmic blood levels with your body. You don't want to take it well beyond the 12-hour mark. Then you run the risk of not having enough medicine in your bloodstream. And then those antibodies or invaders could circulate around and try to go after your transplanted organs. So we don't want that to occur. Do not miss your doses. Never stop taking your anti-rejection meds unless they told you otherwise. Be consistent with regards to meals. So you want to take your dose times with food and keep that consistent or empty stomach for the 8 a.m. and the 8 p.m. doses, keeping that consistent. The med will work either way. It's just the absorption is affected if it's with food or empty stomach. So you want to keep it consistent. Avoid grapefruit, pomegranate, pomelos, star fruit, honey bell oranges, which are a hybrid of a grapefruit, and seville oranges. Regular oranges are okay. Lemons okay. Limes okay. Orange juice okay. Clementines max of six a day. and just kind of check ingredient labels just to make sure anything doesn't have some of that stuff in it, such as grapefruit. Do not start any extra supplements without letting us know. Coordinator or pharmacy, we want to know everything you're on to avoid any interactions. Like I said earlier, avoid herbal products, not because we don't like them because they interfere with the tacrolimus. Also herbal teas in the same category, but regular teas are okay. Use sunscreen 30 or higher. We went over the pregnancy implications and take your meds after labs on lab day. Here's some extra tools to help you remember. There are some mobile medication apps to alert you to take your meds on time those top two my med schedule plus and mango health those are in the app store those are free and those medisafe medication management and dose cast those are for chart for purchase i like the my med schedule plus mango health. Those are real good ones. You can set alarms for your medications. You can do your chart digitally. You can print it out and you can make it into a pocket size for that way you have your meds in a pocket size with you. And it's just real nice. It keeps you alerted to remember to take your meds mango health also has some health incentives too so sometimes they have like gift cards and things like that to reward you for your hard work smart pill bottles tracks when you take your medication and knows how many pills are remaining adhere tech that is software that's could be potentially linked with pharmacies, and they're knowing your adherence, or Pillsy, which is an app, and they have those caps or smart bottles, and then that's a way of alerting you to remember to take your meds. Virtual assistant, those are like Alexa or Echo in your homes if need be as well. This is used pillboxes, alarms. Top left-hand corner, that is a pillbox, four slots a day, seven days a week. You can pop that out, take it with you for lab visits, office visits, or errands. You can also add alarms to your watch, alarms to your cell phone. And we also have interpreters here on campus and for video use. So if you need language assistance, we have interpreters to make that all good and interaction good for you. And thank you for the extra help that all these tools and assistance provide for us. Low vision resources. Ask a pharmacist to prevent larger print labels. You can mark your bottles with rubber bands or Braille. I have done this. A pharmacy possibly could use that Braille method. They would put a coding system that they would have to work out with you, and you would have to check it so that when they hand it to you, like let's say you're picking it up, that the Braille on there is correct, and you at home have the same coding system as the pharmacy. So that could assist you with low vision. Place lights close to labels you're trying to see. You can use magnifying glass or reading glasses, or even your cell phone can magnify things as well. EnvisionAware.org has managing medications and everyday living tips as well. Important points to remember, never stop taking your medications or change dose. The team is always telling you how to take that. It's usually take it until otherwise told differently. inform other physicians or dentist meds you're on, or if they prescribe something, it's a good idea to get that checked out to make sure there's no interactions. Allow plenty of time for refilling your meds. The specialty pharmacies will call you like seven days ahead. If you haven't heard by that seven day mark, then call them and they can get those filled for you. And then that way, There's some grace time before you run out and notify coordinator or transplant team any side effects in clinic as and coordinators have a means of letting them know as well. And never let your insurance lapse as I went over that as well. If you need a new prescription, it's probably best to let your coordinator know. They can get it to the pharmacy quicker versus going through trying to get a refill authorization that way. And just take what's prescribed to you to avoid any interactions. But most of all, on this Thanksgiving holiday and every day, we want to appreciate you guys. Most of all, we appreciate you, the patients. You are our lifesaver. It's just great to be able to collaborate with you, consult with you, help you out. You are our family. So appreciate you all. Patients and caregivers, special. Thank you. And best wishes on your transplant journey going forth. And thank you. Thank you very much. There's my references. And if you had any questions, I could take those as well. Yes, I'm currently taking a bunch of these meds from my heart transplant last December. And do I have to start over with all the meds when I get a new kidney? Yeah, depending on the lapse, you would start over with those anti -infectives. And yes, so you would. Okay, thank you. I have a question. Yes. What is considered herbal teas? So here, well, here's what I tell people for the teas that are okay to take. I say like Lipton tea, brewed tea, sun tea, sweet tea is okay. Like orange tea, lemon tea, raspberry, honey tea, those are all fine. Green tea is minor, so I think you're okay on that end. But then those ones beyond those that I just said, I would consider those herbal teas. Oh, so chamomile is an herbal tea. Camel to chamomile would be herbal. So I would avoid that. My favorite. Okay. And, and, um, you said to avoid grapefruit, pomegranate, pomelo, star fruit, honey bell, seville oranges. Why is that? Because they interfere with the, uh, tacrolimus. And so what it's going to do it's they're both working on the enzymes so what's happening is it's preventing the breakdown of tacrolimus leading to higher levels and then therefore you're getting more side effects on the back end and it's causing havoc too with the coordinators because if your levels are jumping around so but one of the side effects is increased serum creatinine And so it could hurt your kidney, raising that serum creatinine, which would decrease your renal clearance. I got you. Last question. Yes. Are the meds, do you deliver those or do you have to come to the lab to pick those up? So the three specialty pharmacies that we use, we use Mayo Specialty, Osteen's and Walgreens Specialty. they will ship to you to your home um there is a pharmacy on campus that um is the mayo community pharmacy in the davis building that would be pickup but the specialty pharmacies will ship too okay thank you you're welcome that was all my questions yes you guys are great people never forget it Tom, someone asked, and I don't know if you would have information, any updates? Oh. There was a question in the chat that said, any updates on stem cell after transplant? Would you have that info? I'm sorry. Whoever that is, can you mute yourself? Thank you. Okay. Would you have any information on that, Tom? There is in Rochester in November of 2026, they're going to start a trial with, they're doing xeno transplants, which is from pig. And so that could be a potential on the horizon for the future. Sure. So they'll do some gene knockouts with that and they're going to start a trial. There's criteria you would have to be, you know, you'd have to be enrolled. You would not be on the list. Let's say you were potentially denied or something. there's different criteria on that but that is more so like more more uh more more to be known but we are starting a um a trial in that rochester starting that in in the fall of next year eligibility requirements that they would set that out so any other questions I'm going to post a little quiz regarding the information Tom just presented to everyone. I'm going to launch that. So please take a few minutes to answer these questions for us. Give me one second. Is everyone able to see that? Mm-hmm. Yes. Okay. There's five questions, so scroll to answer all five of the questions for me, please. I'm about 60% completed. Is everyone able to complete the quiz or anyone having difficulty? I'll give it one more minute and then we will end the quiz and review the answers. I'm going to end the quiz now. If you want to go over the answers, you want me to read the questions and you give the answers. Yeah, I can do it. If you want to do it. So the first one, which of these is not an immunosuppressant? And so what I did was I put, if you ever see a VIR in the word, that is a tip off that it's an antiviral. So if you picked C, you got it right. So tacrolimus, celseptin, prednisone are your immunosuppressants. And the one that's not is your antiviral valganciclovir is an antiviral to prevent CMV. and it says which fruits can interact with tacrolimus if you picked all of the above that would be correct um if you picked seville those are right but they all are so it'd be d all the above which of these is not a medication app um the one that is not uh is honey did i take my medications that could be a question but not an app but also work together with your caregiver so you both should know that you take it. And then your morning labs got delayed until 9 a.m. When would be the best time to take your morning meds? So with labs, you always take it after, right after, as soon as you remember. You wouldn't want to do it at 8.30 because that's right before the lab, and then that will mess that lab up because we're trying to get the trough. And the correct answer would be B, just after the 9 a.m. lab draw. Which SPF sunscreen would be used for kidney pancreas? It's 30 or higher, so anything up 30 or above is A-OK. Ones below that would be a little too low. So A would be the right answer, SPF 30 on that one. and then if you got any wrong we forgive you just always keep learning it's always a learning process we all learn together as a team all the multidisciplinary members of the team patients and caregivers too so I always say to patients just gradually keep learning those medicines. You want to know what each med is for on your med list. So why am I taking it? Okay. All right. Any additional questions for Tom before we let him go? Thank you so much for presenting today for us, Tom. We really appreciate all the work you do. Yes, appreciate you as well, Lakea, and the whole social work team, the whole transplant team, and patients and caregivers shout out to you congratulations and uh thank you thank you thank you for uh letting us serve you and all the best on your health and prosperity as you go forth and have a happy thanksgiving thanks to tom happy thanksgiving everyone um just so you're aware we will not be holding support group in december because it falls during christmas um the actual day scheduled. So we will see everyone in the new year. So everyone have a happy holidays and we will resume groups in January. Happy Thanksgiving. Happy Thanksgiving everyone. Enjoy the rest of your day. Goodbye. Thanks. Thank you Tom. Thank you. So it's once a month. Oh, well, they may start it like that, but it was, it was the first part of it, it was.