I will miss this place. I've got a lot of friends out here now and Ernie Balqua is packing up ready to say goodbye to what's been his home away from home for 10 months. The Gift of Life Transplant House offers a quiet sanctuary to Mayo Clinic patients going through a variety of organ, stem cell, or bone marrow transplants, often life-saving procedures, which was definitely the case for Ernie. The reality is that Ernie is quite sick. He's he needs medication to support his heart and to support his overall circulation. Ernie's extended stay at Mayo Clinic was actually his second trip to Minnesota to undergo lifesaving heart transplants. So Ernie underwent heart transplant here at Mayo Clinic 15 years ago. Ernie, how are you? Cardiologist Dr. Brooks Edwards is director of Mayo Clinic's transplant program. He says Ernie's first transplant allowed him to defy a rare congenital heart condition, a condition that had claimed the lives of all four of his brothers. Abnormally developed heart muscle caused brothers Eddie and Brad to die as children less than two years apart. Brothers Randy and Rick died as young men. Then when Ernie's replacement heart started to fail, his father feared he could lose his last son. A near certainty if Ernie could not get another transplant in time. Pretty hard to think that they gave us only 17% chance of getting a match. In spite of his optimistic demeanor and the comical collection of boxer shorts friends sent to decorate his hospital room and keep his spirits up, Ernie's situation was becoming more serious each passing day. With his heart now beating at less than half its normal strength and severe disease in his heart arteries, Ernie was admitted to the hospital to stay. Unfortunately, with the lack of donors, we have uh always patients waiting in the hospital. And nowadays, almost all of them wait um at least many weeks and very often many months. When Ernie's turn finally came, he had been hospitalized for 7 months. No wonder there was a celebration in the middle of the night. You guys are awesome. When news arrived that a suitable match had been found and a donor heart was indeed on the way. By now Ernie says he'd grown very close to the Mayo Clinic transplant team who was just as thrilled about his opportunity as he was. It really helped that I was here I think and that I had the nurses that I have and you know the same doctors I've had for 15 16 years now. So with a full contingent of supporters cheering him on, Ernie crossed the finish line of his marathon weight. Go Ernie. Practice for your marathon. Now it was time for a sprint. Although it was clear everyone back on Ernie's floor at the transplant wing would breathe a sigh of relief once they got word that all went well. Good luck. See you in a couple days. See you tomorrow. After a final blessing from his mother. See you in a couple hours. You see them last. And one more reassuring word from a father to his last surviving son. All right. Okay. Ernie headed back into the operating room where transplant surgeon Dr. Richard Daly would remove the now worn out heart that Dr. Daly himself had placed in Ernie's chest 15 years earlier. The timing of each step of the operation has to be carefully orchestrated, tracking the exact location of the donor heart in transit, waiting until the last possible moment to reroute the blood flowing through Ernie's body to a heart lung bypass machine, and finally removing the heart that had served Ernie for as long as it was physically able. When the donor heart arrives, anticipation soarses for Dr. Daly and the team, it's their first chance to assess the size and condition of this gift. a good heart, which they hope will restore Ernie's health. A gift in the deepest sense of the word Ernie would later recall knowing that his family's gain that night came at the expense of another family's loss. It would be uh very nice to to meet somebody from that family and and let them know that uh you know that that I really appreciate what they what they did during a very difficult time. Six weeks later, Ernie's gratitude continued to grow right along with his strength. He's determined to fulfill his part of the bargain and condition his new heart to its fullest potential. It's a lot of work and that's basically to get uh as much of a cardio workout as possible and keep the heart working and and make everything fit together and get my muscles back. Ernie's case is indeed dramatic with five boys and and all five of them affected by heart disease. Because of their complicated conditions, four of the Belqua brothers could not be saved. But thanks to his transplant, one of Eddie's sons is going home. I'm so happy about it. And I'm sure that those four boys had something to do with it. I tell you, Ernie has a couple of sons of his own that he can now fully look forward to catching up with. Getting back together with uh with the boys is probably the most important thing. That's what getting well is all about. Just as good medical care may come in many forms, healing may touch many lives. And Ernie's not the only one going home with a renewed heart. It'll be nice to to get back and and feel somewhat normal. You take care. Yep. Bye-bye. at the same time be thankful for everything and everybody out here that's that's helped take care of everything. For the Mayo Clinic News Network, I'm Dennis Dota.