The treatment of reflux disease consists of medical treatment, changes in the patient's diet and lifestyle, and surgical treatment of the condition. All of these treatments can be offered. The most effective medical treatment currently is the use of pharmacological agents such as proton pump inhibitors. I'll mention several examples, not for commercial reasons, but for example, compounds like omeprazole, esomeprazole, and lansoprazole, to mention a few derivatives. These compounds are very effective, in the range of 80 to 85%, in improving esophageal inflammation and the patient's symptoms. Similarly, and comparatively, there is antireflux surgery, which consists of creating a valve—to put it this way—a duplication, a process of making the esophagus more sustainably strong at the end where the esophageal sphincter is located, so that reflux does not occur. We perform this procedure in the clinic. Fortunately, we have patients whom we have treated very successfully. I remember patients for whom either of these two treatments has provided a dramatic change in their lives.  Once the diagnosis has been made correctly, it's gratifying to see how the patient with the correct diagnosis—and that's vital, and I want to emphasize—a patient who truly has gastroesophageal reflux disease responds to effective treatment, whether medical or surgical. The question was, how is the selection made? How can we decide between medical and surgical treatment? I was saying that I think the current perspective we have, where we realize that surgery has changed from a more aggressive surgery, where 10 years ago or more, the chest and upper body were opened, basically leaving a significant scar, to the minimally invasive surgery we perform now, has completely modified our perspective. It's a much less invasive surgery, and the results are similar to medical treatment. Approximately 85% of patients who undergo surgery or are treated medically experience an improvement in their symptoms and their disease heals. What I do very frequently is sit down with the patient, explain the nature of their gastroesophageal reflux problem, and together, once the patient has been properly educated, we decide.  What is the best treatment that aligns with their lifestyle and future plans? The use of endoscopic treatments for managing reflux is undergoing significant evolution and change. A number of treatments have been employed, such as the injection of polymers or special substances into the esophagus to compress or more effectively manage the esophagogastric junction barrier. Unfortunately, the FDA, the US federal agency, found insufficient evidence that these provided effective, especially long-term, treatment methods. Therefore, this is currently under review. In fact, we learned through one of our colleagues in the surgery department that research projects are underway to determine if a new system using magnets placed at the esophagogastric junction—where the sphincter responsible for reflux is located—could more effectively control these patients. We have seen several patients requesting this procedure. It is still under investigation. We will keep you informed.  which is under study and together with them we decide whether or not they are candidates to enter that study, but it is a very promising area for the future that requires even more critical study.