We arrived in Miami in '84. The situation was that the government changed in Nicaragua. My husband was already working with the previous government when they came to power, and that's when we decided to emigrate. You could say she was the strongest woman I knew in the whole world. She came to this country, had four children, and worked hard so they could all go to school, maybe even university, to provide us with food. And that's not all; she did everything for us. In 1990, when I was diagnosed with multiple myeloma, one of the lesser-known types of cancer, the doctor who treated me didn't explain much about the disease. He simply told me I was in the final stage, possibly with two to four months to live. I was very ill at that time, and all I did was cry and cry when, as they say, no one was watching because I didn't want to cause sadness to my children. And I felt at that time that there was no solution. And finally, I decided to go to the clinic. Add Cepeda came to see me as a patient for the first time in 1991. At that time, I had a diagnosis of multiple myeloma, which is a type of cancer of the  The bones and the prognosis for this condition were very poor for those years. When I arrived at the Mayo Clinic and had my first interview with Dr. Colon, my life changed. I found a doctor who listened to me and said, "Do you want to fight, Mrs. Cepeda?" And I said, "That's why I'm here." Then I received radiation, chemotherapy, and a bone marrow transplant. We had the opportunity to treat her that way, and she responded very well to that treatment. My relationship with Valeria, like with all my children, is very close, but since she was little, she was more active, with more character. She's always there for me. For me, family means having everything because money can't buy the love of a family member. Without their support, I wouldn't be here right now. That's what family means: having support, having love, having everything. The first time I met Valeria, she came to see me for a consultation because she had elevated white blood cells. When I saw the lab results, it looked suspicious for a type of chronic leukemia, specifically chronic myelogenous leukemia. He took the time to explain to me how the treatment would be and that I shouldn't worry about the type of leukemia.  The diagnosis I had was quite treatable, and it gave me the reassurance that he would do everything he could, and if he couldn't, he would find out, to keep me alive. Shortly after, a mass was detected in my breast. She finished the breast cancer treatment, had a complete response, and in follow-up appointments, she relapsed to leukemia. [Music] We wouldn't have started the bone marrow transplant at that point; there was a possibility she wouldn't have responded the way she did. We started looking for a donor among my family and found that one of my brothers was a possible donor. When they told me I could be a bone marrow donor for my sister Valeria, we were very happy. I didn't know what it meant, but I knew it was something good. Let's see what can be done. She was hospitalized, had no major complications, and received the brother's cells. After the bone marrow transplant, as you can see here, my sister was improving. With each test she had, she was getting better. It's incredible, incredible that something I gave her saved her life, and three years have passed, so I would say we 're in a very good place.  The position that she should be considered cured was a gift of life, what I received at the Mayo Clinic, and I have been able to enjoy my daughters graduating from university, I have been able to enjoy the birth of my grandchildren and live each day, and God granted me that miracle by putting the Mayo Clinic in my path. I am here for my family, I am here to help them, I am here to be with them, to have a beautiful time. The Mayo Clinic, for me, for my family, is life, it is being alive. They have given them both a longer life, to see their daughters grow up, to see their grandchildren grow up, to see their son grow up. Thank you. Without the Mayo Clinic, I wouldn't be here.