- Dr. Kyle Klarich: Good afternoon, good morning, good evening, wherever you are in the time zone. This is Kyle Klarich coming to you from Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. And I'm here with interviews with the experts. And today I'm very pleased and honored to be joined by Dr. Vindhu Anand, who is an associate professor of medicine and board certified cardiologist with expertise in multimodality imaging cardiovascular imaging. She has completed a degree in postgraduate in the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, India, followed by internal medicine residency at the University of Minnesota. She then pursued both general cardiology fellowship and advanced training and multimodality imaging at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Dr. Anand is a board certified internal medicine in internal medicine in cardiology and in echocardiography, as well as nuclear cardiology, cardiac ct and cardiac MRI. I also have to ask her, is there anything you're not certified in? She is an, she has authored very many papers for so early in her career, about 80 peer reviewed publications and more in the pipeline book chapters, research papers with a focus on valvular heart disease, advanced cardiac imaging, and pulmonary hypertension. She's actively involved in our national committees at the American College of Cardiology and the American Society of Echocardiography. She is very passionate about advancing research and medical education. So Vindhu, thank you so much for taking time out of your busy schedule to be involved with interviews and the experts, but I know you're passionate about this. And today our topic is tricuspid regurgitation, new insights and implications for clinical practice. And as you and I both know, there's been a lot in the literature with all the new modalities that we have for not only diagnosing but treatment and I'm hoping you'll be able to give us some idea of how we can now incorporate that into our day-to-day practice. First, however, let's start with maybe the natural history and prognosis of tricuspid regurgitation. You've had a large cohort series that showed that moderate or greater tricuspid regurgitation is far from a benign finding. I think that has been a idea that's been developed over many years, but it's really starting to take shape in its current form. It's associated with substantial mortality and heart failure risk. And even when the left-sided diseases are, have been controlled by other modalities, either surgery or interventions or medications. So given that backdrop, how has our understanding of the natural history of tricuspid regurgitation changed in modern cardiology? - Dr. Vindhu Anand: Yes, thank you so much for having me. I'm really excited to be here. And this is an excellent question regarding natural history of tricuspid regurgitation. We looked at it in a large contemporary cohort of over 4,000 patients and we found that TR is actually quite dynamic and in patients with moderate or greater tricuspid regurgitation, about a third in our cohort regressed, a third remained stable and a third progressed to severe or remained severe at one year. And in those in whom there was regression, nearly 50% actually in the intermediate term at the median of five years, again developed hemodynamically, significant tricuspid regurgitation. So findings show the dynamic nature of TR for multiple factors, including diuresis, as you mentioned, sort of treatment of their pulmonary hypertension, left-sided valve or myocardial disease. But it also shows that even if there is regression in the short term, a significant proportion, again develop significant TR in the intermediate to long term. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Well that's really interesting. You know, and sometimes we think, you know, we're treating patients and we send them on their way, we got better tricuspid regurgitation. So I, I think this implies that there's probably a way we should be either monitoring or counseling patients regarding tricuspid regurgitation, even in that third that got better and regressed. Yeah, - Dr. Vindhu Anand: Absolutely. And you know, our study showed how dynamic TR is and the finding that even in whom there is regression, nearly 50% are going to have recurrence of significant TR and the intermediate to sharp term and the intermediate to long term highlights, the importance of close follow up optimization of guideline directed medical therapy for their associated comorbidities, coronary disease, heart failure, appropriate decongestion with diuretic and importance of echocardiographic imaging, which should be performed at least annually in these patients so that we are able to capture the deterioration in clinical status or imaging. And ideally these patients should be managed very closely and at valve centers so that can, they can be referred for intervention surgical or cross catheter intervention in a timely fashion. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: A lot of our patients are, you know, far away, at least in Rochester, Minnesota, and I'm sure many of our colleagues practicing in other places experience this and they're followed by other healthcare providers and other centers. What do you, how do you educate your patients or counsel them as to when they need to come back to a center of excellence to be seen and you know, maybe they're getting followed up regularly at home, but is there a clue that the patient, some, some responsibility maybe that the patients need to be aware of so that they can pull the trigger themselves? - Dr. Vidhu Anand: Absolutely. And you know, this is an area where field is evolving and we actually need more research because we really don't have clear cut threshold of what is guideline directed medical therapy. I mean, at what thresholds should the patients, you know, be referred for intervention rather than just optimization of medical therapy? At this point, I would say that we are fortunate at Rochester to have very close sort of relationship with the internal medicine, family medicine, primary care, and they're able to identify these progressive diuretic requirement changes and clinical status development of new symptoms. And also we have for most part, good relationship with the referring sites, they are able to identify these changes and, and refer patients back. But I would say that if their patients are managed locally, they should wash out for symptoms and signs of heart failure, any changes in their clinical status, increasing need for diuretic, and should also be aware that their disease could be dynamic and they need that close follow up, which should be by their provider and should also include echocardiographic imaging at regular intervals. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Oh, that sounds great. And I just as an aside, I've had one or more of my patients actually say that they knew when they went back into atrial fibrillation because their ankle swallowed and they could see their, you know, they didn't call it a vwa, but they could see their vwa in their neck bouncing around irregularly, even though they might not have had palpitations. So then they would, you know, this, these particular patients would come back, we cardiovert them and their TR would get better. So it's, it is interesting how dynamic tricuspid regurgitation has proven to be. Are there ti, you know, how do we know, I think this is, you know, given that backdrop of the dynamic and nature of tricuspid regurgitation, how do we know when to intervene on tricuspid regurgitation? - Dr. Vidhu Anand: Yeah, so you know, for, let's focus on isolated TR first because that is really the main challenging condition. And for isolated tr, the guidelines recommend intervention if the patients remain symptomatic despite guideline directed medical therapy. And if they don't have significant pulmonary hypertension or left-sided valve disease, so isolated TR because of annular dilatation. So that, that is what is in the current guidelines for primary tr very briefly, if they are severe and undergoing left-sided valve surgery, it is class one indication. If it is primary TR and there is worsening in clinical symptoms or echocardiographic imaging, it is two-way indication. And we discussed about the isolated tr. And if the TR is progressive and the analyst is dilated more than four centimeter at the time of left-sided valve surgery, tricuspid valve intervention can be considered. And that is another two-way indication. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: You know, we talked about the classification of TR and IT, and it's, it's a little bit, a little bit maybe confusing from time to time. So how would you describe how TR is currently classified? You know, are there novel classifications even based on patient risk and their profiles since their comorbidities? You know, as we already kind of alluded to, atrial fibrillation possibly could play an important role in tricuspid regurgitation. - Dr. Vidhu Anand: Yes. So TR is classified by the contemporary classification and what we use frequently at at Mayo Clinic is, you know, primary TR when it is primary pathology of the valvular complex and secondary TR when it is secondary to either atrial enlargement or anular dilatation and setting of longstanding atrial fibrillation or heart failure HFpEF sometimes. And then ventricular functional tr, which is a consequence of RV enlargement or dysfunction, often secondary to pulmonary hypertension and setting of left-sided valve disease, either left-sided ventricular disease or valvular disease. And we also have a lead related TR either impingement of the leaflets by device lead or perforation or impairment of their closure and function. So those are sort of the main classification we have looked at and other centers novel ways to classify tr because as you mentioned that comorbidities place such an important role in tricuspid regurgitation in determining prognosis. So we developed a novel classification based on unsupervised cluster analysis, including over 13,000 patients. And through that unsupervised clustering, five different clusters or classes were obtained. There was low risk tr, which included patients with lesser degree of PR who had preserved RV size and function and fewer comorbidities. Then we had higher risk TR when patients had greater severity of tr more RV enlargement and dysfunction and higher prevalence of comorbidities such as atrial fibrillation. Cluster three was TR associated with lung disease, often in setting of pulmonary hypertension. Cluster four was TR associated with coronary disease and cluster five was TR associated with chronic kidney disease. We found that the prognosis differed between these clusters. Cluster one had the best prognosis, 2, 3, 4 had higher mortality, but similar and cluster five had the worst outcomes and mortality. So this type of classification focuses beyond just looking at the valvular mechanisms and taking into account patient's comorbidities and risk profile, including a number of clinical and echocardiographic parameters. And this is all very important in patient prognosis and identifying the patients who would be candidates for intervention. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: That's, that's really an interesting study. I, I think that cluster analysis is kind of what we clinically do at the bedside when we're seeing patients, but it's really nice to hear how you're doing this with, with you know, very large numbers of patients. You know, even nearly 14,000 patients I think I know at Mayo we're using a lot of AI and ML looking at the outcome of patients with diseases and, and you've mentioned it's possible to po do this in tricuspid regurgitation. What, what kind of information have you gotten from those types of studies? - Dr. Vidhu Anand: Yeah, so we looked at an artificial intelligence or, or machine learning modeling actually to assess patient risk factors and prognosis. And we looked at, again, the 13,000 patients with moderate or greater tricuspid regurgitation and we were able to incorporate 27 different echocardiographic and clinical parameters in a machine learning model and found a very good performance of the model with C statistics around 0.75 to eight in predicting one year mortality. Some of the key features in those outcomes were patients age right ventricular function, RVSP, right ventricular systolic pressure, left ventricular size and function and their renal function parameters and diuretic utilization. And we found that the predictive accuracy of this model actually was pretty high in patient with low comorbidity burden where tr specific risk factors really become important and dominate the prognosis and the future sort of is that we are able to incorporate these models in our day-to-day clinical practice and able to really risk stratify patients and identify patients early on in the disease coast who would benefit from intervention and send them to the right kind of intervention at the right time. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Yeah, that's really fascinating and you know, asking you to look into your crystal ball, do you think this is something that could, you know, for those of us that maybe are not quite as in tune with every single one of these very, you know, 27 routinely available clinical variables, echocardiographic variables, et cetera, could be working in the background and then you can imagine maybe having the electronic medical record pop up and say, you know, looking at the, the, the, the entire patient profile based on these models, we would recommend that you send a cardiology or send to a cardiac interventionalist or something like that. I don't know if you have that crystal ball available today, but I'm just wondering if our, our listeners would be interested in hearing your predictions for the future. - Dr. Vidhu Anand: Absolutely. I think this is coming and you know, human brain can only process a certain number of things at one time. We have a tr patient in front of us, you know, we are able to look at there are function size mechanism, but with the machine learning the capability to look at this large number of variables and you know, 27 variables all in one time at one time in one model. And I think this is coming where we see the patient in echo lab or in a clinical practice and we have, you know, AI models running in the background which are able to incorporate a lot of pieces of information from patients comorbidity profile their risk factors based on their clinical comorbidities as well as their echocardiographic data and give us sort of patients risk so that we can determine the ideal treatment for them and, and refer them in a timely fashion. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Well that's, that's it's really, I like your crystal ball. I think it's a very optimistic one and you know, again, we've, I feel like we've learned a lot, we've learned that, you know, the tricuspid regurgitation very dynamic that a third will get better, but even that third that gets better, we need to continuously monitor them. A third will stay stable, but I'm guessing that third will also need to be modeled or followed consistently over time. And the third will progress and those patients need more timely intervention and that we are coming up with a number of different models to help us make those, those choices. And if the crystal ball is right, it'll be here before we know it to help us, you know, with clinical decision making, which is really the, the hope of current models that we're putting together. So again, Dr. Anand, thank you so much for being with us today. It was a great pleasure. I don't know if there's any other things that you want to emphasize before we leave our recording today. - Dr. Vidhu Anand: Yes, I would just highlight one more point is that, you know, currently in managing patients with isolated TR by the guidelines, we are trying to optimize the best we can and we see in our clinical practice and through published literature that patients are referred for intervention quite late in the disease course. So our research recently showed that diuretic doses of more than 40 milligram per day of Lasix equivalent were associated with increased mortality, highlighting the role that once the diuretic requirements are increasing, that shows worsening of their underlying right ventricular function. And so while following guidelines, it's also important to keep in mind that they're the, the nuances and that guidelines really aren't quite specific for what is optimal guideline directed medical therapy. So if you have a patient, patient in whom their diuretic requirement is increasing, yes, continue them on diuretic for symptom management, but that does show that the ongoing TR is affecting the RV function and causing end organ dysfunction, which is why they're needing a higher doses of medical therapy, particularly diuretic. There is need for future trials, a critical need I would say in this space to identify the thresholds of what constitutes optimal GDMT and above which threshold should we consider early interventions. So we are able to change the disease course in patients with severe tr and refer them earlier than we currently do. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: Yeah, and I would say a lot of my patients have that I've had on guideline directed medical therapy often will exceed that 40 milligrams of, of Lasix a day or equivalent doses of other loop diuretics. So I think that's a really important point that we'll leave our listeners with. And thank you again for being here and taking time outta your busy schedule to help us understand the natural history prognosis and, and the, and the new things that are coming in the field of tricuspid regurgitation. - Dr. Vidhu Anand: So thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you for having me. - Dr. Kyle Klarich: You're welcome. And thank you to our listeners for again tuning into interviews with the experts. I hope you've enjoyed this segment and we'll look forward to future interviews - Announcer: At Mayo Clinic, relentless learning fuels world class care. I'm Dr. Benjamin Hibbert, chair of the division of Critical Care Cardiology. If today's episode gave you a fresh insight, imagine what a full course can do for you and your patients. Head to cveducation.mayo.edu and explore our live and online programs, quick on-demand modules and CME accredited masterclasses created and taught by the very voices you trust here. Join thousands of clinicians who've already turned curiosity into expertise. Level up your practice now at cveducation.mayo.edu.