TS or tuberosclerosis is a genetic condition in which people develop tumors in multiple areas of their body. So it can affect the skin, the kidneys, the lungs, the heart, and the brain as well. Um, but one of the most common complications that happens with it are seizures or epilepsy that are difficult to control with medication. There are a couple different types of tumors that can grow within the brain itself. So there are ones called tubers are within the brain tissue and those as they they're growing and they irritate the brain around them and they can generate seizures from each individual uh tumor. So a lot of times you know on the MRI we can look at the pictures and we can see multiple tubers throughout the brain and if we know someone has seizures it's a question of well which tuber is it coming from where is it coming from and is that something that we can remove to help control or completely control the epilepsy. The other um emergence that there's been with TS is that there are medications actually can help shrink these tumors. Um and so they can work in different areas of the body, but with the ones in the brain as well in addition to shrink shrinking the tumors, they actually can help control seizures. So so there's no cure for TS in and of itself. Certainly there are the medications that have been found that can help shrink the tumors. Um depending upon where they grow and different complications, you're looking at ways how do you remove them otherwise but really is looking at lifelong management of the condition. Certainly with seizures or epilepsy, there is the potential to cure the epilepsy because if you can remove the tuber that's generating seizures, a lot of times, you know, those patients can do very well and if you cure them of their seizures, you may not cure them of the TS, but certainly that's going to make a huge impact in their life. So, so what's unique is that one we're able to provide multidisciplinary care. So, you can see the genetics, the neurologists, the urologist, radiologists, dermatologists, all to help manage the underlying condition. Also being um a high level epilepsy center, we're able to offer the full array of treatment options along with the complete evaluation for a potential surgery and cure from an epilepsy perspective while obviously working in conjunction with other specialists to manage TS as an entire condition rather than you know peace meal peace meal across different specialists.