Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology [music] podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your co-host Dr. Brittney Scrugs >> and I'm your co-host Dr. Eric Bothan. We are here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. Today's episode is special. We are joined by our valued Mayo colleague Dr. Alan Marmanstein, a true force [music] in retinal research and regenerative opthalmology. From the lab bench to startup biotech, we'll explore what it takes to do science that actually makes it to the clinic and how collaboration drives every step. Dr. Alan Marmstein is a professor of opthalmology and director of the opthalmic regenerative medicine program at Mayo Clinic. For over 30 years, his lab has led groundbreaking work on inherited retinal diseases, age related macular degeneration, and gene and cell therapies. He's a pioneer in the development of fibbrin hydrogel implants for delivering IPSC derived retinal pigment epithelium cells and viral vectors to the retina and he's turned lab innovation into real world impact. A mentor to dozens of students and a fearless early adopter of new technologies. Dr. Marmstein's work stands out for its rigor, its translational focus, and its deeply collaborative spirit. His research has led to multiple patents, high impact publications, and experimental therapies now being tested in large animal models. He's also shaped the field through national service on NA NIH panels, editorial boards, and scientific leadership roles in regenerative medicine and opthalmology. Welcome Dr. Marmstein. >> Welcome. Thank you. It's good to be here. Okay, for the listeners, this episode is especially meaningful for me. So, Dr. Marmacine and I are collaborators and we are >> we share a lot of things. We share students and technicians and lab space and coffee on Sunday. And >> this one's [laughter] mine. >> And um honestly, your approach to science, Dr. Marmstein, has really changed how I think about science, how I think about translation. and um I it's just been such an honor to be a part of your team and to work with you. So I was hoping we could open it up with just understanding your story like walk us through how did you get to this point as a PhD scientist and studying opthalmology regenerative medicine um and running this lab? >> How far back would you like me to go? >> As far as you think is relevant. >> The beginning. I knew you were going to say that. Okay. You know, maybe I was a little weird when I was a kid. Um, everybody wanted to be a fireman, a policeman, and my um, honestly the the people I looked up to were physicians. Um, I read the autobiography of Christian Barnard. Um, forget about all of the aparthide stuff. He was the first person to do a human heart transplant. And I thought that was amazing that that and and we're talking I was a single-digit age here, you know, so like I said, everybody else was whoever the, you know, best hitter on the Yankees was or the Giants. and I always think that Christian Barnard's heart transplants. Um, and and it just started me on the road to do science. And originally, like both of you, I wanted to be a physician. Um, but I realized at some point along the way that although I could be like you and do it all, I didn't have that capacity. I could choose one side or the other. I was either going to treat sick people or I was going to develop the things that I've I've done. And I I can't really put my finger on when that exact point was. Um so, you know, I went to school like everybody else and I got my bachelor's degree. I was 20 years old, burned out of school and said, "I'm just going to go to work." And I worked as a lab tech for a couple of years. Uh at the time I was working on pron diseases which have no bearing or relation to a lot of the things we're doing and yet actually maybe are very pertinent to some of the things we're doing with AMD today. Um and then I took a couple of years off after that to really see if I wanted to be a scientist. I did a whole lot of other things. I was a fisherman. I did a lot of mountaineering. Played around a lot. And eventually the universe caught up with me and said, "No, you're going to go back to school and you're going to get a degree." and it was a PhD. It was not an MD. So I went to graduate school at the State University of New York at uh Health Science Center at Brooklyn. Got my PhD and when I was there I was very interested in protein trafficking and uh I worked in the laboratory of Enrique Rodriguez Bulan who was a a very prominent guy in in that area for four years published 12 papers. It was a great experience. I mean I don't know if this is pertinent to what you want but he ran his lab in a very collaborative way. there were labs that were in the same institution or what I should say is uh so Enrique's lab was at Cornell uh University Medical College today the wheel college of medicine and that shares um a geographic vicinity with Memorial Sloan Kettering and Rockefeller University all three are basically on three different corners of the same street and in the laboratories in those buildings are Nobel laureates and really you know wellknown prominent people and the labs vary tremendously in the cultures within them. Some of them will put five PhDs on the same project and you know do a little Darwinian thing. And then in Enrique's lab it was collaborative. We had three people working on retinal pigment epithelium cells in the eye. I was one of them. And that and I didn't go there for that by the way. I went there for the protein trafficking. I ended up an eye guy there. And we can delve deeper into that if you want. But um I worked with a couple of other scientists Vera Bonilia and Sylvia Finnamman who were also uh Vera was a student at the time and Sylvia was a postocck and also some of the other postocs that were in the lab who were not working in the eye like Chuck Yaman who who last I heard was the University of Iowa and you know we just built on each other's work and so we were very productive. It was a wonderful environment to be in. It was very collaborative. Um I was very excited about things. We did a ton of journal clubs and things like that too. And the journal clubs were with other labs. So we would this this environment that we had there like I said was all it was collaborative beyond that in that we had Fred Maxfield's laboratory um and others who we would do journal clubs and things with. And I remember going to a journal club that we did and it was on an article that was in the journal of cell biology. And the article was about the deformationation of the lipid billayer when you created a vesicle at the plasma membrane. And you're going to think, how on earth did that get you to do what you do today? And the answer is I thought it was awful. I hated it. I couldn't stand being in that journal club. Uh, I just thought, you know, drilling down to the things in science that are meaningful, and I'm sure it's a meaningful thing, but that wasn't where I wanted to go. I I walked out of that journal club and I knew right then and there there was no way on earth that I was going to do research on deformationation of lipid billayers or, you know, the most basic, most fundamental processes that exist. I needed to do something that I was going to see helping somebody, not just as a line in a textbook. Truthfully, I never cared if my work would be in a textbook. I wanted it to be the sort of stuff that you guys would be talking about when you went for a coffee as physicians. Now, you're special because you're both, but [snorts and laughter] but that's what I I decided I wanted to work to to to live for essentially. And and it was confirmed in my conversations with Enrique, who was my mentor and only retired a year or so ago. Um, you know, I sat down with him one day when I started looking for jobs. And I said, 'What's your one regret in your career? Because he was probably my age then at the time and he said, um, it's that I haven't really done work on disease states. He was very interested, for example, in macular degeneration, but and he's way better known, I think, than I ever will be. Uh, but everything he did was on mechanisms of protein trafficking. And so it made, you know, he had a paragraph in in the cell biology textbook by Alberts and and all of this sort of thing, but he thought that it he could have done more in the realm of translation and that did sort of rub off on me quite a bit. So I think you know in our department and and broadly for people that know you just appreciate how well you've done translational research and the impact you've had but for many listeners you know are just meeting you for the first time by this either this audio or video share with those people. So with that background, with that appreciation of collaboration, with that curiosity to do things that are not just in a textbook, but really impact care, frame with everyone what you've done here at Mayo Clinic over the years in in areas of interest, like what have been your your coffee shop level delivery for someone that isn't in the lab with you like Britney's privileged to be on what areas of research you've explored? >> I'll try and keep it small. Um so since I've been at Mayo Clinic the opportunities evolved you know different institutions also offer you different things. Some have more funding some have more technical capacity some have more people. Mayo has a really everything. So it's been really wonderful being here. Um around the time I got here induced pur potent stem cells started to really take off and so uh we took advantage of that. Mayo helped us a lot with it through what at the time was called the center for regenerative medicine to produce IPSC cell lines. IPSC being induced pur potent stem cell uh cell lines that we could then make patient specific samples of RP. And as we were doing that, we thought, you know, um my interest was and still is most strongly in AMD and in in inherited retinal diseases. And you know, what can we do with this to you just have the magic bullet? Forget treating one disease. And if I get scattered, stop me and I can try and clean up the mess. But best disease is caused by over two to 300 different mutations in the best one gene. And how do we treat a PA, you know, the possibility of a patient who could have one of 300 different mutations yet have the same set of symptoms, right? Maybe there's a small molecule. We couldn't find one, although we we found one that maybe might work at some point. And then you ask yourself the question, do we want to put a person with an IRD on a small molecule drug from birth to death? You know, can you can you be compliant with that for 80 years? What could we do with it? Well, in best disease, the retinal pigment epithelium have a dysfunction. The protein is a chloride channel, but it also modulates calcium signaling, and that dysfunction interferes with the channel function and the calcium uh regulatory function. And that seems to be uniform. So, if that's the case, then maybe we just replace the bad RP. And that's where we started going with the IPS-C's. We started to figure can we replace the the RP that are defective with new RP. Well, best disease is one case but AMD is also due to defi dysfunction of the RP. Uh and there are other diseases that are due to RP dysfunction and so now we have something that therapeutically could be applied maybe more broadly and we spent a lot of time working on that. to do it, we wanted to put in an intact, fully differentiated monollayer of cells. And there are different approaches that you could take. And and I'm not going to go into every approach, but basically there's you can put in the cells as individuals and hope they become what they're supposed to be once they're inside. You can put them in all ready to go. We said, let's do it all ready to go. Is that the I'm not going to get into whether that's the best strategy or not. That hasn't been the focus of our work. But to put them in ready to go, we needed to have a scaffold to deliver them because they're a singular single layer of cells in a monollayer. And so we developed the fibbrin hydrogels. Now really I should say Jerel Gandhi and developed the fibbrin hydrogels. He was a posttock in the lab at the time who who literally walked in the door at the exact right moment. And this is and and I've got to give credit where it's due. So we had a lab meeting. This was before your time, Britney. >> Mhm. Um, and I worked very closely with Jose Paleo when he was here before he retired. And Jose loved the idea of doing this. And we invited Ray Azi to join us, another one of our clinical colleagues here at Mayo. And we're sitting there and we're like, what can we do? What can we make the scaffold out of? And Ray says, why not fibin? I don't know. Why not fibin? You know, and Jose says, all those fibin tissue glues that we use. And then Jerel walks in the door. Basically two weeks later I get an application from him for a posttock in the lab and now we are probably the I think the leaders in fiber and hydrogel technology. >> Um so that's been sort of the driving thing and then you know one day we were thinking what else can we do with these hydrogels and Ry says you could do gene therapy and that's a bad idea. What a horrible idea. And then Britney came and she thought it was a good idea and I said we'll give it a shot and well we just published a paper on that recently in science advances and it works it seems really well. So I don't even know where I started this but I'm going to let you ask the next question and >> no that's a wonderful summary. >> Yeah. So you've worked with a lot of people. So I think the next question should really be about scientific collaboration and what do you think makes a good collaboration and what do you think makes a bad collaboration? >> So I think it's how you get into it in the first place. Um I mean a collaboration is almost like a marriage if it's really going to work. You know you you you have to >> everybody who's a piece of it has to if it's going to work has to really do work. It can't be something where somebody's just a part of the group but not. So the first thing I want to know when when we're setting it up is are you are you a player? You know, are you going to be a piece of this? Do you attend lab meetings? Do you are you available for a phone call? You know, if it has to be seven at night because you're a clinician, that's fine by me. Or, you know, if we have to talk or meet on a Saturday or a Sunday or whatever it is, that's okay. But are we going to are we going to actually communicate on this or do you just expect me to list you as an author on a paper because you know we had a conversation over a coffee different things. Um do you put in you know what level of participation is there beyond that? Are you really intellectually vested? Can we discuss this? What are the directions we're going to go? I I want to I want equals in this. I don't, you know, all the collaborations I've done through the years that have worked best have been where there's a level of mutual respect and we really are equals. And I and I'll think back to when I was at the Cleveland Clinic and I worked with Neil Peachy. So, um, Best Disease at the time, uh, although the gene had been identified, nobody was testing still for genetic defects. The electrocul was the primary test that that you know was definitive for best disease. you had to have an ardent ratio of 1.5 or lower. And we were working in animal models and I said to Neil one day, can you do EOGs on rats or mice? And he said, well, no, they don't cooperate. You know, a human when you do an EOG has to be cooperative. You have to move your eyes left or right. The electrodes are, you know, placed on the temple, the bridge of the nose, sort of thing. Um, and there was no way to get the those animals to do it. And so he and I decided to collaborate to develop a way to do an EOG like test which is a DC ERG. Now the DC ERG had been pioneered by Roy Steinberg's lab and a number of other labs. And the way it had been done was almost surgical. They they would you know open the eye up and put electrodes in and and this was done usually in larger animals, not mice or rats. There was very little on that. I said to Neil, "No, we we need to be able to do this in a way that's non-invasive, very reproducible." And he and I literally spent about six months in a dark room with a whole lot of different solutions and wires and amplifiers and figured out how to do it. >> That was the commitment he had and we're good friends to this day and you know I introduced you to him at Arvo this year. So um you know that's the kind of thing that I look for in a collaboration and and you know when it's reached its limits you know when we're finished we can walk away but come back if if we want to right >> I'm going to add one thing. So science advances you mentioned the paper we just published this fall. >> So how many years did that take us to get to that point? How many how many years of data roughly? boy. Um, if you just want the literal work in the manuscript and not counting the work leading up to the manuscript, I want to say four years. >> Yeah, I would say about four years. And that's weekly lab meetings. Yes. Right. It's daily emails. >> Yes. >> It is having grad students and technicians and everyone being on the same page. It is failed experiment after failed experiment. >> Oh god. Yes, >> it is trying to balance innovation with skepticism >> and it is battling funding issues. >> So, how do you balance that all of that? >> I don't [laughter] >> I'd beg to differ based on everything I hear about you two in the lab over here. >> You know, you you you do what you have to do. Um, a lot of this is just routine for me. And I think actually one of the things that works well or that I found that works well in my interactions with people like you with clinicians and and you in particular because you also have a PhD but um you know your clinical responsibilities are pretty heavy. So I've got the dayto-day but you're there. I can call you when I need to call you. I can email you when I need to email you. You know we have our lab meetings and with rare exception you always make it although you may be five minutes late sometimes. uh [laughter] >> usually 30 seconds late. >> Uh-huh. Right. And [clears throat] so, you know, a lot of these things are balanced in in that way. So, I'm a bit of a micromanager. I'll walk in the laboratory in the morning and I want to know what everybody's up to. Um and and I just my intent is to keep it on track. I'm not trying to tell everybody, "No, I want you to use 10 millmer, not 12 millmer, this or that." It's it's really just you know I want to know that you're doing the things that you need to do not not you know at our level but you know the technicians or or if there's postoc students whomever >> early grad students >> early grad students you know um >> I want to say as MD PhDs who are potentially listening um or MDs uh who are running labs or potentially thinking about running a lab. It is so amazing to collaborate with scientists who are there all the time. I can't tell you how important that is because we can't do that. Like even if you have 50% protected time for research, that means 50% of the time you're not going to be there um as a person answering questions. And for me, I only have 30% protected time with for research, which is great and I appreciate that time, but that's 70% of the time away from the lab. Um and I'm only one person. So collaborations and having that person who can be the the the eyes literally eyes on the the people um and the experiments and the person who answers questions. Thank you. >> So >> thank you. In the journey of that then how do you balance the tension between moving quickly getting results in a changing field and the the the priority the desire to do careful reproducible science because you you talk about these four years and the journey I mean students come in and they want their publication because they're trying to get ready for the next thing. I would imagine translationally you have clinician and science surgeons that want some sort of result faster. But how do you communicate and live your life with that tension successfully? >> Well, I don't know if it's about living my life. It goes back to something that Enrique uh my postto mentor said to me when I started in his lab. Um so I went to his lab not only because I was interested in the work but because he had graduated a a group of students and postocs who went on to do you know big things as well. Uh one that I looked up to at the time was a guy named Andre Leivic who is currently a professor [clears throat] in France. I I don't remember where. Um and and Enrique and I sat down and he said, "You know what the the genius of Andre was?" And also Michael Lanti um was another one. Um he said they didn't do an experiment that didn't lead to a figure in a paper. Every experiment they designed was intended >> to lead to a figure in a paper. And I've never forgotten that. And that has been what guides me in every single thing I do. Now, every experiment can't lead to a figure in a paper. Sometimes you have to do a pilot. Sometimes you you have a question that you need to answer that just isn't going to be panel C or D or whatever. But the goal is that if you do it, it should be because it's going to be in the paper that takes you to tell the story that you're trying to to, you know, understand. It's a good exercise for a grad student to map out the figure before they start the experiment. Absolutely. >> What do you think it's going to look like in your manuscript? >> Because if it's not going to lead there, where is it going to lead? >> Probably nowhere. >> And the other side of it is uh and this was an important point that that Enrique had made to me about it wasn't just that it should be something that's going to be in the paper. You should be doing it like that is the figure. you know, you don't come in and just say, "Well, I think I'll I'll add a little bit of this today instead." You know, you you need to control the variables that you're testing, and you need to be very careful about, you know, all of the things that you're doing so that there's not too much stuff going on, and you can't interpret it or that you're getting yourself into a position where, you know, when it's done, you you're guaranteed to come out of it with nothing. You have to design the experiment well. And so I started for myself and this is you know back then I worked at the bench. Now of course I get to sit in an office and tell others to work at the bench which I'd rather work at the bench but um so I don't write the experiments out but at the time I did and I wrote them out in excruciating detail because I wanted to do the right experiment to get that figure in the paper and I got 12 papers as a posttock and most of them were in pretty good journals. So I must have done something right. >> You you talk about the coming to work and really wanting to have a a good finger on the pulse of what's happening and the details. You're an attention to deal type person which has brought to your success. But you also talk about working with others in a lab and now you're you know PhDs or other people that are actually doing the work. talk about from an educator because I manage this even clinically that balance of making sure it's done just so but also letting someone else do it in a way that allows for independence, accountability and their journey and growth and owning the project. So as a as a mentor, >> how do you do both? >> So I'm not sure it relates to what you can do in the clinic because if you fail in the clinic, it's usually not a good thing. Um, but in the laboratory setting, when I say I'm a micromanager, what I'm really doing is I'm going in to find out what's not working. I mean, show me the data. If the data look good, pat on the back, big smile, data look great. Maybe you might want to graph this on a log scale instead of a linear scale. Data look great. If the data don't look good, why do you think that? you know what what may have been done in this experiment that led you astray or you know why it didn't it work why didn't you get a signal why didn't you get a number why are the data so choppy whatever it is and it becomes a discussion and then rather than saying well the solution to that is it's what do you think you can do to improve the data in the next experiment I like that idea that's a good idea maybe that idea is not in the right direction to go what else might we be able to do >> you know you have to give the people whether they're techs right out of you know their bachelor's degree grad students just starting or for that matter seasoned postocs if you want them to do well one they have to own the project and two they have to believe you have faith in them faith is not conveyed by you did that all wrong you screwed this up no you should have done this faith is conveyed by what do you think you did wrong because I trust that you can dissect this and answer that question. And honestly, I think it takes less time letting those people do that and assisting them in, you know, doing their troubleshooting like that than telling them what the solution to the problem is because then they get, you know, the the attitude of he wants me to do it this way. All right, fine. I'll do it this way. >> That doesn't get you anywhere either. Yeah, >> I do find sometimes when you're in the lab and you're working, you kind of lose sight sometimes of the bigger like picture of what the manuscript is going to be. So, I do think sitting down and having meaningful times away from the lab, having things on the screen, presenting potentially your preliminary [clears throat] figures or very incomplete figures um and organizing your data in front of people really helpful. So that's why every week we sit down us our technicians our grad students our master students posttos whoever it is whoever wants to come in the room honestly um and we talk we talk about science we talk about what's been good in the last week what's been hard what are some solutions um we make sure our grad student is like preparing for you know upcoming comps and able to answer hard questions and then also circling back and making connections to the clinic like Why is this really meaningful? The experiment you're doing, remember why we're doing that, right? And I think we do that well together and we have different perspectives. >> Um, but we also make sure >> that if they're going to do it, you should do it with full intention of doing it well. >> Well, >> yeah. So in that spirit and with that collaboration and and uh and goal, you we've touched on this more recent work you've done that took four years plus um pulling together this fibbrin hydrogel platform stuff that delivers cells in a way to the retina uniquely gene therapy to the >> retina cells too. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> But but the gene therapy was the most recent >> and then obviously in science advances. So for me as a non-retina non-PhD guru type share with me and the audience what was so big about this paper um what does it mean for you know care of patients and and uh and what terms what you're finding in the lab and impact for vision. >> So this is a great segue into why it is that I like working with clinicians. Um, as a PhD, we often get lost in technique and answering questions that maybe don't have clinical relevance. This came about because there was an understanding that there is an issue with the use of subretinal injection for gene therapy. Now, honestly, that issue is better addressed by Britney than me. She's done gene therapy on humans. I've done gene therapy on rats. very different, you know. >> Yeah. I think we should stop and actually define what that means. So, for listeners who have never heard subretinal ble. So, we're actually putting a canula through like a a needle canula through the retina. So, you're making a hole through the retina and you're injecting a solution. In this case, potentially a viral supernate or some type of solution that has a virus in it. And you're putting that in the subretinal space. So between the retina and the RP and you're making a bleb. So you're literally making a localized retinal detachment with your medicine of choice. Um and yes, I do that on children and adults and we generally use that as our standard of care for gene therapy right now. So I will give it back to you. >> Okay. So, um, generally speaking, I would say in a rat, this is a really easy surgery. In contrast to a human who I don't know how long, how long does it take you to do a human surgery typically for that? >> 30, 45 minutes. >> Okay. I used to do rats in about 90 seconds. We didn't even close the wound. It was a piece of cake. The whole retina is detached. You have a wound that's irregular in length made with a number 11 blade. And two days later, the rat looks like you never did a damn thing to it. it it's just amazing. You know, that is not the case, at least in my experience with large animals that we've worked with together. I'm fairly certain that's not the case with our patients. Um, and so it's very easy in the PhD world to just say, "Well, this is really not a problem, right? We can do subretinal injections in rats and mice. I can do 50 a day. No, no big deal. >> What's the issue?" >> What? Yeah. What's the issue? >> Yeah. Uh and then I work with someone like Britney and she says, 'Well, there are issues. [laughter] Um we know for example that as many as a quarter of patients who are receiving FDA approved gene therapies have some adverse events and that is in many cases possibly due to the use of the subretinal injection technique. Now, I'm not saying you shouldn't do it if you need it because blind is probably a lot worse than some of these adverse events. But can we limit the adverse events? Right? Your goal as a surgeon is is to improve things, not you know, gamble. And the better the odds, the lower the gamble. And so this is the sort of thing that I learned by working with you guys surgically. How do you approach this? Can I make a 10- foot wide scaffold? No. The human eye is 22 millimeters in diameter or 26 millimeters in diameter. Um, you know, everything has to fit in there. The, you know, is it reasonable to make a sclerottomy of 4 millime, 8 millime, 12 millime? I don't know. In a rat, I could probably cut the eye in half, put two sutures in, and three days later, he's fine. Uh, I don't think that would work in a human that way. So, you know, having that expertise, having that that knowledge and having somebody who does it, you know, a procedure that frankly very few surgeons do available to work with has been, you know, amazing for me. And that's kind of where, you know, what leads you to that. Now, I don't know if I answered your question because I've since forgotten what it is. That's the wonderful backdrop that the current modality of care to bring therapy under to the retina has challenges in the human population. So going from there then you talked earlier about how this idea of can we use fibbrin to be a platform? How then with that idea what happened next until where we got today? >> Well the idea was do we actually need to put it under the retina at all? Um so there's two approaches predominantly. There's actually more but but there's two primary approaches that have been used for the delivery of retinal gene therapy at least in clinical trials. Approved gene therapies are all subretinal injections. In clinical trials a fair portion of them are also done as a simple intravitrial injection. Now, I'm not 100% sure what the demographic of listeners of the podcast is, but if it's opthalmologists, you all know what an intravitrial injection is because you've done 120 of them a week, right? But that's for AMD and you're doing it with an anti-vef therapy. Okay? And the incidence of of, you know, adverse events there is very low, right? It's got a pretty good safety record. Pretty much any of them can do it. I could probably do it if you showed me in an afternoon. Um, Unfortunately for gene therapy, it doesn't work very well. At least for retinal gene therapy, there's very poor delivery of vector to the back of the eye and there's a higher a fairly high incidence of inflammation that occurs. And so it's not been a very effective approach for retinal gene therapy. >> It immediately gets diluted as well as soon as you inject it. >> There'S4.2 mills of vitrius humor in the human eye. So as soon as you inject into that and the volume is typically 100 to 300 microL >> 50 >> well for for sorry that was a subretinal injection for for an intravential it's >> and so it's way far away from the target too. So not only is it diluted but you're really not getting it close to the retina. >> Yeah. And you've also got drainage out the anterior chamber in addition to posterior. Right. >> So you know the vector is not getting where it needs to go. The patients are not y >> you know it's it's not working that well for them. um at least in the case of approved gene therapies currently. Maybe this can be improved upon. There are other groups that have been working on vectors that penetrate the retina better. Maybe, you know, there are new techniques that could be used. Our idea was if we remove the vitrius, which we do anyway for the subretinal injection, and we drop this gel on the inner retinal surface and fill the eye with air, the virus can only go one place into the retina. And it seems that that actually works. And so now you don't have to detach the retina, but you get the same effect of the subretinal injection without the adverse events that are a consequence of the subretinal injection. >> So gels on the back. How is it secured at that spot before you put the air in or after you put the air in? >> I'll let you answer that. You want me to give you >> You can do that one if you want. >> That's the secret sauce. [laughter] >> You need to read the paper. Okay. >> No, I'm just kidding. Um, so it's an epininal implant. So, we put it on the epiretinal surface. Um, again, not going through the retina, just placing it on. It's like a little sticky patch. Okay. >> Um, honestly, it stays in place pretty well, but we do secure it by putting a little bit of autogus serum. >> So, we take the serum from the animals, you know, and then put it directly into the eye around the implant while it's under heavy liquid. Okay. >> So, it's essentially then activated, if you will. It's a little bit sticky and it starts to be adherent to the retina. >> Yeah. They position. They stay positioned posttop. >> Nope. They're pigs. >> They're pigs. Okay. I didn't know if you had to position. >> They're not very they're not very good patients. [laughter] >> No, they're they're not they're not good patients. >> Yeah. So, with all of this um this is expens very expensive work. So, just for the for the listeners, every O day that we do is 10 >> 15 I think >> 10 to 15,000. >> Um and that's just for four pigs. And so that's, you know, doing the surgeries, doing the husbandry and the exams afterwards. That's a lot of money. So if you could redesign how translational research is funded, what do what do you think what do you think should be the future and what are the currently the the barriers? Like what are we dealing with as translational scientists right now? >> Well, so funding is obviously I think the biggest single barrier, right? um that there is the you know government agencies like NIH are starting to adjust and provide more mechanisms for translational research but it's still very difficult we've had a lot of money come in from industry sources to support it uh in the past especially like the RP transplant stuff um not so much yet with the AAV but we'll get there I think um I I mean I don't we've had a lot of good benefactor funding um just going to give a shout out to Mr. Jean Wood who has been so generous through the years that and and has I mean so many of the things we've done have have come out of his pocket that I I can't you know begin to express my gratitude to him for letting me be creative. >> Um but >> thank you. >> But um you know it's I don't have a solution to the problem there. Um but funding is definitely a part of it. The use of large animal models is more expensive. the N values as you know are much lower than they are with smaller animal models but it's essential because like I said with a rat or a mouse the surgery is completely different. I mean this whole idea for example placing the gel under the heavy liquid uh the you know PFO for example um I would never have thought of because I didn't even know what PFO was till I you know we talked with you and and to a degree with you know Dr. Azi and and how how are we going to get it to sit on the retina? You know the surgeons know how to do this. I don't know how to do this. Um and and so you know funding is a big one. The team is a big one. I'm lucky I'm at Mayo. I get to work with you. I get to work with Izzy. I get to work with anybody in athmology actually. I mean it's a fantastic group. If I had a question I could bring it to Eric. I could bring it to anyone. Um and and you know we get the answers that we need for that. But that's also part of it. The clinicians in a lot of cases I don't think know where to begin research- wise. The PhDs in a lot of cases don't understand how to go from this concept to where you can use it. And and it's not just the surgical procedures. Uh with the RP for example, it was production using good manufacturing practices. How do we achieve that? Um you know what I found is I have colleagues who have the same goals I do. Their process for differentiation, however, is hopeless when it comes to GMPs. >> And and it's not that they want it to be that way. It's just this is what it took to get them where they are. And GMPS were not a consideration along the way. So if I were, you know, looking at hurdles that I could overcome in an institution, I would want to have advisors for people who are looking to do translational re translational research um who could assist them in understanding what it's going to take to commercialize the product because that can cut literally years off the timeline. >> You've had such successes here and collaboration and efforts. Looking forward then with the background you've had and the the the current um um novel approaches you're continuing to explore. What excites you the most when you look ahead five years to regenerative med medicine? Like what what's the horizon look like for you? >> Uh I I don't really look ahead five years. I'm sorry to say. I I know I know we're supposed to have this big worldview and know what we're going to do. >> Um a grant cycle is five years. I'd like to get through a grant cycle and you know what happens is that grant kind of dictates the next steps along the way. Every time if I say you know I can't predict the future. I don't know what's going to come. If you had asked me five years ago would I have thought AI is going to be what it is today? I would say what's AI? You know um >> I'm going to help you a little bit. So there are a lot of very exciting clinical trials that we're doing right now in gene therapy, even some cell-based therapies. So for me, the answer is as a clinician and clinician scientists and clinical trialist. It's really cool that we're starting to do these clinical trials that >> for the first time inherited retinal disease clinic is not just like this is your diagnosis. I'm sorry. Let's get you potentially some low vision resources. We're starting to think about these exciting potentially experimental therapies. We have an FDA approved therapy that kind of opened up the doors to think about this in a different way. So, ID clinic is kind of becoming a surgical specialty >> for the first time. Um, that's exciting. And I know you share that excitement with me. >> Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. I was looking at this more from a basic I know you >> science perspective because, you know, I would love to know what's going to I I want to know what's going to be hot five years down the road. I really do. But I you know I've been a very poor predictor of them [laughter] through the years. So >> but the excitement is your work continues to realize these opportunities are coming to play. >> We know that these vectors and implemented treatments can potentially have a role if we can get them there and your lab has just been collaborating in a special way to find new ways to make that happen. So I just thank you for being here with us. I've enjoyed this conversation. I know you all you and you get these sort of conversations more than me. Um, and it's a privilege to have you share your time with us. >> Yeah. So, I think in closing, I just want to say thank you. Thank you for teaching me, being a mentor, being a collaborator, and I'm looking forward to the next five years. >> Well, it's ming because I'm working with you. So, >> a so kind. All right. Thank you for being here. >> Thank you. You're welcome. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast on our website, YouTube, or on most podcast platforms. >> Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more on [music] our next podcast.