My name is Ed Loftess. I'm a physician at Mayo Clinic and I'm chair of the inflammatory bowel disease interest group here in the division of gastronurology and hepatology. And I wanted to talk to you today about ulcerative colitis. The medications we use to treat ulcerative colitis aren't really directed against the root cause of the condition. They're directed against decreasing inflammation in the lining of the bowel in a somewhat non-specific way. And we use a variety of medications. Uh there are the sulfosalazine and fiveamosicellate class of medications. And these are really the mainstay of treatment in ulcerative colitis. Uh these medications are uh widely prescribed for this condition and can often uh get a patient back into a full clinical remission meaning a resolution of their symptoms. Um, when these medications aren't effective, we will sometimes prescribe corticosteroids, also known as steroids for short. These aren't the steroids that you hear about uh athletes taking. These are steroids that reduce inflammation. Uh, predinazone is a good example of those. These work well in the short term, but over time can result in side effects. When predinazone is not sufficient to control the symptoms, we'll move on to other classes of medications. One of those is aoprine uh or a cousin of aothoprine called sixmer captopurine or another cousin called methtoate. Now methtotate we don't use so much in ulcerative colitis but it has been uh used by some. These medications modulate the immune system. They suppress the immune system slightly and can result in reduced inflammation. They're a little bit more complicated to use than the five aminoate class of medications and often require blood count monitoring and and similar types of uh more more closely followed u monitoring. um when this class of medication is not effective then we will often move to anti-TNF therapy or biologic therapy and the most commonly used agent for ulcerative colitis in this class is inflammab also known as remade and this has been shown in a number of studies to be effective for some patients with more severe forms of ulcerative colitis when medical therapy is not effective at controlling symptoms or if a patient develops precancerous changes in the colon then we'll sometimes recommend surgery. Surgery and ulcerative colitis usually involves removing the colon and the rectum and nowadays this can be done by some surgeons including some here at Mayo in a laparoscopic or minimally invasive fashion and this has been shown to reduce the post-operative recovery from surgery. So that some people are getting out of the hospital only four to four or five days after their callectctomy and uh we're seeing pretty good results with that. They are now doing a a procedure called incisionless proctolecttomy where a person can have the callectomy with basically no open incision just a a few uh incisions for the laparoscopic ports. Um, of course, surgery is a it's a big step, but for some patients, uh, if medications are failing, this can result in a significant improvement in their quality of life. And we found that over a 30-year period that approximately 25% of ulcerative colitis patients will go on to require surgery for their condition. Um, but most patients um do not require calctomy. life expectancy of patients with ulcerative colitis is actually longer than that of people in the general population. And the the reason for that is there's a curious relationship between cigarette smoking and ulcerative colitis. And it turns out that most people with ulcerative colitis either never smoked or quit smoking. And it's unusual to see people with true ulcerative colitis who are active cigarette smokers. So there's something in cigarette smoke that seems to suppress bowel inflammation at least with in the case of ulcerative colitis. Now that doesn't mean we go out and recommend to people that they take up cigarette smoking, but this might explain why the life expectancy of people with ulcerative colitis is actually a little bit longer than that in the general population. In terms of medications, uh we we talked about the sort of standard medications, but there are a number of uh clinical trials, investigational trials of newer agents that were always uh involved in. And many of these novel drugs are monoconal antibodies that block various aspects of the uh mucosal inflammatory reaction and thereby reduce inflammation and uh reduce symptoms. Um so at any given time we have three or four of these trials ongoing and uh many patients who come here uh find that they're they are uh candidates for for some of these uh investigational studies. In many ways it's it's uh difficult uh to um categorize patients with ulcerative colitis with respect to the severity and many patients ask us what should I look forward to in the future with my colitis and uh what we found over the years that the natural history of ulcerative colitis is quite fluctuating and so a person may have a bad one to two years but then they'll often go into a prolonged clinical remission and do well for several years. Uh it's it's fairly unusual to see somebody develop ulcerative colitis and go into a prolonged remission uh for forever. And so the this type of a disease, this chronic illness is characterized by flares and periods of uh remission. Um, oftentimes when people come to our clinic, uh, they'll come in on a Monday and over a rapid period of time, usually two to three to four days, we can complete a battery of tests and see them back the same week uh, with with a global overview of what we think is going on with their inflammatory bowel disease right then and there. And we can often get them in to see the uh necessary uh consultants in other specialties if necessary.