This is Health Matters, a podcast from Mayo Clinic where we discuss the latest medical advice, news, and research to help you live a happier and healthier life. My name is Kristen Meinzer. I'm a writer and journalist. And this episode, we're talking about high blood pressure. Nearly half of adults in the U.S. have high blood pressure. And according to some estimates, nearly one in three adults with high blood pressure don't even realize they have it. But what if you're one of those people who could not only treat your high blood pressure, but prevent hypertension altogether or even reverse it? To find out, we're talking with Dr. Gary Schwartz. He's a nephrologist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, who specializes in hypertensive disorders, a.k.a. disorders associated with high blood pressure. He's going to help us break down what those numbers mean for our health and how to get them looking good at your next visit. Dr. Schwartz, welcome to the show. We're so thrilled to have you here today. I'm happy to be here. All right, we're going to start with the basics. First and foremost, what is blood pressure and why do we need it? Blood pressure is the driving force that propels our blood. We can liken blood pressure to pressure in your garden hose. When you turn on the water, the water comes out the hose and waters whatever it is you need to water. And if you turn the water hose off, the hose is still full of water, but it's no longer moving. And so turning on the water hose is like every beat of our heart. Our heart generates that force that then propels the blood throughout the circulation. It's a circuit of blood that on the one hand carries nutrients and oxygen to the tissues and on the other hand removes waste products from the organs and tissues and delivers them to the organs that can eliminate those waste products. And let's talk about how our blood pressure is measured. We've all been to the doctor, they put the cuff on our arm, it squeezes our arm, and then we're told, your blood pressure is 120 over 70, for example. What are each of those numbers measuring? Blood pressure has two components, a systolic and a diastolic component. The systolic component, or the first number, is the pressure in the blood when the heart beats, so as it ejects blood into the circulation. So as the hose is being turned up, that's what the systolic is. That's right. The bottom number, which is the diastolic blood pressure, is the pressure in the system between heartbeats. Now, when blood is injected from the heart into the aorta, the main artery that goes through the center of the body, the pressure from the heartbeat actually causes the aorta to expand and accept some of that blood. And then between heartbeats, the aorta contracts and delivers that blood to the organs and tissues. And so the blood flow becomes continuous, but it has a high pressure and a low pressure component. So when it comes to these two numbers, what actually is a normal range? What is too high? Is there such a thing as too low? So the definition of high blood pressure really comes from epidemiological studies that have looked at the association between different levels of blood pressure and the risk for adverse health outcomes like heart attacks and strokes and mortality. And based on those studies, we define normal blood pressure as a systolic of less than 120 and a diastolic of less than 80. These large studies have shown that as systolic blood pressure rises above 120 or diastolic blood pressure rises above 80, we can see an increased risk for adverse health outcomes. Currently, we define hypertension as a systolic blood pressure of 130 or higher or a diastolic blood pressure of 80 or higher. So, 130 or higher systolic and over 80 diastolic is hypertension. And ideally, we want to be under 120 systolic and 80 diastolic. But what happens if you're in between 120 and 130? The American Heart Association labels people with blood pressures in that range as having elevated blood pressure. Not hypertension, elevated blood pressure. It's a recognition that these people are at some increased risk, but we don't have any evidence from clinical trials to support using drugs to lower blood pressure when it's in that range. Let's get to the lower blood pressure. Is that an issue if people have far below the 120 over 70 number? The issue is that some people, when the blood pressure gets below those levels, really have problems because the organs are not being perfused adequately. It's like you're trying to water your garden and the water is just dripping out the end of the hose. So, it increases the risk of people getting lightheaded, fainting, having other symptoms and problems. I think there's a general agreement that we use the term low blood pressure when the systolic is less than 90 and the diastolic is less than 60. Having said that, there are people who are walking around with blood pressures in that range who are doing very well and have no problems. So we know what high blood pressure is and we know what low blood pressure is. But when it comes down to it, how much control do we actually have over our blood pressure? High blood pressure is the result of a complex interaction between environmental effects and genetic effects. About 30% of blood pressure variation among people is due to genetic variations, and about 70% is due to environmental effects. And that's the portion we can deal with, right? The genetics we can't do very much about. Blood pressure moves blood through our body, similar to how water pressure pushes water through a hose. It makes sure that oxygen and nutrients go to our organs and that waste is carried away. Your blood pressure reading is made up of two key numbers. The systolic number, the one on top, is your blood pressure when your heart is beating. The diastolic number, the one on the bottom, is your blood pressure between heartbeats. Healthy blood pressure is a systolic less than 120 and a diastolic less than 80. Generally, if your systolic number is between 120 and 129, that's considered elevated blood pressure. And if it's above 130, that's considered hypertension. Now, we know hypertension is associated with health risks and that genetics and environmental factors play a role. Let's broaden our understanding of both of those. You earlier mentioned genetics, but what about environmental or lifestyle factors? Which of those are going to affect our blood pressure? We've identified a number of environmental factors that result in a higher blood pressure. And a lot of these are the products of our modern life. So we have a great abundance of food, but we eat too much food. We have a lot of conveniences that lessen our physical activities. We eat too much salt. The modern diet is also very low in potassium. Both of these tend to cause the blood pressure to go up. It's been codified in recent studies that a low potassium diet is a significant risk factor for hypertension as well as adverse cardiovascular disease events. If you drink too much alcohol, that will raise the blood pressure as well. You've said several times the importance of maintaining a healthy blood pressure, but what happens if we don't? What happens if our blood pressure is consistently too high? So, what hypertension does, it's an increased pressure on the walls of our blood vessels. When you turn the water hose on, that hose gets tight. There's pressure of the water on the walls of your hose. And if the pressure is high over time, that damages the blood vessels. So, we have small arteries that are called arterioles. They're the blood vessels that go into the organs. When they're under increased pressure over a period of time, these arterioles thicken, the walls thicken, and they become scarred. They can't dilate and constrict, and they get narrower, and the blood flow to the organ decreases. And the heart has to work harder to push blood through those narrowed arterioles. Eventually, organs suffer injury because they're not getting enough blood and oxygen. the brain, the heart, and the kidneys. Eventually, that impaired blood flow to the kidneys caused this loss of kidney tissue, chronic kidney disease. In the brain, that manifests as strokes and dementia. Now, if blood pressure is really high, it can actually cause a blood vessel to burst in the brain, and that causes a ******. But more commonly, it's due to lack of blood flow to regions of the brain where that brain tissue dies, and that's a different kind of ******. And what happens to the heart? The heart is damaged in a multitude of ways. First, the heart has to work harder as these arterios are narrowing. Eventually, the heart wears out, and that's called heart failure. In addition, the heart becomes stiffer because the muscles are thicker, and it doesn't relax between heartbeats. And that also causes heart failure. And then the heart has its own circulation. And hypertension, along with other risk factors, causes an increase in fatty deposits in the wall of the artery that causes them to narrow. That can lead to heart attacks. Wow. So we should be taking our blood pressure readings very seriously when we go to the doctor. We certainly should. And one of the problems with high blood pressure is that people feel well. High blood pressure doesn't cause any symptoms until you start having injury related to the high blood pressure over time or the blood pressure becomes severely elevated, which is more after you've had it for years. So we refer to hypertension as the silent killer because you can have it, it can be doing damage, and you feel perfectly well. And is that the same for both men and women? It is the same in both sexes. There are some issues related to women that can cause high blood pressure that differ from men. One is the use of the oral contraceptive. The oral contraceptive can cause hypertension in women, not everyone. The hypertension is more likely to occur the longer a woman is on an oral contraceptive, and women over the age of 35 are at a higher risk. And then there's a pregnancy -associated unique form of hypertension, that's called preeclampsia or a worse form called eclampsia. And that's high blood pressure that develops after the 20th week of pregnancy. And we know from studies that women who have had preeclampsia later in life are at greater risk of developing hypertension as well as cardiovascular disease. I've also heard the terms primary and secondary high blood pressure floating around. What's the difference between the two? So primary hypertension is what we've been talking about so far. And that's by far the most common form of hypertension. Okay. That accounts for probably 90% of all hypertension. And it really refers to the fact that we don't know the specific causes. The genetics of primary hypertension are complex. It's many genes, each having a very small effect. Yeah. And what about secondary hypertension? Secondary hypertension refers to the fact that we know the cause. It's a specific cause. So one example would be the oral contraceptive. That can induce hypertension. That's a secondary form of hypertension. We talk about preeclampsia. That's unique to being pregnant. There are a lot of medications that people take either over-the -counter or prescribe that can have as one of their side effects an elevation in blood pressure. Probably the most common over-the-counter medication are these non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen. Some people use them on a daily basis or almost daily basis for long periods of time, and that can cause the blood pressure to go up. Some of our nasal decongestant medicines that we get over -the-counter, They cause blood vessels to constrict. That's why they're good to decongest the nose, but chronic users of those agents can have elevated blood pressure. And then there are some specific disorders that can cause hypertension. are important secondary causes for hypertension. Probably the most common one is chronic kidney disease. As kidney function decreases, the kidneys aren't as efficient at getting rid of salt and water. So that accumulates and raises the blood pressure. You're breaking my heart with all the salt talk. I love salt, Dr. Schwartz. Everybody does. It makes food taste better. But we know when we look at unacculturated societies, most of the food they eat is very fresh. They don't use any salt partly at all. And because they're eating mainly fruits, vegetables, and fresh products, they have a very low sodium intake and a very high potassium intake. And in those unacculturated societies, there is no hypertension virtually. And the other important observation is that in the United States and other acculturated societies, if you will, blood pressure becomes more prevalent as we age. In these unacculturated societies, that does not occur. Fascinating. So is all of that due to diet? The consumption of high salt, low potassium, and a heart unhealthy diet is one major factor. But obesity is not very common either in these societies. People are much more physically active than on the convenience of modern life, so they work harder. I spent a few weeks on one of the sandblast islands off the coast of Panama. And as we were approaching the island, I was struck with sounds that I hadn't heard since my own childhood. It was children running around, yelling and screaming and having a good time playing. The men on that island had gardens. The women were all doing work. So the level of physical activity on average was much higher. The diet was dramatically different. There were no restaurants on the island. Everything was made fresh. It was what they caught out of the ocean, vegetables they were growing, and the things they could get from the jungle, the fruits and the vegetables. And frankly, their day-to-day stresses were a little bit less. They just lived simpler lives. They all had adequate food and nourishment. So I think their day -to-day lives were just less stressful than in our modern world. And so going back from this idyllic island to our modern world, how are we as Americans doing with blood pressure? We're not doing very well. Of the 1.2 million or so adults with hypertension in the United States, some of those people aren't even aware they have high blood pressure. They don't know their numbers because their blood pressure is not being checked. We know that in many busy primary care practices in the United States, blood pressure isn't even measured as part of the office visit. And it's a whole different issue, but a lot of the blood pressures that are measured in clinic settings aren't measured properly. Frequently, the cup is put on while the nurse is talking to you and it's checked once and you haven't been put in the proper position. They may have not made your arm bare. Your back isn't supported. They maybe have you on the exam table, so your legs are dangling. That's always me with my short legs every single time. Yeah, so I tell people the purpose of that blood pressure is to see if you have one. Oh, no. Okay, so a lot of people might not even know their blood pressure is high. Is there anything else in the medical sphere that contributes to why so many people have hypertension? So in those people who are identified as having hypertension, many of them do not have it controlled. The data shows that of 100 people who are started on a medicine for blood pressure, at the end of one year, 50% of them have stopped the medication. And why is that? Is it because they have side effects or can't pay for the medicine? Sometimes. But a lot of time is that they're not being seen in follow -up in a timely way. Giving you a drug and sending you out of the office with little or no follow-up doesn't do very good. Because again, hypertension is an asymptomatic condition. You go into the doctor feeling perfectly well, and you end up taking a medicine that may have some side effects. You say, well, to heck with this. I felt better before I started the medication. But if we trained you to take your blood pressure at home, you can see the effect of the medicine. Oh, wow, look, my blood pressure is a lot lower. You feel good about that. Oh, yeah. It's almost like gamifying it. Like, let's see what my numbers are next week after doing all these things. Oh, it worked. Let's keep doing this. Americans aren't doing great with blood pressure, and there are a few reasons for that. When it comes to our environment, we have an abundance of food, especially food that's high in sodium. Many of us have sedentary lifestyles, and there's no end to the stresses of modern life. On top of that, our diets tend to be low in potassium, and alcohol consumption can also raise blood pressure. The scary thing about high blood pressure is that early on, you might feel perfectly fine. But having chronic high blood pressure is a big deal. It puts you at risk for impaired blood flow that can damage the kidneys, heart, and brain. Also, keep in mind there are two different types of hypertension, primary and secondary. Primary means there's not one clear cause other than maybe some complex genetics. Secondary hypertension is when another medical condition, or in some cases a medication, causes hypertension as a side effect. This can relate to what treatment options are available to you, which we'll get to next. So let's talk about how to properly measure and manage your blood pressure. I hate to say it about myself, but last week I was at the doctor and they were like, Kristen, your blood pressure is 130. And I was like, what? I eat so many vegetables every day. And then I was like, oh, but I also eat a gallon of salt a day. So maybe I need to start keeping track. Is it a good idea for me to measure my own blood pressure at home? So currently, we really, really stress home or self-measurement of blood pressure. We emphasize out-of -office measures both to confirm a diagnosis of hypertension in a newly identified patient as well as to adjust therapy. If we rely solely on the readings made in the clinic setting, we can either be overestimating or underestimating the blood pressure in up to 40% of people. So self-monitoring is a very, very important part of blood pressure management. Wow. So my at-home measurements could potentially be more accurate or show a more complete picture than my clinic readings. Is there a way to be sure my home measurement is accurate? There are a number of home units. Not all of them are accurate. So there have been several groups now that have developed systems of validating the accuracy of the various devices. The American Medical Association has a program to validate these home units, and you can actually go online. It's called validatebp.org, and you will get a listing of the units that have passed their validation process. And then the cuff size is important. You want cuff size to be appropriate for your arm size, and your provider can tell you if you need a normal standard cuff or a large cuff or a small cuff. And then very importantly, we want you to follow the American Heart Association protocol for proper blood pressure measurement. Oftentimes, we get inaccurate readings, not because the device doesn't work properly, but we don't perform the procedure properly. We want people to be sitting in a quiet space with their back supported, their feet supported on the floor, their legs not crossed, and we want them to sit in that position for at least five minutes quietly, not talking, not watching TV, that kind of thing, and then let the device take their blood pressure and then repeat it again after a minute or two. If the patient has to go to the bathroom, go to the bathroom first because a full bladder can cause the blood pressure to be elevated. We don't want them to measure it shortly after they ate a meal because that can pressure to drop temporarily. If you take a hot shower or hot bath, that causes your blood vessels to dilate and the blood pressure will be lower for 30 minutes or so after that. Exercise will do the same thing. Although blood pressure rises while we're exercising to provide more blood to our muscles, after we're done, the blood vessels remain dilated for a while and that will cause blood pressure to be lowered. And you say, well, why do you want to go through that protocol? It's because that's the way we've measured blood pressure in all the clinical trials that have associated a level of blood pressure with risk or benefit. So you mentioned that readings in the clinic might be overestimating or underestimating. Why is that? Do we know why? We haven't talked about the phenomenon of white protein tension. As in a doctor's white coat? Yeah. So there are people for whom when blood pressure is measured in the clinic setting, it is much higher than it is when they're in their usual daily life. Why is that? We don't know. Maybe they associated going to the doctor with pain or discomfort. Most patients who have this phenomenon say, I'm not anxious. I don't know why it's higher. So it's subliminal. But we know from studies that the patient's outlook is much better predicted by those lower readings they will get when they measure the blood pressure at home than the higher readings we get when we measure it in the clinic or office setting. Then there's this other group we call mass hypertension, and they're just the reverse of the white coat. These are people whose blood pressure is very nice in their office and clinic setting. Fascinating. But when they go out in the real world, their blood pressure is much higher. So they're a more difficult group to identify. And oftentimes, we tumble to the fact that a person has mass hypertension because either their lab results or their physical examination, we're seeing changes that we associate with high blood pressure. Like when we look at the blood vessels in the eyes, we see these narrowings and changes we associate with blood pressure. And then we have them measure their blood pressure at home, and lo and behold, they're hypertensive. So in an ideal world, we'll all be measuring our blood pressure at home, regardless of whether or not we've been diagnosed with high blood pressure. Yes. Another thing that we can do at home is lifestyle. You mentioned before these cultures where hypertension is super low. For those of us who don't have that idyllic island life and have the modern stresses, modern diet, modern lifestyle, what would you suggest we do to maybe have similar health outcomes to those folks? So I think we do need to go out of our way to build into our lives time for exercise, time for relaxation. A lot of people use food to relieve their stress, to relieve their anxiety. So we have to recalibrate ourselves and pay attention to these important basics, which is eating a healthy diet, exercising on a regular basis. The American Heart Association recommends we exercise at least 150 minutes a week. and that can be with moderate or high-level aerobic activity or resistance exercise or a combination that we eat a heart-healthy diet, which emphasizes fresh fruits and vegetables, low-fat dairy products, limited restaurant food. We need to avoid becoming overweight. We need to deal with stress, mindfulness, and these other ways of trying to deal with that. And at what point does medication come into the picture, though? For stage 1 hypertension, that's a systolic of 130 to 139, a diastolic of 80 to 89. We generally emphasize these lifestyle modifications. Now, for patients with stage 2 hypertension, we think the risk in all of those people is high enough to justify the use of drugs right from the beginning. We talk about lifestyle modifications, but we also start them on blood pressure medication. Ordinarily, it's one drug, but for people for whom their blood pressure exceeds our target, we often will start them with two drugs, not just one drug. And Dr. Schwartz, at what point does surgery come into the equation? Surgery is limited to those secondary forms of hypertension where you can cut the disease out, if you will. For example, a narrowed kidney artery. Nowadays, most often, they can put a stent in the artery without a major operation, but sometimes the pascular surgeons have to do an operation. If there's a tumor on the adrenal gland, that tumor can be removed. Now, for essential hypertension, we do have the procedure called renal denervation. We know that the nerves that go through the kidney, they're part of that network that tries to regulate blood pressure. Procedures have been developed that allow us to either use heat or ultrasound to damage or destroy those nerves, and that has been shown to lower blood pressure. Now, it doesn't lower blood pressure in everyone. Right now, I think the candidates for that procedure are people who have what we call resistant hypertension. That's blood pressure that can't be controlled despite being on at least three medications in good doses. Other people that may be candidates. We have a small group of people who just can't take medicines. They get side effects. And some patients who just, they're not adherent. They have a hard time taking their pills every day. So they might be a candidate for this intervention as well. And with these various interventions, lifestyle, medicine, surgery, and so on, is it possible for somebody with high blood pressure to ever get it permanently back to the normal range? Some of the secondary forms of hypertension, yes, sometimes the blood pressure completely normalizes. Some people who lose a lot of weight, sometimes we can normalize the blood pressure, especially if it's not severely elevated at the time we diagnose them. But the truth of the matter is for the vast majority of people with primary hypertension, treatment is a lifelong process. But so it sounds like if I want to normalize my blood pressure while it's still early, I've got to say goodbye to my precious salt. Something I was going to bring up is the use of salt substitutes. Oh, yeah. Salt substitutes have reduced sodium chloride and it's replaced with potassium chloride. So it's lower in sodium, higher in potassium. So one way to get lower sodium and higher potassium in the diet is to begin using one of these potassium-rich sodium substitutes, both for cooking and for all seasonings of food. And not only does it lower blood pressure, and that would be expected because they're eating less salt, but it's also been associated with a marked reduction in adverse health events, heart attacks and the like. We have to be careful in people who have kidney disease or diabetes because they're at risk of getting high potassium in the blood if they use these. But in people with normal kidney function who don't have diabetes, this is an emerging way to get them to eat less salt and more potassium. Sounds like something I better start doing. Absolutely. Well, thank you so much again, Dr. Schwartz. This has been fantastic. Great. I enjoyed it. So, in an ideal world, we'd all be measuring our blood pressure at home using proper technique. Because it turns out for a good portion of the population, clinic measurements just aren't giving us the whole picture. Going to a beautiful island and living a simple halcyon life is an appealing fantasy. But since most of us are stuck in modern society, there are a few more practical ways to lower blood pressure. In addition to diet, exercise, and stress management, salt substitutes could be a good option for folks to reduce their sodium and increase their potassium intake. These are all interventions that doctors might recommend for stage 1 hypertension. For stage 2, doctors will often start with medication in addition to lifestyle. And for certain people, a type of surgery called renal denervation could also be an option. But at the end of the day, perhaps the two most important things you can do now are to start paying attention to your blood pressure and start having that conversation with your doctor. Okay, that's all for this episode. But if you've got a question, a topic suggestion, or a follow-up question about this episode, you can leave us a voicemail at 507-538-6272. We might even feature your voice on the show. For more Health Matters episodes and resources, head to mailclinic.org slash healthmatters. For more information on blood pressure devices, you can check out validatebp .org. We'll provide a link in the show notes. And if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us on your podcast app. It really does help others to find the show. Thanks for listening. And until next time, take care and stay healthy.