The uh prostate gland is an exocrine gland that uh basically stores fluid in the body. So it has multiple purposes uh mainly to store fluid and mainly the seminal fluid is stored there before it's excreted out of the body. There are certain risk factors for prostate cancer. The most prominent would be uh basically race, age, and certain genetic factors and envir environmental factors. Mainly, if you're Africaname or you're older, there is a higher risk for prostate cancer. Family history plays a big role in uh your risk for prostate cancer. If you have one family member, it actually doubles. And if you have another family member, it could be five times to seven times the risk of prostate cancer. And there are certain genetic chromosomes that are involved in uh prostate cancer genesis, urinary frequency, blood in the urine, difficulty urinating. Those are some of the symptoms. and uh sometimes they could have pain if they have severe obstruction. There are multiple controversies in the detection or screening for prostate cancer. Mainly the American uh cancer society and the AUA or the urologic society recommends prostate screening at least every year uh with a digital rectal examination and PSA in men 50 and above. Initially there are multiple options that are available today and the standard options would include surgery which is radical prostatctomy either robotic or laparoscopic. There is external beam radiation. There is insertion of seeds or intersticial seed implant. There's cryo which is freezing the tumor. So this there are multiple options among the multiple options depending on the tumor grade the success rate is 80 to 85% cure. The uh survival from prostate cancer is actually quite uh reasonable or low. Uh the incidence of prostate cancer is about 286,000 cases each year and 26,000 men would die from prostate cancer which is significantly lower for compared to other cancers. a change in your diet, especially a low-fat diet, staying active with exercise and uh eating a lot more vegetable u maybe uh eating soy or drinking soy uh would help decrease your risk for prostate cancer. As an oncologist, I see my role as trying to help the patient understand the disease and understand their choices based on the studies. If you go to a urologist, you'll get surgery. If you're a radiation, you go to a radiation oncologist, you get radiation. So, as an oncologist, I would be kind of the arbiter that might help the patient uh go one direction or another. We have been involved in multiple studies including uh vaccine uh studies uh with prostate cancer uh newer chemotherapies for late stage prostate cancer prevention studies like the uh dosteride studies. All of these are done in collaboration with our multidisciplinary team meaning the urologist the oncologist and the radiation oncologist. First and foremost, we have a multidisciplinary team which uh basically tells you that we will objectively help you understand the disease and Mayo Clinic is a patientfriendly place where you will be able to understand your choices before undergoing treatment. In most places they would do surgery because you have seen the surgeon. The other reason is we have studies that uh might uh test the drugs of the future and hopefully help your cancer and even cure you uh at times.