 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected I'm your co-host, Dr. Maithri Juna. We are both consultants at the Centre for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. For 70 years or more, it's been recognized that there are sleepy patients who seem different from those with narcolepsy, but a single underlying cause has remained pretty elusive. The very term we use, idiopathic hypersomnia, indicates some of the difficulties understanding this complex and most probably heterogeneous disorder. It's not a rare disorder. Recent studies suggest the condition may in fact be more common than narcolepsy. To discuss current thinking about idiopathic hypersomnia, my guest today is Dr. Maggie Blatner, a board-certified neurologist and sleep specialist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Maggie, thank you for coming on today. What is idiopathic hypersomnia? Is it a disorder of exclusion after we've ruled out sleep apnea, insufficient sleep, drug-induced hypersomnia and narcolepsy? Or is it a specific clinical entity identifiable by clinical and polysomnographic features? Or perhaps is it both? I think this is such a challenging question and I think it's challenging for people who consider themselves experts in central disorders of hypersondelitis. By definition, idiopathic hypersomnia includes excessive daytime sleepiness, but even that as a diagnostic feature can be challenging in this disorder because for some people that manifests as lapses into sleep during the day, for others as severe fatigue and prolonged sleep duration, and it certainly does seem to be an array of phenotypes. It is a heterogeneous population that we struggle, I think, to identify and diagnose efficiently and accurately. The question about whether this is identified by specific polysomnacrophic features is something that certainly has been looked into. There certainly seem to be some clusters of features that we can see within certain phenotypes, but there's not just one definition. In fact, our diagnosis of this by two confirmatory tests or two separate tests really contributes to this broad array of manifestations or phenotypes we see within idiopathic hypersomnia. Okay, well let's move on then to thinking about how do we diagnose this complex and multifaceted condition. So the international classification of sleep disorders third edition, as you say, specifies two different ways to confirm the diagnosis. The first is the way most familiar to sleep specialists, a multiple sleep latency test showing a mean latency of eight minutes or less with no more than one sleep onset REM period. Is this a validated measure, or have we simply extrapolated from the criteria for narcolepsy? Also as we're thinking about this, they study suggesting that the number of sleep onset REM periods, so REMs on an MSLT, is unstable and may vary with repeated tests. Could you comment on the suggestion that a subset of idiopathic hypersomnia may in fact be the same disorder as narcolepsy type two, and we should in fact lump rather than split, become lumpers and lump them together as a single entity? Yes, absolutely. And that's early terminology that comes up is how our narcolepsy type two and idiopathic hypersomnia, similar, how are they different? Why do we sometimes see if people have multiple sleep studies, which often in idiopathic hypersomnia people do have multiple sleep studies, we see fluidity and diagnosis, particularly with narcolepsy type two. The multiple sleep latency test, which is overwhelmingly is used to diagnose hypersomnia, tests the tendency to lapse into sleep. And so for people who experience sleepiness as inappropriate lapses and to sleep during the day, this can be a pretty good test. For people with the kind of classic prolonged sleep duration, sleep inertia, it's not always a problem staying awake so much as a problem waking up. And in that case, the multiple sleep latency test does not capture trouble staying awake necessarily. And so in studies that look at how accurate or how reliable is the mxlt for idiopathic hypersomnia, doesn't always hold up as well as we'd like. So some studies suggest about 50% sensitivity for idiopathic hypersomnia with the multiple sleep latency test. And again, there is some fluidity if people have tests, multiple tests, the presence or absence of, you know, two, one, two, three, you know, sleep on set REM periods, which would differentiate narcolepsy type two from idiopathic hypersomnia. And so in terms of diagnostic clarity, this can be really challenging even with a multiple sleep latency test that shows a mean sleep latency less than eight minutes. Yes, well, just this very morning, I had a patient who had a mean sleep latency of 11.5 minutes on the mslt, but at geography for a week before showed more than 660 minutes average sleep time per night. So an alternative acceptable criterion, even in the presence of an normal mslt is 11 or more hours of sleep demonstrated ideally by polysomnography over 24 hours, or averaged over a week of activity with unrestricted time available to sleep. The data in support of this came, I think mainly from French studies on the 24 hour story, which was quite well done. But because this seemed so impractical in the United States, when we put together ICSD three and I had the privilege of chairing the committee that did the central hypersomnias, we came up with this alternative of a week of actigraphy. One of the problems is that people sometimes do a week of actigraphy while they at work and they set an alarm for six a.m. every morning and therefore, of course, you don't get prolonged sleep. So we always try and encourage people to sleep in for that week if it's at all practical. So how validated is this actigraphy measure? Should we continue with it or should we in the United States be now attempting 24 to 36 hours studies? Is this at all practical? I think that the documentation of prolonged sleep time is very useful, particularly for people who this is what they're experiencing. They're experiencing difficulty waking up in the morning that's impacting their schoolwork, that's impacting their family life, that's impacting their jobs, because they just feel they need so much sleep. And so when talking with people and taking a sleep in clinical history, if that's the complete, if that's the concern, then I think that documentation of the long sleep either with prolonged home, hopefully, hopefully unrestricted sleep opportunity monitoring or an in-lab test may be better confirmatory test. The question of how validated are these? I think there's growing evidence that this is a better measure of the problems of sleep and sleepiness in people with habitual prolonged sleep than the multiple sleep latency test. It's of course a question of what are you using for your gold standard diagnosis? If it's not the multiple sleep latency test, how do you determine the diagnosis of idiopathic hypersomnia? And so these prolonged 24-hour, 36-hour sleep monitoring periods can capture prolonged sleep duration. And again, I think that there is more and more evidence that this is a valid, a reliable method of documenting abnormally prolonged sleep. I think the challenges you rightly bring up is the practicality of that in a typical community sleep lab or even in an academic sleep lab. The other challenge, of course, is if we can confidently say that this is a better test, that this is absolutely more confirmatory for people who have long sleep, it does make an efficient and confident diagnosis, then I think we're obligated to overcome or address whatever practical challenges there are. This needs to be a test that we can offer. It needs to be something that we can do with a high degree of control and certainty because if we're not offering the right test for people, it becomes a question of access to care, health equity, and really delay of diagnosis. And so yes, the practical concerns matter, but there are challenges to be addressed rather than stopping the conversation and saying, well, we can't do it here, so we're going to try to find something else. I think as the evidence grows that this is potentially a better test, we need to be thinking about creative ways that we can address that and offer this diagnostic test. I think that's really the right approach. We continue with Actigraphy for now, but actively work to see whether we can practically do this technician availability, lab availability, and the practical issues of reimbursement for running a test for 24 to 36 hours. But you're right, we can't just say it's impossible to do in our current health system in the United States. And I hope you'll take the lead in trying to move us in that direction. Well, let's consider the subset of idiopathic hypersomnia patients who I have, which I call have the classic phenotype. In ICSD2, we called it idiopathic hypersomnia with long sleep, but that was dropped in ICSD3. So let's just call it the classic phenotype, long, undisturbed sleep, considerable sleep inertia on waking, irrespective of how long they've slept, long, unrefreshing naps, a high sleep efficiency greater than 90% on polysomnography, which is one more objective biomarker. And as we've talked about, usually more than 11 hours sleep in 24 hours, monitored by 24 hours of polysomnography, or as a surrogate marker, actigraphy. So in this subset, far better defined phenotype. What are some of the hypotheses about possible mechanisms that may be going on here? This is such an interesting discussion. There are, I think, a number of real contenders in terms of what's the underlying physiology. And before I talk about those, I think it's so important of a question, because once we can better understand the pathophysiology of this prolonged sleep duration, we'll have better biomarkers which will lead to more efficient diagnosis and hopefully lead to more targeted management. So this is a critical question in the population of idiopathic hypersomnia. And I think there's three or four kind of leading hypotheses for the physiology. One of those has to do with that this is a problem of sleep drive, that there's very high sleep pressure and people can just keep sleeping and sleeping and sleeping. And so kind of from our terminology, and this is a problem with process, that there's a lot of sleep drive. And there's some evidence that in some people there may be enhanced GABA signaling. And this is the rationale for treatments such as flamazanil or chlorathromycin, and I think we'll talk a little bit more about those. And so there's some evidence, but it certainly doesn't seem to be everyone with idiopathic hypersomnia. There's also some evidence suggesting a state of chronic inflammation. So just like people are tired when they're sick, there's like this chronic inflammation. So tumor and acrosis factor and inner lukin and just all of these kind of, I'm feeling sick, I'm feeling tired, maybe contributing to kind of the fatigue and sleepiness that people experience. I think there's also some really, I think interesting evidence about a circadian rhythm disorder or disruption in circadian rhythm that contributes to either a prolonged biologic night or a lapse or a problem with the circadian waking signal, the alerting signal, maybe not the alarm clock not being loud enough or not being present. There's a few studies that seem to suggest a circadian component is driving or process C is driving sleepiness here. And so I think, you know, if anyone's guess, and I think there's probably multiple different phenotypes that are attributed to different pathophysiologies. And I think in the research studies, it's becoming more and more clear that we need to, when we study the physiology, we need to look very, very clearly at what people are experiencing. What is the phenotype? Does this is idiopathic hypersomnia? Really not alcoma is idiopathic hypersomnia, but are there different features or different clusters that we can better study so we can better understand the physiology here? The homoesthetic one intrigues me, it may not be right, but it really intrigues me that it's a problem with process S, which we don't really think a lot about. So that I hope we'll get more information on. The other issue, of course, is the differentiation between idiopathic hypersomnia and chronic fatigue syndrome, because they tend to have some overlaps. But I think it would be right to say that in general chronic fatigue syndrome patients do have more disturbed sleep at night, rather than long sustained sleep and don't have this as much hypersomnia sort of characteristics. So I think we can separate these out clinically in most patients. Yeah, that is a really challenging differentiation. And it's so important to take time to really distinguish our people experiencing fatigue, which is low energy. I don't feel like doing something today. It's hard for me to get out of that versus are you actually sleeping when you're in bed? Is sleepiness really the problem here? And whether we discover that there's different mechanisms, I think that remains to be seen, but in clinical practice, taking the time to differentiate fatigue and sleepiness, I think is critical, particularly when we talk about efficacy of medications for idiopathic hypersomnia, which can sometimes be limited in treating the fatigue that people experience. Well, let's move on to treatment. Clinical experience suggests that the same stimulants that we use to treat narcolepsy are often also pretty effective in idiopathic hypersomnia. Is that your experience also? I think it depends. I think when when I'm talking with people about treatment options, I try to have people focus on what's the most troublesome symptom, because the medications that we've historically used, the stimulants and other wake promoting medications for narcolepsy, which can be very, very effective, help people to stay awake. But if people are experiencing prolonged sleep durations, severe sleep inertia, those medications don't always address those symptoms. So for people who are experiencing daytime sleepiness that's impacting their ability to participate in school to do their work, then I have seen a lot of benefit with the wake promoting medications. However, if the trouble is more with prolonged sleep duration, severe sleep inertia, and general fatigue, those medications don't always have the same efficacy in my experience. And so alternative medications are certainly conversations that we have. And there's also, I think, within idiopathic hypersomnia, sometimes where these medications don't work as well as we'd like them to. And so I think there's a real need for more options for people. And hopefully, as we understand more about this disorder, more targeted mechanism driven therapies. Well, the only FDA approved medication for idiopathic hypersomnia is low sodium oxybate. Now, as everybody who uses this drug knows, we give it a night. And it's really a sedating drug. So there was concern as the clinical trials were being proposed for this drug, that perhaps it's going to increase the sleepy inertia in the morning. And so in the major trials, they gave the option of giving the drug once a night before bed rather than the more usual way of giving the second dose in the middle of the night in the hope of avoiding it. But as I understand, and I wasn't involved in the trials, but as I understand the results, it really didn't make a difference whether it was given as a single dose before bed or one dose before bed and one during the night, there wasn't an increase in sleepy inertia at all. And it did in fact, if anything, it helped in that certainly increased sleepiness. What role do you think the drug plays in management of IH? I think this can be a very effective therapy option for many people. And I have actually seen in clinical practice that this medication can reduce sleep inertia. For some people, it may allow for less sleep time. I think the studies are still kind of coming out about the shorter sleep time with oxobates. But I think it can be very effective. I think that it is a good resource and a good tool in our toolkit for treatment of hypersomnia. Like all medications, it involves shared decision making and a real conversation about the potential benefits and the potential downsides. It's not the right medicine for everybody. Which is of course true about all medications. But I often schedule extra time to really talk about it's a medicine you take at night. Do you have nighttime routines that make this something that is reasonable for you? As you say, it causes very deep sleep. Are there things going on in your household that may make date sleep not quite the right therapy for you? So it really becomes a balance. But I have seen it be very, very helpful in terms of both daytime sleepiness and sleep inertia. And so for people who sleep inertia, that's the biggest concern that they have. It certainly merits consideration. Well, the most recent guidelines by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine for management of idiopathic hypersomnia give the antibiotic clarithromycin a conditional recommendation for treatment of idiopathic hypersomnia. Now some of us have been concerned that there may be insufficient basis for this recommendation. You alluded to this a little earlier. What are the scientific background to suggest that this drug might work? And what's your opinion on the studies that have been done? I mean, none of them were controlled. Do you think this is something that should be really there as a practical drug for today as opposed to further studies needed? I think that's such a great question. So the rationale makes a lot of sense. So if idiopathic hypersomnia is because of an enhanced or differentially modulated GABA signaling, then certainly medications that act at the GABA receptor, such as clarithromycin or flamazanil, could potentially address sleepiness and address symptoms. And I think that the studies are certainly important because they show that there is a population of people who do seem to respond to clarithromycin or, again, mechanistically related potentially flamazanil. There many of these have been retrospective. And I think there's an additional consideration of what outcomes we're looking at. And this is true for all medications. Are we looking at objective measures of wakefulness, such as a maintenance of wakefulness test? Are we looking at subjective experience of sleep symptoms and quality of life measures? And I think this is, again, true across the medications that we use for both narcolepsy and idiopathic hypersomnia is what is exactly our outcome? Is it, again, objective measures? Is it subjective feelings of wakefulness ability to kind of participate and cognitive outcomes? So there's all of these kind of patient directed outcomes that I think really merit further evaluation. The other point about clarithromycin that has come up as I've talked to other sleep clinicians has to do with comfort with prescriptions of medications. And this is, I think, true throughout central disorders of hypersomnelence that in many sleep clinics, we don't see these conditions as often as other sleep disorders like sleep apnea and insomnia. And I think that your index of suspicion, even within even as a sleep clinician within the world of sleep medicine, you have to be very sensitive to what people are saying and experiencing to recognize and diagnose these disorders in a thoughtful manner. But then also know about the treatment options and what to expect in terms of in terms of symptomatic management, you know, which medications might give you the most efficacy in different ways. And so clinician comfort with diagnosis and with treatment options is really important. So when I talk to people up clarithromycin centers that use it commonly have really good luck with it. Whereas if you're prescribing it once a year, once every few years, I think it's much, much more challenging. But it would be it would be nice, of course, to have some control trials to demonstrate that it is always an effective, simple open label studies just aren't adequate are they these days? No, certainly, we absolutely need high quality studies of options, medications for people because there's there's, you know, there's such a challenging challenging condition to treat. Well, Maggie, thank you so much for sharing your experience. Is there any final message you'd like to leave with our listeners? This has been so fun to talk about. I really enjoy talking with you and in general about this condition. And I think, you know, the most important thing that I've seen in my practice is listening to people's experience and approaching diagnostic evaluation and management in a thoughtful way that really takes people's preferences and priorities into account. And so I would encourage ongoing thoughtful care of these often challenging conditions. Well, thank you so much. Thank you very much. We hope you enjoyed this podcast. If so, please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in sleep medicine and sleep health. Thank you.