Welcome back to Mayo Clinic Radio. I'm Dr. Tom Shives and I'm Tracy McCrae. The urethra, it's a tube that carries urine from the bladder so it can be excreted from the body. Usually the urethra is wide enough or big enough for urine to flow freely through it. But if the urethra narrows or gets constricted, it can restrict or slow the flow of urine, a condition called urethal stricture. Urethal strictcture. It mainly affects men. I knew you'd want to say that. That's true. Fortunately, treatment options are available, including a new procedure using harvested tissue to reconstruct the urethra. Here to discuss urethral stricture and how it's treated is Mayo Clinic urologist Dr. Boyd Vers. Welcome to the program, Dr. Beers. It's nice to meet you. Nice meeting you guys as well. Thank you for having me today. Good to have you on the program, Dr. Beers. You know, it's amazing uh how many urologic problems there are. You can see why someone would want to go into the field of urology because we've had urologists on here multiple times and there are so many problems we've talked about and now the same. We've got this little tube that goes from the bladder to the outside world. Uh what can go wrong? So, kind of backing up, you know, in urology, there are different areas of urology. You have stone doctors, you have cancer doctors, you have um docs in urology who deal with quality of life, and then there's the reconstruction doctors. And that would be me essentially. I'm the one that deals with the aftermath of a lot of other treatment related complications. In particular, the urethra, which uh as men age is frequently instrumented uh with catheters for surgeries or if a patient has an enlarged a man has enlarged prostate, they may require a prostatctomy or a resection of the prostate and they can develop a scar in the urethra. Once you get a scar in the urethra, most times it's wide bore and you're able to uh urinate and void well. But in a subset of men, about 1 to 2% of men in the population, uh they do have to have some sort of intervention for that and it's almost always following a surgical procedure on the prostate gland. No, actually when we look at the population in general, the most common cause of strictctures are what we would term idiopathic, meaning we don't know what causes them. That's about 60%. But if you retroactively ask those patients, did you experience any blunt trauma to the paranium or to the scrotum or to the penis that you recall having an incident where you bled? About half of those men will recall that even up to 20 years before the incident. 20 years. So they had a bad enough injury that it caused scarring that progressive over time. And so why women have urethras? Why does this not affect women as much? So the average length of the female urethra is about 4 cm. So the the penile urethra itself is between 10 and 15 cm. So there's just much more play in in that um being injured inadvertently. Sure. And straddle injuries being short is good when it comes to regards to urethra. Yes. So what what would would a patient experience if they had a urethral stricture? They would experience uh symptoms or sensation of incomplete bladder emptying is usually how it starts out. Usually they'll complain of hesitancy. Doc, I'm having a hard time getting my stream started. Um I feel like I'm not emptying. I'll go and I'll do something. I'll drink my coffee in the morning. I'm coming back and I'm urinating again 30 minutes later. There's other causes for that sort of symptomology. We describe that as obstructive voiding symptoms, but that's some of the first things they present with. So, in most instances, you either don't know the cause or it might be related to prior trauma or possibly prior surgery. Instrumentation. Correct. That means something that they put in through the urethra to do something else to fix something else. Exactly. And and it goes along with the trend and where we see most strictures. So the most strictctures that are treated surgically with a urethroplasty where you operate and you and you repair the strictcture are done in men in their 30s to 40s. But the most common incident or the greatest incidence of strictures is actually in older men and it's probably related to instrumentation. You said urethroplasty. Correct. tell us what that Yeah, that that's a doctor word. It is a doctor word. So, let's uh we'll get into the the treatment um algorithm for urethal strictures once you're diagnosed with one. Uh and and this goes back even to the time of antiquity. If you look at one of the earliest described surgical interventions, it was treating men with urethral strictctures early on. um um even back dating to the time of Napoleon uh the most common cause of strictures was actually related to sexually transmitted diseases specifically gorrhea and so that was u an epidemic and many men had strictures at that time and they would dilate these strictctures and that was often a cause for significant um health issues in those men for instance Napoleon had seizures which was related to his urinary retention and his renal failure So, so, so urethal dilation has been described for a very very long time. Um, then after urethral dilation, there was the description of cutting the strictcture with a scope. And so, that's been around for about 200 years. And over the last about 70 years, we've started doing urethroplasty, which is where you would operate on the stricture. And that comes in varying uh degrees of what you have to do depending on where the strictcture is. So the the first choice would be to to dilate it. And tell us how you do that. I'm not sure I want to hear this, but tell us how you I wouldn't necessarily say it's the first choice, but it is a choice. uh you would uh use a cystoscope which is a small fiber optic uh scope that you would introduce into the urethra and then you could dilate the strictcture with the um hope that that strictcture will then scar open. So you dilate you mean make it larger? Make it larger. And you can do that through the scope. You can do that through the scope visualizing the strictcture. Yes. But sometimes that doesn't work. Uh no. Um and and you would say the same for um internal urethraottomy which is the medical word for uh cutting the strictcture. Um those are the early treatments that we described. And when you look at the success rate of those two options um and you follow patients long enough uh the success rate at about 5 years is only 10%. That these men will need another treatment. And the reason that's important is because when you uh survey urologists in the community that aren't reconstruction trained, only 2% of uh patients that present with strictctures actually undergo a urethroplasty or a formal repair. That means the other 98% are getting these uh temporizing treatments. H how is this diagnosed in the first place? So patients either come in with obstructive symptoms or complications related to the strictcture such as urine retention or infection or bleeding. And that goes down the road of uh doing a cystoscopy uh to look at the urethra which is another type of scope that you would insert and look at the actual inside of the urethra. That's often done in clinic and then they're referred on. Okay. So you talked about uh the the prior options um the uh dilation the cutting and then the new procedure is the urethroplasty right that is that is becoming the standard of care uh and it's becoming more recognized as the optimal option for men and and what do you do exactly? It depends. So that is a that's a that's a million-dollar question and there's books written on this and it really comes down to where the stricture is. Um there is you can you can simply cut the strictcture or or cut the scar out and put and I tell patients you put good back to good so it's an end to end or an anastmotic urethroplasty and the success rate of that is about 95% so it's it's a durable treatment option um and we can even do it as an outpatient uh whereas in the past patients were typically staying in the hospital for up to three to four nights if the stricture is longer Then we have to go to more complex urethral reconstruction techniques and that's where we start using substitution uh and we start substituting tissue and and the the tissue that we use is actually the skin from the inside of the cheek called buckle mucosa. Oh yeah. So a little cheek to help repair your urethra. Yeah, believe it or not. Yes. So you are a urologist, but then I presume you did a fellowship in what's called reconstructive urology. Yep. Trauma and reconstruction. Yep. And it's fortunate that the people have a who have a urinary strictcture, mostly men, have somebody like you around to fix them. We're getting there. We're getting there. So when you look at uh states with genital urinary reconstruction trained urologist, at this point in time, about half the states in the country have one. All right. Well, I bet you're a busy guy. Yeah. Yeah, we're Yes, we are busy. All right. Everything you wanted to know about strictcture of the urethra from Mayo Clinic urologist Dr. Boyd Beers. Dr. Beers, thanks so much for being with us. Yeah, thank you.