I'm Chris McLeod. I'm one of the electrophysiologists at Mayo Clinic in Florida. And this is one of our online offerings in anticipation of our board review course that's coming up. We thought this is a nice forum for discussion of interesting cases and just highlighting some key components for budding electrophysiologists and EPs who want to refresh for the boards. There was already a session looking at some really nice SVTs that were presented around six weeks ago, and this is on ventricular arrhythmias. Thank you, Chris. Welcome, everyone. This online webinar is supposed to add on to our core board review lectures and give you some context and to test your knowledge. Today, we have two excellent colleagues who are going to highlight some cases and bring out some points that are relevant for the boards. The first presenter would be my colleague, Dr. Dinesh Khella. He's a practicing electrophysiologist at the Jacksonville campus in Florida. He's the go-to lead extractor in the Florida region. One reminder is if you have any questions, comments, put it in the Q&A part of the Zoom window, not in the chat. So at the end of the case, we will get to those questions and, you know, get some input from Dr. Khella. Dr. Khella, thank you for doing this. Just while Dinesh is getting things pulled up, just putting a plug in there for our EP Board Review course, which is August 22nd and 23rd. And you can message us or reach out anytime if you need more information about that. We've had some outstanding speakers, including Bill Stevenson, lots of the established educators at Mayo Clinic, and, yeah, just an excellent panel. So think about it. It really is focused on improving your candidacy to ace the boards and then also some just key components for learning and your practice. Sorry, Dinesh. Go ahead. So I'm going to talk about entrainment and reentrant arrhythmia ventricular tachycardia. And so as part of this topic, we're going to go over the principles of entrainment mapping in structural VT cases and then review the role of pacing output configuration, how it can be, how is it important to have the right output when you're pacing to entrain the tachycardia. So my patient is a 75 -year-old gentleman. He has a history of mid-LED and FARC before he underwent PCI for it, but EF had dropped, EF around 40%, and prior to that he had low EF, he got an ICD for it. And he did well for many, many years, then all of a sudden he started to develop ICD shocks related to monomorphic VT. And he was placed on amiodarone, but he wished to undergo EP study and VT ablation. So he was brought to the EP lab, and during the study with programmed ventricular stimulation, the following VT was induced. So cycle length is about 420 milliseconds. This VT was reliably reproduced whenever it was terminated during pacing or if any cardioversion was performed. so before i go any further i want the audience to take a look and think about the exit of it and try to figure out where we should start mapping for this or where would the circuit be for this tachycardia well the audience is thinking about this just looking at the exit and so we're thinking this is re -entrant and just i guess driving home the key I guess principle here that with re-entry the exit doesn't mean this is where you're going to ablate. As Dinesh said, mapping is the key here and if the patient is hemodynamically tolerating this then these are really fun cases where you get some super useful information from your catheters and you can build an electron atomic map of the wave fronts. I think the key, as Chris mentioned, is that the morphology won't determine where you're going to ablate necessarily, but it'll give you an idea where to start your mapping and everything. And whenever you look at this for the board, review, and clinical practice, just trying to figure out simple things, is it the right ventricle, left ventricle, is it the septal or lateral wall, base, mid wall, or apex, superior versus inferior, and just going systematically through it, 2-3 ABF, are they positive or negative? Here, they're negative, so that means it's superior axis. And so things are coming from below to up. So inferior wall is where you would be looking for this. Then looking at the right bundle versus left bundle, morphology in V1, it's all positive, so more from the left side. Then everything seems to be negative and transitioning early to be negative. That means more towards the apex. Then again, 1 is positive, suggesting more the septum than anything else. And so thinking of it, like going consistent with the infarct of the patient, the left ventricle, mid-LAD territory infarct, so apical, inferior, septal is where you'll be Anything else? Dinesh, one other thing to think about is you have the negative complexes in the inferior leads, right? But then you have a tiny R-wave in the beginning of those negative complexes. that tells you that this is not epicardial. So if you have a QS, you know, when you have that R wave, at least the activation is going from endo to epi. So this is a case that, you know, upfront epicardial mapping is not something that you're thinking for this patient. Absolutely. And so this patient was tolerating the VT hemodynamically well. And so we started with mapping, and we were using the NAVEX mapping system. We had a grid catheter, and the grid catheter was placed in the left ventricle near the apex and apical septum. And these are the signals that we saw, and it got us excited. And I want the audience to take a second to look at it and see if there's anything interesting. and either one of you if you want to comment on the signals or anything that is interesting to you it's always interesting how quickly you can forget about all the different catheters you have to use and here you actually have another catheter which is your rv apical catheter and so with this one screen you can really get a sense that at least the activation it's either extremely late on the RV side or it's extremely early, but at least some of the circuitry is somewhat differentiated by the septum. You're kind of looking at all of the different catheters and when you're starting out with these, it can be very overwhelming looking at a screen like this and just the same way that you're looking at an ECG, look at these. Start out by orienting yourself look at the far left you see all of your 12 leads on the left highlighted for yourself and then you see the rv proxy distal and then the multipolar catheter and then systematically just evaluating what you're seeing and um this is this beautiful double potentials um almost getting into diastole, I guess, like an early diastole, and then there's this very tiny beautiful signal that Dinesh is highlighting that's mid -diastolic. So you have quite a bit of that cycle length of this VT on this one slide. Yeah. And when I was making this slide, I had this decreased speed show up, and I thought of going back and removing it, but then as Christoph said, can it be overwhelming for the boards are going starting as a new fellow so just slow down and look at it in a systemic fashion oh sorry the other thing that uh well just to consider here is um this grid catheter and you can think of any multipoly catheter these electrodes are so closely spaced they're a couple of millimeters apart and if you uh move your calipers uh just to that um c electrode there the niche just the beginning of C1 to the end of something like C4 and you can see just how much of the cycle length as Christoph was saying but also just how slow the conduction is there to travel two millimeters it's taking probably 200 milliseconds so very diseased tissue just to get across that grid or if you had an optrel or an octorate. It doesn't really matter. It's just a closely spaced electrode and it's very diseased, slow tissue. So let's say this is not even participating in this tachycardia because we're obviously going to need to look at entrainment. But this is a rhythmogenic substrate if you ever needed it. It's really slow conduction. Sorry, Dinesh, go ahead. Excellent points. Excellent points. So question here, would you just ablate this or explore? Because, I mean, as Christophe, I was pointing to this signal, sort of forms in that, like, mid -diastolic area. You have the QRS, ventricular activation, and you have this. Isn't that what we talk about for ISMIS? Just go, like, find that mid-diastolic signal in a blade, or do you explore further? Well, you know, it could be unrelated. You know, you're recording something, you know, unrelated to the participation in the circuit. That's an attractive signal in tachycardia, but we want to make sure that it is not a bystander. It's actually participating in the circuit before changing the substrate. What bystander? I mean, this is VT, right? There are no bystanders. There are no innocent bystanders in it, right? This latent signal. You can have some passive activation. Certain parts of the circuit can be passively activated, not actively contributing to the VT circuit. It's nice to confirm your findings by pacing, doing some maneuvers, or even if there is some variation in cycle length, how is that signal-to-signal change in relation to the other components like QRS to QRS. So if that signal-to -signal change predicts the next QRS-to-QRS, that means something. But still, it would be nice to do some maneuvers, have a little bit more confidence before ablating. Excellent. Okay. All right. So we switched out a grid catheter for the ablation catheter in the similar area. And this was, again, what I was thinking was a similar signal that we had seen before. And we do something here. we face entering the tachycardia. So, Chris, would it be possible for anyone from audience to comment, or would you guys like to go over it? Yeah, I think we can go over a few key things, and then certainly anyone in the audience can weigh in. I think it's nice to start off with just how do we know that we're in trade? Right. So, like, first making sure, like, what the cycle length of the tachycardia is and is about regular or not. And looks here about regular. Every beat is falling where it's supposed to. And then this is how fast I'm pacing. So picking a point in QRS where I can reliably measure and make sure I'm going to, all my QRS are driven to that pacing cycle length. oh and that always comes up on the boards there are always several slides where you haven't accelerated the tachycardia to the cycle length of pacing and they're asking about the response to entrainment but that first thing that uh dinesh just pulled up there did you really uh entrain the tachycardia making sure that the vt during entrainment is at the cycle length of pacing and the other thing is like when you will have tracings where like your this stem is actually giving to this QRS as you can see this is where we were pacing at the cycle length if you see this is the QRS being generated by this stem and then the tachycardia resumes at the tachycardia cycle length so can I just go into that real quick just what Dinesh did here is he is first off showing that each qrs is going at a faster cycle length than when he was in vt by this way he's showing that he's accelerating the tachycardia and then he's finding the last accelerated beat because the last accelerated beat might not be the one that is immediately after the last pacing spike and the way that he's doing that is just taking the calipers putting it on the um and can you pull it sorry can you pull it over just showing like if just before you show the last accelerate beat uh yeah so okay and then go to the two curious it's no go to back one more go on back more yeah so this is at least how i started i showed these two because i i know the last one had to be accelerated and then i walk it over one more and if that's the same cycle length then i know that this last pacing beat went to that very last one right there and that's my last accelerated beat and then if then i would pick it up one more to prove that the next one is now back towards the regular tachycardia cycling so this is the tachycardia resuming we're doing here is we're showing you guys also that really entrainment is a very almost a protocolized step -by-step fashion if you do it organized then you can be more sure about about your answer and what you end up completing yeah there's so much to discuss yeah i have to say that the first thing i also look at in addition to have we accelerated the tachycardia is is it concealed or manifest so it gives me some idea of where i am sitting in relationship to the um isthmus so um what do you think silver you know when i'm looking at the the q the vt overall it looks very similar to the paced QRS, right? Except that right after the pacing spike, and if I'm looking at lead V3 to V6, you have that sharp downstroke, V3 to V6 at the beginning of the QRS right after the pacing spike. Now, we don't see that during tachycardia. So, you know, one may think that this is manifest entrainment in fact it is just the tp fusion or the pacings fusion pacing spike coming on the t wave which gives this a less illusion of that you're you may be having manifest but in fact this is like almost like a concealed fusion and and the other thing is here too like if the pacing spike in here you have a qrs that's a further away from the pacing spikes so you can compare the two qrs's but i agree with all of the points and then like this is to me is uh concealed and uh and uh like the next thing is to look at what your return signal is on the site that you're facing from so here we are facing from ablation distal you get a lot of signals here so uh siva and chris and christophe like how do you determine is this the guy this the guy or the guy is not here somewhere here what would be your uh like the signal that you would measure here yeah that's a that's a great question you know i would so whenever you have a multi-component signal you'll be worried about some of them being far field so one way to to to to really appreciate the signals on your pacing catheter is to, you know, unclip, change the gain so you actually see the signal. The other clues are you also have a proximal electrode pair. So you can see that the proximal electrode pair, there is a signal that is not ****** in. So that is like a far-field component that lines up with the first part of the component on the distal signal. Okay, so that one... lines up with the first part of the component on the distal so that to me is a far field component whatever is is ****** in is the is the high frequency signal that is afterwards got it so what sewa was saying is that like if you look throughout the pacing swipe on proximal this guy right here this signal is not being ****** in which corresponds to this and it corresponds to something on the distal disk. So this is unlikely the signal that's being ****** in. And also you see it like sticking out right here. So it's probably this signal here. That's the one that we should be measuring. And this is your post-facing interval or return cycle length. And 338 here, like this is an arbitrary number. And if you compare it to your tachycardia cycle length, right here if you compare it to the qrs it's pretty long like if i if i just close my caliber here is the difference so 117 compared to 338 this is an addition due to what we are getting so pretty long so this will be indicative of that this is not in the circuit and so So, Seva, any comments about this? You know, the fact that you're having the last and trained QRS, right, is such a long stream to QRS. You are in a protected corridor or like a blind loop that is attached to a deep protected corridor. So, you're not in the SMS, not near the exit. so you know inner loop you know bystander attached to the inner loop could be one possibility but certainly even though it's a diastolic signal this is not the place where i would ablate exactly so we'll just go over these things that seva was talking about quickly and then we'll we'll see like whether anything happened when we ablated or didn't ablate and found something different yeah just to drive sorry just to drive that home one more time just go back for a second Dinesh it's so important to know which of the signals that you're pulling in that's the signal you're going to measure too and I know that we've gone over that but just look carefully at which is the signal that's pulled into pacing and which are the ones that are not pulled into pacing this fools electrophysiologists all the time and definitely is going to be testable on boards so this is your classic diagram that you'll see in all textbooks like this imagined 3d circuit or a circuit of vt imagined in two dimensions and imagine that this whole slide is your ventricle this is the circuit within it so you've got these anatomical obstacles scar area that do not conduct at all a protected isthmus that conducts slowly and conducts preferentially in one direction and this allows the re-entry to happen. And there are other places in this, like you get far-field areas, you get something within the scar that's protected, but is far from the circuit, and then the exit of the circuit, and then where the tachycardia again goes back, enters into the circuit. So when you entry in or accelerate your tachycardia, let's say this tachycardia is going at 300 milliseconds, what you want to do is pace from somewhere a little faster than the tachycardia cycle length so typically 30 milliseconds less than the tachycardia and goal is not to interrupt it not to break it so you can interpret after the tachycardia resumes and when you start pacing you generate wavefronts that start to go as you pace gradually into the tachycardia and what you're doing is pushing ahead and making it go faster and come back quicker than what it was going at what we talked about like making sure that before you entrain that the tachycardia is stable and when it comes back it's along the same cycle length it's stable again this will show up in boards where you have an unstable tachycardia and they will ask you to entrain that interpret the findings of entrainment and then you cannot really if your tachycardia cycle length is not stable did you accelerate it or not like we were going through making sure that you actually got into the circuit. Did the tachycardia continue? And then looking at QRS to look for concealed versus manifest fusion, looking at post -spacing in relationship to tachycardia cycle length, then we'll go over stem to QRS that briefly Sipha mentioned how it can be important in interpreting the site of where you are in the circuit. So fusion, again, for those who are starting in EPE fusion, like if I'm pacing far from the tachycardia, from the circuit, then I'm going to have two wavefronts one is from my pacing site one is from the tachycardia they're going to collide so what you will see when you're pacing it will look neither like tachycardia nor like pacing something in between the faster i pace the more it will look like my pacing morphology than the tachycardia itself if i move my pacing site within the circuit then there is really no other wavefront colliding with the tachycardia wavefront. So my pacing QRS morphology is going to look same as the tachycardia, which is called concealed fusion. And that means you're closer to the circuit. Then looking at post -pacing interval, what we are doing is anywhere if you put a catheter in the ventricle when this VT is happening, you're going to record a signal. And for a stable VT, you're going to have that signal come at the same time, 300 millisecond, let's say we're recording somewhere here. If I pace from a remote site further away from the circuit, when I come off pacing, when the circuit resumes, when the tachycardia comes back and the signal comes back to the site of pacing, it is going to take 300 milliseconds, the cycle length of the tachycardia to get back, an additional sometime, the time it took for you to go into the circuit and then come back so the longer your post spacing interval is in comparison to tachycardia cycle length you are further away from the circuit as you get closer this circuit this timing is going to get shorter and shorter the return cycle length and once you are within the circuit then this is going to be typically close to 30 milliseconds plus minus two does tachycardia cycle length it should an ideal circuit be the same as your tachycardia cycle length because you do not have anything additional to travel or come back to and within like how do you determine within the circuit where you are are you in this critical isthmus are you at the entrance or the exit you can look at stim to qrs if it is long the stim to qrs to tachycardiocycle and that means you have to take a long time for it to from your where you're pacing to get out to the exit so you're more proximal towards the inner loop or towards the entrance of the circuit and this is from the classic paper looking at stem to QRS and tachycardia cycle length, the relationship, and if it is more than 70%, then you're more in the proximal part of the circuit. As you get closer to it, then your stem to QRS is going to get shorter or more midway compared to your tachycardia cycle length. As you get to the exit, there's not really a lot of interval for you to cross where you're protected, and this is must, your stem is going to move towards your QRS, so that is going to be less than 30% when you look at stem-to-QRS to tachycardia cycle length. Other possibilities that we were seeing in our case was like, what if you have manifest fusion, but your post-facing interval compared to tachycardia cycle length is equal or within the 30 milliseconds? This can happen if you're in the outer loop, because in the outer loop, you're still close to the circuit when you have a wave front that is going away in the healthy or relatively healthier myocardium that can cause manifest fusion, but your post -based interval is going to be within 30 millisecond of tachycardia cycle N. This is important to recognize mainly for academic reasons, but like ablating here won't make a difference because again, you have healthy myocardium, ablating the healthy myocardium wouldn't make a huge difference. And then what we were seeing in our case is this time pouch that Dr. Malputu was asking about the innocent bystander within the tachycardia or within the scar i'm sorry where you had this protected corridor where you didn't have any way to get out and create this manifest or manifest fusion the fusion was still concealed you couldn't go out have another wave front but it was still taking you long to get to the circuit and come back because you were away from the critical structure circuit and again ablating here wouldn't make a difference because it won't affect the tachycardia cycle, the tachycardiocycle, or this critical isthmus. So this I will leave in our slides for you to review in the interest of time. But again, it's just going through that classic algorithm, trying to look at entrainment, conceal versus manifest, then post-pacing interval, then the tachycardiocycle length and relationship of stem to QRS to figure out where you are within the circuit. Coming back to our... Can we go back to that just for a second, Dinesh? so um it's just such a powerful tool entrainment and um you'll end up uh relying on it not just obviously for ventricular arrhythmias but for atrial arrhythmias in a very similar way using your activation sequence as sort of a surrogate for the qrs just uh in your atrial catheters the um algorithm also just pointing out the post-pacing interval equal to the tachy cardiocycle length or your stem qrs to equal to your egm qrs difference it's it's either or it doesn't have to be both and they they both are equally valuable so sometimes maybe you're not able to measure something as carefully um but because of intracardiacs and lots of signals If your stim to QRS and your EGM to QRS is equal, you know that you're in the circuit. So it's a very useful tool in addition to just another way of looking at entrainment that Bill Stevenson put together. Just coming back to our slide, like, I mean, everything Dr. Malpuru had pointed out and others had pointed out, like looking at, again, like, is your tachycardia stable? It was stable. then looking back did we accelerate which is our last accelerated beat then looking at the QRS manifest versus concealed then trying to figure out the signal that we are ******* and that's where we are facing from and then looking its relationship to the tachycardia cycle length or the other thing that we saw from algorithm and Dr. McLeod was pointing again here if you had just looked at stim to QRS versus this EZM to QRS again would have been very different and would give you the idea that this is a bystander and not part of the tachycardia circuit or critical part of the tachycardia circuit. One more entrainment slide here. And in interest of time, Christoph, if you want to just quickly go through this. Yeah, so I guess here we see, again I can kind of look at starting with the QRS of the pacing one and comparing it to the QRS of the what I believe is the last accelerated of the VT and overall looks like concealed entrainment the last pace QRS looks nearly identical to the tachycardia. We can see that you have multi-component signal here on your ablation proximal and distal and that's really helpful to help see what you're capturing. Here you can really nicely see it's really tough to see on ablation distal what you're actually truly capturing, but you're seeing on proximal there's a small signal and then that looks about the same distance as this more far-field signal. So if you can just really quickly point out, yeah, those small signal blocks. Yeah. And then I drop it down. Actually, I wish I could, let's see, maybe I can put a, I guess I can annotate this. So just going organized, again, concealed fusion, we then have, we show that basically this, and then this is probably our last accelerated beat and you have your calipers to show but I can visually see the distance between this is a decent bit further than this one. And then looking at that signal this is again that far field signal on rocks that I'm looking at and I correlate with this and I can see that this is right here so probably I'm capturing this little signal right there and coming down to distal, something here. And I would probably measure it to somewhere around here. And then comparing that to the tachycardia cycling. And another small little kind of useful tool to use is just to see where in the tachycardia you're pacing. You're pacing almost exactly mid-diastory and you're accelerating. I mean, it's kind of a pretty short way to just say this. This looks like an isthmus ablation right in the middle. The further you go, you're probably more towards the entrance. The closer your stem to QRS is, the closer you are more towards the exit. And I don't see now, Dinesh, did you measure this about the same? About the same, a little further. And I mean, like the main for Chris and Seba, I mean, it's for practical purposes. I think what Christophe is telling is accurate, like for boards, I mean, it gets a little nuanced, right? Like, I mean, if you truly look at this QRS, the paste versus the tachycardia, there is some element of fusion there, right? How would you see this? Yeah, it's very subtle, but it's definitely there. So it also just depends on how much tissue you're capturing when you're pacing. You can be capturing adjacent tissue if you're pacing at high output and you're not capturing just that isthmus that it's moving through. Can you go back one slide, Dinesh? Yes. This also, I know we're spending a lot of time on your slides, but there's so many nice components just looking at ablation distal uh the signal on your catheter during tachycardia you can see just how many components there are mid-diastolic late-diastolic you know pre-systolic whatever you want to call it it's almost continuous electrical activity there. So it highlights two things. One is mapping systems are not very good at annotating these, meaning where does it take activation? And I do think it's important that the electrophysiologist or fellow step in and say, if we are going to map activation, where are we going to take these? And be careful not to be misled by your mapper. They're often very good, but you can be misled by activation here and miss something like this. The most important thing is to take your time if the patient's hemodynamically stable and annotate this by hand on your map these are really really really important signals um they are um spanning almost the length of the tachycardia and diastole and this needs to be annotated with a you know super colorful point on your map and something that you're not going to forget so that you know maybe that the tachycardia terminates you know bumping this area but you really this is a very key spot for mapping and sometimes it's not um participating in this tachycardia but it is a very slow zone of conduction that needs to be annotated i think i mean these are all points that we considered and uh i'll just go through the case rest of it uh i i think i mean the main thing uh like looking at this carefully especially for for uh the board's purposes and as well as in practice too uh and like here the question was like am i in this outer loop versus am i in the critical estimation and uh for boards uh i don't know how you feel like i mean this is probably not a question that you'll get but like if you do get like i think this is what i would have worked it as outer loop considering everything that we discussed and and so coming back like the points that we were making although like I mean for boards if I'm thinking outer loop this is where we ablated and the tachycardia terminated immediately again all the things that Christophe was pointing towards like how our stem to QRS relationship was the the the length of the electrogram during tachycardia like signifying that this is probably the critical isthmus and then the relationships of the post-pacing interval to tachycardia cycle length all pointed towards that. And to Chris's point of what he was mentioning is that if your pacing output is just above the threshold where you need to pace, you're going to probably be within the protected. Your virtual electrode is going to be big and you're going to capture the tissue within the isthmus but in our case like like what we noted is like this was very high output this was the max that the uh that the that we could get and like that probably resulted in this sim to qrs and every older relationship to be a little bit different or like us having this manifest fusion then concealed fusion and so it's very important to uh keep your output to just above the threshold and again like what chris was pointing towards is trying to annotate these signals i mean some of it becomes after the fact that you've done and you go back and look at that this is where most of the tachycardiocycle length was along the septum the mid part of the septum and various things that you can do with it here we looked at it with activation map and this is where the slow component comes and this is with the other site near the apical septum where we were facing from where you have this like late activation that really doesn't have any participation into the tachycardia and this is what we were discussing about the adjacent bystander and there are many ways you can a mapper can show it to you this is the psychedelic version of it and again looking at the map and voltage this is where we ablated with one burn that we terminated the tachycardia, and after that, we went on and homogenized the scar, and that was the end of the case. So, I think, Dinesh, it's a fantastic case. I'd like to summarize with three points. So, one is, you know, take your time when you're trying to annotate these signals, understand which signal is local, which signal is far field. The one that is ****** in is your local signal the component that is ****** in the second thing is you know understanding concealed versus manifest so that would be a first step you got to pay attention to multiple ecg electrodes and then the third point that you made is to keep your output as low as possible sometimes do your entrainment in a unipolar configuration tip to an indifferent electrode so you don't have contribution of the ring electrode okay thank you it's a fantastic case and you know we'll move on to the next case and then even after termination you can see just one or two more ablation lesions. So it's a pleasure to introduce Dr. Fanica. Christophe is a colleague of mine in Florida and a specialist in ventricular arrhythmia mapping and ablation and just a really great teacher. So Christophe, thanks for putting together the slides and spending the time. and um appreciate it looking forward to it yeah yeah all right good um my my uh slides are a little bit different and it's essentially a little bit more focused on anatomy and understanding what is your bystanders and and specifically starting here with auto tract pvcs and i want to kind of highlight this paper which is just excellent at describing the anatomy and giving you a sense at what we're looking at when we're specifically looking at arthritrack DVCs and VT. And this comes even to ventricular tachycardias, to non -ischemic ventricular tachycardias because it's very frequently periaortic VTs or perimitral. So just as a very quick highlight here, So right in the center of the heart is the LBOT with the aortic valve, the right coronary cusp, left coronary cusp, and the non-corary cusp. So no arrhythmias, no ventricular arrhythmias originates from the non-corary cusp just because it sits much more closer to the atria. It's a fibrous tissue in this region. There's nothing for it to depolarize to. So we're really focusing on this structural year, which, as we go deeper, year is exactly what we're looking at. This is the ventricular septum, and this is the structure that sits between the LVOT and the RVOT. The RV sits as a crescent around a fairly circular LV. and this is some anatomical dissections and what I would encourage all of you is that any anatomical dissection that you can go to, go to it. My further encouragement is don't listen to anything anyone says, just try to find the structures that you're really interested in and dissect it in such a way that makes sense to you. And so here you can see on this specimen and this is a this was a sheep heart i believe uh but you can see very similar here is our mitral inflow tricuspid inflow and here's the aortic valves and the uh the pulmonic valves and this is the structure we're really kind of talking about and and um which is when you isolate the whole septum so a year I've taken off the RV -free wall, which would sit on this side. On the other side is where the LV would sit, and this is the septum. You can see how the aortic valve and the LVOT sits right on top of the septum. In fact, if you look closely here, this is the right coric cusp. The right coric cusp sits right on top of the septum. So just thinking about when you're placing a catheter in that right quarry cusp, you're going to force this of 20, 30 grams and really not cause a whole lot of damage because you're sitting right So this is just as a little bit of an intro. And then going further on this paper and circulation, this highlights very nicely the different morphologies as you're walking across the different areas of the basal RV and LV in the outlet tracts all the way to the anterior mitral annulus and the anterior lateral mitral annulus. just to highlight a few small structures before I go into a couple of cases. When you're trying to identify these absolute track type DVCs and VT, I start with identifying, is it coming from the... I tend to start all the way at the left side because it's easier. So look at V1, And if it's a right bundle branch block pattern, you're coming from somewhere in the LV and a specifier off the septum. What I mean by that is that the septum is not included if you're having a right bundle branch pattern. The moment you have the right tunnel branch pattern, you know you can go in through the LBOT or transceptal via mitral valve and go and target a site somewhere more lateral and anterior on the mitral annulus. So this is all the way over at, let me just go with this here. All the way over here, here's the mitral annulus looking at V1, very positive. positive across the precordium is a very posterior structure so all of these will be positive and we're specifically talking about inferiorly directed dbcs so you can see these are inferiorly directed on lead two and three negative in abr abl and then very lateral uh the laterality will really play a role um and also guiding you how far so you can look at it's negative in lead one then you can go into the summit and we'll have a case there in a little bit but the point i really want to make is as you're moving across this from left to right your v1 becomes smaller and smaller and more and more negative um here you can see the left corner cusp more and more negative doubt more negative at the right left junction negative in v1 v2 as a little rs and then sudden transition by v3 and then we kind of get to the rvot and rvot just as a way later transition usually after v4 so lvot before v3 rvot after v3 v3 a little bit of an equalizer tends to be right on the set. But there's a couple things that we can do to sort out whether to go to the LVOT or RVOT first. I just wanted to take a pause because I talked a lot. This is a high -level overview, but I'll go into the next part. Yeah, I do. I use V1 as such a useful just, I guess, linchpin for where you are and i think of it exactly the opposite from christophe if you're right underneath v1 you're on the right and if you're moving away from v1 because you're on the right like rvot it's all negative and then you start building your r wave that you start getting more and more posterior and so it's exactly the same concept but the more vector that's moving towards V1, the more posterior you are in the heart. And think of the left ventricle as the posterior ventricle, and your right ventricle is the anterior ventricle. Okay, that's right. So, okay, so this is an example of a pure RVOT screw wall PVC. And so thinking about this, right, the RVOT sits very anterior on the chest. If we're thinking about V1, V2 as unipolar electrodes, it's going to be very negative in the V1 and V2. So here is what the PVC looked like. A very negative V1. And the slight R -wave in V2, it's still negative in V3, as we're kind of usually on V2, V3. All of these signals are going away. And then it's not until we're getting to V4, V5, V6 that we're starting to build a little bit of positivity. And in this case, we put the catheter on the RVOT free wall. You can see that we're somewhat early, but a very nice unipolar electrogram. Do you guys want to comment on these electrograms here? Yeah, no. So in the teal color, you have the bipolar distal electrogram, tip to ring, and then you have a unipolar one, either to the Wilson central terminus or an indifferent electrode in the IVC. The key thing to note is you can have a QS signal, but it has to have a sharp DVDT. Sometimes we can be floating in the cavity and you can get a QS. So we want to have a sharp negative DVDT on the unipolar electrogram that coincides with a crisp bipolar electrogram to be more confident of a better site for ablation. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. And when you look, it can be kind of tough to determine where you want to measure to. So I'm very strict. I would really say that this URS starts around there and that the signal is not incredibly early. If you take the sharpest point here, if you take the very initial deflection up here, then you would say that this is maybe a far-field component and that that is early. The other point that I want to make here is with this unipolar signal, why is a QS important? It's the same as the unipolar ECG electrodes V1 through V6. it can tell you information of directionality which a bipolar electrogram does not necessarily give you so in this case it's giving you directionality and that all of the electrical wave front is moving away from that crystal electrode so you know you're at a place where there's quite a likely that this is the origin of this PVC in this case so this is our electron atomical mat and we put the ablator right here um the niche do you want to comment here on uh dangers things to consider in this region i think two things here i think two things too very important to consider in this area would be like you're in the RV, working there is always at the risk of peticardial effusion. The second thing is where you are in relationship with the coronary artery, the left main, and the proximal LED where you are would be the other consideration. Yeah, very thin region right there. Eye perforation risk, and it's a very tricky area to maneuver the catheter. So this is eye perforation risk and this is where one of the complications with big pericardial diffusions can occur. Really monitoring on ice for echogenicity and for rapid echogenicity and monitoring your impedance to make sure you don't have a steam pop in this area. And maybe not necessarily super testable on boards, But again, fluoroscopy is an important part of electrophysiology. This is what the RAO looks like. And you can see we have a deflectible sheath pointing towards the RV, probably right at the tricuspid annulus. And here we are, an RAO pointing straight towards us. And then this S-bend to help guide us into that position. Okay, so this is another PVC, and PVC is in Vigemini. Amy, do you guys, the moderators, want to comment on this PVC morphology and things that stand out? Yeah, I think I was telling you this week, Christophe, I'm no longer in the business of ablating this. they make my life too hard i've given up uh this is a really tough uh region and uh i also say i think i've been fooled a few times to thinking that it's not uh in the summit that it is and um but i do so first a few things to think about so outflow tract of course you've got positive two three and avf and um you're moving away from uh both shoulder leads a little bit more to the left so avl is a little bit more negative um but this slurred uh almost suited delta wave in a couple of ones you can see that in avr and you can see v1 is just really quite blunted initially there's it's almost uh equiphasic or um slow to get into the myocardium and take off and so So, tough place to ablate. And from an ECG perspective, what are the other things that you wanted to pull out here, Christophe? So, yeah. So, a nice term to memorize or to think of is a pattern break. So, you can see here in V1, we start negative. We then get more negative. This is not like pure perfect pattern break, but it's in the realm of pattern break. It gets more negative. and then all of a sudden we have a transition or rapid transition in v3 this gives you the sense that this is somewhere in the summit region um and and absolutely like chris said like sometimes you get these and ablate them from uh from the less coronary cusp and one ablation you're done other times you can be in the exact same ecg and you can go into the gcb aib go in the less scornic gasp go underneath it and just no success so that's kind of the main the main point on this ECG on the anatomy here I just want to point out a few of the structures and to think about I do think this is important for boards as well as when you're thinking about anatomy is what is your neighboring structures so so the uh the summit is you know you can see uh there is a probe It's a little tough to see here, but there's a probe that's in the GCV that turns into the AIV as it turns down more anteriorly. We're kind of looking down as though we're looking down from a surgence here. This probe right here is in the left main going down the LAD. So here's our right corny cusp sitting on the septum, left corny cusp. Here's the right -left junction. And the mitral annulus would sit right here. So this PVC is coming right around from this region. So you could either use the vantage point of getting in the left coronary cusp and pushing anteriorly and ablating there. This is what this picture is trying to show here. These are all the different areas that gets you close to this region. And this was the same PVC that we mapped in the AIV. This is the earliest point. I think I have it right here. A little different view here, this is RVOT. This is the LV endocardium that's right beneath the right-left junction, right around here. Here's our earliest spot in the AIV, so this is the GCV turns into the AIV. And trying to touch this little piece of myocardium is just incredibly difficult. So here is a small piece of signal. I don't think I have, unfortunately, a better picture here. And this is some of the ice imaging from the RVOT. Just trying to think about all of the different neighboring structures for this. That was from the RVOT, and this is from the LVOT. yeah this one is from the alveo t and then an importance of if you're going to be ablating in the aiv to get um uh coronary angiography because of the proximity of the lat and the left lane in this region so here is an rao view which is i'm not playing there it is and here's the L.A.O. view so we're trying to stay more than 5mm away from that coronary artery and then the blading these two PVCs and this is a separate case I apologize so this is a separate case here so i just want to pause uh any comments on that previous kind of summit pvc yeah um this is go back a little bit christophe thanks so um really difficult um area to ablate also if you're thinking of going epicardial you're between two major coronary arteries and There's a lot of fat here, so also very difficult to ablate epicardial if you want to do an epicardial puncture, the proximity to the coronary arteries. But also, though, we end up ablating sometimes, as Christophe has shown here, from a few different angles and triangulating this and seeing where we get better ***********. And that does throw off your QRS morphology because you're affecting the exit. I often see this happen that you're using a fiduciary point and a part of the QRS for your fiduciary mapping point as your how early are you with your signal. just remember that when you start ablating in this area you really can change your morphology of your QRS and really if you're going to carry on mapping in the LVOT or RVOT after you've ablated and your QRS has changed you may have to tell your mapper to just reset where you're drawing your where you're mapping from your earliest point on your QRS or your fiduciary point on your QRS it can change and you end up going through a few different morphology changes and I think sometimes we actually end up isolating the area as opposed to focal ablation you've got it from a few different areas so low power in the coronary sinus and making sure you're away from the coronaries and obviously alcohol could be considered here if you find a small venule that's adjacent to your earlier spots and lots of nice mapping cases with the small two French catheters. Going down the same pathway, so this is now a case where we're moving, and here you can see multiple PVCs starting again with V1 being very dominant positive across the precordium. This pattern here was inferiorly directed. Negative in lead one puts you at the anterior mitral annulus or the albiostium. So there is two PVCs here. Any of you guys want to comment on these two PVCs and what they may have in common? I don't know if this is maybe too much of a trivial quick or trick question but go ahead there you know when i look at v1 to v6 is it's it's a positive concordance you know basal left ventricle and the only difference between pvc1 and 2 that's kind of striking to me is lead one so basal more leftward is pvc1 you know lead one is negative and you know a little bit more towards the aortic root is kind of pvc2 where you have like a rs in lead v1 it's a little more narrow pvc2 a little bit more slurred upstroke so maybe epicardial versus something more endocardial but this similar kind of pattern yeah and i think this brings a good point is trying to determine whether it's epicardial versus endocardial so here's uh so legal i'm a very simple guy i'm trying to memorize just as few little things as possible but uh when i think about epicardial the the things that really have high positive predictive values or uh sensitivities for making sure that this is epicardial or not is to look at lead one lead one is a QS and PVC one and that QS tells you that it's sitting all the way far lateral there's essentially no positive forces going towards lead one and then the second thing as Chris mentioned quite a wide PVC in comparison and yes exactly this is in the same ballpark same zip code same area so um i didn't realize that we'd already gone past uh yeah so let's let's do five more minutes christophe okay i'll finish this case and then we'll call it a day okay um signals here uh so So here you can see that we have an EP star. Here's our fluoroscopy of a deflectible sheath and the CS. There's the EP star going up to the summit. Here's the LAO, the other GCB, and here's our EP star signals. This is just to show the point of activation mapping. When you do activation mapping, find the start of the QRS. It's right at the initial upslope. and then find your earliest point. So here we can see it was well early on our epistar. Here is PVC1 with the ablator, with the earliest, just early on time on the endocardium. But if you zoom in, you can see a little far-field electrogram on ablation distal. So I just want to orient that my ablation distal, given that it's the most important one that I care about, sits on top. So here is the four -field electrogram that shows that that's early. And this is the position that's in the endocardium. And this is PVC2. And you can see PVC2 very early on the endocardium. And this is our activation map with the EP-STAR and the AIV and the ablation catheter And so realistically, what these two PVCs had in common was ablating where PVC was exiting took care of both PVC-2 and PVC-1. Here you can see we're coming on ablation right here, and the PVC is overnight, never to be seen again. Just illustrating how Christophe can kill two foci with one ablation lesion, that's how good he is. Yeah, it's a really cool slide. We see that often with the fascicular system, there are a couple of different exits. so um we're gonna wrap up here i just want to summarize the um one or one or two things here just knowing the anatomy is so crucial especially here when you look down on the top of the heart like that um this is the crux of the heart this is where so many of the key structures important structures high risk structures exist and just knowing it really well there's so many lovely anatomical dissections and looking at it and obviously doing your own anatomy dissections to really understand this here. The electrograms, really leveraging the unipolar, making sure you have the DVDT coincidental with the start of your bipolar and making sure it's sharply negative. So this was fun. I enjoyed that. I didn't realize we'd gone past the time. And then I hope some of you can join us for the EP board review course, which will be virtual on the 22nd, 23rd of August. Christophe, Dinesh, thanks so much for preparing these. So thanks for helping moderate. Thank you, Chris. We're looking forward to seeing everyone at the board review. Thank you guys Thanks everyone