All right. Welcome, everyone. This is our monthly kidney education group. I'll give everybody a minute to connect to their audio. Can I get some waves or thumbs up if people can hear me? Appreciate you. Kind of friendly looking group. You guys might remember that in the past we gave you all those disclaimers about remembering to remove your last name from your identifier there because others can see you. We have changed the settings of this group. So you shouldn't be able to see any other participants other than the speaker on your end. So you should be fairly well protected, but just in case of technology failure, I always warn like, Hey, if you have your camera on, just please remember, of course, we can see you, and it may be possible that others could see you as well as anything that's in your background as well. So just things to be aware of. And we're going to give everybody just a minute to continue to join and log in to connect to their audio, all that good stuff. Then we'll get started. Looks like our group so far, everybody able to connect I'm Janette Davenport, by the way. For those of you who have not met me, I'm one of the social workers with the Kidney Pancreas transplant team. We do have a fabulous speaker here for you today. We have Wes Horning. He is one of our post transplant nurse coordinators. He's been with Mayo for about five years now. Lots of transplant experience that he comes with. So he's going to be sharing his screen here in just a minute and going over some his presentation about what to expect post transplant. And Wes correct me if I'm wrong, but you're pretty comfortable with people interjecting with questions as you go, correct? 100%. Yeah, that's what this is about. The communication back and forth. So if anyone has a question, just stop me. I'll do my best to answer. Yeah. I'll monitor the chat. So if you want to just type your message into your question into the chat or a comment into the chat, I'll I'll monitor that for Wes so I can read those out for you, or if you feel more comfortable raising your hand or just unmuting yourself and asking that question, that's okay, too. I did want to explain Wes is not trying to be incognito today. I know he he's appearing as a black screen. I was teasing him that he's in witness protection today. Having a little bit of a technology failure with the camera on his end. So we apologize that you can't see his smiling face. But fortunately, you can hear him okay, and his presentation. You'll be able to see that on the screen. So I'm going to turn things over to Wes then and let you go ahead and start screen sharing. Perfect. Yeah. First of all, I apologize, everyone. I'm not trying to hide it from you. I'm working remotely today, so there's just an issue with my video here, but hopefully we'll get some good content here for you guys in terms of the presentation. Answer some questions because It is a scary process. Can be overwhelming at times, and I feel like it can also be challenging to paint a picture of expectations and what the whole process looks like. This presentation is brief, but it's really just trying to paint some broad strokes for you that might promote you guys to ask a few questions that will help you understand the process and give you that 30,000 foot view looking down at it so you have a little bit better idea of how things work throughout the process. Let me share my screen real quick. We'll start on the presentation. Let's see. Can you guys see that? There we go. Can we see the screen? Yes. Okay. Perfect. All right. So what do you expect post kidney and or pancreas transplant? Fine print here, as in everything, there's always fine print, but no two transplants are identical. First of all, expect the unexpected. Flexibility throughout the process is definitely key. There's different things to be expected based off of everyone's unique situation. Sometimes a kidney can actually be on ice for longer. That may mean that it takes longer for that particular organ to start working than another. All these things are tough to predict beforehand. So that's just one example of how, you know, the process may vary right from the start. Let's see here. If I can All right. So how it starts from the very beginning, you're going to get a call, offering you the chance to be transplanted. And so it's kind of a quick process right from the start. Feels like a whirlwind, and you're going to have to make that decision whether you can get here. And once you do get here, you're going to be given a battery of tests and labs. Right from the start, you'll be admitted to the inpatient unit. Where they draw those labs and send them off and begin the whole process. You'll meet with one of the advanced practice practitioners and likely one of the transplant nephrologists and possibly even the surgeon at that point to discuss moving forward. If everything goes well, you'll be sent off for the surgery. Now, sometimes it doesn't. If the organ doesn't get here in time, if it does get here, and the surgeons view it or take a look at it and decide that it's just not quality organ, we don't want to transplant you with that organ, obviously. We want to give you the best opportunity for success. So there are what's called a dry run at times where you would actually come, we start the process, but unfortunately, the organs ruled out. That can happen. So that's one expectation that some people don't realize. But if it does go well, and you're transplanted, you'll be sent back to hopefully three South, which is our transplant unit on the inpatient side. And it starts off with a bang right off the rip, you're going to be getting frequent vital signs, frequent visits from your nurse. Usually at that point, it's every hour. They'll be coming and monitoring your urine output and actually changing how much fluid you're receiving based off of that urine output to make sure that that kidney and that you are very well hydrated. Of course, during that time, you can expect a lot of visits from the transplant providers as well as other specialties that might be specific to your unique case. Could be endocinology, social work may come in see you, case management, all those different specialties along the way. You'll also be getting quite a bit of inpatient education. You We'll see an inpatient coordinator, which is similar to my role, except I would be your outpatient coordinator. So once you're released from the hospital, you'll visit with me. You'll meet with your inpatient coordinator for a nice long teach just prior to discharge from the hospital stay. Does anyone have any questions around that inpatient hospital stay side? So this is directly after surgery, how long you can expect to be in a bed in the hospital? That's days zero through three of transplant. Oh, shoot. Did we have a question? Can you guys hear me Can you guys hear me any better now? Yeah. Okay. Good. Sorry. I just saw the notification about my volume. So I just want to make sure that everyone could hear me. I think that may have been a individual volume setting issue because I think everyone else can hear you okay. I was going to ask. How quickly do they typically get you up and moving walking around in the hospital after transplant surgery? That's a great question. So when you come back, it's usually about eight to 9 hours, and you're up and moving, sometimes even a little less. Yeah, it's quite fast. And I found that very surprising as a new transplant nurse. I started off actually as a nurse on the transplant unit. So it's a very, very quick process, and a lot of people are kind of overwhelmed at that, you know, in the beginning, but it's good to just mentally kind of prepare yourself for that. They try to get you up and moving because there's a lot of issues that can arise from laying there and not having movement. You can have issues with constipation, ils, which is something that nobody wants. You can wind up needing like a nasogaster tube if you don't get up and moving. So we do try to push you to get up and move around just because for the long haul, it's way better for you if we press through that. So hopefully that helps answer that question. I see a question in the chat that says, how soon does your support person need to arrive? Respond and get to ma. So that's a great question. How long do we typically have to respond and get to Mo? Honestly, I I've never done the procurement side, but I do know that it's communicated to you on the phone call. I think it depends on how far the organ is being flown in from, but it's usually just a couple of hours. So it's very quick. The organ cannot sit on ice for very long. The less time on ice, the better, of course, because the longer it's on ice, the more risk that, things can go wrong. Now that's not to say that it won't work if it's been on ice. That just means that it may be slower to work, if that's the case. That's called ATN or acute tubular necrosis, when the organ just takes a bit longer to begin functioning. Yeah. And as far as your support person or your caregiver's arrival, they like to know that that caregiver ideally should come with you when you're called for transplant. They at least need to know that they are on their way. So when you arrive, make sure you know that your caregiver is at least on their way, they'll want to know that and verify that prior to your surgery. Exactly. And we'll go over why they're so crucial. I think it's hard to understand how important they are until you're in this process. Those first few days, you're going to be out of it. It's your energy is going to be, you know, used toward getting up and doing the daily functional things. And so a lot of the education pieces of it. It's not that you're not hearing us, it's just that it's kind of like it's hard for you to retain during that time, I find, just because you're getting different medications, you've been through, you know, the process of anesthesia and coming out of anesthesia, you're in pain. So Having that caregiver to kind of absorb some of that and be there to remind you that it's going to be okay and that they have some of the information written down or, you know, they're building relationships with the nurses and with the doctors, and it just makes the situation so much more fluid to have a good caregiver that you can rely upon. So anyway, hopefully that helps. Answer that question. Are we ready for the next slide or does anyone have any questions? Okay. Hearing none, we'll move on. So outpatient stay and education. So in my process of being an inpatient nurse and then coming to the patient's side, I found that not everyone fully understands how long it takes. You know, some folks might think, Okay, I get the transplant. I'm there for a couple of days and then I go home. That's not necessarily the case. From day four through 30. So in an ideal world, we're discharged at day three or four day four or five, you will come to us in the clinic. And you'll either be staying at Gabriel House, If you are fortunate enough to stay there or possibly a hotel very close, or perhaps you live in Jacksonville, which would make it a bit easier for you to commute back and forth. But the expectation is day four or five through 30 that you're coming to us several times a week, some in some severe cases every day in that time frame, day four through 30. So it is arduous, but there is a light at the end of the time when we're here to get you through it. So labs, labs, and more labs, you're going to be coming to see us several more than likely for those labs and, of course, more vital signs every time we see you in clinic. The provider clinic visits, you can expect to see our transplant nephrology team. Many times you'll meet with a member of the pharmacy team to go over all these new medications and questions about them. Outpatient nurse coordinators, such as myself, and of course, any other specialties pertinent to your situation could be infectious disease, could be endocrinology, you know, a number of different specialties. Paul, you have a question? Hi, It's his wife, Alison. We do live locally in Jacksonville. And I guess my question is, after the transplant for all these labs, is it 100% that we have to go to the main campus or like today, we're able to go to the location off of Gate Parkway to get labs done, which is a little closer to our house, but will we have to come to the main campus for everything? Allison, that's a great question. So during that period of day four through 30, the recommendation is definitely going to be main campus. Just because there's a variety of things that can happen, the doctors may want to see you on a whim. You may need to see your nurse to have staples removed. You may there's just a lot and so that first month, they really press for labs here. Now, on the one off, we can try to work things out, but I don't want to say, like, on the whole that it would be okay to get them done at the St. Augustine lab or at the Gate Parkway lab. That first month is crucial that we're here, and that we're doing also in person visits and not virtual. Now, moving forward, past that 30 day mark, you know, say things are going great, you've moved to say, biweekly or even monthly labs, you know, St. Augustine location or Gate Parkway location, wherever is fine. We're very amenable to that. It's just this first month that's very kind of strict, I would say. Hopefully that answers your question. Yes. Thank you. Very welcome. Anybody else? Okay. So best way to kind of prepare mentally is to just understand that it is, you know, it's not an overnight process. Try to keep that mindset, that it's it's a marathon really not a sprint. There can be complications along the way. You might hear scary words, things like hydronephrosis, rejection, hematoma. These things happen. You know, we have a treatment plan for just about anything you can think of under the sun when it comes to kidney transplant. But it can be scary when you're the one that's going through it or your loved one or the person you're caring for is going through it. So we understand that, but I like to let folks know about some of these words and some of these things that can happen just so that if you do hear it down the line, it's, you know, so scary to you. We always have a care plan, and we always try to, you know, work through it with you and speak to you about what's happening so that so that you and your loved ones and caregiver are in the loop. Another thing I can say about this stage is just, you know, it's very stressful. It's easy to get short, not only with your caregiver, your loved ones, but your care team, and my best advice is just try to take a deep breath and be nice to those that are caring for you, particularly your caregiver. And also be nice to a patient you're caring for because they've been through the ringer. It's not an easy process for anyone, but it does take a village. So having that good support system and being nice to them so they stick around is an essential part of the process. All right. Any questions before I hit the next slide? I do, but I think I should have asked it on the left butt. Oh, that's. You can go ahead and ask? It just occurred to me that you said that we'd be in the hospital for four days. That's it? Yeah. So I know it's that was shocking to me as well when I first started. Typically, in an ideal situation from the inpatient standpoint, folks are discharged at day three, believe it or not. So day zero is the day that surgery happens. You have day one and Day two for recovery. Sometimes folks are even dis charged on day two. Um, which is incredible. So you're literally up and walking sometimes on day zero. Because if you think about it, you get transplanted early in the morning 8 hours later, you're still in day zero to have you up and walking. So it's definitely a quick process, and that surprises most folks. That's why I like to bring this stuff up. I just try to be as honest about the process as you know, and as clear and transparent as I can, because I want folks to be able to wrap their minds around it and understand it. And it can be scary, but we're here for you, throughout everything. So I just want you to know Thank you. Absolutely. Before I move on, I just ought of another point. When you brought up how quick that process is in that initial discharge, what you can expect to come back with, you're going to be gunned up. You will likely be in a bit of pain. But you will have pain medications, either oral or IV. And most folks report that it's pretty well managed. So so don't let that scare you, but I do want to let you know about that. And then you will likely have what's called an internal jugular access point versus, you know, similar to an IV, but it's going a different portion of the body. It literally is kind of coming out of your neck. So that can be alarming to some folks, but don't worry, it's great access to have because we can do a lot of things through. And you'll only have that for knockout wood, you know, a few days, and it will be taken out. So that's one more thing to kind of bring up the access that we'll have to be giving you all these fluids and possible medications and things like that. Okay. On to the next slide. All right. Discharge from outpatient post transplant clinic. So wait, I thought I was already discharged. Well, you were from the inpatient side, but this is when the transplant nephrology team decides you are stable and well enough to go home wherever that might be. If it's Jacksonville, if it's New Orleans, if it's across the country or in another part of the world, they are saying, ok, you're doing well enough to be released from us and go home. What happens at that point? Usually, if you're not from here, what's going to happen is you'll be given a lab slip for weekly labs at least. Generally at that point, I'd say 90 to 95% of our patients are doing weekly labs. If not from here, of course, you'll get that slip. If you are from here, you would be expected to come back and do labs here at Mayo. That will also be supplemented with bi weekly provider visits or more, if necessary. And this schedule kind of leads us up to the four month visit where you would come back and see us again. And at that point, there's a lot of testing and things that are done because we're trying to make sure that you're good to go and possibly be transitioned to your regular general nephrologist. So again, no cookie cutter transplant. So if your outpatient post transplant stays longer, do not get discouraged. Everyone's process is different. If you stay positive, you will have you know better odds of success. I promise you that. Let's see here. We have a couple of questions in the Sorry. Let me jump in here. Sure. Okay. So we had a question Tony about a post op Foley. Perfect. Yeah. So you will. That's really essential because you're going to be out of it for a bit and we are just kind of pumping you full of fluids, and it's essential in order for us to get accurate, what they call I's and O's or intake and output. They're actually doing an equation every single hour on the hour to determine how much fluid to give you back. And there's usually three separate types of fluid that they're running to do that equation. So it's give your nurse, some patience because they are really working their butt off to take care of you. But yes, you will have that foley for accurate Is and, and that generally comes out They try to take it out day one. They try to get it out for you by day one, if not day two. So it's not in for very long. What's a foley? A foley is a type of catheter that goes in your urethra so that you can urinate without, you know, needing to get up every time and go to the bathroom. And then the next question, Mr. Nicholas is asking, what will happen to the PD catheter. Generally, that's removed while they're in the procedure. So there'll be a few staples at that PD cath site that will be removed along with your transplant surgery staples. We removed those generally at the same time. So hopefully that that answers that question. So if you have, you know, a different type of access, if you have, like a fistula, they generally opt to keep those if possible. So PD catheter would come out. All right. What does the future look like? After transplant. So after transplant, after the first 30 days, you're just rocking and rolling, everything's going great. You have your weekly labs, come back to us at the four month mark, and the doctors are like your A plus student. You can be released to your general nephrology team. That doesn't mean that we're kicking out. Doesn't mean that we are saying that we don't ever want to see you again. It just simply means that you can be managed on a more liberal scale. In other words, you don't have to quite get labs as frequently and you can see your regular general nephrologist. Unless they have questions that you know, they want to reach out to us for, or if we see in your outside labs we'll still be monitoring things from afar. If we see in your outside labs that there's a reason that we need to kind of wrap our arms back around you and see you more frequently. But even if that happens, so if everything's perfect, you go back to nephroloogist, generally, they'll do labs monthly or every couple months, you'll see them generally four to five times a year, we would still see you annually as well. Okay. So you never really get rid of us. We kind of stick around throughout your life just to make sure that you're doing okay and that you know we're here for you if you need us. During those annuals, so Very busy schedule with the annuals. I think some folks kind of get sick of them, but they're very important. They're important because at certain intervals, we do biopsies, which are crucial in diagnosing rejection. I would call them I would call biopsies the gold standard in determining rejection. And rejection, for those of you that I don't know, is when your body, essentially, on a cellular level, recognizes that that kidney is an outside entity. So it thinks it's dangerous, and it starts to for lack of a better word attack. So we don't want that to happen. And the biopsy is a great way to check for that. Rejection? Oh, go ahead. Hello. Sorry. I'll answer that question in just a second. Terry. So that's why we do those biopsies at these intervals because we want to stay ahead of that process. If rejection does set in. There's plenty of treatments based off the severity and the grade of that rejection. But we want to know as quickly as we can, because the sooner we can get to treating you the sooner you get back to normal life, and that rejection is over. Terry has a quick question. And how would they do dialysis if needed post transplant. Great question. If they do need to do it, they would have access placed for you and do it, you know, we typically don't do PD peritoneal dialysis post transplant. So that's a great question because occasionally it doesn't happen very often. I would say Maybe ten 15% of the time, probably less than that. Do we have folks that need dialysis after transplant The hope is that that kidneys up and working, and you don't need to do it ever again. But if you did and you were a PD patient, you would be taken care of it. It would just be unfortunately a separate minor procedure to have access placed for you. Sorry. Back to the biopsies. So those are done at the set intervals of year one, two, four, seven and ten, and then of course, at the four month mark. More often than that, if needed, sometimes, you know, we'll see in the labs that things are kind of trending off, and we're not liking how it's looking. We can order a simple blood test that indicates the risk of rejection, and if that risk is above a certain threshold, we'll do the biopsy procedure. There are some considerations. You know, with the biopsies, if you're on anticoagulation, which would be like Warfarin, Eliquis, those kind of things, even Aspirin. Certain meds need to be held prior to the biopsy. And things like Warfarin, we likely wouldn't want to stop that medication and would do what's called a Heparin bridge. Now for that, you would need to be admitted just for a day. But that's only in the case of being on that type of medication. So that be here. That's really it. Any questions or comments from the peanut gallery? What does the biopsy look like? In terms of, like, how long does it take and stuff like that? Well, how is it done? What are the Good question. So it's done in interventional radiology, and they do use a needle. They usually go from the back. They do numb the area. Most folks don't find it very painful, but some folks do, you know, complain that it's not the most comfortable thing in the world. But they do numb the area before they do it. And they pick a small sample essentially of the actual organ. So they're able to look at the cells under a microscope. Sounds like fun. Unfortunately, it's, you know, part of the process, and it's the best way you know to determine to determine for your rejection present. CT guided biopsy, to not to my knowledge. Yeah, I've heard that, Terry. Some people say that the anesthesia is the most uncomfortable part. You're not really anesthesize necessarily for this one. You're not under anesthesia, but they do use a local numbing agent. Can I just confirm, I'm sorry. Somebody else said. That's okay. I just to confirm the I know we had to establish what pharmacy we're going to use for the medication. Does Mayo, the nurses and everybody take care of? Okay, we're coming in on this day. And have, like, a few weeks supply that we go home with, or does the pharmacy then have to first mail us? The drugs for you know that are needed, or will we go home with enough to last a little while? That's a great question. There's so many moving parts of this. It's hard to think of everything, but that's a great question. So on the inpatient side, typically what will happen is many of our patients get their transplant medications through O'Steens It's a local pharmacy here, and they deliver right to the floor. And the inpatient coordinator. I mentioned that inpatient coordinator teach that's toward the end of your inpatient day. So say day like three. They go over all the medications with you. And there's a big bag of, you know, of meds, and they'll try to make you as comfortable as possible with them. And then you can bring them with you when you see us in clinic because you'll have another visit with us outpatient coordinators, where we can go over and answer any questions that you might have. ordinator set you up with a binder that, you know, details each and every med and you can write down the appropriate times for taking each different things like that so that you're comfortable with the process. Because it is a lot of changes and some additional medications. So they really try to set you up for success there on the inpatient side. From what I understood, O'Steens and Mayo will take care of everything now that I've established with them. And once we get there, I don't need to contact O'Steens. Exactly. It's going to be more once you're discharged, but I believe they set you up with at least I think it's 30 days of meds. So the one thing that might be a good idea to bring just in case for after you leave the inpatient side is like your normal medications, your normal BP meds and stuff like that. However, we wouldn't want you taking those unless it's a part of your after visit summary when you're discharged from the inpatient side, the doctors might decide you're better off not taking X Y or Z, but it's always good to have it just in case you need it. Okay. Anyone else? I don't have a nephrologist I live in Jacksonville. I don't have a nephrologist. Okay. I had one in St. Augustine, but I live in Jacksonville now. Got it. So how would I go about getting one a afterwards? That's a great question. I would almost recommend just starting the process now. And you can research it and determine, you know, which route you want to go. All of my doctors are currently at Mayo. Okay. We could on our side, always put in a request, you know, to be seen by our neurology department, but they are, I know, backed up. It could be tough to get in. So doing some independent research on your own to try to find somebody to establish with is never a bad idea because, you know, ultimately, within a few months, usually or sometime at least within that first year, the hope would be to be transition back to your, you know, your local general nephrologist. If you think about it, what we specialize in from a transplant center standpoint really is transplantation and managing that for the first few months after. We're not really set up to be, you know, typical general nephrologist. So it is important if you haven't established to try to do so if possible, before. I don't know where you're located in Jacksonville, but we've been very happy with Jax Nephrology It's doctor Manjal. MAN JAL. I think it's JAL. And he comes to my dialysis center. Mm. We've been using him for quite a few years, so just thought I'd mention it. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate you sharing that. I think it's great to be able to share information and make connections, and, you know, health care is tough. And so, you know, if you can use your peers and things like that to get some recommendations and stuff like that, I think that's wonderful. I guess another thing I'll bring up just really quickly on that line is some folks you know really just at this point in the game, seeing a dialysis center, and that's not really a So if that's the case, again, I would recommend you to try to do a little research and see if you can be followed by a general nephrologist. Because that's just a misconception that some folks have. And so it's a good, I guess point now to bring that up that if you are being dialyzed, that's not always necessarily considered a general nephrologist, it's just a dialysis center. So another word, they wouldn't accept you back as a patient, you know, unless you were being dialyzed, which hopefully at that point you're not. So just something to think about. Any other questions, folks? I guess I'll just ask one more question. Sure. Is there anything different from everything that you went over that we would need to know if we're working with a living donor? It sounds like it would all be the same except that I know the date of our surgery and we don't have to wait for the call. Absolute Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. I mean, the planning is a lot easier. I'll say that. I don't want to downplay, you know, the process either way. You know, It's still difficult and challenging, but it's a little more predictable, which is always a good thing when you're talking about surgery, you know. So I will say that about it. Generally, and I'm just going to say generally because it's not across the board. Those organs typically work quicker. Doesn't mean they work better in the long run, necessarily, but they do generally work quicker because if you think about it, the other route, that organ is going to be what they call on ice for a bit longer. So in the event of a living donor, the organ should work more quickly. That's what I was thinking when you were mentioning that if it's a living donor, does it even go on ice at all? Maybe briefly. But in most cases, I would think not. I've never been in there to actually, you know, see a surgery unfortunately. But with a living donor, there's so much preparation and planning, it's not going to sit on ice for hours for sure. Any other questions? I saw I saw somebody recommend progy associates. They're great as well. I've heard of each of the folks mentioned so far and don't have bad things to say, so just FY. F anyone else? Okay. Hearing none, I guess I just want to say that you know, it can be a challenging process, but it's so worthwhile, and I appreciate every one of you for, you know, considering it and for having the guts to do it. And our whole goal, I speak for everyone I think here that I work with, my colleagues that our whole goal is to get you to a point where really your lifestyle is improved, and you're happier and healthier and you don't have to do things like dialysis. You know, that's the ultimate goal. It's really just to better your lifestyle. So I just want you all to know that that's you know, that's what we stand by and that's what we want for you. Hopefully, this little presentation. I'm sorry, you con't see me throughout. I was bummed about that, but hopefully it just cleared a few things up. And really, that's all I want to do is kind of answer some questions and prepare you guys a little bit more mentally because it is an arduous process, and it's really tough to kind of prepare folks for it. Thank you so much, Wes. We certainly all appreciate your time and all the wealth of information today. One last call for questions. Anybody going once, going twice. Oh, go ahead. I have one more. Sure. When you're home, is there anything specific that you need to have in your house? And the second part of this question is my mother mentioned getting like a night nurse in? Is it necessary? I would say not necessary, but not a bad idea. You know, I mean, the goal too is for folks to really be independent. But so it just really kind of depends on you know, a person's existing level of activities of daily living going into the surgery. You know, if somebody has a lot of limitations going into the surgery as it is, it could be a really, you know, a tougher process and a night nurse might really be helpful. But if they're fully functional, you know, within a short period of time, they should really be doing a lot of things for themselves and be up and move it around. But what to have at home, I think to start, a walker isn't a bad idea just to help with the movement and transition and things like that. I always recommend for folks to have this is going to sound funny, but like an nalgene bottle that measures intake. So you can keep track of the exact amount of ounces you're taking in. Some folks have a really hard time with that because they were on limitations before in terms of what they can drink. So I always just say that, you know, if you can hold yourself accountable to your intake, the better off you are because you're going to say, okay, I didn't hit my goal today. 64 to 80 ounces is the goal. It's almost two liters every day. I didn't hit it today, but I'm going to go for it tomorrow. I'm going to start drinking water earlier in the day. You know, whatever the case may be. But something like that, I always recommend something where you can measure your intake. I have stairs in my house, too. Is that going to be an issue? No. No, it shouldn't be. You should be able to take stairs fairly soon after, you know, the procedure. Within those first few days, you're likely not going to be able to, but by the time you're home, you really should be fine. Okay. Thank you. Mm hm. Any other questions? All right. Well, I think we'll wrap things up if there aren't any other questions. Thank you again, Wes, for your presentation today and thank you all for joining us. You'll of course get another invitation in your patient portal next month with when we have our next offering. All right. Thank you, everyone. Thanks. You. Good luck to everybody, and you guys are going. I know it. So we'll talk to you guys and hopefully, I'll see you soon. Thank you. Take care.