This is Health Matters, a podcast from Mayo Clinic where we discuss [music] the latest medical advice, news, and research to help you live a happier and [music] healthier life. My name is Kristen Mer. I'm a writer and journalist. And this episode, we're talking about poop. >> [music] >> You might have never had conversations about your number two before [music] because people tend to get embarrassed when it comes to poop. So, we're going to break down those [music] code browns with our guest, Dr. Xiao Jing Iris Wong. She's a gastroenterenterologist at Male [music] Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. She'll tell us all about what makes our poop healthy or not, [music] what to do in case of constipation and diarrhea. Plus, she'll answer the question you [music] didn't know you had. What's the right way to poop? [music] Dr. Xiao Jing Iris Wong, welcome to the show. >> [snorts] >> Thank you so much for having me. >> We are so thrilled to have you here today to talk about something that we all do but we don't talk about as much as maybe we should. We're going to be talking about pooping today. Let's just touch on the ABCs. First of all, what is poop? We've been told our whole lives that it's our body's waste, but what does that actually mean? I think about it as the leftovers of what we ingest that our body can't break down or doesn't need to break down. And so our body is really really good at taking the food that we take in, breaking it down, extracting all the nutrients that are healthy for us and then leaving whatever else is there behind. But we don't actually need to eat to produce poop. Yes, we need to eat some, but our bodies actually are also secretreting things like enzymes to help with digestion, mucus to coat the colon, and so even if you don't eat for a period of time, you might still be producing something that looks like a bowel movement. In [snorts] addition to leftover fibrous food matters, there's also a lot of healthy gut bacteria that get shed in the stool as well. How can someone evaluate if their poop is healthy? What should we be looking at? And what is a good versus not a good healthy poop? So, we'll start with color. [snorts] The only colors that I get really worried about are if it's a bright bright red blood, [snorts] dark that looks something like melted rubber. So, black black, not a dark green, not a dark brown, but a black black that looks like tar. We worry about that because it's a sign of old blood. [snorts] >> The bright red maroon clot colors are more fresh blood. And so of course any bleeding we're going to be worried. [gasps] The only other color that is troublesome are poops that come out looking like clay or chalk. That white gray might signal some very very uncommon diseases in the gallbladder and liver. Outside of that, it really doesn't matter. something a little more on the yellowish, greenish, brownish spectrum. Depends a lot on what you eat and how well you've processed various nutrients, what additives were in your food. And so, I would just go ahead and ignore all of the other colors. >> What about shape and consistency? >> Often, a lot of the times, the shape and consistency depends a lot on how much fiber you eat, how much water you drink along with that fiber. And so I tell my patients, we want poop that is soft, right? It doesn't hurt to come out, but it has a form to it. So it's not just all like liquidy and breaking apart because that form helps trigger our body that it's time to poop. So without that form, it actually can get a little bit difficult to pass that stool. Really form and consistency come together. You want it to be soft enough to come out without straining. And that straining piece is actually really important. And I'm sure we can touch on this later, but straining actually doesn't have to do with hard poop. Sometimes folks can strain even if their bowel movements are soft and consensy. It really indicates more how well the muscles are working to allow that poop to come out. And so I tell my patients, when you get up, you feel like you've evacuated completely. And anyone who hasn't evacuated completely knows exactly what I'm talking about where you feel like there's just more, but no matter how long I sit there, there's nothing more coming up. >> We don't want that. >> Can we talk a little bit more about the shape? Shape can vary a lot. Some people might have something that's kind of a longer I've heard the term soft S before, but other people will have possibly tiny pebbles or lumps. Does it matter? The things that look a little like what we call rabbit pebbles or kind of deer poops, right? Where they're small, where they're really hard, those are probably suboptimal. That indicates to me that things are too dry, that they're not well connected, and there's some sort of straining problem that's making those poops come out in sections, like little small balls. Now, there's one other situation where shape really does matter, and that's what we call these pencil thin stools where they're coming out like a a pencil. If that is something that is a sudden change in an individual, we do worry that maybe there's something close to the rectum that's preventing the stool from making a bigger shape, [snorts] something like a rectal cancer. that is much less common than something like pelvic floor dysfunction where it's actually a muscle problem that we can't open and so things are being squeezed through a more narrow lumen. But we always do want to make sure that in those types of stools that we've done some sort of structural evaluation to make sure there's nothing dangerous. [snorts] What about in terms of smell? Are there certain smells that indicate this is a less healthy poop and this is a more healthy poop? >> No. I would say that if you ask a inpatient hospital floor nurse, they will tell you that blood and particular infections have distinct smells. Outside of those things, it's a reflection of how long has it been since you last pooped, how much fat did you recently ingest, and factors that don't really have bearing on health, but can certainly explain why stools can smell differently. >> How often should a person ideally be pooping? Is there one answer that works for all of us, or is there a range? >> There's probably a range. So, we've heard a lot about these daily bowel movements and that's definitely not the norm for everybody. So, if you don't poop once a day, that is totally fine. >> What we want is actually regularity. If that's twice a day, if that's every other day, all of that is pretty normal. Once we get to the range of more than three times a day, and if that's not something you've lived with your whole life, maybe we should talk to a doctor about that. [snorts] If we get on the other side, less than three times a week, then that can be concerning for constipation. Again, especially if that's not the norm for you. If that's how you've been all your life and that's never caused you any trouble, [snorts] then going twice a week is going to be okay. But if you're going twice a week and you're really bloated in between episodes and things aren't moving well and you don't feel like you're emptying well and you're having to push a lot, then that's not okay and you should talk to your doctor about how to go a little bit more frequently so that you can empty more effectively. What about time of day? You know, some people swear every day after my morning cup of coffee, it's always at 11:00. Is that the way it should be for all of us? I don't think there's a way it should be, but definitely timing is a very frequent thing that I hear about. Like regularity is very helpful for bowel movements. And that has to do a little bit about how our bodies signal that it's time to poop. So when we have a regular schedule, our poops do tend to happen at the same time every day. In addition to that, there's a lot of things that trigger bowel movements. coffee being one of them, breakfast being another one. And so a lot of people who have that coffee breakfast combination in the mornings have that morning bowel movement. But there's a lot of people who refuse to poop outside the home. >> So then trying to poop while they're at work is just not going to be part of their schedule. And so sometimes as a doctor we can take that into account when we talk about when do we take laxative medications so that it works for your schedule and your lifestyle. So timing happens but does not really matter as long as we're hitting those marks of regularity, lack [music] of straining, softness, and emptying. So, what is poop? Well, it's the leftovers after our body extracts [music] the nutrients from our food. That can mean leftover food matter, but also enzymes, mucus, [music] and bacteria. To assess if your poop is healthy, first start [music] with color. It's concerning if your poop is bright red, dark black, [music] or a whitish gray, but other colors are fine. When it comes to shape and consistency, it should be soft and you shouldn't [music] have to strain to evacuate completely. Poop should also be well connected in its form, not broken up into small bits or too dry. [music] For the average person, the smell of your poop isn't going to tell you much. As for how often, [music] it's different for every person. What's more important is having a fairly regular [music] schedule. But if your normal poop schedule suddenly changes to more than three times a day or fewer than three times per week, [music] that's something to bring up with your doctor. Next, let's hear about the best ways to treat those problems we all experience, constipation and diarrhea. Let's talk about the two biggest issues. Not being able to poop and not being able to stop pooping. Let's start with constipation. First of all, how would you define constipation? So, our formal definitions of constipation has to be a stool type. That is, we have this stool scale called the Bristol stool form. And we're looking at type one, type two stools, those sort of rabbit pellets we talked about, firm, small volume, and then also a decrease in frequency. So less than three times a week, that would be what we count as constipation clinically. >> And what are some typical causes of constipation? >> There can be lots of issues that lead to constipation. One is not drinking enough water because our stool needs to retain water in order to be soft. And so if we're going about our days and unable to drink enough water, sometimes that can really concentrate the stool and make it really hard to pass. One of the other most frequent issues I see is stress particularly stress like traveling airport and traveling constipation was a common life experience right and the reason we have that is really multiffold so I like to tell my patients that constipation is what we call almost like a housekeeping task [snorts] and evolutionarily when we developed this stress response system it was to run away from predators it was a fight or flight response. So if you think about it that way, the last thing you need to be doing when you're running away from a bear is pooping, right? And so our nervous systems are actually wired so that when those alpha adinurics get activated, everything dries up. We're not peeing, we're not pooping, and we're not digesting. So in order to digest and rest that rest and digest parasympathetic nervous system needs to get turned on. We need to be in a routine, a place of safety and relaxation in order for those functions to happen. So now when we think about travel, we're usually on a timeline. We're usually running from place to place. That activation suppresses our bowel movements. And then you add in these other factors like airplanes are often very dry. If we're on a road trip, we're going to be trying to minimize the amount of fluid we take in so that we don't make those pit stops. We're going to be eating those foods that are not high in fiber because that's not what's available at airports or at gas stations. [snorts] And so it's disrupting all of the good things that help form a bowel movement. and it's disrupting that routine, right, for those every morning poopers. They're not having their morning bathroom time like they're used to. And so that can really throw off their entire system. So that's a big reason for constipation. The last one that I'm going to bring up is pelvic floor dysfunction. And this is something that honestly I didn't really think was connected to bowel movements until I became a GI fellow. The [snorts] pelvic floor is this set of muscles that are at the bottom of our pelvic cavity. And they serve a purpose to keep all the organs up that need to stay up [snorts] but control the outlet so that we can pass out everything we need to pass out. And that's urine, that's stool, and in women that's babies. And so when this set of muscles doesn't work correctly, we can actually develop a lot of problems allowing bowel movements to pass. It can impact how we allow urine to pass. It can impact pain when we're having activity in that region. And it can cause a lot of other upstream issues from not being able to empty correctly. Now, if someone is constipated, if they aren't able to empty correctly, what are some of the first things they should try? Basic home remedies or do-it-yourself sort of things. So, hydration is going to be a huge one, especially if they're underhydrating, making sure they're drinking enough water so that their pee is coming out clear. So, if the pee is clear, that means there's enough water in the rest of the system. And that doesn't mean clear clear like water, but like that clear light yellow is what we're aiming for. The other thing is eating high-fiber fruits. So studies have actually shown that fruits like kiwis and prunes are just as good as a fiber supplement to help patients have bowel movements. And so two kiwi fruit a day or four prunes have been as good as a fiber supplement. When you say fiber supplement, do you mean like psyllium husk like Metamucil? >> Yep. Psyllium husk is the one that's been well tested and well studied in the literature. But some people find methyl cellulose works a little bit better for them and that's okay too. >> And if those don't work, if the water, if the kiwi, if the prune isn't doing the trick, what options are there over the counter at the pharmacy? >> There's some great over- the-counter options. And this is why I love talking about constipation cuz it's usually very treatable in the majority of individuals with those over-the-counter options, but you have to know how to use them. So, I'm going to talk about three big ones. These are all going to be pills. The first one is going to be docu, which is what we call a stool softener. The way this works is it's more like an emollient. It just keeps the stool soft, but it doesn't do anything to increase the water content of the stool, and it's not going to do anything to push the stool forward. So, this is a really good option for maybe pregnant women who are trying to prevent constipation or people who just have occasional really hard bowel movements and they just want to keep things a little bit softer. And because we are taking it like a pill, right? You have to think about the GI tract as a pipe. that pill is going to only touch the top part of the pipe. And so if you're already really backed up, taking these pills that just make the top part of your stool soft isn't going to do anything for a very long time. Which is why these medications are really good as preventatives. You take them all the time to keep all the stools soft, but when you really get backed up, that one is not going to be as strong an option. So, we're going to go to our next options, which are these osmotic laxatives. So, this is polyethylene glycol and your magnesium based supplements. So, especially milk of magnesia is going to be a nice gentle option. The way these work are they're going to hold water in stool. So, even when you're not drinking enough or maybe not having enough fiber, they're going to help hold water in that bowel movement so that it maintains its softness. >> [snorts] >> Now again, because it's a pill, it's only going to impact at the top until things work its way through. So, better to take them on a more regular basis once you're treating the constipation, then expect them to work like a rescue medication when you're already backed up. When you are already backed up, what you want to do is help stimulate the colon to push things forward. [snorts] Now, those osmotic laxatives can do that, but the way they do that is by pulling in a ton of water and then by the time they work, what's coming out is really mushy. And folks who are listening who might have constipation have experienced this where they have these hard bowel movements to begin with and then it gets progressively softer and softer and softer until all they're passing is water. And that's quite uncomfortable. And so we do want to use these stimulant laxatives so that you can keep things soft but not have to be so soft that that's all the body's relying on to help push forward. [snorts] So these laxatives are senna and biscodal both over the counter and they can really help push and stimulate. [snorts] Takes them about 6 to 8 hours to work. So for our folks who are anticipating those morning bowel movements, I usually have them take them at night. So then eight hours later after they rest and then they take their coffee, both those things kick in at once and they can have that normal regular bowel movement again. >> So the first two you mentioned are working on the stool itself and that last one is making the colon do its job better. >> Exactly. How often should people be taking these other over-the-counter medications? Should they be just a regular part of one's vitamins and supplements every day? Should they be something that's taken because, oh, I tend to get constipated every month around my period. When does somebody know this is something that I should start taking? That's a really great question. And often we get that wrong, right? because patients get backed up and then they're taking the wrong thing and they say it doesn't work. [gasps] So, I think it's exactly what you said. If you know your body and you know, okay, when I go on a trip is when I get constipated, then I would recommend starting that preventative medication couple days in advance to keep things really soft so that they're going to be easy to pass. And those preventative medications are nice. Now, sometimes even polyethylene glycol is enough to give someone diarrhea, right? So, you kind of have to do trial and error, [snorts] but doing a stool softener is generally pretty mild and it's generally not going to stimulate a bowel movement, right? So, you're not going to lose control of your bowels. [snorts] And so, taking that a couple of days before a menstrual cycle or before a big trip and seeing if that's enough to prevent the constipation is a really good idea. In my folks who I know who have chronic constipation issues, I tell them to take polyethylene glycol, which you know the brand name starts with an M. So I tell them it's like vitamin M. [clears throat] You take it every day like a vitamin to keep things soft all the time. And it may not have to be a full dose. It's just enough to keep the stool soft but still with form. Cuz when it doesn't have form, it's harder to get out. So I have them take that every day. The other good thing is it never gets absorbed. You don't get reliant on it and it's very very safe. It doesn't interact with other meds. And then if they're still not going on that kind of regular dose of an osmotic laxative, then I have them take that stimulant every other day, every day, sometimes every 3 days, whatever they need to get back to their regular bowel movements and then they can take the stimulant laxative away. >> Got it. And I do want to throw out there that Senna, like both of those stimulant laxatives, can be a little bit strong for certain people. And so Senna actually comes in a tea. And so you can buy that in the tea aisle as opposed to the medication aisles of your regular grocery stores. [snorts] And some people find that just a cup of that is enough. I hope it's enough. Uh, you know, medicine that goes inside your butt, I've seen that in the drugstore for constipation. Is that something you would recommend? Absolutely. It has a great role in the right place and right person. So, there's two different types. One is a suppository, which is medication that's formulated to kind of dissolve in the rectum, and it's formulated more into a semiolid consistency. So, you can just put this thing that looks like a little bullet up the bottom. Okay. Enmas on the other hand are usually liquids that are kind of squirted up the bottom and sometimes can be delivered even higher with specialized tubing. The suppositories are really good for folks who have been impacted. So it's been days and days without a bowel movement. You feel like there's a firm bowel movement down there, but no matter how much you push, it's not coming out and it's really painful. then continuing to put things from above is not going to do very much and it's just going to hurt cuz there's a blockage down below. So then you really want to clear that blockage from the bottom end. Suppositories can be really good for that cuz it can help soften that stool at the bottom. And it can also help stimulate the rectum. And folks who feel like, okay, it's been like 4 days, but I have no urge to go, but I feel full. Well, that suppository can be really good to stimulate the urge and help clear out the bottom. >> [snorts] >> Some people find that enemas are more helpful for them to do that. They find that the enemas are easier to deliver and so that's also an okay option. I think if we're talking about enemas that need to be delivered via a special tubing system, it's time to talk to your doctor before you go down that route. >> The suppository and the medicine that's more like a bullet shape, how long does that take to be effective? >> Takes them on average like 20 to 30 minutes to work. so much faster. >> That must be very relieving. Much better than waiting 8 hours. >> Yes. And so for folks who are like, "Okay, I have like an hourong window to poop." >> The suppository is the way to go. Like just use that and clear out when you have that moment in your schedule and move on with your day. >> It literally is a magic bullet, >> right? So I would say that I probably wouldn't rely on those. They're totally fine on a occasional basis. But if that's what you need every single day, it's time to talk to your doctor about some better options to check the muscles of the pelvic floor and to see what else we can do because we don't want your body getting super reliant on that without doing a workup. If your doctor gives you the okay, it is very safe to use those regularly. But I would want people to talk to a physician before saying, "I'm just going to rely on only suppositories to have a bowel movement all the time." >> At what point should folks out there see a doctor about constipation? >> If they're feeling like these over-the-counter things are not working, they're getting really bloated, if there's any sign of bleeding, right? the constipation's bad enough to be exacerbating hemorrhoids, causing fissures and things like that. If you [gasps] feel like you're having trouble eating because the stool can take up so much space in the cavity that you actually can't put in enough food. And actually, when stool gets really impacted in the rectum, there's a signal that gets sent up this pipe that we call our GI tract to say, "Hey, slow down. I'm full." Our body is really good at regulating itself. So, if you're finding a lot of those other upper symptoms, bloating, inability to eat, and the over- the-counter stuff's not working, it's very reasonable to talk to your doctor. Let's talk about the other end of the spectrum. When you can't stop pooping, do you have any recommendations for people who just have garden variety diarrhea or nervous tummy as it's sometimes called? So, a couple of home remedies that I think about, one is actually peppermint. Peppermint is a really good option because it decreases smooth muscle contraction. So, kind of soothes the cramping and contractions of our intestines and actually is already formulated into an over-the-counter supplement. [snorts] But you can also just drink peppermint tea. What I would say is though, definitely do not take peppermint that is meant for diffusers because it actually gets really confusing, right? There's edible peppermint, there's peppermint extract meant for baking, and then there's peppermint that's meant for diffusers. Do not eat that stuff. Other things like Pepto-Bismol is a really good option to kind of help slow things down and bind. Methyl cellulose, which is a different type of fiber than psyllium, can be really helpful for diarrhea because it can help kind of increase the consistency of the stool. It keeps it soft but not too soft, which is why we love talking about fiber because fiber is really magical. It can give you that middle ground where some of these other medications will push you too far in one way or the other. >> So fiber works for both diarrhea and for constipation. Yep. And it's really a mix of kind of soluble and insoluble fiber that does the best. And the best way you're going to do that is by eating the fiber. >> So fruits and vegetables with high fiber content and the peel can be really helpful. >> My nana raised me right. She says you don't eat a potato without the peel. >> That's the healthiest part. [laughter] What is the biggest risk of untreated diarrhea? It depends a lot on what's driving that diarrhea. And generally, we tend to be a little bit more concerned as physicians about making sure we've worked up diarrhea because if you leave it unchecked, dehydration is a pretty big risk. We're losing so much electrolyte and fluid out of the stool that our body doesn't have enough to keep functioning. We can get hypotensive where our blood pressures drop and our hearts can have trouble keeping up. So that's one of the big things along with having electrolyte derangement. So the salts in our bodies are no longer as balanced cuz they're getting lost in the stool. When do we know that diarrhea is being caused by something other than just nervous tummy or period induced diarrhea? When do we know that there's something bigger going on? That's a really hard question sometimes to answer. Chronicity and patterns is very important. Right? If you're someone who always has, let's say, three looser bowel movements a day, and you know that when you're stressed, you have tummy issues, and you're expecting that, then I wouldn't worry so much about it cuz it'll go back to normal. >> If it doesn't go back to your baseline, I would be a little concerned. You know, and I always tell folks, you know, your body's the best. If this doesn't feel like your normal stress induced diarrhea, then it's reasonable, especially with diarrhea, have a lower threshold to tell folks to talk to a doctor about it. If there is bleeding involved, again, like we worry about blood, [snorts] if it's not stopping like you would expect it to, and if you're pooping so much, but you're feeling like you're not able to take in fluid to keep up with what you're losing, then we definitely need to seek care. >> And what might be the cause in these cases of diarrhea? >> A lot of the times it's infection. Lots of different types of bacteria and parasites can cause either self-limited acute diarrhea. So things like traveler's diarrhea is very very common. A lot of those things you'll just get over on your own. But there's some other things like ced deficile for example or giardia which is a parasite that we can pick up from drinking stream water wellwater etc. Those can become chronic in certain individuals especially if they have chronic illness. Those can drive a lot of this severe diarrhea. >> Oh, and food poisoning, of course. >> Absolutely. And sometimes we don't recover as much as we'd like our bodies to. So, folks who do get run-of-the-mill food poisoning can end up with things like lactose intolerance, for example, because their body just doesn't quite go back to normal and they lose some of the enzymes that they previously had. >> Oh, so interesting. And I just want to put in a plug that not all infectious diarrhea needs treatment. The majority of them actually run their course by themselves. If you feel like your infectious diarrhea is not getting better, it is reasonable to see a doctor. Don't just take antibiotics kind of willy-nilly cuz sometimes in some infections that antibiotic can make the symptoms a lot worse and can actually put your kidneys at risk. So, if you start going number two less than three [music] times a week, you're probably experiencing constipation. It could be from not drinking enough [music] water, stress, or even pelvic floor dysfunction. So, what [music] to do? First, hydrate. Eat high-fiber fruits like kiwis and prunes. Fiber supplements [music] like psyllium husk and methyl cellulose can also work. But if you [music] need some extra help, there's a range of over-the-counter options. To prevent [music] constipation, you can take a stool softener like docusate. Or if you're already [music] backed up, an osmotic laxative is a relatively gentle medication [music] that helps pull water into the stool. If your body needs more of a boost, [music] you can try stimulant laxatives to help the colon to push. And for [music] really tough or time-sensitive cases, suppositories and enemas can quickly [music] soften the stool from below. But if over-the-counter treatments aren't cutting [music] it, you're becoming really bloated, you lose your appetite, or you're noticing bleeding, it's time to talk [music] to your doctor. Now, if you're experiencing diarrhea, on the other hand, peppermint [music] tea or supplements can soothe cramping and contractions. Pepto-Bismol is a good over-the-counter option, [music] and fiber like methyl cellulose can help add bulk to your stool. It turns out [music] fiber is a double hitter that can work for diarrhea and constipation. Diarrhea can be caused [music] by stress or infections like food poisoning or giardia. Many cases of diarrhea resolve on [music] their own, but if there's blood or you're losing fluids faster than you can take them in, go see [music] a doctor. We've covered what can happen when there's not enough poop and when there's too much. Now, we'll get to the big [music] question. What's the right way to poop? All right, [music] let's dig into proper pooping technique. There's a right and a wrong way to poop. Let's talk about the best practices. First of all, let's talk about what not to do. What mistakes do people make in how they poop? It took me to be a GI fellow going through rotations with pelvic PT to learn that, hey, you're not supposed to strain when you poop. [laughter] >> So, I think some people might wonder, what do you mean by strain? So, if you've never done it, good for you. Very happy for you. So, this bearing down maneuver where you're kind of closing off the airway and pushing down into the pelvis to try to push the poop out, you're not supposed to. The poop's just supposed to come out. >> And for a lot of my patients, this is the moment when they're like, "How come nobody's told me this in 40, 50, 60, 70 years?" And I'm like, "I don't know. I had to go to med school and a GI fellowship to learn that." So, we're all in the same boat. So gentle pushing is one thing but straining and bearing down and that is what we're supposed to avoid. >> Correct. >> Gentle pushing is normal pushing you are not supposed to have to do like I think there's a degree but let's call it ideal bowel movement. Not necessarily healthy but an ideal bowel movement is when you get that feeling of urgency. That means there's a stool sitting in the rectum. It's ready to come out. You should be able to go to the bathroom, take a few deep breaths, and the stool just comes out. So, that's like ideal, right? That's like the the pedestal of bowel movements, if you will. [snorts] >> Gold medal winning bowel movement. Yeah. >> Yeah. There's some articles I've read about on the internet called the ghost poop. Apparently, the poops are so perfect, they're just like not even in the toilet by the time you look at it. But you definitely don't want to be straining because that leads to prolapse of our pelvic floor musculature and in certain individuals that's how we pass out >> from pooping. >> Pass out. Okay, that sounds dangerous. >> It is because you're in the bathroom and there's so many places you could hit your head. >> Ouch. So, to avoid straining, we really want to be able to relax the muscles of the pelvic floor. The muscles of the pelvic floor aren't exactly under our conscious control. I liken it to kind of breathing. All of us are sitting here breathing without thinking about it. But if I told you now to focus and take a deep breath, you would be able to do that cuz you know how to control your diaphragm to contract it. You can take over that function. Pooping is very similar. We should be able to relax and coordinate those muscles without having to think about it. But in individuals with pelvic floor dysfunction, and that's up to like one in three people who come to see me for their constipation problems, their muscles don't work the right way. So they're actually closing when they're supposed to open. So then we have to teach them how to take deep breaths and open up what it feels like to relax the right muscles to allow the stool to come out. So deep breathing, toileting stools is a big subject. Oh, you mean like the foot stool or the Squatty Potty? Correct. >> And it doesn't have to be the brand name, right? All it has to do is lift the knees above the level of the belly button [snorts] and allow the knees to be separated. So, a lot of people will use a single foot stool. It works okay, but two are better. Okay? And especially if you have a high toilet, it's important that the foot stool goes up higher so that the knees can again be above the belly button. That's the key. And that helps relax the pelvic floor. >> Okay. So the pelvic floor relaxes enough to release the poo more easily then. >> Exactly. It actually allows the rectum to go from this narrow angle from being pulled up to a straight angle. >> Ah, that makes sense. A lot of cultures around the world, places I've lived in, have had the kinds of toilets where you squat over the toilet as opposed to sit on the toilet. And I've heard from some doctors over the years that, oh, that's the ideal way to poo. And so it sounds like the foot stool you're talking about is kind of replicating that in a way. Is that right? >> That's exactly what it's trying to do. And that's how it was developed from what I understand is trying to mimic that squatting position while you're seated on the toilet. And so thinking about that squatting position, you also want to lean forward at about like a 15 to 30° angle and then have those knees open. Now, some of us may personally do this or maybe we have a family member who disappears into the bathroom for very long periods of time, spending maybe 30 minutes or even an hour on the toilet. Is that okay? >> Don't sit for too long. If the poop's not coming, get up off the toilet, walk around, wait for that urgency to hit again. I think some people make the mistake of waiting and suppressing the urge, [snorts] and that actually makes it harder to poop down the line. And so, this is how like childhood withholding behaviors can develop into pelvic floor dysfunction. But listen to the signal. Don't sit for too long. Don't sit there scrolling on your phone. Movement helps stimulate the colon. Exercise is really good for stimulating colon function and so using those things to help the bowel movement come again instead of waiting and sitting is better and [snorts] then taking slow deep breaths. But I would say that more than like 20 30 minutes probably not ideal cuz you're sitting there putting a lot of gravity onto those rectal vessels and the musculature and that can lead to things like hemorrhoids. >> Dr. Dr. Wong, we also have to note that you study crossd discipline techniques to help treat bowel issues like hypnotherapy, virtual reality, positive psychology, mindfulness, and bio feedback. These are words we don't often associate with pooping. Tell us about how all of these things relate to healthier pooping. >> Absolutely. It really goes back to when we talked about that evolutionary biology of stress and our bowels become more regulated when we can activate our rest and digest system which is that parasympathetic nervous system. [snorts] It is really easy to activate the sympathetic nervous system. Right? I'm going to be late for a meeting soon. Oh man, all of sudden that's ramping up. >> Mhm. >> But it is really hard to turn that off. And there's a lot of books that say back in the day it turned off when the lion was gone and we could celebrate. But now with things like chronic stress, it never quite turns off. And so a lot of these behavioral techniques are aimed at how do we activate that parasympathetic nervous system? How do we rest and digest? And then a little bit of that is how do we learn to live with the pain that we are experiencing that we know isn't going to be harmful, right? Cuz we've done a lot of testing for some of these conditions that I take care of. [snorts] We know there's no tumor. We know there's no inflammatory bowel disease, but yet we have nervous tummies. How do we accept that this is nervous tummy and not something undiagnosed? And that pulls in this cognitive behavior therapy component. So a lot of these tools are aimed at how do we get these techniques to people who aren't used to them, who don't want to do therapy necessarily, but still can benefit from parasympathetic activation. And so hypnosis is a really good way of doing that where just by listening to my very very soothing voice. I can put you in this meditative trance that [snorts] makes your body a little bit more susceptible to suggestions. Suggestions like hey this pain that we've already diagnosed as something like irritable bowel syndrome or nervous tummy is not going to kill you and we can stop paying so much attention to that pain. And studies actually show that if we can stop paying attention to pain that isn't going to harm us, it [snorts] diminishes the pain and it actually helps heal. Virtual reality does something very similar. If you don't want to listen to me talk to you to get you into a trans state, being in virtual reality actually can put your brain in a space where we can deliver some of that cognitive behavioral concepts, positive psychology, help guide meditation in a fun gamified way. There's [snorts] a lot of really cool tools out there because often the medications can do this too, but patients don't want to take them or they come with side effects or they interact, right? And so using our own bodies to turn on some of these neurotransmitters is a much safer way to go. All of this sounds so sci-fi and so futuristic and yet something we can all do. >> Fantastic. On top of all that, you've also written a children's book, Boo Can't Poo, about a very cute, very constipated ghost. How are you hoping to change the narrative around poop with this book? I wrote this book as a way to teach kids about constipation and to make it easier for them to talk about. We don't have to talk about fart jokes and poop jokes, right? We can talk about poop in a very normal, healthy, matterof fact way, right? Because it's bodily function. [snorts] And the reason this is so important is because I see it on the back end. I see these adults and grown-ups who have never been taught how to poop, who have never talked to anybody about how the way they poop is abnormal [snorts] and have never felt like they can share. And then when I then go in and tell them, "Hey, you're not pooping right." They're like, "I am, you know, sometimes 50, 60, 70 years old, and nobody's ever talked to me about the correct way to poo." And so then I started joking with my patients why I should write a children's book. I should teach people early. And then the joke stopped being a joke. >> Actually, it sounds like maybe this book might be useful for people of all ages, not just children. >> It's actually secretly written for their parents. Thank you so much, Dr. Xiao Jing Iris Wong. This has been just a [music] fantastic conversation. You make me so excited about poop. >> Thank you so much for having me and thank you for allowing me [music] to talk about this relatively like uncomfortable topic for a lot of people. >> Oh, I think you did a great job of making it a much more comfortable topic for everybody [music] listening. No embarrassment, no shame, just another part of what our body does. Exactly. What does a good poop session look like? Well, there shouldn't be any straining. Ideally, you shouldn't even have to gently push. Instead, relax your pelvic floor muscles. Take deep breaths to help you open and release. Foot stools can help angle your knees above your belly button, which relaxes the pelvic floor and improves the angle of the rectum. But if it's just not happening, don't stay on the toilet. Get up, walk around, try to tune into your body, and wait until you feel the urgency to go again. If you're regularly having trouble, it can also be a mental game. Pooping can bring up nerves or in some cases even pain. That's when it could be worth trying tools like mindfulness, hypnotherapy, or anything that can help downregulate your nervous system and reduce your focus on the pain. So hopefully now you have a better understanding of your bowels and maybe even better experiences with them too. Okay, that's all for this episode, but if you've got a question or topic suggestion, you can leave us a voicemail at 507-5386272. We might even feature your voice on the show. For more Health Matters episodes and resources, head to mayoc clinic.org/halthmatters. And to find out more about Dr. Wong's book, Boo Can't Poo, check out our show notes. Finally, if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us on your podcast app. It really helps others [music] to find the show. Thanks for listening and until next time, take care and stay healthy. >> [music]