Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today on the podcast, we are interviewing Dr. Pratish Tosh. He is a professor of medicine and infectious disease here at the Mayo Clinic, and will share with us everything you want to know as an ophthalmologist about infectious disease. Welcome, Dr. Tosh. Thank you for having me. Thanks for being here. This is great. We've recently had you on a podcast talking about risk management, and there is plenty in the infectious disease world about that. If listeners that didn't listen to the other one, go listen. You've got to listen to that one. It's so good. Thank you. We're going to narrow the scope for the ophthalmologists out there that I think we all want to be doing a good job managing infectious diseases of our patients or preventing them. And look at that part of your current practice as an infectious disease doctor. So thank you for being here in that regard. And just to remind us, so currently at the Mayo Clinic, you do all this risk management ASP leadership. What is your work-life balance between risk management and ID? So I'm still barely. A majority of my time is as a clinician in infectious diseases, a split between infections in patients with cancer, infections in patients with critical illness, so ICU ID, and then ambulatory infectious diseases. And, you know, that's still what I primarily do, even though perhaps on my downtime, most of my brain power is focused on risk management. But it still comes back to infectious diseases. I remember in medical school, I didn't think I really wanted to do infectious disease in my first two years um because it's just like my there's just endless names of things bacteria and fungi and then they would change the name and like this is impossible um but then it was into um so my third year and fourth year and then of course really into my eventually as a fellow where i realized that there's um this is very conceptual once you actually get your hands on it. Like there's three very basic concept of infectious diseases. And I often get like, okay, I have this immunocompromised patient, so it could be anything. Except from my point of view, I don't even know what immunocompromised means anymore. Because from, and I'm sure if there's any immunologists or hematologists, they're about to laugh at like how i think about the immune system but i think about like in their immunocompromised in what way and to what degree right so there's neutrophils which help with bacteria and molds but they're not that useful for you know viruses or even yeast like candida and so understanding well what is their neutrophil function and then there's humoral meaning so antibodies which are helpful for bacteria, extracellular viruses like influenza or SARS-CoV-2. But, you know, someone with bad antibodies, they're not prone to more CMV disease, right? And so that gets to the cellular immunity, which, of course, whether it's because of medications we've given them or because of AIDS or lung transplantation that does these intracellular viruses, such as CMV or the ****** viruses, and then yeast and dimorphics like histoplasma. And then I think about people without spleens, and then encapsulated organisms, such as strep pneumo being the big one, and then terminal complements that's just Neisseria. And so I only think about the immune system in five ways, and I think about this patient. are they immunocompromised in what way and to what degree? And then somebody with AIDS in C4-2, yes, they're going to get bad histoplasma and yeast infections and maybe CMV disease, but they're not going to get invasive aspergillus. And somebody with neutropenia, really bad neutropenia, will get invasive aspergillus, but they're not going to get CMV disease unless they have problems with their cellular immunity. And so it's instead of thinking this person is immunocompromised, they can have anything. That's not really true. Really understanding in what way are they immunocompromised and, frankly, what are the bugs that that part of the immune system helps with. And then those are the things that could be causing it. So that was the concept number one. Fascinating. I appreciate that. Yeah, I love that. I didn't think about that. But the second concept, one of my mentors who subsequently passed away, Jim Steckelberg, still the smartest person I've ever worked with. I'm sure there are smarter people who have ever lived, right? But all the people I've ever worked with, Jim was easily the smartest. What he was really good with was taking really complex ideas and making them very simple. And I remember he told me that the human body, he drew it. And basically, it's a donut. The human body is a donut. And basically, everything that's on the outside of the donut, which is your mouth is the top part of the hole, and your ****** is the bottom part of the hole. But everything on the outside of the donut is part of the outside, whether it's on your skin or in your small intestine or stomach. And it's OK that it has bugs in it. It's always going to have bugs in it. So the outside, as long as it's outside and the bugs are free flowing, it's perfectly fine. And everything on the inside of the donut is sterile and is inside. So in ID, we only have two organs. It's either inside or outside. And let's say you have an abscess in your skin. What happened was the outside became inside. And the treatment is making the inside outside again. You lance it. You don't need antibiotics, right? You make the inside outside. Same thing with the gallbladder, right? You get it. There are bugs. It's highly really amusing. It's bugs in the, you know, that live there, right? And the gallbladder is part of the outside. It's part of the GI tract, part of the inside of the donut, right? But if you put a stone there, suddenly those bugs are no longer free flowing, right? So what happened was the outside became inside and the treatment, it making the inside outside again. It doesn't matter how do you do it? Do you blow through the stone to put a, you know, percutaneous cholecystosomy tube? It doesn't matter, right? As long as you make, if the outside became inside, make the inside outside again and that's the treatment the antibiotics like maybe do anything i'm not sure um and so and then the same thing with the when the inside the inside becomes outside right let's say you have a bone that gets exposed if you just cut off the infected bone well now you have new infected bone right so you have to do a flap cover right so what happened was the inside became outside, so you have to make the outside inside again. So 95% of ID is knowing whether it's supposed to be outside or inside. Of the donut. Right, of the donut. Of the donut. And if the outside became inside, make it outside again. If the inside became outside, make it inside again. This is so amazing. I'm trying to decide if the eye is both inside and outside. Yeah, that gets complicated. We like to be special. Right, of course, of course. And it's sort of also immunologically a nice sanctuary yes it's a recognized so we don't apply to any of your rules you you you do and you don't we're a little asterisk it's it's fine um but uh yeah some of it like around the eye yes absolutely right yeah i think the kind of most common times that we're really struggling with infectious diseases and ophthalmology i was trying to kind of think what are the biggest infections we deal with i mean the most simple are kind of corneal ulcers or or outside infections i would say and we usually treat those topically with antibiotics but a big part of our practice is culturing seeing which bugs are growing because sometimes they can be really bad bugs and sometimes we can treat them if they're not that bad with kind of simple broad spectrum things but other times we treat them really kind of heavy hitting compounded fortified antibiotics around the clock like really hard hard hitting is that all kind of correct from an infectious diseases standpoint you know it's funny sometimes i feel like some specialties treat certain things in one way and then when you talk to the specialist they're like well that's not how i would do it and it's just because we're we're a little isolated in how we treat things well i like the use of topical antibiotics in ophthalmology because it's a sanctuary yeah and um it's you by using things topically you're far less likely to actually result in resistant organisms elsewhere. And this actually gets to the third concept of ID. Oh, there's a third. You transition very nicely. Apologies. No, no, no. It's fine. Because I think conceptually people think about antibiotic resistance like there's a bug and you throw all these antibiotics at it and the bug becomes resistant. And that is true for like rifampin and fluoroquinolones and that's it. Antibiotic resistance developed eons ago. So the term antibiotic, everyone used the term antibiotic sort of vaguely, but the term antibiotic means it's a compound in dilute concentration that can inhibit or kill a microorganism. But the piece of an antibiotic versus an antimicrobial is that that compound is derived from a living organism, right? So we get penicillin from penicillium, right? And streptomycin, not that anyone uses it, from streptomyces. And in the eons that penicillin created that, not for our use, right, millions of years ago, but to kill off the bacteria in its path. That was taking up its energy and its space. And in those eons, the bacteria created plasmids, integrants, pieces of DNA that encode the resistance of that. That didn't happen overnight. It happened over eons. And so antibiotic resistance very rarely is sort of de novo, de novo mutations. Instead, what you're doing is you are selected for clones of a bacteria that have existing resistance. They've gone into caves and swabbed them, and there's antibiotic resistance everywhere. No one's going into the cave and spraying vancomycin, right? So understanding how antibiotic resistance works, and it's not that you're creating it, but you're just selecting for the bugs. That already have it. That already have it. Got it. All right? And I used to live in Atlanta. This will come to it. Imagine that airports were first come first serve, right? So your flight's first come first serve, right? And every antibiotic resistance mechanism, like cassette of DNA or integron, is a suitcase. or a backpack right if the flights are serve and there's just passengers everywhere if you're carrying around five suitcases you're going to miss your flight right whereas if you have a backpack you're going to make that flight right and so it's not just how does that organism survive but how does it outcompete the normal flora that's supposed to exists where it lives right so our the our skin has the these bugs our gut has that's where most of it is right so antibiotic resistance isn't something necessary we are creating but rather the way that this five suitcase passenger is able to make their flight is if you get rid of all the other passengers right so like why don't we why why does it matter if i give azithromycin for a cold how does that confer meropenem resistance what it does is it knocks out the normal flora and allows something that already has meropenem resistance to take hold right i had no idea that's how it works that's so interesting great analogy thank you and so um the so that's why i love topical antibiotics right because there's no as most of the antibiotic resistance organisms with the exception of MRSA colonizes the gut first right as long as you're not swallowing this you're having almost no impact on the on the gut flora so I love topical antibiotics so even though like when we give a topical antibiotic drop yeah or a topical agent of whatever nature is you can taste it in the back of your throat yes some there's some that's getting down okay is it is that so negligible that your average doc doesn't need to worry about that or is Is there enough little... I mean, this is with a regular drop. They say, oh, doc, I can taste it in my throat. It might be there. But it's not clinically important. I doubt it. I doubt it. And I love using gentamicin in bladder irrigations for people who have recurrent urinary tract infections who happen to catheterize anyway. Because that's the same thing. You get this really high concentration of this antibiotic, and it's not impacting the gut. So you're sort of getting exactly where you need it without actually, you know, selecting for bacteria that already have resistance. So in our patients who do need an oral antibiotic, so let's say they have orbital cellulitis or dacriosis titus, so an infected tear drain. Thank you. And you're welcome. Oh, yeah. Yes, yes. Tear drains that get infected, lacrimal sacs that get infected almost like an abscess, but they get a cellulitis type picture. Sure. Or someone who has even something more severe, like they've had an open-globe injury, so they've had a penetrating injury to their eye that can predispose them for infection. Or endophthalmitis, where they have an infection on the inside. Bad stuff. And we want to treat them with an oral antibiotic. What I'm hearing is that the gut is so, so important. And I know everybody talks about probiotics. So immediately I thought, well, should I be giving my patients some kind of prophylactic probiotic situation? So in the short term, the best thing to do is use the most narrow antibiotic you can for the shortest period of time that you need to. Okay. That has the least impact on the gut flora. Unfortunately, probiotics haven't been shown to work yet. And there's a big yet, and I can explain this. Okay. So the gut is 1,000 to 1 unculturable anaerobes for every one aerob. right and we're talking about a billion different bugs and if you get like i don't know something over the counter it's like one bacteria or even 10 it doesn't even come close to replicating the normal flora right and if sure enough studies show that hasn't hasn't worked um and so there are more advanced probiotics that are actually in development one has actually now been fda approved for the use in c diff it's a it's a pill that's essentially a ***** flora in a pill and of course right now it's just being used for c diff but you know that sort of advanced probiotic may be what we end up using in the future to sort of repopulate the normal flora but we're not there yet but very promising and we're at a sort of a nice cusp in our technology where we get we actually have products that can do this right now that's not really available and not fda approved for broader use but something being investigated and so oh i'm sorry well so now you're saying just use the the narrowest antibiotic for the shortest duration yeah that you can can expand that though because i was always under the understanding that because there's when you look up any antibiotic says take it until the end and and many times one regiment will say hit it with a thousand once and you're done versus another regiment says take it three times a day for five days or another one is 10 days and the mindset i've always been taught is if you don't take it long enough it'll actually increase resistance because you're just exposing your gut to certain bacteria but not killing off them enough right so you said the least amount for the duration needed only yeah how do we know what the duration is and should we be picking the one that's the shortest acting at a dose that's effective yeah so i would do the latter and the how long is enough well that's where clinical science comes in and like strep throat is still 10 days uh right of antibiotics just seems long but that's what it takes to sort of decolonize but i mean i some of us for those who are true i was just in a guest speaker in in india last year and came down with a wicked traveler's diarrhea yeah and you know even at that you read the packages and one say here you take it three times a day for five days and there's another one just you load up a big dose once. Even for your own personal balance that way is the shorter duration at a higher level a better choice? I mean it's tough to know what that looks like because you end up taking the same amount and for that specific instance I wouldn't take the big dose of azithromycin because that will give you diarrhea. it's fascinating what you learn and appreciate just the concept of the mutations already been there you're predisposing for them but also understanding be as targeted as you can and as short as you can for the clinical scenario medically appropriate it's just helpful to be reminded of that I think in the future have you heard of phage therapy no phage so this is the idea that these bacteria have enemies too, right? And so it turns out viruses have been targeting bacteria for longer than humans were around. And they're very good at targeting very specific bacteria. And so now there's this emerging thing on phage therapy where, you know, I think in the future we'll be, if once we have the diagnostics, you know, where this is the bacteria, this is the phage, we'll be using phage therapy a lot more. It just kills the targets of the bacteria. Yeah, the thing we're doing. Let's just kill the one bug that we need. And we'll look back and, like, wow, we used to carpet bomb the GI tract and wonder why people had so many problems. Because now we're finding with the microbiome that if you alter the microflora, you lead to all kinds of things. And, of course, C. diff is easy, and antibiotic resistance, that's very clearly proven. But there are some associations with obesity and, like, depression and all this stuff. and allergic diseases and I wonder how much of this is being caused frankly by antibiotic use I hear about that all the time moms talking about antibiotics in kids and then all these downstream respects because they were on antibiotics so much during childhood, is that a thing? I mean it's hard to prove but I think so it makes sense that it could influence things down the road and I would love to get away from that absolutely, it makes me think of the you know they have the little aphid that gets on the Japanese beetle that now is killing the japanese beetle and you're like yes do you know what i'm talking about for my garden lover it's so great um no that's fantastic are there big things that you as an infectious diseases doc wish that non-id docs knew the first thing is yeah just understanding um the the the immune system enough right this like instead of just throwing your hands up immunocompromise in what way to what degree um and if it doesn't work doing the same thing again or or for yes don't do that i love that tip that makes so much we see people all the time this is their 10th course of the same thing and you're like what is happening yes yeah like it's like Like wishing is just not going to work. If something's not working, though, and oftentimes in ophthalmology, we culture the surface of the eye or we intraocularly tap vitreous in some way to get tissue. But from a surface perspective, when they've been on an antibiotic, how effective are those cultures? And we hear that they're not going to work. But is it still helpful? Or once you've been on something long enough at a strong enough strength, does the nothing grow? So it's not that nothing's going to grow. I think the risk you have, again, this is now the outside of the donut, right? The outside of the eye is still the outside of the donut. If you give an antibiotic, within a day, you're going to have different bugs colonizing the outside of the donut. And so you have to just take very good caution in knowing, is this the real pathogen or have I just grown new commensals, right? Whereas if it's in the vitreous, that's the inside of the donut, right? And you can very much trust that because there should be no bugs on the inside of the donut. That makes total sense. This is so helpful, and I hope that ophthalmologists out there will be invigorated with a new appreciation for infectious diseases and antibiotic stewardship, all the things. Thank you for educating us. Perfect. Thank you very much. Thanks. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast on our website. Thank you for listening, and we definitely look forward to sharing more.