- Dr. Malcolm Bell: Well, welcome again to our listeners and viewers. Thanks for joining us again in a series of interviews with the experts. I'm Malcolm Bell, your studio host. And this actually is part two of a series that we have enjoyed having Dr. Stan Hankin, who's an associate professor in the division of Vascular Medicine, who on our last podcast, talked about the updated profile disease guidelines, why they were important, and particularly sort of highlighted some of the amplifiers and the health disparities of these patients. So welcome again, Stan. And today we're gonna focus on intervention for peripheral arterial disease. And I think you, before we really get into your, who needs intervention, what type of intervention may important for you to maybe just sort of describe for us the, the different subsets of patients that you or primary care physicians, advanced practice providers that may be seeing in, in their practice. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah, thanks Dr. Bell for having me again. And you know, this, this again goes back to the 2024 guidelines, which really introduced the four subsets of patients with peripheral artery disease. And I think this is how we should be thinking about, again, when we see these patients in our office. And the four subsets are asymptomatic patients, patients with claudication, patients with acute limb ischemia, and chronic limb threaten ischemia. And let me just go into a little bit more about each patient. Now, the asymptomatic patient is that patient that you get a CAT scan for a different reason, you know, and you see a lot of plaque in the arteries and you ask them, do you have any symptoms? And they say no. So although they may have peripheral heart disease, they're asymptomatic from their peripheral art disease. And those patients risk factor modification is key. The second patient and patients that we probably see the most often is your intermittent claudication patients or claudicants. These patients classically have pain in their calves or their legs when they walk. It improves with rest classic presentations. But there may be a lot of different presentations here. Some people have buttock pain, some people have hip or pain or knee pain. So exam and ABIs is critical in these patients. Now, the important patients who we need to be really cognizant of is the acute limb ischemia patients and the chronic limb threatening ischemia patient. The acute limb ischemia patient is the patient that's characterized by less than two weeks of rest pain to the PAD. You can sort of equate that to our STEMI patients. Something needs to be done really quickly about those patients because if you don't, they're at really high risk of losing that limb. And then the last subset and the, and the subset that we'll talk about more later on is the chronic limb threatening ischemia patient. Those are patients with rest, pain or ulceration more than two weeks in time. It can kind of equate to your N STEMI patient, non-ST STEMI patients and you need to do something about it, but you have a little bit of time to do something about it. But again, if you don't do anything about it, then the risk of minor or major amputation is really quite high in these patients. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Let's go go back to that asymptomatic group. You, you said you picked it up incidentally or you know, could have even picked up on a physical exam. You - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: You talked about the importance of taking the shoes off, feeling the pulses and that the patient doesn't have any symptoms. Do you consider doing some sort of stress test that they see to make sure that they truly are asymptomatic like we sometimes do with, you know, coronary disease if we're really suspicious that there's something more serious? - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah, that's, that's a such a critical question, Dr. Bell, because patients may not realize that they're symptomatic until they do. And actually again, what's highlighted in the guidelines is the realization that patients curtail their activities so that they don't get leg pain. So the questions to ask when we see these patients is not, do you have leg pain with walking? But it's also tell me the things that you do now compared to a couple years ago. And they'll tell you, I just don't play with my kids as much as I do 'cause I get tired. What hurts? Ah, my knees hurt. You know, or I'm not able to garden as much as I did before. I'm not able to bike as much as I did before. So people may not realize that slow change. So ankle brachial index is a first grade step. And I'll tell you that at Mayo Clinic, we really utilize the treadmill ABIs as a diagnostic test in these individuals. Not only because it gives you post-exercise ABI, but it specifically looks at symptoms. And symptoms are critical because again, people don't realize what they are or not able to do until you show them, oh my gosh, you had hip pain walking, you know, one minute and your ankle brachial index drops significantly. So I think in these patients, if you're able to obtain a treadmill, a BI, which is by the way, a class two, a indication in these patients is this is not a screening test, this is a diagnostic test, which is a important implication here. So it's going to be paid for, is very, very helpful in these patients. And a large subset of these asymptomatic patients, you actually realize they're claudicant. Okay. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: And your approach then to we, we'll come back to the asymptomatic patient later, the, a couple of things I'd like to ask you, but with respect to the intermittent claudication patient, I mean, what are the, the key steps that you take in terms of coming up with a an initial management plan? - Dr. Stan Henkin: So there, there's two critical things that, that we talk about. One is from the medication perspective, one is from the exercise perspective. Now supervised exercise therapy significantly in every single trial that looked at supervised exercise therapy significantly improves pain-free walking time and total walking time. Many cardiac rehabs now have supervised exercise therapy as part, you may just not know about it actually. And the important aspect here is Medicare pays for it, they pay for all of it. There is a copay unfortunately, but it pays for up to 60 sessions of supervised exercise therapy. So please, please, please refer your patients. Actually when a Medicare population was looked at nationally, only about 2% of eligible patients were referred for supervised exercise therapy. So again, class one recommendation, we know it works, nobody's doing it. Very unfortunate. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: And then in terms of indications then for intervention in these patients, - Dr. Stan Henkin: So, so a couple of things that you think about. One, did they do supervised exercise therapy? Or at least did you talk to them about a community-based program or a program that they can do at home and what happened? The other thing that I really do try to do is use estol, which, which does improve total walking time. The issue with estol is GI upset in diarrhea, about 50% of individuals do have diarrhea and they stop because of it. So that is a limiting factor. Now again, as we talked about during our last discussion, there is now semaglutide that's probably gonna be approved for this indication as well. So we have another medication to trial, which is going to control other risk factors. So that's gonna be key aspect as well. So my go-to is if we have tried at least one of these things and the patient gave it their all, you know, we really try to give it their all. If they are significantly limited by their symptoms, we gotta think about intervention. And so that's kind of where the lifestyle eliminating or claudication comes in. Meaning they cannot do things in their everyday life that they need to be doing. And that's things like a job, you know, they, a construction worker, you know, a minor, you know, a farmer, whatever it is, they need to be walking, they can't, we gotta think about intervention for those patients. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: And you already mentioned, you know, the, the limb threatening ischemic patient. I think you talked about your two two weeks of increasing symptoms, rest, pain. And in those, are there any other alternatives other than to consider intervention, whether it's surgical or endovascular? - Dr. Stan Henkin: Well, you know, and this is something that's discussed at at many interventional cardiology, interventional radiology and and vascular surgery meetings that, you know, sometimes major amputation is the best way to go. In some patients who are not candidates for endovascular intervention or surgical intervention in some patients who have significant tissue loss, that's the best way to go to heal. But here's again, where we sort of loop back to the health disparities in peripheral artery disease nationally, up to 50% of individuals who get major amputation never had a catheter angiogram and never had a trial of intervention with a surgical or endovascular. So we're seeing way too many patients who are not even offered anything before they receive a major amputation. And again, think about all these health disparities, depression, anxiety, need to work, medications, need to take care of family, and we're giving them a major amputation. We're doing them quite a bit of disservice. So a very small subset, but that is critical to discuss a multidisciplinary panel with your vascular surgeons, podiatrists, vascular medicine, cardiology before you do go onto a major amputation in these patients. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Yeah. And you mentioned the imaging there and I perhaps you should have asked you even go back to that intermittent claudication patient. At what point do you do imaging, you know, you know, such as, you know, CTA and, and other forms of imaging? - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah, and that, that's a really good question because some individuals are used to doing ultrasounds to start with, you know, to diagnose peripheral disease. And I would like to highlight, as we very well known from the coronary literature, there is difference between anatomy and physiology and sometimes anatomy doesn't equal physiology. So you see a velocity step up on an ultrasound more than 50% stenosis, well they have to have symptoms because of that, but that doesn't mean that their physiology is that of a stenosis. So the current guidelines really do say that you do not need to image them until you are considering intervention. So in your claudicant in whom you're gonna manage magically, all you need is an A BI, whether that's a rest, a BI or an exercise a BI, and you can just follow them that way. Then when you're considering intervention, you have a choice of an ultrasound ct mr or going straight to invasive angiography at that time. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Those, those are really important points. 'cause we don't want to over utilize imaging. Yeah. Which just expensive and often gets repeated that, you know, sometimes necessarily, but sometimes not. And but, so the key point you're making, you don't really need to do any really detailed imaging unless you're considering or until you're considering doing some sort of peripheral intervention. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Absolutely, and we do get quite a bit of referrals, you know, both internally and externally for patients who are diagnosed with peripheral artery disease on their CT scan, for example, and we get ABIs and they're normal, you know, or they're near normal. And those populations are very different again compared to populations with moderate to se severe decrease in their ABIs and maybe less plaque, for example, on their CT compared to other individuals. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: So you mentioned that fourth group, the the chronic limb threatening ischemia. How does that differ from the group before you, the, the acute things? I mean, are these people that were failed treatment or didn't have treatment options or was a delayed acute, I mean I I I'm just a little puzzled with how you distinguish those two groups. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah, that's a really good question. So if you think about, if you think about the acute limb ischemia, patients think of it as acute plaque rupture resulting in sudden onset vessel occlusion. So the way that these patients presents is, you remember going back to the medical school is the classic six Ps that have to do with pain, decreased sensation, decreased motor function. So these patients will come in with several days of severe pain, inability to feel in their leg, inability to start to lose their motor function. So those patients have complete occlusion of an artery, whatever artery that is, and they need to be intervened on right away because if they don't, you're gonna lose that leg. You know, we're not talking about toes in an instance, the majority of those patients get a below or above knee amputation. So - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Very, it's - Dr. Stan Henkin: Critical. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Yeah. So that seems, that seems obvious. And so then getting back to this fourth group, how do they typically present, how do you identify those? Are there ways of identifying those patients even before they come to a, a vascular surgeon or interventionalist? - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah, absolutely. So the, I'll give you good news to start. And the good news to start is only about 5% of patients with intermittent claudication will develop chronic limb threatening ischemia. So that's good news. This is not majority of our patients, but the way that these patients will present is that over time, instead of pain with exertion, they will start saying, my, my leg hurts when I'm just sitting there or doing nothing, it's waking up at night and the classic, I need to dangle my legs so that my pain goes away. Because you get blood flow with gravity down to your lower extremities. And then over time, you know, the pain can be significant, but patients actually think that it's normal and it's just part of their peripheral heart disease. What really gets patients in the exam room is usually an ulceration that develops, especially diabetics. They hit their toe on some furniture or they slip, get a little hematoma in their toe, they can't feel anything over the next couple of months, they develop a significant ulceration because they can't feel much and because they don't have any blood flow. So that rest pain over two weeks, that's increasing. Or a new ulceration is the definition of chronic limb threatening ischemia. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: So that brings us to now what are we gonna do with those patients? I mean, presumably at this point you are sort of pulling out all your imaging that's gonna be necessary to decide upon Yeah. Appropriate revascularization. I mean that's really what we're talking about here. And that brings up your, the, the, the, the trial results that we're published I think a couple of years ago for the, the best CLI trial, big international trial comparing endovascular revascularization versus surgical revascularization. So maybe I'll just ask you if you could just briefly summarize your, who are those patients in that study? What exactly were they looking at? And and then we can talk about the endpoints and, and the, the conclusions. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Absolutely. So, so these were patients with chronic limb threatening ischemia who were candidates for both surgical and endovascular. Who decided, well, whoever saw the patient, whether it's a vascular surgeon or an interventional cardiologist, decided were their candidate for either one of the procedures. So was a decision up to them. And they were randomized then to either surgical intervention or endovascular intervention. Now, the critical part of this trial that I will just go back to actually even from the setup, is that this trial included both vascular surgeons and interventional cardiologists as well too. So these are multiple fields, multidisciplinary trial that I think is really important because each of us have different tools in their toolkit that we are good at. So this trial really tried to utilize the best tools that everybody had, although that's a different discussion because some of the endovascular tools weren't always the best tools or the most modern tools, but that's, that's different. But, but this is the first trial that actually looked at this and I think it does answer a question quite well, what to do with these patients. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: And, and maybe just make sure we set the scene accurately. This is for infra inguinal disease. We're, we're not talking about, you know, iliac disease, AOR disease. This is SFAs per funders, correct? - Dr. Stan Henkin: Could be both. Could be both actually. It could be inflow disease and it could be, and it could be infra popliteal disease as well. Okay. Although infra popliteal was much less common, but it could absolutely actually be inflow disease in these patients as well too. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: I see. And then maybe you just, so that population, this is that, you know, chronic, your group you're talking about, these would be with rest, pain, ulceration, maybe, maybe even severe, you know, hemodynamic Yep. You know, findings. But in terms of the surgery, what surgical techniques were they using and what techniques were they using in the endovascular? You know, is it balloons, is it atherectomy stents? Could you just give us a - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: A feel for, you know, what, what these procedures actually were? - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah, so, so the first, the, there were two different cohorts actually studied in this population. And then, and this is where the trial interpretation really becomes the important, the first cohort was a patient with great saphenous vein segment that could be used for surgery. And so this was patients who underwent surgery using GSV segment compared to endovascular population. Now the second cohort was patients who did not have a GSV that could be used. And so they used prosthetic graft or some other technique compared to, again, endovascular patients who did not have a suitable GSV graft. The type of surgery again, was up to the operator. So there was a lot of freedom. This is why this is a nice trial because there was very little of, I'm telling you what to do and you need to do it my way. It was really a real world trial where the trialists were told, do the best procedure for this patient. If you think this surgical technique is the best, use that surgical technique, if you think this endovascular it as endovascular technique. The important aspect here though is that this trial was published already, you know, a couple of years ago. And I remember sitting in a CC when there was a lot of oohs and ahs at presentation of this trial. But even going back to, you know, seven, eight years ago when this trial was ongoing for endovascular techniques, there was a lot of balloons, but not drug coated balloons, for example. So that's where the criticism of this trial comes in saying, well, this is not contemporary management of endovascular techniques. Well, it's the best that they had at that point. You know, it's, you can do these trials every three to five years, it feels like, you know, with new techniques. So it's the best that they had. But that's the one criticism. But again, it was up to an interventionalist to decide what was the best choice for that patient. And they were free to do whatever they wanted with that patient - Dr. Malcolm Bell: That, as I recall, it was a very large trial. That, and the, the endpoints in, in terms of, you know, the occurrence of endpoints, I mean, there's a large number of endpoints. So they really had power to look at that. And - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: And you know, you mentioned the second cohort, maybe we just leave that aside, you know, because that, that was a very different group of, it's a much smaller group, but let's just focus on that first cohort. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: The endpoints, the primary. Maybe you can just, again, just remind us it was a primary composite to endpoint what those components were and what the findings were. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah, so the composite was major adverse limb event, which was defined as an amputation or a need for reintervention, whether it was a new bypass or reintervention thrombectomy, thrombolysis, whatever intervention for that specific initial indication was, or death from any cause. So it was really powered for those indications. And again, - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Those are hard, those are hard endpoints. I mean, you throw an amputation there as well. I mean, it's reinventing sometimes can be subjective, but death and amputation, I mean that's, - Dr. Stan Henkin: And that's why it took quite a long time for the study to complete, again, again, one of the criticisms. But like you said, these Majority of the endpoints that we study in these population is usually coronary endpoints or even stroke endpoints or cardiovascular mortality, major adverse LIM event. It takes more events, but this is a higher risk population. That's why they really thought that they could power this, but certainly took quite longer than they, than they expected this trial to go. On. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: My recollection of this trial, and it's been a few years since I, you know, first learned of it, was that there was maybe an expectation that endovascular was gonna be superior and safer than the surgery. That wasn't the finding though, was it? Then maybe you could just give us the numbers. I mean, what what was the difference? - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah, so you know, it it, it's really funny because I do remember sitting in that a CC hall and it was one of the first trials presented and I was sitting one of the next to one of the PIs of the trial who, who, who did not look very happy. And I was like, oh my gosh, you know, I totally expected, like you said, endovascular arm to blow the surgical arm away, you know, and when they showed the Kaplan, when Dr. Farber shoved the Kaplan Ironer, there was audible gasps from the audience because I think nobody expected that, especially honestly at cardiology conference. You know, everybody thought that the primary endpoint of endovascular group would do better. But in fact, when you look at the surgical group compared to endovascular group, now remember these are patients that had a usable great saphenous vein. That's a critical aspect to remember. It was about 60% primary endpoint in endovascular group compared to about 40%. So a significant lower significant risk reduction in major adverse limb event or death from any cause in surgical group. Now again, the criticisms come in in that, well, there was a lot of crossover from endovascular to surgical. You know, we didn't use our best techniques. You know, yes you can, you have all those caveats, but I think that what we really glean from this is twofold in CLTI patients. Point number one, everybody needs vein mapping. Okay? Everybody needs vein mapping to see if they have a usable, great saphenous vein. I think that that's really critical that it's probably not being done out there. And this trial proved it absolutely proved it. I think that nobody is saying no to that. The second point at this cleaned is there is a time and a place for everything, and endovascular techniques have a time and a place and surgical techniques have a time and a place, and this is where limb salvage centers, those multidisciplinary discussions between vascular surgeons and cardiologists are critical. You know, we use trials to provide options to our patients, and every op, every option and every patient is different, but we need to provide those options. So I think that this is what this trial really showed outside of that, there is still a lot of discussions at every single meeting about, well, do we know, is surgical best, is endovascular better? You know, did we really answer the question? Every trial is like this, but I think that this is really critical aspect of our care of these patients. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Yeah, it's easy to criticize these trials, but on the other hand, it takes a lot of time. It's very difficult to recruit patients. Technology interventions change. And even among the endovascular people, you know, to, to try, you know, I mean, you really need to have evidence that drug clo balloons, stents, yeah, atherectomy, all these things, you know, how do they actually compare what is actually the optimal approach? I, I don't work in that field, but I can imagine that there's still a lot of interest there. And it's clear that, you know, you need more trials like this. I mean, these are also open-label trials. I mean, everyone knew what had happened. It was pretty obvious, but, - Dr. Stan Henkin: And the United Technologist highlight from this trial, you know, since this trial has come out, there has been significant number of post hoc publications about answering all sorts of questions that I think are really important in this space. You know, again, optimal medical therapy type of procedure, you know, who intervenes, you know, infra, inguinal versus supra inguinal, for example. You know, what, what's happening? So this was just the beginning of really the transformation of our care of these patients. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah, that's probably a, a, a good way to, to end that discussion and, and that statement. And although that percentage difference that you presented there, I mean, that's a number needed to treat about five. So there's nothing sort of subtle about this. And these endpoints obviously occurring in at least 50% of patients. So these, these, these are patients who have a very high frequency of these hard endpoints. And, and again, as I recall, the procedural complications, you know, whether it was endovascular surgery, were actually very, very low about the same. And it's not as though there were a lot of patients then dying of mi you know, in their hospitalization. So I, I think that gain sort of tells us that, you know, in the hands of good surgeons with, you know, the good preparation, good endovascular operators, you can do these pat these procedures really quite safely in these, you know, obviously carefully selected patients. - Dr. Stan Henkin: And, and I would like to just end it. One final point is, you know, as, as we think about the mortality of these patients in the five to 10 year mortality, 10 year mortality of probably 50% of these patients, you know, I'm not on a hematologist oncologist, but think about how many cancers nowadays have 50% of mortality over five to 10 years, and these are patients with peripheral disease. So we need to do better, you know, and we have options to help them, but we really need to do better. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Yeah. And so many of them die of cardiac disease as well. 'cause it's, as you said, it's sort of a poly vascular, you know, disease that they have. Stan, you know, we, we could talk for, for another half an hour or so, and obviously we we're not gonna do that. Maybe we can have some follow up here. And I think, you know, when it's really good to have seen that trial be conducted and published the postdoc analysis that you emphasized, but I think it also really should be opening the door for more of these trials and, and I look forward to getting more information. So thanks again for all of the, your experience and expertise and sharing that with our listeners and viewers. And I'm sure that everyone appreciates, you know, the pragmatic information they received. This is such an important topic as you've outlined just because of the, the, the prevalence in particularly in terms of the prognosis of these patients. So thank you. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Thanks Dr. Bell. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: I look forward to having our listeners and viewers join us in future podcasts of interviews with the experts from Mayo Clinic, Rochester. Thank you.