I like gum. One out of one dentist recommends gum. [laughter] >> This is on nutrition, a podcast for Mayo Clinic, where we dig into the latest nutrition trends and research to help you understand what's health and what's [music] hype. I'm Tara Schmidt, a registered dietitian with Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. This episode, the oral systemic connection. [music] Almost half of US adults over the age of 30 have some sort of gum disease. Whether it's gingivitis or a more advanced condition, and the repercussions can expand far beyond [music] the mouth. Gum disease can actually be linked to over 50 systemic conditions like diabetes, [music] lung cancer, and Alzheimer's. Here to explain that link is Dr. Alex Sylvia, a dentist [music] and family friend in Meccoin, Wisconsin. Dr. Sylvia has a background in nutrition and has developed a protocol at his practice to identify and treat all levels of gum disease so patients can minimize the risks before it's too late. Hey, Dr. Alex. >> Tara, how are you doing? >> Good. How are you? >> I'm great. I'm great. Happy to be here. >> We're talking oral systemic connection today, which I think we might need to define eventually. But let's start with the mouth. I think we all biologically understand the phrase the mouth being the gateway to the body. But what does that mean biologically? >> Simply put, it's the only intentional entry point into our bodies, right? So, it's designed to help us take in good things like nutrients, water, air, but it's also there to protect our bodies from harmful things like bad microorganisms and other substances that shouldn't be entering our bodies. So, I liken it to like a warm welcome greeter at Walmart, but also like a tough security guard rolled into one. But if you think about it, when those aren't functioning appropriately, you got yourself a mean greeter at Walmart and a sleepy security guard, which can really throw off the entire body. So, issues with chewing food, helping break down nutrients, but you also have back there tonsils and things really protecting you. So, it's there as a primary means of defense and making sure that only the good stuff gets in. I think we're going to learn so much more about the mouth today and the critical factor that it plays in our health. I don't think people know [clears throat] clearly as much as you do as a dentist, but even I have seen tooth decay become brain infections, right? And just really really scary kind of crazy things happen hospital with patients. So let's learn. >> Sure. >> What is the oral systemic connection or some people will say the oral systemic link? Yeah, of course. I don't think it would come as much of a surprise to anyone that like your body or your systemic health has an impact on your oral health, but I think for some reason as a society, we're just now starting to accept the fact that there is a reverse effect also that our oral health has an impact on our systemic well-being. Also, our bodies and our mouths don't operate independently of each other. And the issues with one of these systems has big impacts on the other. >> Yeah. And especially when we talk about how oral bacteria can end up in the gut microbiome, our organ systems are a lot more closely linked than I think people realize. >> Yeah, it is scary how much these bacteria can travel and where they start popping up. You'll see oral bacteria down in your colon, which makes some sense, but when it starts going into other places like arteries or brains even, you start saying, well, why are these here? And obviously, they got to be connected cuz if they're not connected, then they wouldn't be there. There's over 50 some odd diseases that are like readily correlated with perodonal disease and its impact on their severity. So, I mean, it means something, right? >> Brush your teeth, y'all. >> Right. Well, they used to just be [laughter] teeth. They're just teeth, but there's so much more. So, >> is periodontal or gum disease the only factor on the oral health side of disease or are there other oral conditions associated with poor physical health? >> So, perodonal disease or gum disease is a huge factor. And the overall theme is really going to be the role that inflammation plays in systemic health because periodonal disease and gum disease are contributing a lot towards inflammation and then inflammation's impact on everything else really just takes its toll. Inflammation does play a huge role in systemic health. Even moderate cases of things like gingivitis especially when given time to act can have large impacts on inflammatory burdens in the body and especially any progression or severity of any associated inflammatory based diseases. >> Anything else to consider? We also have to consider the role that chronic infections of teeth, not just gum tissue surrounding them can play, like you were talking about cavities leading to infections. And the number of times when there's true brain infections is really pretty small, but those infection and the bacteria that are in the bottom of chronically infected teeth, they travel like we talked about. The real crazy thing about those is a lot of times those type of infections occur without people having much pain because they're chronic. And so without the presence of pain, they often go undiagnosed for a lot longer period of time, which means they have a longer period of time to act on our bodies. And counteract that with like a more acute tooth infection situation that we think about. Acute pain, most people are rushing to the dentist to have it fixed just because it hurts so bad. It's the chronic stuff that really becomes problematic. >> Yeah. And same with chronic inflammation, right? Acute inflammation is really not a big deal. Sometimes productive, but it's the chronic inflammation that we worry about, >> right? I want to talk about some of these links between our oral health and other systems in the body. So what's the connection between oral health and lungs? I saw this in my research and this was one that really surprised me. >> The primary area of concern with lung function has a lot to do with bacterial buildup. Especially in an older population as well where brushing becomes a challenge. Bacterial burden becomes an issue. Right? the bacteria builds up and it forms that sticky film in your mouth that we know as plaque. So, it builds up to levels where we start getting concerned about like aspiration risks and that aspiration of that plaque into your lungs can lead to pneumonia issues and there are correlations between gum health and even lung cancers as well. >> Lung cancer is what I had seen. >> Yeah. Yeah. Lung cancer and smoking like that link is well established and we know that. But most of the research that I've seen supports the idea that smoking in the presence of periodonal disease has about a two-fold increase in the risk for developing lung cancer versus the same amount of smoking in a patient who doesn't have periodonal disease. >> If you're a smoker and you have perodonal disease, your risk for lung cancer doubles essentially. >> Wow. What about oral health and heart health? >> I don't know if you've been exposed to Dr. Brad Bale in his book beat the heart attack gene. But he describes a lot about inflammation and the role that it plays in heart attack risk and heart health and stroke risk. One notion is this idea that most people think about heart attack and stroke issues as being plumbing issues, right? Where you have these tubes y >> and fat builds up inside these tubes and so much fat builds up that the tube gets closed off. Then you go in, you have your rotor rooter procedure done, your blood vessels open back up and we're good. Welcome to the Kath lab. >> Exactly. But really what was interesting is this idea that >> there are patients who have 70% occlusion of an artery or a blood vessel. >> Occlusion meaning blockage. Correct. >> Yeah. You know, which you would think I mean that makes it pretty small just sneaking through that space. But patients with 70% occlusion and no inflammation often have a lower heart attack or stroke risk than patients that have 30% occlusion where the inside's twice as wide >> but have a really high inflammatory rate because those plaques build up in the layers in between your blood vessels. And when those get inflamed and ruptured, you then have a very similar kind of clotting process like you would when you form a scab. And then when those clots break off, those are what travel and lead to your coronary incidences where you have that eskeemic type stroke and your blood supply is cut off. >> Super scary. >> Super scary for sure. Overall, if you don't have inflammation, those plaques don't become like pimples that want to pop and want to create clots. They just stay as plaques in the arteries. But when they become inflamed and they rupture, that's when you start having issues. And so gum disease, right? Parodonal disease. As I said, inflammation is kind of the underlying theme. >> Like why gum disease and oral health is so important that we take it seriously is because it's really pretty silent for a lot of people. That's a disease process that's able to be there present for decades chronically without patients having symptoms. So they don't really know that they're having this inflammatory burden. They don't really know their risk because they don't feel the pain. Right. If there's pain, they get it taken care of. >> Exactly. Silent killers, which are scary. >> Silent killers. Cats in the gutters is what he calls it. That was a weird reference, but I guess they hop out and they like I don't know. >> I don't have a cat. >> I don't have a cat and I don't have gutters. I guess I have gutters, but not >> We'll Google it. >> Yeah, for sure. >> Any connection with low birth rate? This one intrigues me. So low birth rate, I think where that can kind of come from is another area where I think it's a great way that I get my male patients attention, right, is just the fact that gum disease does have an impact on erectile dysfunction and the rate of >> It does. >> Yeah. Sexual performance for sure. Hands down. It definitely does. That has a lot to do with blood flow, right? Inflammation, blood flow, and all that sort of stuff. So, where it tends to impact babies the most is really going to be like inflammatory cascades that cause pre-term birth issues where fetuses are just born >> too soon and so they're often underdeveloped or underweight, right? They end up spending more time in the NICU and stuff like that. So, you know, those are always concerns when we see pregnant mothers with perodonal diseases. We really want you to get this baby to full term and part of that is going to be reducing the bacterial load that you got in your mouth so that you have less inflammation so that baby can stay in longer and fully develop. >> These I feel like are the connections that people would just not draw unless they had experience with it or had seen it or had heard about it. This is one that was just kind of mind-blowing for me. >> It's a deep It is a deep rabbit hole. >> Now, we mentioned lung cancer. Are you aware of any other cancers with a link to oral health? Yeah. So, someone one time told me the bodies are just a series of tubes, right? And that's really what the GI system is. The mouth is at the top of it. You have your esophagus, your stomach, right? Then goes into your intestines and your colon. It's all plumbing. And so there's a big affinity for gum disease implications on GI related cancers. So like oral cancer, obviously, esophageal cancer, colon cancer, even pancreatic cancers. So what really what happens is those bacteria build up in the mouth. They don't get cleared out of the system, right, through brushing or flossing appropriately and then have bacteria will travel. They make their way down and uh they're causing inflammation the entire way. Some of these bacteria are what we call acidophiles. They love real real acidic places. They thrive in the stomach and cause issues. >> You got other ones that make it past the stomach and then generate an inflammation in your gut. And inflammation, what it's really doing on a cellular level is it's decreasing the junctions between all of your cells. And so your body just becomes leaky. We hear about leaky gut syndrome and stuff like that, right? And so those bacteria, just as much as nutrients may like pull their way out, bacteria just like whoop, slide right in and then your blood systems right there and then and your blood vessels are the highway for your body. So any place is fair game for these bacteria once they make it through that barrier. >> Yeah. Tight junctions is what we're looking for. >> Yeah. >> Are there any other conditions I did not list that you think of when you think about this oral systemic connection? >> Okay. Two huge ones for sure. Chronic kidney disease is one. Not such a huge surprise because of the bacteria and the bloodstream and the kidneys or blood filters and all this sort of stuff, but more and more research is coming out. I just saw an article a month or two ago in a dental publication that was starting to talk about chronic kidney disease and perodonal disease. Diabetes is a massive one in my opinion. So diabetes is a great example of what I would call a birectional relationship. Right? So diabetes especially when poorly controlled increases your risk for periodonal disease because diabetes impairs healing and it impairs an immune response. Right? So, conversely, the inflammation generated from periodonal disease impairs your ability to regulate your blood sugar and what you and I know is glycemic control. How much that level of sugar in your blood fluctuates. So, the cycle just kind of continues. Another big issue in diabetics is often they're really like dehydrated because their bodies are trying to flush out all of that sugar, right? And so, that means that there's less water available for saliva production. And saliva is one of the primary ways that we combat issues in our mouth. People who are on lots of medications see it also, right? You get that zerosttomia is what we call it. And when that sets in, it's a rapid decline if you're not intervening quickly. >> So this is not just about bad breath or a discomfort in your mouth. This is like dry mouth is a problem, >> right? I mean, those are great reasons to treat it, right? Bad breath and discomfort are things that no one wants to be around, but it I mean it has massive implications, right? I see cancer patients that have had head andneck radiation and they have less saliva production because of that. >> Yeah. >> And you'll go from having no cavities to having cavities everywhere in like months. It's a real short term just because saliva has a lot of great stuff in it that allows us to neutralize acids to remmineralize teeth so that they're strong again. It slicks teeth so the bacteria don't stick as well. >> Starts breakdown of food already in your mouth. >> Sure. like amalases, all those kind of enzymes and stuff really when that is removed from the protective layer. It's like well how are your immune cells going to get into those places that your blood vessels don't go? Like it's just a major >> level of protection that when it's absent the decline just happens so quickly. Yeah. Salivary flow and diabetics can be a real issue. >> What about Alzheimer's disease? So researchers have actually isolated oral bacteria and the amaloid plaques in Alzheimer patient brain tissue and those plaques are what contribute to the brain's functional decline. So >> when we think about it, we were talking about leaky guts and guts are supposed to have tight junctions like you were talking about, but there's only one area in the body that I'm aware of that has a tighter junction than like your gut, right? And that's your brain. I mean it is the tightest. I mean that is like velcro with superglue on it like glucose can make it through and that's it. So the idea that these bacteria create so much inflammation and are riding on the highways of our blood vessels up to our brain they cause these junctions to start to break down and then they just punch their way into and are actually causing inflammation in our brain tissue. It's kind of mind-blowing just how detrimental it can be. And it's not to say that everyone who has perodonal disease is going to develop Alzheimer's disease. There's other risk factors and things like that are involved, >> but just the fact that they're there is scary. The mouth is way more than just your tongue, teeth, and gums. Because of the oral systemic connection, it's actually a gateway for bacteria to enter your system. When that system isn't working well, harmful bacteria slip through and start causing problems far beyond the mouth. and inflammation in the gums can quietly spread to another part of your body or vice versa, sometimes [music] without you even noticing. The main culprit is periodontal or gum disease. Gum disease is linked to lung cancer, especially in smokers, [music] heart attacks, and strokes. It can even go as far as leading to pregnancy complications and erectile dysfunction. Other surprising implications include conditions like diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. Diabetes and gum disease feed into each other leading to a vicious cycle of uncontrollable blood sugar and lower immune response and oral bacteria has been found in the brains of Alzheimer's patients suggesting that chronic oral inflammation may break down the brain's defenses over time. Now let's talk about the nutrients and foods that are and aren't important for your gum health. Let's dive a little bit into nutrition. Welcome to on nutrition. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, there's that. And I know that you have an interest in this. Did you minor in nutrition? Do I remember that correctly? >> I I No, I minored in chemistry. I majored in major in nutrition. >> I majored in nutrition. It was me and dietitians, right? Sitting side by side. >> I promise you, you have a bigger paycheck. So, be glad you're on the [laughter] side of the microphone. >> I just didn't want to do the research. Honestly, I looked at nutrition and I was like, man, I got a lifetime of research ahead of me. I'm going to I'll stick with healthcare. >> You're doing it right now. You're doing the research. So, let's talk about a few of the links between nutrition and gum disease because I'm hearing that this gum disease or periodontal disease is really the gateway or is the risk factor that we're talking about when we're talking about all of these other oral systemic connections and risk of disease or worsening of disease like we said with diabetes. Okay, obvious one everyone knows to hide after Halloween from their dentist. sugar. >> I think processed foods, that's where you start getting these really unrefined sugars, these undesirable fats and stuff like that inside of them and they're just kind of devoid of nutritional value. But processed foods, the simplest way of thinking about it is they're pre-broken down. They're already in some of like their smallest components, which means they're also some of the most readily available energy sources for bacteria in your mouth or microorganisms in your mouth. So, if you really want to do a good job of feeding the bacteria that are there, I think that sugar and processed foods are the ticket, right? It's a mouthful of easy nutrients that they're going to take advantage of. And there's some good bacteria that'll use it, but it's more the bad bacteria that are going to take advantage of that and start causing problems. So when you say easily digestible, I'm already thinking about how quickly some of the things start to digest in the mouth because of salivary, that enzyme in our saliva that breaks down starches. Like think about a really delicious ultrarocessed buttery cracker. That thing is broken down before you even swallow it. There's hardly anything to even swallow. >> I was going to go Twinkies. I just go into nothing, but yeah, crackers for sure. They're so quickly sugar, right? Just instantly in your mouth. But if you have foods that have to be broken down in the stomach, in the intestines, they're not high sugar ultrarocessed foods. These are going more likely, of course, to be foods that have fiber, which needs to be broken down, protein, which needs to be broken down, which is also why they help you feel fuller longer, >> right? >> Is there any risks or link when we talk about things like protein or fiber? So I wouldn't say protein has as much of a direct impact orally like on site the way that fibers impact and certainly the avoidance of sugar or processed foods have directly in the mouth. Protein is vital to the ability for the body to maintain and repair tissues. So that includes gum tissue and bone. In general, protein deficiency tends to have a greater impact on systemic health which in turn, you know, the thought is that secondarily those oral implications come from a declining systemic health. So it kind of goes hand inhand with malnutrition as an overall theme for elderly populations especially. They just can't bounce back as well. Protein deficiency is one part of it. I think that fiber is a huge impact on gum disease. I do remember you know hannne studies right the >> national health and nutrition examination survey. So back in 2009 2012 they established an inverse relationship between fiber intake and periodonal disease. So more fiber ended up resulting in less periodonal disease. And that thought is largely due to fiber's ability to regulate blood sugar. Right. >> Okay. Now we mentioned protein deficiency which isn't very common especially in America. It's pretty rare in a general healthy population. But as a dentist, are there certain nutrient deficiencies that you come across most often? like is it the calcium and the vitamin D and impacting the bone health right of teeth etc or are there other deficiencies that you come across or are concerned about? >> I mean there's definitely vitamin deficiency type presentations in the mouth. There's not a lot of people running around with scurvy these days either you know but I mean that used to be a very wellestablished kind of issue vitamin C deficiency and periodonal disease. Vitamin D comes a lot into play with how children's teeth develop, right? The completion and the strength of which their teeth kind of develop as well as bone health and bone healing. I mean, I could go on and on. We start talking about how well people heal from surgery or implant surgeries and stuff like that. Vitamin D levels are something that we also do try and pay attention to or at least be cognizant of. Really what we also end up seeing with things like B vitamin deficiencies are increased inflammation in gum tissue which can in turn progress into gingible gum diseases. Other things that I know vitamin deficiencies can sometimes do just like unpleasant things like burning mouth syndromes, swollen tongue issues and stuff like that. So >> you've talked a lot about gum disease. So I'm really concerned and nervous about getting gum disease in the future. Now, what factors are within my control outside of staying hydrated, brushing, flossing, and not lying to my dentist about it? >> Just lie. It's fine. We'll know anyway. >> Do you know? Yeah. Okay. [laughter] That was actually one of my questions. Like, if I tell you that I floss, you're like, "Uh-huh." Jar, sure you do. [laughter] >> From here on a Zoom call, it looks like you do. So, we're in good shape. >> Thank you. What do I have control over in prevention of gum disease? Okay. So, gum disease is a bacterial control issue. Okay. Okay. >> So, to a degree, yes, patients are very much in control of whether or not they present with gum disease. >> It really comes down to how well you control those levels in your mouth. And if you're doing appropriate brushing, appropriate flossing, and home hygiene, when home hygiene starts to become neglected or the technique, right, is not what it needs to be, that's when disease processes take advantage. I said I tell my patients all the time, bacteria don't care. Like they'll find a spot that you miss and that's where they'll set up. They're opportunistic. They take advantage of the situation that's presented to them. But I think it would be wrong to say that all of the factors are within a patient's control, especially with respect to perodonal disease because perodonal disease, I mean, there's a lot more than five bacteria that contribute to it, but there's like five big main players that are there. The presence of those is not directly genetic or hereditary, right? like like those bacteria aren't part of our DNA, right? What does happen though is you acquire those bacteria, right? You acquire it from your parents when you're children, right? Or like when as parents kiss you or all this sort of good stuff or partners when we're adults, right? You can actually have situations where a partner has gum disease and one doesn't and the bacteria are transmissible and given enough contact time, this person will start showing up with gum disease. Or we've seen situations where like one partner is treated, right, for gum disease and the other isn't and it's usually the wife that shows up or you know the husband doesn't come in and then all of a sudden the wife's controls slipping, right? Or the spouse controls slipping and we're like you're doing everything you're supposed to. >> You're swapping bacteria. >> Yeah. You're gettingulated every single night behind the bleachers. you're getting reininoculated with the bugs that are causing your issues, right? So, unfortunately, not a lot you can do about them being around. It's just how well can you control it. >> Is excess weight a risk factor in developing gum disease? Have you heard this? >> The most direct impact excess weight or weight gain would have on development of gum disease would be increased association with mouth breathing. >> Oh, okay. >> To me, when people put on excess weight, what I see most often is that we don't just expand outward. We also expand inwardly. Tissues in your mouth become puffier. I mean inflammatory wise as things are more swollen, right? That's a general state of inflammation. And certainly inflammatory cascades can build upon each other. And you know, a little bit here and a little bit here kind of forms an inflammatory tower. And so when we think about our mouth and if that area that's there is becoming constricted or narrower, we have more resistance to air flowing into our mouth. As a result of that, most people kind of adapt into mouth breathing as a way of getting more air in and opening up that throat. Dries out the mouth. You know, you start having with mouth breathing huge implications on oral inflammation, periodonal disease risk, cavity risk, you know, sleep apnea type issues. >> This is not just people with sleep apnea. This is just mouth breathing period. >> This is mouth breathing period. >> Now, I have to ask you, >> okay, >> Dr. Alex, >> yeah, >> what do we think of mouth taping? Well, I mean, you're lucky you have an adventurous dentist that you're talking to because I've taped my mouth at night for sure. >> Did you make a Tik Tok about it? >> I did not Tik Tok. >> Wake up and get ready with Dr. Alex. Your mouth tape on your hair curlers. >> Like, it is well documented that nasal breathing is what we're supposed to be doing. The nose warms, filters air is a great kind of defense mechanism for the top of the GI system. Right. >> Sure. Also, the nose is the only place that I know in the body to readily form nitric oxide, which has a huge impact on blood pressure, right? Vascular dilation, that sort of stuff. And so, when we start breathing through our mouth, there's a whole bunch of things that happen. And honestly, that could be like an entire other episode. >> I know. >> But I think that mouth taping for certain individuals can make sense. It certainly would help with decreasing any kind of oral disease risk from a dryness standpoint because when you breathe through your mouth, bacteria stay, right? Like cuz they're not getting cleaned off by the saliva like we talked about. >> So, I think there's some merit to it. I don't think it's for everyone. >> Once someone has established gum disease, is it reversible? What language would you use? Like it's this is reversed, this is managed, this is in remission. >> So, maybe I should have done this earlier. It's important to distinguish that there are two primary categories of gum disease. Okay? >> One of them being perodonal disease and the other being gingivitis. >> And I think most people don't know to consider gingivitis as being gum disease. Right. But gingivitis strictest definition is inflammation of your gums. >> Yeah. >> Without bone loss around it. Right. And so the more we learn the more we begin to understand we got it wrong as a dental profession. I think when we downplayed gingivitis as just a little bit of bleeding and that you should floss more, right? Kind of scenario. >> So like the good news is gingivitis is reversible and can be controlled in conjunction with a good dentist and dental hygienist. >> Bad news is perodonal disease is not right. So aggressively treating gingivitis in my opinion to prevent it from becoming periodonal disease is a huge concept that as a general population we need to kind of start embracing. >> Okay. Floss your teeth everyone. Exactly. >> What are the symptoms of gum disease? >> So when I think about symptoms of gum disease and like what maybe you could pick up on before your dentist is picking up on something would be to say, hey, you know, I do notice a little bit of bleeding when I brush or floss. I have some patients who have never noticed any bleeding but have inflammation that's like 60% of their gum tissue. So >> it's kind of highly variable. just because you're not seeing bleeding. Maybe your technique is not right or maybe it's deeper than the surface level of the tissue where it wouldn't bleed, but it will bleed when we're measuring down low. In really bad cases of periodonal disease, you may notice bad breath and we call halattosis or swollen and puffy gum tissue, even just kind of random bleeding or pus. It's way late in the game to be receiving a formal diagnosis in that point. And and what's kind of interesting is we stage and grade perodonal disease almost like cancer at this point in time. And it takes a while for a profession to catch up for things to make it from statement or exactly all the way into where like everyone's doing it. And it's like most patients don't know until it's in a pretty bad state. And it underscores the need for dentistry to really buckle down and adhere to guidelines that we've had released because we have an opportunity to identify stage 1 or stage 2 disease levels. Like why should we be waiting until it's stage three or stage four for it to become a blatantly visible issue, right? We can do so much better now with the appropriate kind of screening. You just got to make sure you're in the right place to have it done. >> And you got to show up. >> You do have to show up. That's the annoying thing about taking care of periodonal disease, right? It really is a situation where you can't treat periodonal disease, but you can get it into remission. It stinks that cancer is such a great example for it, but it would be like a long-term cancer you can live with but can't get rid of. You would undergo therapy to obtain lower levels and you go a long time and you get your levels measured until you start to see an increase in the levels and then you get therapy again and the levels go down and you keep measuring your levels until you see that you need therapy again. And our goal is to just increase the time between when you have to have that therapy in order to keep your disease under control. But if you have good control of your periodonal disease, there's no reason for you to lose teeth. There's no reason for it to have a massive inflammatory impact and affect your overall systemic health. But you do have to show up for it. And that often means seeing a dentist every 3 months or sometimes 2 months. And it means out-ofpocket expenses, which is frustrating. And I sympathize with that. But the converse of that is chronic [music] disease. >> Yeah. >> It's important to know how the food on your plate is impacting your gum health. Ultrarocessed foods, which are already broken down, basically become instant fuel for bad oral bacteria [music] the moment they hit your mouth. They start digesting almost immediately, feeding bacteria and driving inflammation. Protein, vitamin D, and vitamin B are important for your gum and bone health. But fiber is your biggest ally. High fiber intake is linked to lower rates of gum disease, mostly because it helps blood sugar stay steady. Instable blood sugar means less inflammation overall. Good brushing, flossing, and hygiene matter a lot. But that's not enough, especially for advanced periodontal disease. You can still pass gum disease bacteria between kids, parents, and partners. And mouth breathing is also a sneaky risk factor, often due to airway issues or weight gain. Mouth breathing dries out the mouth and ramps up inflammation. But if you catch it early, stay consistent in your oral hygiene and check in with your dentist regularly. You can make all the difference. Now, let's get a dentist perspective on the latest tools available and whether it's worth it or not to get that pH balanced water. So, let's wrap it up with some rapidfire questions for Dr. Alex, dentist of the day here. This is actually one that people have asked me before and I've done a little bit of research, but now I have you here. >> Sure. >> So, when it comes to regular soda versus diet soda, obviously made with an artificial sweetener, how do you compare the impact of said sweeteners on the teeth? >> Getting nerdy, we call them fermentable sugars, right? like the, you know, things that bacteria can use for energy and then the bacteria produce acids which are what break down teeth and contribute to inflammation. I don't mind artificial sweeteners for the most part. They can be quite helpful um if they come from a group called polyols and uh polyols are just sugar alcohol derivatives like xylitol that actually have antibacterial properties and can reduce cavity risk. So like mom says everything in moderation, right? You will get situations where you have people who just love it so much and they're like a little more must be better. And then the bad side about artificial sweeteners from the polyall group is that it'll give you diarrhea if you have too much of it. So >> yes, sugar >> also toxic to dogs. So got to watch that one. >> Okay. Sugar-free gum. Do you like it when people chew gum? I've heard this like chewing gum is good for your teeth because it gets some of the food particles out, but it I'm assuming it needs to be sugar-free. What's our verdict on chewing gum? >> I like gum. One out of one dentist recommends gum. [laughter] I think that, you know, if you have jaw joint issues, I'll tell you not to, but I mean, your teeth really aren't touching each other when you're chewing gum. So, you're not really damaging teeth or anything like that. I think gum can be really good especially for zerostomia patients who you know need something to stimulate salivary flow and so for a drymouthed person to be chewing gum especially one that's got xylitol in it I'm all for it right the only people who may not really benefit from that would be like people with shoganss right where you can't produce saliva or certain diabetics in which case we call them scialogues or salivary substitutes right start becoming important things that help lubricate a mouth people with dry mouth they'll just be drinking in water all the time, but water is such a transient solution for them because it doesn't contain all of the same sort of like protective enzymes and proteins and stuff like that that and minerals that saliva has. And so the water just kind of coats it, feels great for like a couple minutes and then it's like, well, I need more water. So that's the thought behind gums and saliva substitutes. >> Are you concerned with carbonated beverages? Like even a carbonated water is Yeah. is the carbonation. >> Even uncarbonated water, honestly, and that sounds weird, but if you look at there are tables that show the acidity of water from like beverage companies. So, like pH balanced waters are things that I would look for like when I'm if I'm on a road trip and I'm >> Yeah, because >> I thought it was a scam, Alex. >> Nah, cuz it's all about pH in the mouth, right? So, when the pH gets really low, that promotes the bacteria that cause cavities, cause gum disease, and it pulls minerals out almost like etching glass. that pulls minerals out of your teeth. But when the pH is restored to a neutral level by your saliva or externally by more basic type water, right? Then you kind of restore that balance and you start having a situation where minerals can be put back into teeth and the bacteria that thrive in the acid environment don't do as well. >> Okay. I have another Tik Tok one for you. >> Okay. >> Tongue scraping. >> Yeah. Can I just brush my tongue with my toothbrush or do I need a tongue scraping device? >> I have a tongue scraper. I mean, >> cuz you got it for free or cuz you >> No, they're not expensive. I [laughter] think they're like 12 bucks on Amazon. >> Like you believe in it, not just cuz you had one lying around the office. >> I think as long as you're not drawing blood, it's fine. I think cuz what you're doing is you're essentially exfoliating your tongue. You're getting rid of dead cells and the bacteria that are associated with them. And if alltosis, bad breath is an issue that you've got. Tongue scraping can be a great solution. >> Every time you brush your teeth, >> morning mainly cuz you wake up, you got that dragon breath. And so it uh >> scrape away the dragon breath. >> Just a bit. Yeah. I may be revealing too much about myself. It's an extremely disgusting process cuz you'll be surprised the amount of stuff that comes off your tongue. You're like, "That come from me?" >> Oh god. >> And if no one else experiences that, well, that's embarrassing. [laughter] [gasps] >> Okay, we'll end on a nutrition question. any foods you would want people to consume for oral health benefits to clean the teeth, to strengthen the teeth, to reduce gum inflammation. >> What are the foods that you're going to promote? >> I I think fiber containing foods are some of the best foods for your oral health. I mean, just even the process of chewing will clean teeth, right? It's how a majority of the top surfaces of our teeth actually get cleaned. So, if it works for cows, it's probably going to work for us. >> So, high fiber food, I think, is great. Honestly, it comes to low glycemic index foods, things that take some time to process, right? Things that are high in nutrients and high in protein are all going to be like really beneficial things for people to be consuming. The only caveat and things that I would think about would be there is some link between like nightshade and those kinds of vegetables with inflammation in a body. most bodies can tolerate pretty well, but you'll have some people that have certain situations like like implanis in their mouth where it's autoimmune or inflammatory based issue. And so things like tomatoes that are highly acidic or eggplants, toatillas, all that kind of fun stuff where they can um actually cause some increase in inflammation in the mouth and you might actually see worse gum tissue as a result of that. Okay, >> but yeah, >> there we go. >> That's kind of my my my food spiel. >> Dr. Alex, thank you. I actually know that you assuming you have a patient waiting for you cuz [laughter] someone knocked on the door. >> I gave him the hand. I said, "No, not right now." >> Thank you for taking likely your lunch hour to chat with me and to give us all of your amazing both health and Tik Tok advice. >> Perfect. >> Now I have to go buy a tongue scraper. What else do I have to buy? Oh, and tape for my mouth. Okay. >> Tape for your mouth, nasal breathing strip, tongue scraper, TV brushes. >> My husband's going to be like, "What's happened to you today?" >> You're going to have no counter space left with me. That's already a problem. >> Thank you for sharing your expertise with us. >> Yeah, you're most welcome. Thanks for having me. >> There's so many ways to keep your mouth clean, whether you're using a tongue scraper or avoiding certain mouthwashes or tracking the pH balance of your water. But what really matters is that you're doing everything you can to avoid inflammation in your gums and anywhere else in your body. Gum disease doesn't necessarily mean you're going to develop another condition as a result, but considering the many possibilities that can happen through the oral system at Link, it definitely doesn't hurt to keep flossing regularly, even if you don't have a dentist appointment coming up. That's all for this episode, but if you have a follow-up question, leave us a voicemail at 5075386272 [music] and we'll answer it in a future episode. For more On Nutrition episodes and resources, check us out online at mayoc clinic.org/onutrition. [music] And if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us on Apple Podcasts or your favorite podcast app. It really helps others find our show. Thanks for listening and until [music] next time, eat well and be well.