Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host Dr. Andrea Tulie >> and I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. In our podcast today, we will sit down with Dr. Jeff Petty from the University of Utah and talk about sustainability, global opthalmology, and what you could be doing in your practice and your state. >> Dr. Dr. Jeff Petty is an associate professor of opthalmology at the University of Utah Department of Opthalmology and also serves as the vice chair of clinical affairs there. Dr. Petty specializes in complex cataract surgery and anterior segment surgery. He is a leader in health policy, global opthalmology and sustainability. Welcome Dr. Jeff Petty. >> Thank you. Thank you Andrea. Thank you. >> We're so happy to have you here. You're such a leader. You're a dear friend. I'm I'm so excited to talk with you and we were just kind of chatting offline. you and and Eric both and don't know each other very well, but I feel like you are cut from the same cloth. You're both true philanthropists and and humanitarians at heart who have dedicated so much of your career to global work and we've had the honor of having some really huge global leaders on the podcast and we've talked about global a lot. It's a passion for all of us and so you're such a leader in that space and your global work has kind of led you to being involved in sustainability which is something that I think we're all very excited about. It's an opportunity for opthalmology to be on the forefront of initiatives that help our world, help our patients. And so um I'd love to hear about just kind of your career journey, how you found yourself in a position where sustainability came to your attention. um because I it's it's really a new initiative for us. So would you take us through what that's looked like for you and how you got involved in sustainability and opthalmology. >> Yeah, thank thank you Eric and thank you Andrew for having me. It's an honor. You know my journey to sustainability is really a journey to eye health and and global eye health. uh you know we all see in our training programs in our backyards the challenges of our US health care system or if you're in another country the health care system which you have uh each system has pros and cons our health care system in the United States happens to leave a large section of our patients uh with less care or without care. Uh and so as we you know see that in our own backyard. Uh of course as you travel to other places you can see the same thing and not everyone in the world has the same access to eye health and eye care that um that we are afforded here in our institutions and our practices. And as we look at the patients who are going to be disproportionately affected by climate change these are the patients who are tend to be uh unfunded. There there's a there's actually a metric uh within the United States and they look at it's the the social vulnerability index and again if there was a natural disaster how likely is it that you'd be able to have resources to have help to have health care uh and that social vulnerability index overlays with where patients don't have care where our underserved patients are and that also overlays throughout the world. So again, climate change something that uh is upon us that will affect patients with low resources that will affect patients uh these these large areas of the world which will have large migrations of people um eye health, glaucoma, cataract those are going to be you know not not secondary not tertiary but even quatinary concerns of people as they're just migrating and looking for food and and so the the the the story of sustainability and opthalmology is a story of eye health and its effects on patients worldwide. >> I love that. >> I I think it's fascinating how I I understand that passion and that interest of yours and how it's brought in that not just awareness but active, you know, engagement and even leadership in sustainability within your role as an opthalmologist at home and nationally. share with me just and our our listeners in long as an opthalmologist serving and experiencing uh global opthalmology opportunities here at home. What have you done to get involved in advocacy leadership? I understand your role at the AAO is is is is a a meaningful part of your life. Um help us or understand those pieces to your practice and and leadership here in the United States. >> Yeah, I I chair the American Academy of Opthalmology sustainability committee. Uh and in that role, my job is to raise awareness about sustainability for its members and ensure that we are communicating the importance of sustainability throughout all of our all of the things that the academy does. One of course is education. Uh we've recently added language uh to the basic science series and the basic principles of opthalmic surgery around sustainability and a focus on using less uh and creating less waste in the operating room. Of course, the academy has a significant advocacy arm as well and that advocacy arm is really where we make the impact. First of all, we need everyone. You can be private practice, hospital-based, VA, doesn't matter. Uh, every one of us can see opportunities to use less and particularly in the operating room. uh healthc care sector generates the second uh most amount of waste behind the food uh be behind the food uh industry in the United States. 70% of the waste that is produced is simply from the manufacturer of of what we are using in the operating room. And opthalmology has a unique unique contribution here in a unique not in a great way but just a a way that is a consequence of us doing lots of surgery. All of our patients have two eyes. So many of our procedures, cataract surgery in particular, we're doing two surgeries. And we all have seen and carried the giant garbage bags for a single case out in uh out and seen those thrown away case after case after case. We currently do around 20 million cataract surgeries in the world. It's estimated that we'll be doing 50 million cataract surgeries by 2050. And if we continue to produce the amount of waste that we're producing, we're really we really are approaching something that's unsustainable. Uh and that's just opthalmology's contribution. So with advocacy, our our our ability to change regulations, ensure that patients are protected and safe while using less, being able perhaps to reuse certain instruments that we've never thought of before, reusing fake packs in the case of cataract surgery, reusing gowns. We know from the air vent health care system their infection rates are equally as low as any published uh infection rate in the United States. And they have a model per cataract surgery that produces 20 uh uh 20 times less waste for cat for a single cataract surgery than we do here in the United States. And so there's somewhere we can meet in the middle. But advocacy and changing rules, regulations, that's really where we're going to have some of our biggest impacts. >> I was going to say I I want to I love hearing that piece because I think all of us step into the O and understand how a cataract case or even a calazian sometimes or whatever you might be addressing is treated no differently in our room than the next room where they're doing a liver transplant. I mean just whether it's the operative setup and certain aspects of it in quality are important and then there's other aspects that's just assumed we do and not always needed. Before we get to advocacy, share with us your thoughts like when you step into an O or you step into your clinic, what are things tangibly people should have on their radar that they could do in their clinic today without starting a quality project or without really pushing back on administrative decisions that are made in a broader context for the O clinic. But what are the lowhanging fruits before that next step that you would like people to think about walking into clinic or the O that are quick fixes or quick decisions that would help in sustainability efforts? >> Yeah, this is a perfect time to introduce I sustain. So ice sustain is a multispety movement I should say multi-ub specialty movement. uh this is among David Cheng's legacies to opthalmology and this is uh there are three primary partners and I sustain that's ASCRS American society of cataractive surgery escap and then the academy and these three are the the kind of funding entities these are the entities that have really got this I sustain movement uh going there's been a magnification of impact uh through the solicitation of multinational societies throughout the world. Uh I couldn't quote you the exact number because it's growing all the time, but I do know it's more than 70 uh societies from around the world uh that have now joined is sustain. And when you go to the Isustain website uh is sustain.org, you'll see this is the central hub for everything in uh everything in terms of sustainability and opthalmology. If you're looking for journal articles, you're looking for talks, you're looking for other resources and ideas, this is the place to go. So, if you're just hearing about this, you haven't really thought about it or you're well along in your journey, that's where you want to go. There's an app available as well. And when you go there, the first thing you'll see uh is again resources page, but you'll see something called the uh I sustain pledge. The pledge is something that any entity can uh can adopt and the pledge simply says I will do the following uh that will help with sustainability educate my staff to have increased awareness and then it goes step by step things that you can do and again the pledge is simply we're going to do this within our institution. So as an academic center, you can do this as an individual practice. You'll see the wording is a little bit written for for kind of an ASC audience or a surgical center audience because so much of the impact that we can have will start there. But if you right now go to that website, educate yourself, sign up and take the pledge. It's got a series of ideas, simple things that you can do with your staff right now. Eval re-evaluate your surgical packs. When was the last time that you did that? what are you not using consistently that you could have peel packed? That alone can have a significant uh impact just because of the number of surgeries that we're doing. Uh and and again, many other ideas that you'll find there that are simple, practical, and will have a significant impact as we all do them together. >> I love that you have those resources for everyone. Jeeoff, I'm I'm just curious how you found yourself in this position. Is it because you were seeing how other people were operating overseas? you were at Arand and seeing their different practices and you wanted to bring it back like how did you become the person in this space? >> You you're spot on Andrea. It very much came from working throughout the world at at worldclass eye centers an eye center that any of us would be happy to have their surgery done. And simply you see the efficiency that they're able to operate at, the high quality they're able to deliver, the outcomes that they're able to deliver. And again for an entire day of surgery they would take a single bag uh out of the operating room again 20 times less. Um in fact as you look at the amount of uh the carbon uh footprint of cataract surgery uh it it's seven times the carbon footprint to do a cataract surgery in the United States that is to do somewhere uh like at an LV Prasad and Aravan and again there are many many others because published so much you'll certainly hear a focus on them and a discussion on them but that's again where it came from for me is I work in Tanzania uh and there there's roughly one opthalmologist per million people and in front of you it's laid bare how lack of access to eye care and eye health uh affects communities affects a country and affects individuals and when I thought really considered again you know global warming climate change my ability to you know move north to Montana if I wanted to and take a different job it's not really a big issue for me perhaps you know again because we have resources we we've got these safety nets here um but there the majority of people in the world don't have that level of mobility of course they don't have that that safety net that again that social vulnerability idea and so this this becomes you know equally as important as our improvements and discovery in finding new cures finding better ways to treat glaucoma that's only as helpful as it uh it's only helpful we can when we can actually deliver the care to those people and those individuals uh again and in a world where climate change is disrupting lives where climate change is causing mass migration uh I care glaucoma drops etc that's not going to be a high priority for these people >> so I just recently was able to actually see and learn about some of the social vulnerability you're talking about where you look at the maps of where natural disaster ers occur and where our vulnerable patient populations are and they completely overlap and it it really blew my mind. I I didn't understand this until I was able to see it and I think it's happening worldwide like you said and so there's these patient populations that are extremely vulnerable in so many different ways and then don't have the reserve also like you mentioned. Yeah, we climate change uh it has been declared as the greatest public health um uh the the greatest public health threat that we have. >> Wow. >> WH made that declaration during the COVID pandemic. That will tell you the magnitude to which climate change will be affecting health. Now, it's really challenging for us particularly as American opthalmologists to really connect those dots. Um, again, climate change for me means um I'm zero escaping my lawn. Uh, and I need to use a whole lot less water because that's that's the climate change narrative where I'm living. If you're on the coast, that's a different climate change narrative. We were just in Washington DC for the midyear forum. Uh, and there is a a cherry tree, a cherry blossom tree there. Uh, and it's called Stumpy. And Stumpy has become emblematic of climate change because they're having now to um essentially remove 150 of these cherry blossoms, which of course are very meaningful to the people. Uh and it's simply because they're rising sea levels. And wherever you live, you're going to have your own climate change narrative. Our climate change narrative might be moving trees. It might be zero escaping lawns. But climate change narrative for people with low resources who already don't have access to eye health. Um that's a totally different equation. Uh and again when you're worried about where you'll live and how you'll eat uh eye health becomes of course the last concern. And and that's really our opportunity to again affect uh millions and millions of lives. Whereas doing a cataract surgery overseas will affect the number of patients you you're able to do surgery on. This is a way that we can really all come together and have a more dramatic impact on improving eye health through a way that wouldn't necessarily be intuitive. >> I appreciate the the interesting aspects of just supply chain. you you talk about just where vulnerabilities are, but I was recently at an international meeting and the comment was made over access to a medication like psych cyclopenolate or and if or an antibiotic and uh the comment was made that there's such difficulty in our practice in the United States getting a certain drug and it was shared in an international location that in the United States if you're having a if you sneeze the rest of us get a cold um and the the aspect of you think your medication problem is a problem for you and yet the you know the United States still um largely receives more of the available drug or more of the available instrumentation than places that normally have access to that drug and can't. So it's it was sort of this not only the vulnerabilities of climate change and access and challenges and migrations but it's even the simple fact of where the drugs where the products are delivered change based on availability and sustainability here directly impacts the sustain the access for these products around the world. >> So yeah really well said. Yeah, e economics 101. You know the the answer to all questions is money. You just have to figure out how. Uh and again, we're we're we will be paying more for medications with our system. Uh they'll be made available. You the good news is there there's a lot that we can do to make a real difference. Uh again, everyone should go to sustain.org, take the pledge, educate yourself. Uh the academy is also for young opthalmologists, for those in training uh or five years uh within five years of practice. They've also created green grants. So, these are $1,000 grants. Uh, these are meant to allow someone to start a project, whether it's a quality improvement project in your practice or whether it's a more more of a research aligned practice. You know, Andrea, in your world, uh there's Dr. Moody, she's the ASUP fellow uh down at Baylor right now. >> Phenomenal. >> She was again doing an assessment of their waist and their waist uh produced looking at things like a DCR. So why is it that ENT would do procedures in office whereas a DCR could could technically be considered the same type of uh procedure? And why is it that we need to do these things in the operating room the way that we're doing them? Uh and and again I really like liked your comment. you know, we we in many ways we we determine a lot of what happens in the world just just because of the nature of of how how powerful the American economy is. But this is an area again where we have an opportunity to learn from other countries. We have an opportunity to learn from other specialties. uh and as we as we move forward, we really need people to do these quality improvement projects or research projects because until we have data where we can go to CMS and say you created a regulation and stating that after 30 days we need to throw away our drops and you are basing that off of IV medications. Those two are not equivalent. They might know that intuitively, but regulatory bodies jobs are to protect patients. So, they're going to be really conservative. They're not going to be aggressive at all. They don't want to get in trouble. So, we need that data and we need these projects to really show no, this does not apply. And of course, until the expiration date, we can continue using these drops. And that was a big win. Uh multi-use drops. We use multi-use drops in our operating room settings. And we give a patient a drop in in the emergency room. uh we give them a drop because they need it at that moment. But for many years, we haven't been able to send that drop home with them. It has to be thrown away. Uh and so this is something going state byst state right now where state uh you can find on the academyy's website some information where you can present through your state society a a a new rule or if needed or even a new law uh that allows for multi-use drops to go home with patients when they've been used on that patients and otherwise they're mandated to be throw thrown away at this point. So the opportunities are really myriad. It's really a matter of what's your low-lying fruit that you can do right now. Everyone can go to I sustain. Everyone can take the pledge. Everyone can re-evaluate their surgical packs. Commit to produce less waste. And there are a few of you out there that can really uh dig in with one of these research projects, QI projects that can help the rest of us and and really magnify the scale of impact through your work. >> We've been looking at this here at Mayo. It's one of these interesting things that trying to frame the um research around evidence that moves the dial because it's one thing to say let's do a survey and survey everyone in you know ASCRs or whatever it might be to say how often have you had an infection using in the past when you could use a a bottle and multi-use versus now where you're not able to where and it's it's hard to generate the research behind the qu the the quality projects to show safety when institutions have said no you have to do it this way now um you know it' be nice to randomize two different centers and you know in Utah you you know use bottles for until they expire or use bottles until you know for 30 days where maybe in Minnesota we we you know get bottles you know reused or or a new bottle for every patient and compare it over time but I think the challenge in moving the dial is proving safety in a setting where we're asked to be um overly conservative. >> Yeah, well said. Yeah, I I we've found that same we've had that same experience and and interestingly uh ASC's private practices, they're able to be much more nimble for a variety of reasons uh than some of the large institutions where again you might think traditionally this is where we generate this this type of data information. So again, it's interesting that in this particular case, so much of what we're going to be able to glean and learn are done at these highquality, high efficiency, high volume centers around the world. An interesting that happened in Aravent during CO is they increased the amount uh of of PPE. Uh so they stopped having two patients in the room at the same time. They stopped having the patients stay in their own clothes. They need they started changing gloves each time. They started changing their gowns each time for each surgery. uh and nothing changed in terms of infection rates >> over a a high number of patients. So, so again we we can see that when it comes to simply infection rates um and we should do anything and everything we can to avoid infection, avoid tasks, but we're so far on the one side of the spectrum based largely on the fact that we're surgeons and most of the regulations come from surgery inside the body from general surgery or neurosurgery. And it turns out we are again opthalmology is different in lots of ways. Uh and this is an area where uh again particularly with cataract surgery where we flush out so much during cataract surgery already. Uh the key parts to infection control or concerns about crosscontamination between patients those really seem to be much less of a concern than we would have previously thought and now we just need the data to make some changes. Yeah, I am optimistic about what you mentioned that I think a lot of the power here actually come is going to come from smallcale independent opthalmologists at ASC's and not necessarily the big academic institutions where we find a lot of regulatory push back and so the power is really in the community which I love. We've tried a lot of initiatives here at Mayo. We've made a lot of good progress with the drop expiration dates. We're working on multi-use. We our residents did a quality project last year looking at the length of drapes for cataract surgery and trial shorter drapes which actually made a huge difference in the overall volume of waist. Um so little things like that but the barriers and the work and the bureaucracy needed to make these tiny little changes is unbelievable. >> It's fatiguing. Yeah, it >> it is for sure. So, it's exciting to me that the power might be more in our community opthalmologists who are able to make these changes without having to bear the burden of so much bureaucratic regulation. >> Yeah, you're right. You're right on a number of levels, Andrea. And one is simply the number of private practice opthalmologists um compared to the number of opthalmologists working in these larger hospital settings. the impact comes from and through the community that we have to scale this impact to everyone. Uh neither you nor I nor any individual is really going to be able to make changes that impact everyone globally on our own. That just, you know, of course that makes sense. We know that. We understand that. I like to think of it a little bit uh in terms of if I take a week and I go do surgery in another country and I am highly effective, highly efficient and I do 250 patients that week and that's the extent of my impact that's lovely that's beautiful and those patients now have sight. However, if that's the extent of my impact and that's all that I can do over time, it it's only it it only starts to change communities, change cultures, change countries if you have hundreds of people doing that. And of course, that's not an option. the the way that you really gain impact globally is through capacity building through you know teaching surgery through skills exchange skills transfer and over time as there are more opthalmologists and you know you support a residency training program because you're an academic institution or private practice opthalmologist host someone at their institution that's the kind of 365 uh type of impact that really starts to change things and again sustainability is the same thing. It takes all of us doing small things uh as opposed to you know one or two of us doing something really heroic. >> We had a previous speaker on global opthalmology multiple actually that talked about that relationship building education skill transfer pollinating each other's practices being more important than the number of surgeries you do when you land in another institution. But so it's about the relationships and about moving the dial together as a as a team. Talk to us a little bit about advocacy. So you know and state themmies I think are are such an incred a critical relationship for opthalmologists to be engaged with to have a voice to collectively look at these issues on a state level and also on a on a national level. But share with us just a plug an encouragement. Andrea and I are both on the the board for the Minnesota Academy of Opthalmology, but just share um so we we w we can wave that flag, but um from an advocacy perspective and really trying to make a change through relationships, share what would you share to uh individuals that haven't gone to an academy meeting or haven't been engaged with their academy and how important it is in this space? >> We're only as powerful as our collective voice. Uh and if you want to, you know, an example of how that's the case, um you know, in an unrelated world, when you look at physician reimbursements over time compared to inflation, or you look at hospital reimbursements over time compared to inflation, uh whoever has the strongest voice, the best organized voice, and in this case, the most wellunded voice, those are the groups that are going to be listened to. Uh and it's the same thing if we really need or want uh our representatives to listen, our regulatory bodies to listen, were only as strong as the community together. Uh the academy, you know, is really fortunate um and because it has such a high percentage memberships of opthalmologists, the state societies, unfortunately, it doesn't always translate there. If you want to get something accomplished at your state level and you have 90% of opthalmologists who are members of your state society that carries a significant amount of weight with our state representatives and legislators and that's where again that's where a big big impact from can come from. You might be able to individually do something in your practice, but if you can make it so every opthalmologist in Minnesota can now send that multi-use bottle home that every opthalmologist in Minnesota and think of the again the cost savings to your practice that you don't have to throw away a drop after 30 days of opening it. You can continue to use that all the way until it's expired. That alone is is having a significant impact. When you magnify that across your state, that's where you really have the impact that you're looking for. Because we all have that moment where we just finished a can of soda and we're looking for the recycle bin somewhere in the room and we don't see it. And we know that, yeah, it's probably not going to make that big of a difference if I just put this in the trash because there isn't a recycle bin. The individual impact can be relatively small at times, but it's really the collective impact of all of us coming together through advocacy that will have the greatest impact on our patients. >> Really fantastic. I'm so um optimistic and reassured about the future. I you sometimes talking about climate change can seem like a really doom and gloom discussion. Uh, but I think the initiatives here and your passion and your leadership are really inspiring. So, thank you, Jeff. This is tremendous work. I'm excited for everybody listening to this podcast to hear about I sustain and the initiatives that they can take part of because really, like you said, this is for everyone. This is at a community level. It's not just for big high powerful institutions that this is for everyone and the individual change seems small, but it can build. So, thank you so much for sharing your work with us. Congratulations on everything you've accomplished and um we'll we'll all keep working hard towards the goal. >> You're so welcome. Thank you for having me. And and you you hit the nail on the head. Uh this is something that all of us coming together can make a difference. And it's actually an area in particular that uh if you take a 46-y old opthalmologist and a 31-year-old resident, the 31-year-old can probably teach the 46-year-old a whole lot about climate change and about impact and how we can do this better. So this is something where my optimism simply comes from the energy and the knowledge and the excitement and the motivation from our young opthalmologists. they in this case uh they are leading the way and they will lead the way in the future. >> Wonderful. >> Yeah. And wonderful to have you be part of our podcast and for all the listeners as you click off this podcast go and click on I sustain and uh and learn more. But thank you for being with us today. >> Thank you Jeff. >> You're welcome. Thank you. >> You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast on our website. >> Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.