Good afternoon everyone. I'm so happy you all could join us. Um we are here today um with the live quest. We're so happy to have you all. We have Jessica Schneider um and Samantha Hoskins here to present to us and they also invited two families, the the Frank family um and Hamilton. Am I saying that correctly, >> Taylor? Yes. Okay. All right. Perfect. So they are here um to share with us. Remember um only the hosts are the focal point. So I don't have to remind you about backgrounds. But uh if you do unmute yourself to ask questions, please be mindful that we can hear any background noise. Um and I will turn it over to our guest from Lifequest to get started. >> Right. Well, thank you so much for having us on. I'm Samantha Hoskins and I'm a donor family services coordinator at Lifequest uh which is the local OPO here in um this region of Florida. Um and I just want to introduce our special guests. So we have um Paul and Rebecca DeFrank um and they are the parents of donor Alex Defrank. And then we have Taylor Hamilton and she is the daughter of donor Keith Hamilton. So, welcome you guys and um we're so happy that you joined us and are willing to share your your stories and your experiences with everyone here today. >> Thank you for having us. >> Absolutely. So, um I think what we're going to start with um with the def Franks um if um are you able to put up the photo of Alex? >> Yes. >> All right. Um so, we're going to share a photo of Alex and if you guys could tell us a little bit about Alex and what made him so special. >> Oh, okay. This is one of our favorite family pictures. Um, Alex was 22 years old when he passed away and uh from an accident at work and um he loved the outdoors. He loved fishing. He loved being with friends. Um just an allround outdoor person. He was very kind um and loving. That's I think the best way I can describe him. >> Yeah. And I this this picture just sort of sums up uh the way the the synchronicity of the family. Uh I am an Alabama grad, but I I'm the only one. I never pushed it on anyone, but it was picked up. We we say through osmosis. U he he really did enjoy u the outdoors. He enjoyed Alabama football. U and uh we loved him. >> Thank you so much for telling us a little more about Alex. And then um do you have the the picture of Keith and Taylor you'd like to tell us a little bit about your dad? >> Well, my dad loved to help people. He was a business owner and one of the main things he really liked to do was hire people that not everybody gave a chance necessarily. So he always gave everybody chances. He was just a very kind man and yeah that smile apparently lit up any room that he walked into. >> Thank you so much for sharing that with us. Um so we are going to talk a little bit about um what uh receiving letters from recipients means to our donor families. So um Paul and Rebecca, do you want to speak a little bit about that? What it what it's meant to you to receive correspondence? >> Uh sure. Um well and I guess to begin with I I would say uh writing the letters uh was very therapeutic for us to be able to introduce our son to the recipients. Um we didn't know if we'd ever get a response from the recipient, but it was such a blessing to receive the letters from the recipients. We uh Alex donated five organs to four individuals and in that uh every one of those letters are precious to us in their own way. Um the gratitude u you can just feel the gratitude that each one has for uh the gift of life that was given to them. uh and it it just it really touched our hearts. Uh have a couple here that I'm going to share here in a few minutes. Uh but it it is invaluable to us to have them. And as I said before, Alex died from a very senseless accident. And receiving the letters and understanding, hearing a little bit about how the recipient's life has been impacted by the organs that he donated helped take some of that senselessness away. Um, it helped us to see positive things that had come from our loss. It didn't make our loss any less, but it helped us through our loss to see the positive things that that had come from such a senseless act accident. >> Absolutely. Thank you for sharing that. That's um you know that's really special and I'm I'm glad that that's been been helpful to you guys. Um and Taylor, do you want to tell us a little bit about your experience with receiving correspondence and just what that's meant to you? >> Yeah. No, so it being therapeutical is one of the main things. It was very nice to just speak to somebody who is just so grateful to be alive for one because we went through this terrible loss. But like they said, having five is amazing. That's awesome. I just want to say that saving five people. Wow. But yeah, just even even one like my dad having the ability to just save one life has brought a new meaning to the loss in a way. even though it is like you said doesn't lessen the loss but being able to speak to them has been very therapeutic and learning about the things that they had to go through in life kind of since I'm so young it shows me a different you know viewpoint in life and I can kind of just figure things out in a different way now than I did before. >> Thank you Taylor. Um and then the next thing we were going to to do is um they have both brought uh with them some of the correspondence they've received and they wanted to share a little bit. Um so Paul and Rebecca, do you want to share some of your favorite parts of the letters? >> Uh yes, I I've got two. Let me let me just start with one. And I I think it's important for all of the recipients to realize that they have a journey u that got them to the point to where they needed to have a donation. Uh that particular struggle u is is is important. Share as little or as much as you're willing to. Uh but from the donation side, it's good for us to know what got you to this point and how are you afterward? Now, this one particular letter here for me was extremely important. I didn't want to have anything to do with organ donation. This along with my son's generosity changed my whole opinion. So, um I'll read it. I'll read some points here for you. The day I received the call that there was a kidney and pancreas available. My husband Nick and I were in separate parts of our house, both trying to figure out how to tell the other the same thing. I was very sick and it was time despite COVID 19 to go to the hospital. I had been very sick for over a week. My diabetes was no longer able to be controlled by the insulin I was taking. Uh I was spending both my days and nights vomiting. I was in a very precarious situation. I got the call around 8:30 in the morning. I just sat down to try to eat something when my phone rang. It was hard to believe at first. I spent that day waiting for a phone call back uh within minutes time. She packed her bag and did her best to sleep. I went into the hospital at at 1000 p.m. Again, because of COVID, the original plan that we had for my husband to accompany me was thrown out by necessity. He had to drop me and had to go in all alone. It was one of the hardest things we've ever done. The next few days are a blur for me as I had three surgeries in four days. The first was the initial transplant. The second was because the pancreas was squished and not happy about it. The third was too clo to close everything up after they made sure they were actually done. Beyond these initial surgeries, I've had surprisingly few complications for which I'm extremely grateful. I'm tolerating the drugs quite well and there have been a very few hiccups along the way. I'm on significantly fewer meds since the transplants. I have not had any medic medication for diabetes. Um, this would have been for about a week uh that she's talking about. She says, "I view this as a small miracle. I was diagnosed at 10 years old. I don't have any memories at all of what being not diabetic is like. Thanks to your family, thanks to Alex, I have a chance to make some Thank you so much for sharing that, Paul. Um, Taylor, do you have something you'd like to share? >> Yes, I do. So, my dad donated his liver and it went to a very, very nice family man. and we would talk a bit about his daughter in the first few letters. Um, she had just graduated college around the time that he got his transplant and the transplant went well. He never had any issues. He just has, you know, normal back issues, you know, the things with age that that happens. But in this last letter, he shared that his daughter has the same name as me. that. And apparently if you know how they would say like you kind of pick up things I guess with transplants. I never gone through anything with organ donation before my dad. I didn't I never did too much research into it. It was kind of thrown on me. It was an unexpected death. So it was something that was kind of just thrown on me. So being able to hear that the man has this man now has cravings for ice cream just like my dad when before >> he didn't like sweets or anything and I thought that was crazy but it was good to know like it it it warmed my heart. >> Thank you. Yes. And it's like um I think Paul had mentioned, you know, could share as much as you're comfortable with and it could be something about your your health history or it could be something as you know like your ice cream cravings. But no matter what it is that you share, I think it's important to know that um your donor family is just going to hold on to every little little morsel and of information that they get um because it it's all something special to them. >> Yeah. And I Sam I I would also I've got a second one here u that the uniqueness of this one and it it's important also I think to realize that every recipient is not an island among themselves. uh there are people around them that are sharing their journey with them and they may also want to express their gratitude. Please don't leave them out of that opportunity. Um, in this one, uh, the the 17-year-old boy who received Alex's heart, his parents felt a desire to express their needs. And it's, this is just really simple, uh, but you can tell it was very heartfelt. So, uh, they write, "Our son already expressed what he feels." Now, as parents, we want to say, "Thank you for sending the letter telling us about your son." We can't imagine the pain that you were feeling doing that. Sorry for your loss. We only want to express our feelings of gratitude for the act of generosity that your son did. He gave us joy and happiness after years of sorrow and uncertainty. You are all in our daily prayers. And may God give you the peace and strength for continuing to live without him. Thanks again and God bless your hearts. >> Thank you. And then I think we just wanted to open it up to any questions um from um anyone here. If you have any questions for specifically for our donor families, I'll go through um correspondents and answer those types of questions uh after that. But if you have any questions for the def Franks or for Taylor, I have one if if they don't mind asking. Um were your loved ones were they donors or was this a decision that you all made? It was a decision I made. >> Okay. >> This was a in our case, uh, this was a decision that Alex made on his own. Uh, I guess the best way is the way what he told his mom. >> He said, "I'm not going to need him anymore, so why not?" And um, that was very much kind of the way he took life. And um so that was very typical comment of his and uh it was a choice he made when he got his driver's license. >> Okay. Um second question, did you initiate um the correspondence or did the don um the recipient >> the recipient did for me? >> The recipient did for you Taylor. Okay. Thank you. In our case, uh, we wrote to all of the recipients first and they all responded. >> Okay. Thank you. >> Does anyone have a question in the chat or um can unmute yourself if you do if you have a a question or statement for the DeFrank or Hamilton family. I'm going to ask a question of of everyone. Is it common for the recipient and the donor to have a communal relationship after a donation? >> In in our case, we initially heard from all four um of the recipients. After that, we only heard from one uh that wrote a second letter. Um we replied to the first one and I mean it's up to um to the to the people how they want it to continue or not. Um and we've been very comfortable um with leaving it up to them. and and we we kind of talked this through a little bit yesterday. Uh if we were ever able to meet his heart recipient, um I I think we would love the opportunity to, but it's not a a real burning desire to do so. Yeah, I'm at the point where I will be I just signed the direct um contact papers. So, I'll be getting direct communication with my father's liver recipient. And like I said, I've only got the one and I was very lucky enough to have this man who wants to have a relationship with me. So it does just depend on that person and how they feel and what they would like to and just try not to take it personally I guess. >> Yes. And >> thank you guys. >> Yeah. Um and just to to add on to that, it's it's definitely um it's just different in every situation. Um there's some recipients who don't want to communicate with donor families. there's some donor families who don't want to communicate with recipients. Um, and so you just kind of have to have that that perfect situation where both sides want to communicate with each other. And so with um it just depends on where you're at in your life and your circumstances. So you don't always have both sides um ready or wanting to do that at the same time, but when you do um I think it can be it can be really special. And um Taylor, I'm I'm so happy for you that you guys are starting that process and that you're going to be able to to get started. And um Paul and Rebecca, with the the one that continued, did you meet a recipient or have uh you know phone communication? Did you start the like the direct? >> No. Um we there were just two letters >> um from her and we were replied to both of them. Um I think we well I know we did the last correspondence with any of them so we opened the door um for that to continue if they so chose and I think the reason Paul mentioned we the one we would really like to hear from would be the heart recipient and that's really because he was a young man he was so much like our son in within a couple of years of age and that kind of thing. Um, we would be open to hear from any of them if they ever chose to reach out again. Um, but it's been well, our son's been gone 5 years now, so I would say it's not very likely that we will hear from him, but hearing from him just the once uh was very very good. >> You does anyone else have any questions for them? Um I didn't see any questions in the chat box, but I do have two comments and said um the first one says, "Incredible letter. Thank you for sharing." And the second says, "Thank you and your family for helping to save someone else's lives. You are appreciated." >> Thank you. >> I have a question or a comment. >> So, I manage the communication between donor families and recipients here. So, my question is, so, you know, every day I'm practically sitting at my desk crying because the letters are beautiful. on both sides and it's a rewarding job for me to do. Um I have a question on um you know sometimes things aren't going so well on the recipient side um and they're I wouldn't say afraid to reach out but they feel maybe a little uncomfortable reaching out. Um, are are you open and welcome to hearing anything even if things aren't going so well for them? Trying to put it in the right. I would say yes. Um, I mean it we all know the realities of that. Um but being able to lift them up in prayer to um to think of them as they're going through this. Um and this was reflected in some of the letters that we received is going going to the hospital and there's a lot of unknowns for the the recipient too. Um, and so I I would love to hear either way. Um, >> okay. >> Yeah, same. But also, I understand too. Yeah. If you don't feel comfortable or if they don't feel comfortable letting me know. But, you know, it's it's life. If they if they didn't want to tell me, they don't want to tell me. But >> being able to help them would be nice. Give them encouragement like she said. >> Thank you. >> I think sometimes for donor families it's it can be nice and even if it was just such a just a small message. um even if you're overwhelmed and don't know what to write, but you just send a couple sentences that you're, you know, sorry for their loss and you're thanking them for this gift and letting them know you're you're doing well. Um I think that can mean so much to them and you know even if you think about it then if you decide to to use your name you know to your first name before that they don't know even you know the name of the recipient what we share with them is the age the gender the organ and the region of the US so you know a 55-year-old woman received the liver and was transplanted in the south that's what's in the information that they get so even if they got a letter and you signed your name and now they know, okay, John received the the left kidney. That's something they didn't know and it makes it more more real and tangible and and personal and they think about that person out there, you know, named John who has their family members um kidney. So where before that they didn't. So even just that can be something that uh you know they just carry with them and is special to them. Um, so I will go ahead and go over um just correspondence guidance um what's allowed and what's not allowed and that this is specific for our OPO for Lifequest. Um so every OPO uh covers a different region. Um so we're in the north central Florida. There's four in Florida. It's the way it's broken up. So we're basically kind of Ocala everywhere north of that. Um, so what that means is if somebody in that area is at a hospital and passes away and becomes a donor, then that's one of our donor families. They could be vacationing in Florida from Minnesota. Um, but this if they wherever they pass away, whatever service area that OPO in that area is uh the one that that serves that family. Um so some of you uh you if you receive a transplant um it could be uh you know the donors this area um but you know they could could have just been down here vacationing like I said or some of you you may receive an organ from another OPO's area you know it might you might have a match with someone in Tennessee um or anywhere you know so it doesn't it won't necessarily be our OPO. Um but um so they're all a little bit different. Uh so for us um the correspondence initially is anonymous. Um the first name is okay, but anonymous in that there's no personally identifying information. Um not your last name, not your contact information. Um just nothing that you know you can identify. Some OPOS don't redact any information. they keep it as is and they pass along whatever is written. Um, so they're all different. We are part of we are under a hospital. Not all opios are actually connected to a hospital. Um, so I suspect that's why ours is a little um stricter with that because of HIPPA. Um, so ours we do we do redact that. We um we scan in a copy of the original, but we just have to uh black it out. Um and the way we do it is uh it's just that anonymous at first until the possibility of direct contact is established. So um you can share um you know like we talked about as little or as much information as you like. Um you can tell about your health background and what you know got you to this point. you know, there someone was sharing they'd been, you know, one of the recipients had been diabetic since they were 10 or, you know, whatever it is. Uh, you don't have to share your personal information like that. Um, you might share about your family. You know, that you have a husband and two kids and a dog and a cat. Um, what your what you do for work, what your hobbies are. Um, you you know, you can share whatever it is that you want to share with the family. And we tell donor families the exact same thing that they can use the donor's first name um and they can sign their first names just not the last names and they can tell their recipients as much as they want to share about their loved one. Um and it's just really personal. It's just whatever feels right for you. Um and uh we don't have any guidelines with who can write first. either side can write first. There's some recipients who are, you know, they're feeling well enough in the hospital that they have a note card in the pen and they're writing something before they're even discharged. Um, but of course I've also received correspondence. I think I received one last year that was 12 years later from a recipient and they hadn't written. And I got a hold of the donor family luckily because you know phone numbers can change and people's contact information changes and they were just completely shocked and blown away that they were getting correspondents from a recipient after 12 years. Um, and they were so excited. It's never too late. Um, so, uh, that's just one thing I wanted to mention that, um, you don't have to wait to receive something from your donor family first and the donor family doesn't have to wait to receive something from the recipient first. Whenever you feel ready to write, you can. Um, that that being said, that's that's our policy. Um, and we pass along the correspondence once we receive it. Um, some transplant centers are all different. Um so people who are transplanted somewhere else they their transplant center might have different policies and so yours of course your um part of Mayo it would be whatever their their policies are. Um some of them hold on to correspondence for a certain period of time. Some of it do it right away. So you would um of course want to talk to um you know transplant coordinators and and whoever handles that there Patty um about what what they do specifically. So I can't speak to that but for us if we get something from the recipient we're getting it processed and sending it to the donor family. Um if we get something from the donor family, same thing. We're getting it processed and sending it onto that transplant center. Um but that's just us. Like I said, everything is different with other um agencies. Um so that's kind of the timeline of when you can write, what you can write. Um does anyone have any questions about that part of it? >> I want to ask Patty while we're on this subject so I don't forget. Patty, uh what is your turnaround time when you receive letters? I know we get emails from you stating you received a letter. Um, you don't hold those any time frame, do you? >> No, we don't hold it. We used to hold them for a little bit, but we don't hold them anymore. So, my turnaround time um if I get a letter from a donor family, then I reach out to the social worker and um they inform the patient, the recipient, that there's a letter here. And as soon as we um hear that the recipient wants to receive the letter, I mean, I could get it out that same day or the next day depending on, you know, what my workload looks like, but they as soon as we hear back that the recipient would like to receive the letter, it's a quick turnaround. >> It's a quick turnaround time for them. And um one thing I would like to mention while I'm here so I get um the letters what would really be and it is to be careful because um as Samantha said you know we do have to redact any identifying information. Um so just be careful of that when you write letters. And actually I know Samantha said they let the ages go through. We don't we don't give ages. We we don't um we would redact if you wrote you had your um transplant at Mayo Clinic. You know, we we just are pretty strict and try to keep the identifying information, you know, none if you know, if we can. So be careful when you're writing because we know you want to share all of that, but anything that could identify where you live, where you had your transplant, your last names, your social media identification, you know, that's going to get redacted. And it's really helpful if when you're writing your letter, if it's more than one page, to put it on a separate page. Try not to write front and back because if things need to be redacted it kind of can be a little messy. >> That's true. Yeah. Some if you have to use like a Sharpie through then it bleeds through to the other side of the page and >> sometimes then the copy doesn't turn out quite as as nice. Um thank you for mentioning that about the transplant center. I did forget that. Of course, um you know, if we have recipient who mentions where they were transplanted, then we we do redact that uh because that's really narrowing it down to a geographical area versus the south, which could be several states. >> Sure. >> Um and the same thing um with the donor families, they mention, you know, the city and state, we we take that out. >> Um >> and we can send picture. You can send pictures. Um it's just helpful. Don't write first and last names on the back of the pictures. You can write first names, but we we can send pictures if they want to include that in their letter. >> Yeah. Yes. Um and um the one thing that sometimes I've seen redacted um but we leave in there is if you say I received my transplant on whatever date we don't redact that because the donor family knows when their loved one became a donor, you know, they they know exactly within a day or two. So they don't we don't >> and I do redact that because I'm supposed to redact that. I feel the same way. I'm like, well, the donor family would know, but following that up. Yeah, >> I know. I feel bad doing it, but I have to do it on our end. >> Um, and things like, you know, you're not mentioning like the name of your employer where they could Google it, but you might say that you're a teacher, but you're not saying, you know, the the district in the school where they can where Google is is uh, you know, very powerful and we can find a lot on there. So if if there's something that you typed it in there and you think you could be found, then we don't want to share that. And and for us, it's just for, you know, the privacy and safety of everyone. Um because at first when you're writing, you know, it is um you know, it's anonymous. Um because you're you're just kind of dipping your toe into this and figuring things out. Um, but when it moves further along and if both sides want to uh establish direct contact, there's just a lot to think about um to make sure that you're ready because it's not something you can undo. You know, once you've I mean, I guess you could block someone, but um you know, once you've opened that door, it's open. So, we always just want both sides to to think about the impact. Um so, we just take it slow. Um and that's just to make sure it's, you know, it's protecting everyone. Um, let me see. >> I have a question in the Yeah, in the chat. Yeah. Um, I have someone said, "I am a recipient with an underperforming kidney and I'm still struggling with contacting the donor family. Any advice for them, Samantha, or words of encouragement? >> I'm taking it that you might uh there's a possibility that you could be on the transplant list again and need another transplant. Um, I would say, you know, that does happen. I mean, with kidneys, obviously that does happen. Um, and I know it can be kind of complicated, but um, even if you did end up needing another kidney from another donor in the future, um, that first kidney from that donor, that that saved your life then and it it it it sustained your life a little longer until you got the next one. Um, so I think that the donor families um, you know, they can obviously speak to this. I think they would still be happy to hear even if you know it's um, you know, it's not uh, as healthy and and perfect as hoped, I think they'd still like to hear from you because it did it did um, you know, sustain you longer until maybe you got the next one that that lasts um, longer. But maybe the def Franks and Taylor could speak about that. >> I would say >> how would you feel? >> Yeah. Yeah. I would say right off the bat uh that you're right if you look at organ donation, it just because of the very nature of it. Um it's it's not very personable. uh getting letters from each other is a way of personalizing your loss and personalizing the gratitude uh for what you've received. U as a uh as as a father of an organ donor, I I think I would still like to hear from them. Uh, even if it does go bad, >> I would like to hear from them too, even if it went bad. But I um I have no expectations for the other person. Like he said, it's it's your right to choose how you communicate with the donor family, but in the end, and it does depend on each family and person. So, but I feel like it would be it would be nice to know if it was going badly for you and then we could, you know, again give you encouragement, make you try trying to make trying to make you feel better or let you know that we're here for you. >> Thank you guys. >> Thank you both. >> I hope that answered your question and anyone else who might be thinking that as well. >> Right. The next is simply a statement saying, "My husband is a living kidney donor. um he appreciated a phone call from the recipient four months later. Um after that we have how different are protocols if the recipient has a living donor? So if they received a a living donor transplant, do you you all handle those um Samantha or No? >> No. So I can't speak to that. Um, as far as a living donor, they would be the ones signing their own consent forms for uh if they want to communicate and if they want to share information. Um, but that's not something that we handle. Ours is only um, you know, deceased uh, organ donors. um living donor program is um something completely different and it might be something that on the hospital side that they could tell you more about because I I don't think that OPOS's handle handle that at all. I think that's kind of just more through a transplant center >> when I will say >> I know I give them to the um living donor nurse coordinator. So I do know do not know the exact protocol but I have been provided letters from recipients who received a living donor and I do pass those along to the nurse coordinator um and she moves forward and handles those if the donor is open to >> correspondence. >> Yeah. And that might be kind of hospital to hospital you know transplant center to you know where the person it sometimes it might be at the same place but and opio is kind of not part of that. It's just the the hospital of each patient uh would go between. But Patty, were you going to say something? No, >> I was going to say the same thing to Lea. I would probably I do get living donor letters. Um but I can't get that information because I'm working like you are in the same system. So I do give them to the social worker to hand to the coordinator and then they do their own process with the letters. >> Did anyone else have any other questions about that? >> I didn't that was it from the chat box Samantha. >> Okay. Um so gone through kind of um what's allowed and what's not. Um, and I did want to reiterate what uh something Paul had said, um, is that you're not limited to just you writing. Um, we've definitely gotten letters from the recipient rights, but then also, you know, close loved ones. So if it's um a parent of um you know an adult a young adult donor like Alex was um where u you know multiple family members might write um but a recipient who may also be a young adult like their recipient was um you know that recipient wrote but then also their parent wrote and I do get that quite often and I think it can be kind of special parentto parent um to have that communication ation with each other. Um, we've had uh I remember one where it was I I think the recipient was like grandfather and had you know quite the lineage with children and grandchildren and you know his adult children wrote and I think even a couple of his grandchildren wrote and you know you have little kids their handwriting and little pictures. Um so we had quite a few pieces of mail that came in that envelope from the recipient's family. we've had the recipient's spouse who's also written um just to say what a change it's been um for their recipient. So, if you um have a family member, loved one that um that is interested in writing, you know, of course, you're the one who can decide if you want to allow that to go in the mail to us as well, but um there we'll certainly accept that and pass it along if that's something that you feel you'd like to to have them do. Um and then I'll just mention a little bit about um direct contact. So the correspondence, you know, is kind of the first the first part. Um and for us, our policy is that each side has to write to each other two times. Uh and that about a year has to go by. Our our year is, you know, recipients are healing, recovering from surgery. Donor families are really in their grief. Um, so you know that that year you're you're writing to each other and you know kind of just sharing some information. Um, if you've both written to each other two times and about a year has gone by uh and you express either in the letter or to your coordinator um that you're interested in in you know pursuing direct contact then um then we move forward with that. Um, often that's just, you know, we see that right there in the letters. We see that somebody will write, you know, I would I would love to talk to you one day. I would love to meet you one day. So then we know that that donor family or that recipient is interested. Um, so once just that criteria is met, two letters each about a year, then we move forward with the direct contact. Um, and what that entails is, um, having we talk to the transplant coordinator just to get their input on, um, if they support direct contact, just, you know, how the patients doing and um, that, you know, we've always had them say yes, they support it. We submit it to our leadership. Um, it's always just kind of a unanimous decision. um just if they support it or not and then we send consent forms to each side. So we send our donor family consent forms to sign, we send the transplant center the consent forms to sign and once we get those back then we can share the information. Our um policy at our OPO is that we give the recipient information to the donor family and we allow the donor family to decide when they're ready to reach out. So, um, so they have it and and we kind of put the ball in their court. Um, but that's just ours. Um, and also on that consent form, you can there's a place for all the information. You know, your address, phone number, email address. You don't have to fill out everything. You can share what you're comfortable sharing. It might just be your email address, and that's where you want to start. Um, and it might be your phone number. Um, so whatever it is that you want to share for the contact, um, that is okay for you to share as long as they can get in touch with you. And after that, our part is kind of over. We are there for our donor families if they'd like us to be involved, if they want us to be present for the meeting. Um, because sometimes people may meet face to face, but a lot of times people call or text or FaceTime or Zoom um, you know, at first until they feel comfortable because this is still a stranger that you're talking to, you know. Um so you know then people might decide after they've communicated phone and and text that they're ready to meet um face to face. Um but you know you could be in Florida and the other person um in other situations you know like the donor family could be here and their recipient could be in another state. So transportation can be an issue. Um, so we allow our donor families to know it. You can do, you know, whatever you we're we're not part of the equation anymore. You can, um, move forward however you want, but we're there to support you if you did want us there. Um, and I think there was a chat message. Let me see. Um, OPO, uh, sorry about that. Jessica answered, "Organ procurement organization." And so that is um that when someone becomes an organ donor when they're in the hospital and uh someone from the OPO is you know approaching the family to obtain consent if that's something if they weren't registered um and the family's deciding um and then someone another department in the OPO is coordinating the whole transplant with running the match for who the recipients are coordinating the O and the surgeons and all of that. Um, and then I work with donor families after the fact for the bereavement and after care support. So the OPO is everything on the side of just with the donor family. Um, okay. So that's kind of how the direct contact process works and Taylor I know is there in the process. She's signed and everything. So >> just sent it in the mail today. >> Awesome. And so, so you're waiting to get the recipient's information. >> Yeah, I I live across the country from Florida, so it'll take a few days for Pamela to get my paperwork, but >> Gotcha. >> It's coming. >> Yeah. And so, um, how are you feeling about that? You know, once you get the recipient's information, Pamela gives it to you. Um, what are you thinking? Are you going to call or text or >> I would love to just outright call him, but I know sometimes calling isn't the best situation. I don't know what he's going to be doing, if he's going to be at work or what the best time is. So, I'll probably text him, let him know it's me, and that we can speak whenever he's available. >> Oh, I'm excited for you. I'm sure you're excited and nervous and just a bundle of feelings, but um >> definitely hoping that it's a a good experience for both of you and that it's, you know, healing and >> and that that all goes well. Um so, looking at the time here, I know we're getting to the end. Does anyone have any other questions? Um and if not, or once we answer those, Jessica is going to just um talk a little bit about volunteering. So, were there any questions for me or for anyone? If you think of anything later, um, you know, you can you can always reach out to us. Um Patty and Lea have have mine and Jessica's contact information, but um you can always, you know, email or call me if you had something that you wanted to to ask um individually. Happy to help. Um so no other questions. Jessica, do you want to uh share a little bit about volunteering and what you do? >> Yeah, thank you. Um you guys had wonderful questions. So, I I work alongside Samantha at Lifequest with at the OPO um except I'm a little different. So, I am the public education um outreach coordinator. So, what I do is I am in Jacksonville and I go all over the area trying to educate the community about organ donation. So, I work with donor families, I work with recipients, and we come together to really educate our community. So many people in this area really don't know anything about organ donation. If it was not on Grey's Anatomy, then they are at a loss of words for it or completely incorrect. So I um want to spread the correct information through our area. Um what's really really interesting is that Duvall County out of all of the counties in Florida has the fifth lowest number of people who say yes to organ donation when they get their driver's license or their permit renew their license. So if you live in Duval, you're more likely to say no to organ donation than all the other counties. Uh the only ones we beat out is like Miami and Tampa, Orlando. Um, if you see the trend, it's the big cities that tend to um, register less. What's crazy is that the number one, the people who say yes the most in our air in Florida is Nassau County and number three is St. John's. We are literally smack dab in the middle of two counties that are so for organ donation and Duvall just really isn't, which I find to be so fascinating. Obviously, Duval County is way more diverse in every sense of the word. There's so many moving pieces. So, it's such a large area. So, that plays into all of it. So, I'm going to share my screen with you guys. Um, let's see. And kind of show you what we do. if you guys do have any interest in being a volunteer and kind of spreading your story, what organ donation is with the people in our area. So, we go to all sorts of different events, either tableabling or providing education um through presentations to different people. Today I was at a high school driver's ed talking to some brand new drivers about donation, but it is so different every day. So sometimes it's high school or college students, other times it's in churches or just different health fairs. Basically just trying to get this real information about donation out there. And your stories make a much bigger impact than me just rattling off a bunch of statistics. I could say, you know, there's 100,000 people waiting for a transplant and how many people are needed just in this community, this area. Um, but you guys sharing your story of, you know, I'm so grateful to be here or the gift that my loved one was able to give, um, makes a huge difference in opening people's eyes to the value that organ donation really has. So, I just wanted to provide just a couple photos and um let you guys know that if you are ever interested in volunteering, um we would absolutely love for you to be a part of our our little volunteer family and really educate our community and show the impact that organ donation has, not just here, but in our world as a whole. So, if you guys are interested, I'll put my email and my phone number um in the chat, and you guys are more than welcome to message me because I would love to know more about you and figure out ways that we can reach more people here. Um, Jacksonville is a good area, but we need to get this information out to them. So, any questions for me at all? >> Uh, I might add a comment here. Uh, Rebecca and I have been in ambassadors for Lifequest, uh, since this happened and, uh, we have found it to be very rewarding. uh we've had uh some time that we spent here on public broadcasting talking about it uh and we've attended uh events and we have found it uh very rewarding work. we appreciate you so much. Um just all the the times you've come to events and you've spoken and you've come to these Zoom uh sessions um and shared your story and shared about Alex and we really appreciate you guys. Yeah, we I can't do what I do without people like you guys. And so just so grateful even if you know you Franks don't live in Jacksonville but um I I still love to get to see you guys. I >> think that's everything for us. >> All right, any questions, comments? Let me see if there was anything. Nope, I don't see anything else. Right. Well, I want to give a huge thank you to the def Franks and Taylor for sharing about your loved ones and your experience. Um, it is really appreciated. Um, also to Jessica and Samantha, thank you so much for um, presenting to our group today. You were a wealth of information. And huge shout out to Patty. Thank you so much for um, coming in today. I in answering some questions because you are our point person here um for handling those letters. So thank you and thank you all for attending today. We had a great turnout and I really appreciate it. Um please look for invite for next month and do not hesitate to reach out if you need us. Thank you all. >> Thank you. >> All right. Thank you all. Have a great day. >> All right. Bye bye. We'll see you next month. Bye-bye. Thank you. >> Thank you for this opportunity to let us come in and chat. I really appreciate that. >> Thank you, Jess. I really appreciate it. I always enjoy this um since I first reached out to um Pamela. So, it's been wonderful being able to meet the rest of the team and um this has been very so much knowledge and it it's good information because when I'm meeting with patients postrplant like these are things I can share when I'm encouraging them to write the family and telling them um about the the letters and life quest. So, this is great. So, I can pass that information along for those who didn't attend. >> Good. Good. And you know Pamela is retiring. Did you hear that? >> No. when >> very soon. Yeah, the end of August.