Hi, everyone. Happy Wednesday. I hope you can hear us. We are here today, and we have some wonderful, wonderful guests. Here to talk to us about writing and communicating with your Donor family. We have Pamela and Samatha. Both here to present, and we also have two families that we're so so thankful that they have decided to join us to share their stories. We will let them present the information they have available for us, and then as always, you can ask questions in the chat box or once they are done with the presentation. I will turn it over to you, Pam or Samantha, whoever is going to go first. Well, we're just going to Samantha and I talked about it a little bit. We don't have a formal hard and fast presentation. We wanted this to be more of a conversation about something that we treasure with all our hearts, which is the honor of getting to work on correspondence that goes back and forth between donor families and recipients who write back and forth. So we look forward to that and we are excited about the donor families that we have here and grateful to them and grateful to you all for being interested in this topic and wanting to learn about it, we wish you all the best, whether you've already been transplanted or whether you are a waiting. We just wish you all the best. We'll get started. I'm Pamela Rittenhouse. Samantha Hoskins is here. We both work in Aftercare for Life Quest Organ Recovery Services. The Organ procurement organization that covers the top of the state of Florida. And so keep in mind that the information that we share with you is specific to our organ procurement organization, and of course, your donor may be from a different OPO. Their processes will probably be fairly similar, but maybe a tad different. We will share with you what we know at LifeQuest. We know that some of the information about correspondence and how it works at LifeQuest that's like nuts and bolt stuff. We know that what you really want more than anything is to talk to the three people that you see on the screen, which is Shannon a Donor mom and Paul and Rebecca donor parents. What we'll do is we thought we would handle the nuts and bolts things up top and then we will get to the favorite part, which is your conversations with Shannon Paul and Rebecca. Samantha, if you would do the honors of the correspondence Nuts and Bolts, that would be great. Sure. If I miss anything, you can jump in and fill in the cracks. I'm Samantha Hoskins, and I'm happy to be here to talk with all of you guys. Basically, like Pamela said, we handle the correspondence between our donor families and the recipients of their loved ones gifts. So a donor family wrote correspondence to a recipient, they would send it here to the Life Quest office. Pam and I split those up, and we then look up the information in our system. We send those to the transplant center wherever the recipient was transplanted. Then the transplant center and the transplant coordinator is then in charge of getting that correspondence to the recipient. Every transplant center is different and they handle that different, but we know that at Mayo, they are just wonderful about handling correspondence. We just love working with them. They would send it to you. I'm not sure if they give it to you in person at a checkup or if they mail it to you. I might be able to answer that because different transplant centers do that differently. Then vice versa, if a recipient writes to their donor family and if it's one of our donors, then they give it to whoever the individual is that's in charge of it there at Mayo. Mayo sends it here to LifeQuest in Gainesville, Pamela and I look up the donor family and we send it to them because we have their contact information. We reach out and call the donor family and let them know to be expecting it in the mail. We just like to do that to make sure we still have their correct address. But also opening the mailbox and receiving something. As precious as it is, it can be unexpected for a donor family that's grieving and we just like to give them a heads up, so they see a letter, and it can bring up a lot of emotions. Sometimes people maybe need to put it aside before they're ready to open it. But almost all of our donor families are so excited to get correspondence from their loved ones recipients. We send that on to them. We do review the either way and have to redact personally identifying information like last names. Things that if it was somebody included their address or phone number. Anything that's really obvious that if you did a Google search, you could find the person. Mao does redact information as well. That's just our policies, and we do scan and upload a copy to our system just in case something got lost in the mail. We know this correspondence is precious and we don't want the only copy that existed to be gone. We scan and upload it just in case something like that happens, we can print out a copy and get it out too. The donor family or recipient. Of course, some of you may have donor families that are with Life Quest, meaning that person passed in this North Florida area, but some of the donor may have lived somewhere else in the country. They would be part of a different OPO and they would handle things perhaps a little differently. But that is the basics, did I miss anything, Pamela? I don't think so. Anyone have any questions about that? About the nuts and bolts. Go ahead and ask if you do. Although if you ask later on, that'll be fine, too. And then Pamela is going to introduce the DeFranks, I think, great now. Well, we want to acknowledge also that Shannon is here and we'll also be speaking in a bit. The DeFranks have actually presented to this group. It's a couple of years ago, I think, Paul and Rebecca, wouldn't it? Yeah. We're glad to have them back again. If it's possible, We know they're going to want to start by telling you a little bit about their precious son, Alex. And obviously, I never got a chance to meet Alex, but they've done such a beautiful job of always sharing about him. I feel almost as though that I got to know him precious. But we had two photos of Alex that we could display while they're talking about Alex at first. Is it possible to have those photos come up? Yeah. I'll put the first one up to meet one right? Okay. D? Yes. I can. All right. So, Paul and Rebecca, you want to start out maybe by talking about this young man who was a lover of animals? He did. He in ways he was his own doctor Do Lule because even our animals around here that may not be the easiest to get along with, like our cat that is kind of known for being contrary. She loved him. And he could always have he loved to be around animals and spent some time working at a zoo near here, as well as in a vet's office. This picture, he's holding a baby goat. We were visiting with some of Paul's brothers in laws, and they had baby goats. And this rarely with his age, Alex died when he was 22. 22. That's right. And so we don't have many pictures of him smiling because he was in that tough stage. And there was so much joy with him holding this baby goat that that's just that he couldn't hold it in. Wonderful. And I know there's one more picture, maybe we can bring that other picture. And And of course, Paul, I know we don't have a picture for this presentation of him with his big truck, always covered in the mud. But I always think of Alex that way. What you want to explain? Yeah. You might also notice to the left of Rebecca there. There's a third picture. He's always around in our house. This is we actually carved this picture out of a larger picture of him and his grandmother. He was a very photogenic child. His smile always brightened us up. H brightened up people's lives. And we actually did a presentation for Chas Memorial Hospital back in the spring, and this is the actual photo that we used for that event as well. Well, one of the things that is a little bit unique about Paul and Rebecca is that they wrote to all of Alex's recipients first. We always try really hard to make sure our donor families know that if they want to write first, they can, sometimes if you don't tell them that, they'll think they have to wait and see if the recipients write to them and answer back. But it's not right for all families to write first, but for those who do want to, they can. That is what the D Franks did. And they're also rather unique in that they have heard back from all of those recipients. Could all talk about that whole writing process. Do you remember the first time you heard back and how that felt and what it meant? Yeah. When you first mentioned that the desire to write, I think really overcame me because I was feeling the need to share with others who Alex was, not just some unknown random person who donated an organ, but he had life. He was precious to several people, everyone and his family. And his wes and his dislikes. All that was very important to want to share with the donor recipients. Well, and I think it was It was therapeutic because it wasn't just a kidney, a liver, a heart. He he was a young man. And so we wanted them to know a little bit about the person that he had been. And I think like I said, I think it was very therapeutic for us. Being a family who has lost a child, that's one of those things that you can't talk about with just anybody. And we wanted to share with these people, especially who he was. And it was you know, we didn't know what to expect. We didn't know who we would hear from. We heard from each of them, and each letter was very different. The first one that we received was very much a we appreciate the organ. You've given us more time together. And they shared a little bit about who they were, but we didn't feel like we came away knowing any more really than we did before. It was kind of a We did not expect for that relationship to continue. That was just kind of the tone of the letter. And that was okay. Then we started receiving other letters. The next two letters were one was kidney pancreas, and the other one was kidney. And those letters, the people shared who they were, what their situation was when when they got the call. And they shared a little bit of just like we had shared a little bit about who Alex was. And those were those were very meaningful. Then the last one that we received was from his heart recipient, and he was a young man and so it was more from his parents than he had also written a note in there as well. But we came away from those four letters, feeling very good with each one of them. The last three, we felt like we got to know the people a little more. And we have responded to all of those. So have replied, some have not, and that's been okay with us to let them kind of set what they wanted this to be like. And the one that probably the most profound impact on me was a kidney du Recipient. Kidney recipient, I've told the story before but I didn't really care that much about organ donation whatsoever. I didn't want to have thing to do with it. Certainly the process has changed my life in that regard. But when you get a letter from a recipient, who's talking about going to their treatments two or three times a week. This person was a newly wed, and yet she wasn't able to really live into her life in the way that she was because she was having to deal with this. And what this actually did for her life changed around so much. She had actually even was able to go back to school and complete a degree that she had been wanting to do for so long. That had a very profound impact on me. You know, Paul hearing you say that, and I was blessed to get to work with the De Franks on a video story about Alex. But I will always remember and I still right now, this has been a few years ago, but I still can remember when we did the interview, and I think the last sound that I used in the video was something that you said a Paul and you said I'm so glad that Alex checked the box and I'm a better person for it, or I'm better for it. Do you remember that, Rebecca? I remember him saying that I always tried to decide in those videos, what am I going to end with? There was something about that that was just so incredibly powerful. I think I will always remember it to my final day. Ya were. Y'all were and are just absolutely precious and you've done a beautiful job. Of everything that you do, including today. One quick question before we go on. I was curious and people may have questions for you, too. But I was curious because you all have talked about how the correspondence impacted Ja and Rebecca, you used the word therapeutic. What about Alex's sister? What did the correspondence in reading those stories mean to her? She was one of those that needed to set it aside for a time. She wasn't ready right then. It when she was ready, it was there and it came to mean as much to her as it did to us. But like you said, everyone responds differently, and that was her response was, I'm not ready yet. And I assume she's doing well. She is. Wonderful. Let's see. Where are we at with T? Maybe we should go ahead Samantha and give Shannon a chance to talk for a little bit and then we can open it up for questions from the recipients. Yes. I'd like to introduce Shannon Bishop, and she's the mother of our donor Andrew Bishop, a young man who passed last October, she is going to share with you about her experiences. Okay. I've never done this before, so be patient with me if I fumble through this. And Shannon, let her know when you want her to bring up either of those fabulous pictures of your son. If you want to start with the pictures, I'll give me something to start with. All right. This is my son Andrew. This actually was three months before he passed when he came home to visit from college. We had just gotten our first grandchild in April. He was coming and experienced being an uncle and this was him and his sister that went for some time alone, which I'm so happy now that they had that. During this trip, home, he had put his driver's license down on the counter. And my husband, who used to be a nurse, noticed that he had chosen to be an organ donor. And the whole family was sitting around the island when this conversation happened, and Andrew was very emphatic about, you know, if I can't use them and, you know, then by all means, I want to save someone else. So I mean, who has that conversation with their 20-year-old, you know, I can go to a long story about my beliefs on all that, but, you know, Andrew always was a giving spirit, and he volunteered countless hours in community service, you know, raised money through his, you know, college groups for leukemia and other things and originally wanted to be a doctor but took his first organic chemistry and decided that's way too much. So changed his mind a couple of times, but in the end, he chose economics, and when he had created his Linked in profile, it said helping the world one spreadsheet at a time. He always giving. So if you want to show the other picture? Yes. This is the picture that was used at his memorial and in the paper. He was he found the love of dance in high school and just, you know, skyrocketed in his talent and became a choreographer. He was, you know, in so many clubs, like I said, and he really found himself th dance. And another story about that is six months before his accident, he actually choreographed in our living room while we were sleeping because he was a night outw dance too, how do I say goodbye? Wow. And we my my daughter, his sister, found that on his tik tok after he passed. So anyway, I might cry on this part, but he was just such a beautiful soul. And I know he would be really proud that he was able to help other people. And as a family, it would mean so much to us if we could hear that he succeeded in that. And I guess I don't know where to go through that. So you've written to all of the recipients. Do you want to talk about that? Yes. I will agree at first. I did not write because I wasn't sure how they would receive it. And off so I was still working through it. Sorry. And then a couple of months later, we did receive a letter and it was so beautiful. And my husband came in all excited from the mail. You know, we just ripped it open. I mean, we didn't wait. We ripped it open. And the young woman who wrote us, I can tell you that her and Andrew would have been buddies for sure. Like they had a lot of the same similarities. She wrote the letter on Terry Blossom paper, which was his favorite flower. And, you know, there was just her line in there was that her life has not been very well because of her health and she had been separated from her family and a lot. And that she can only describe it as the love and light from our son was she didn't say son because she didn't know is the reason her life turned around? So it was beautiful. I did write back to her. I have not heard back again. I worry that I overwhelmed her because I just told everything about Andrew and included probably too many pictures. I don't know. So I don't know if I overwhelmed her. And the original letter, she said that she would love to one day meet us, so I'm hoping that that does happen. So after a couple of months, I then decided to write to the other recipients, but I have not heard back. That is really hard because you had to put yourself out there and not get anything. Even if it was just we're doing well. Thank you. It's something back. It's a little hard not to get it. But I also know that I have to respect their family and their wishes and things that go along on their end also. But I will say as I think the defunct said, it's a huge gift, and it is very therapeutic for those that had to do that walk. Thank you so much for sharing that way s. Thank you. Well, one of the things to keep in mind too is the different transplant centers are all different. And sometimes a recipient will write and certain transplant centers will hold, you know, for a certain period of time. They don't all do that. They're all different. So you know, I can only imagine how hard it is. Yeah to wait. Glad you received the one letter and that it was so beautiful. I'm amazed by your son's mind, which seemed or his spirit and soul. It just seems to be he was one of those people who's developed in every way, not just in certain ways. He was obviously artistic, but he was going to major in economics. It's like, Okay, we all there. What a beautiful soul. And there are probably some pictures somewhere around the D Franks Hung too of their son fishing because that was another one of his big loves. I guess we should stop for a minute and ask among the people who are listening patiently and intently on this presentation for any and all questions that you may have for Samantha or M or for Shannon or Paul or Rebecca, there's no question that's off limits if you've got anything you'd like to know. One of the other things that that Shannon mentioned it about the letter that you received where the recipient mentioned a hope for eventually meeting, and that's something that you also hope for. That direct contact is something that Samantha and I also work on, and that's like correspondence, it's a huge honor. There's a process for that just in case you're wondering about that. Again, all OPOs are going to be a little bit different. Our process is we ask for donor families and recipients to try to give it a year before They actually meet in person, and of course, during that time gives you time for the anonymous correspondence that goes back and forth and we ask the recipients to write twice and the donor family to write twice. They can write more than that obviously if they want to during that period, but those are the things we ask for when I explain that to donor families, I always say, I know that may sound like world life quest is a little bit controlling, hey, but we don't mean to be, we do mean to try to do anything we can to watch out for our donor families and the recipients as well to make sure that they've thought this through because that's a big deal to meet, and it can be beautiful and wonderful, but important to think it through and to be sure that on both sides, this is what you want and that you're ready now. If if you have that year and that you can move through some of the grief. After losing a child, the world will never be the same again. Life will never be exactly the same again, but to give yourself a little time and then to work through that and have thought about it. That's our process for direct contact. Doesn't always happen, but it does happen sometimes and it can be a powerful and very, very beautiful thing and an honor to work on. Paul Rebecca, Shannon, Samantha, what did we not go over? Well, I was just thinking that the letter from our 17-year-old heart recipient was not as as some of the others, being a little younger. I'm not sure that he was fully understanding Did he what was happening around him? He was just thrust into a situation. If that happens if they recipient feels that way. They need to feel comfortable that when you receive that letter from a donor family, that family is not asking anything other than just know what what your life is like. How did this change your life? Because it does matter on our end to that we are making a difference to that donor family. I have a question for both families because I get this often dealing with patients post transplant the recipient. Sometimes the recovery is a bit rough, and it's not necessarily a smooth transition after transplant? Would you be open to hearing that side, or do you only because I've had recipients tell me, I want to hold off because this has not been easy, so I want to make sure I'm in a good space before I write the families. It's like you don't want to deliver bad news twice. That's what I've been told. So how would you feel about hearing from a recipient where it might not have been a successful surgery. I think it's still I think I would still like to hear from them. Okay. And that is kind of a twofold. Yes, that transplant may not have been successful. We know they're not all successful. Yes. So that's kind of the thing we don't want to say, but that's the realities. But at the same time, that is just because The body rejects or for whatever reason, the transplant isn't successful, you've still had an impact on that person's life, and they've had an impact on yours. Okay. And so I think that just an acknowledgment, it does I don't think they have to to necessarily share that much. Okay. But They share what they're comfortable with. But if we got a letter that said, you know, it didn't work. It wasn't successful. I think we would still be glad to get it. And that person would still be an important part of our lives. Okay. I mean, we have four people wandering around out there that are very important to us. We have no idea what their names are. But that doesn't make of any less important. Thank you. I tend to agree. I think I would like to hear. I mean, you know, I also agree I don't know if I want all the ins and outs, but, you know, just that they're still fighting, that there's still a chance. Yeah. I suppose if it's a complete failure, we probably wouldn't get a letter either way. I guess it's still too fresh for me to know for sure. I know for sure. Okay. But I do feel like I would like to hear. I've heard from some donor families that it's just the unknown when they don't hear anything that you know they have no idea. What the outcome is, how the person's doing. Shannon's has shared, she just wants to know how they're doing, they've said something simple that thank you, and I'm doing well or recovery was rough and I'm still getting through it, or it's changed my life forever, and whatever degree of where you're at in your recovery. I think for a lot of families, the unknown is hard for them. And just hearing even just a tiny little bite size piece there. They cherish that. Thank you. And we have known several recipients. So we know it doesn't always go smoothly. So I guess that might be one reason that we would have been a little more prepared for something that didn't go well. But, you know, I think anything is good. Anything is better than nothing. The waiting. Okay. Thank you. That helps me when educating post trans plan about writing and encouraging the letters. Thank you. I'll definitely share that going forward. Well, in talking about this reminds me of the last time that or one of the last times that we did this presentation and Rebecca, you were there. I think Paul had a conflict and but And one of the members of the support group asked the question. I think his point or her point was that they were not long riders and really well worded and all of that. That wasn't natural for them. But that if they could just send a little something with a few words, would that be okay or what were they looking for? And it was Kimberly Weir, who was on that presentation. And she was just really, really, just totally completely honest and she said, we're looking for anything. She said, if it's a couple of words, thank you so much and that's it. She said, that's great. We're looking And, Kimberly is always very direct. Yeah. Well, and we hope we hope everything goes well for for all of the people who are in this gathering today because it's a combination right of people who have already been transplanted still waiting. Yeah. We have some people who are waiting. Usually after the transplant here at Mayo Clinic for kidney, because this is our kidney pancreas group. Usually at the four month mark, we meet with the patients for a post eval and at that time, we introduce and educate about writing your donor family. So that's how we do it with kidney pancreas. So yes, we educate, we provide the information. We do. We get a lot of patients that they just want to know what to say. They want guidance and as you said, Samantha, they sometimes don't know what to put and they struggle with what to include. This is wonderful information, so that I can pass along when discussing this with them post. Yes. If I can ask a quick question. Does the recipient the organizations that deal with the recipient, if someone is uncomfortable writing, is there any way that a family could just say, you know, you guys can give an update, cause when we first found out, we get the age and sex, you know, basically. But I know there's other kind of. We don't. I again, we have gotten letters, so that's wonderful to know when you write first. We get if patients are agreeable to receiving those that communication, we get it out to them right away. Like our team we communicate. The e mails are flying. Gosh, I had a patient who I called her one day. She's like, I didn't get the letter. I said, I called you yesterday. Like She wanted she's like, don't mail it. I'm coming to pick it up. She came into the clinic to get the letter. So she was so excited to be in touch, you know, with the Donor family. But unfortunately, no, you know, when they are struggling writing the letter, you know, we do provide education and guidance. And I always say, if nothing more, say, thank you, let them know that you're well. It can be one line. I said, I know if it were me, one line would be enough, just telling me thanks and that you're well. So I do provide that guidance, but we aren't allowed to actually communicate for them. Not here at Mayo. Okay. Well, one of the things that's wonderful about Mayo and the way you all work, which is just at the top level in terms of the caring and that you put into correspondence and direct contact and all of that. If we've got a question, we're able to get we work through Patty Enderle, but then we're able to get through to you all with our questions. If you have a recipient sometime down the road who is struggling a little bit with their health, but wants to send some kind of a card or letter or something encourage them. They can always ask you, Hey, I know that I'm not doing as well as I hope, at least not yet. Is it okay if I go ahead and write? Can I share some of that with the Donor family? Then you all know that you can always get ahold of Samantha and me any time. So So the members of your group should understand, I think, how fortunate they are to have y'all and the other coordinators and us. On our end. Yes, absolutely. Because we are happy to do anything we can. We'll jump over any kind of a hurdle or a hoop if it's possible to help our donor families and your recipients communicate in whatever way both sides wish for that's allowed. We'll do anything. Because it's a blessing. Really really. Very much so. It's appreciated. Your hard work is appreciated, I tell Patty, keeping all of the letters and the correspondence back and forth. When she's messaging us and letting us know the updates, it's always wonderful when we're able to make that connection for the families. So Absolutely. Does anyone have any questions in our group? I don't see anything in the chat. Anyone if you were uncomfortable chatting, you can always put something in the chat box or you can un mute yourself to speak if you have a question for either of our families or Pamela or Samantha. I wanted to share that. One thing I have noticed when I've read letters from recipients is quite frequently a recurring theme is that they start of the letter saying, I've wanted to write you, but I haven't known what to say, I haven't known where to start. That's completely understandable. Some recipients feel guilt because they're writing to a family who lost someone and they are you know, they're alive and the Donor families loved one isn't. And that's understandable, too. But I think as you can hear from the families here, that they're just just thrilled to hear from you, to hear anything. So if that's something that you're able to work through and still be able to write, I just know that they really appreciate it. All right. Well, if we don't have anything else, I want to thank you all. Pamela, Amantha, and special thank you to Shannon and the De Franks for sharing your stories about your loved ones and the beautiful pictures. Thank you very much for your time. This was very informative for me, and it's going to be helpful towards my work in the future with discussing this with the recipient family. I really appreciate this and enjoyed this. So thank you for the opportunity. Thank you. All right. Well, I will let everyone resume their Wednesday. Again. Thank you. And we hope to see you all next year. Thank you for this presentation. Thank you. You take care. Right. Everyone have a great day. Bye bye. Thank you. Bye bye. Bye.