Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today, we have the opportunity of visiting with Dr. Brittany Scruggs. She is an MD, PhD, and vitreo retinal surgeon here at the Mayo Clinic. We have the opportunity to talk about suture-less eye well fixation, in particular, the Yamani technique and a number of care tips along the way. Dr. Brittany Scruggs, MD, PhD, is a vitro retinal surgeon and scientist here at Mayo Clinic. Dr. Scruggs completed her ophthalmology residency at the University of Iowa, then did her vitro retinal surgery fellowship at KCI Institute in Oregon. Her clinical interests include pediatric and inherited retinal disease. Her research focuses on the optimization of gene therapy and cell-based therapy for improved safety and efficacy in patients with retinal degeneration. Welcome, Dr. Scruggs. We're so happy to have you. Thank you for having me. It's great to be here. We're excited to talk about one of your particular areas of forte and expertise, and that's when interactive lenses are placed in eyes that lack capture support. And I know there are a variety of different surgical options for people that are pursuing Iowa placement. You bring to the table some expertise that we've appreciated here at the Mayo Clinic. Share a little bit, before we get into your personal practice, share a little bit about the historical background to placing IOLs without capsular support or adequate support and lead us into what your preference is today. Sure. Thank you for the question. So there, as you know, there are many techniques and the need for this has been forever, right? There's always patients who come in with ocular trauma or the high myopes who potentially have zonular weakness or patients who have dislocation of their crystalline lens or potentially their intraocular lens gets dislocated. So the need has been longstanding. And techniques have been evolving since around the 1980s. And the technique and modifications are ongoing. So I'm going to preface the answer was saying, we are still figuring out how to best do this to decrease the complication rate and also increase the success of our surgeries. The 1980s is really when this started to become in vogue and paper started to be written on the topic, starting with discleral fixation using suture. And the suture type has also changed over the last few decades as we learn what works and what doesn't work right and some sutures seem to work better than others and so tinoproline has been used for a long time you know that was one of the first papers that was written and we've kind of found in the last decade that that might be a little bit too thin and those lenses are tending to dislocate I think we'll find more and more over the next 10 years that that's probably accurate and so people are now starting to do thicker sutures maybe 9-0 proline or gore-tex which is a really thick more like rope-like suture and then other people are going suture-less to kind of decrease the complication rates that you you would see with suture lenses i want to go over all the different techniques that can be done if that's okay there's a there's a lot to kind of talk about here. So when you put a lens in the eye without capsular support, you have to think, does the patient have an iris? Do they have iris support? And if so, that could be a way that you fixate the lens. You can actually fixate it to the iris itself using suture or using new lenses that can actually clip onto the iris. If there's no iris support or if you want to scleral fixate it, there are different ways to do that as well. And so like I said over time the modifications have allowed us to kind of have techniques that are that are better from a long-term standpoint and one of the modifications is the lens itself and actually having eyelets where you can suture directly to the lens. Another modification is how we actually do the surgery and so in addition to using suture some people are doing suture-less and what that means is you're putting the haptics outside of the eye and either scleral fixating it into a scleral tunnel you can actually put a flap on top of the haptic or you you can externalize the haptic and cauterize the haptic there are different techniques of gluing the haptics as well you can use fiber and glue and so honestly all of these techniques are appropriate and can be used at different times and a lot of people um pick one technique and get really good at that technique because there's a learning curve which with each type of technique and modification that you use in your practice so with that said the yamani technique is a newer technique um written about starting in about 2014 and even that technique has been modified over the last few years and the yamani technique is where you externalize the haptics of a three-piece lens then you cauterize the ends and because you cauterize it it can't get back into the eye and so it's kind of stuck inside of the scleral tunnels and so the modification that i prefer is actually using 27 gauge trocars so it is an interesting technique kind of marries the yamani technique with the technique that was written by printer and colleagues it's a long -standing technique where you use trocar scleral tunnels and you externalize the haptics so kind of marrying the two techniques the 27 gauge is a really thin scleral tunnel and allows you to put instruments through the trocar such as max grip forcep or something that can actually grab the haptic inside of the eye versus tucking it inside of a needle. So there are some advantages both ways. But that's my go-to technique right now. And what IOL platform are you using? Yeah, so good question. So there are lots of IOLs that one can use. So when I do Yamani, I like the CT Lucia 602. I think it's a beautiful lens and the haptics are the PVDF haptics. So they are stronger they're stronger they're flexible they go kind of right back to shape versus being bent and then you have a haptic that pretend potentially like is stretched which can increase your decentration or your tilt of your lens so these haptics really jump back right to where their original shape was which is great for keeping the lens centered and that's an important um point i think because when you use um this technique depends on the iol you choose because some iols like the ct lucia or the mx60e it's a two-point fixation um versus like the acryos four point right so you're going to be better centered just by picking that lens alone because you have more fixation um so the lens type is important if you do a two-point fixation which is my preference you have to be extremely precise right you need to make sure your measurements are perfect and that you're 180 degrees away that your scleral tunnels are perfect that the placement posterior to the lembus is exactly the same on either side if there's any change in precision or inaccuracy there will be a tilt or decentration which changes not only their refractive error but it also increases the higher order aberrations, which decreases the quality of vision for our patients. So with that said, I also do sutured IOLs. And there are lots of IOLs that you can use. So Gore-Tex is definitely my go -to suture. I think it's stronger than proline. And at least the short-term data that we have is pretty good. So the lens that I like is the MX-60E, the Invista lens. There are other types of lenses. CZ70BD is a good lens, but it's a PMMA lens. So for those, you have to do a scleral tunnel. That's pretty large. All of these have advantages and disadvantages. And so I think the most important is that you get good at maybe one or two really, you know, excellent techniques and go through the learning curve. Takes at least 15 or 20 cases to really see a lot of the complications and work through those. Yeah, just in reading about this, I didn't know a lot about IOL fixation or the Ioani technique, really anything. And just in reading about it, it sounds like that learning curve is major. And that's kind of the biggest step to get over when you're first learning it. I'm curious too, because you're a vitreo retinal surgeon, how often are you seeing retina specialists do these types of fixated IOLs versus ant seg and is there a trend where ant seg surgeons are doing more of this or less and leaving it to retina like you said you're using trocars do you have to do vitrectomy kind of where's the distinction there yeah it's a great question i think it's institution specific actually i know it is because i've trained it now for different institutions um every institution does it differently and some people do combined approaches right where the anterior segment team will actually place the IOL and do either the sutured or suture-less fixation and the retina team will do the vitrectomy. Other anterior segment surgeons feel comfortable enough to do a really good anterior vitrectomy. You always have to do a vitrectomy? You always need to do a good anterior vitrectomy without a doubt. Anterior, yeah. If you don't do a good vitrectomy, potentially when you are putting your instruments in and out of the eye you're manipulating the vitreous there's definitely a high risk of vitreo retinal adhesions and pooling and tears and detachments and that was a big complication at the beginning like back in the 80s and 90s that's what we were seeing is you know the retina was not super happy with tugging and traction right so um at the institutions i've trained especially my fellowship at kci institute we always do a full vitrectomy and so that is my practice is that anytime I put a secondary IOL, I do a full vitrectomy, posterior pars point of vitrectomy, make sure that there's no traction, and then I place the lens. Okay. This might be a silly question, but are you ever doing these as primary IOLs? Do you ever do a FACO and then a scleral fixated IOL? Does that ever happen? Is this always secondary? It's a good question. So if there is known, you know, phacodinesis, then potentially you would go straight to Linzectomy. Like in bad pseudo -X or something. Bad pseudo-X, exactly. Maybe Marfan or some situation where it's more of a, not a cataract situation, but a subluxation situation. Exactly. That makes sense. Those are the ones I worry about the most, especially not having complete vitrectomy. So many of these eyes have either been badly traumatized or have some sort of connective tissue abnormality that puts them at risk of retinal detachments. And the Marfan group in particular, when you look at lifetime retinal detachment risk, which I'd say some of them aren't, it's hard to find that data, but it's quite alarmingly high. There was recently a database review in California looking at billing codes that said the risk of retinal detachment in that cohort was 5% long -term risk of retinal detachment. And I think that's the part that I've come to appreciate the valuable role of having you on our service or in a retina team that's comfortable doing these because the safety profile of doing a complete vitrectomy, making sure any peripheral retinal disease is addressed, lasered, attended to, in addition to suturing or gluing or Yamani, to me adds a comfort that I appreciate as a care provider. So your sense, though, is there's, you know, a good number that do it either with a combined approach or retina. Is it a trend that's shifting in that direction or is there still a largely, you know, different opinions on whether you need more of an anterior vitrectomy versus complete? Yeah, I do believe there's a trend to retina surgeons doing at least a full vitrectomy. As you know, there are interior segment surgeons who are kind of trained in both. right that's less common these days um with you know newer newer surgeons coming right out of fellowship they maybe aren't comfortable with vitrectomies um like older surgeons are so i do think that the trend will be for either combined cases or retina surgeons doing the majority of these cases which is what here at the male clinics it's shifted to traditionally we had these were done in a combined way with anterior segment and retina and now you know matt star and you are two shining stars that are relatively new in our retina department are leading this effort in the service i don't i'm not aware that we do them combined anymore now in that way yeah i i have only done one combined surgery and it was because the patient needed a corneal transplant at the same time sure that'll do it that will do it i can't do that yeah do you have an algorithm that you go through when you're deciding what technique for suture or for scleral fixation you want to use suture versus sutureless or is everybody you have kind of one way is there a certain patient who's better for you money versus better for Gore-Tex yeah I think that's a good question I think you have to look at the the sclera and determine how thin their sclera is it also depends on age so I am not comfortable yet doing you money and children. So we have a case coming up where I'll be doing a scleral fixated lens using suture for a child. And I think over time when we have more data, I think Umani probably will be fine for children. And I've done it for teenagers and they've done fine. But again, it's only a few years out so i think time will tell but yes in a patient who has thin sclera potentially is at risk of the haptic being internalized i think the sutured fixation is the better approach however with patients who get the sutured fixation they need to be counseled really well the suture related complications right so sutures can be um prone to endophthalmitis breaking rubbing through the conge and so the technique needs to be perfect very accurate so you're burying your knots you're making sure that they have good conge closure and again if they don't have good conge maybe you need to change your approach maybe you shouldn't do a scleral fixated lens at all you could potentially especially with older patients go more to like an ACIOL if they have iris support and that just allows you to slip it right in and use that as a a way to put it right in there. And those patients have great vision outcomes. So I think that's something to not forget that we can do AC IOLs as well. Sure. Tricky thought process. You bring up some suture related complications. Certainly there's, you know, malpositioning, tilt, iris capture, other things that have been described with this procedure or these techniques. What are the tips you've learned over sort of basic positioning and securing? You mentioned suture bearing are there other things you've changed in your practice to help ensure you mentioned you also talked about perfect measurements which yeah we're all perfectionists yes exactly so share with anything in particular you've you've come to appreciate as new tips or pearls to help protect your outcomes yes and we're all modifying our techniques so the things i'm about to tell you i wish i knew three years ago you know um and the same thing with the Yamani technique, when it was first published, even the measurements that were published in that first paper in ophthalmology are completely different than what are now used in the Yamani technique. For instance, the distance back from the limbus. And so in the original paper, it was 1.7 millimeters. I personally found that in my hands, 2.5 is the best. Dr. Starr uses 3.0. So there's a wide range there. Obviously, you don't want to go too close to the retina too close to the iris but there's that sweet spot in your hands where you kind of know what your outcome is going to be from a refractive standpoint but it also helps you not have that optic capture which is a real complication especially when you are have a complete vitrectomy and so for me 2.5 posterior to the limbus on either side making sure that you really spend a lot of time making sure you're 180 degrees away from each other for your scleral tunnels and so doing a really good torque marking making sure that your light reflex right in the center of the cornea is perfect and then just double checking your marks I double and triple check marks and then you know some people go straight through the conch and that is definitely appropriate and I try to do that when I can but oftentimes you're removing an intraocular lens and doing an IOL exchange and oftentimes you have to remove that with a scleral tunnel so I actually will open the conjunctiva cauterize give myself really good visualization do a good scleral tunnel and then mark right on to the sclera and there's no fault in doing that so opening the conch getting your good visualization is is fine and some people are scared to open conch because they think they're going to mess up the surgery. As long as you have a good closure over your haptics, you're completely fine with that. Which quadrants do you target the most? Yeah, so it depends. As a retina surgeon, I like to operate superiorly, right? So most of the time, my haptics will be at three and nine, maybe a little bit off, so I'm not directly at three and nine. But sometimes I will operate temporarily, and it goes back to where the sclera is the best. I'm looking at thickest the healthiest the conge is the thickest there's a thin area of conge temporally and nasally i will actually operate temporally even as a retina surgeon um and and that's fine too i know a lot of the anterior segment surgeons here they sit temporally and so their haptics are going to be externalized at 12 and 6 um honestly i think the outcomes are you know are fine either way and I've done it both ways and they work out fine. So another thing that I wanted to mention that I've learned over the over time is when you do a thorough vitrectomy you're at risk of having reverse pupillary block just because you're having more fluid come from the posterior chamber into the anterior chamber and so it's imperative to do a PI. So I always do a PI as a retina surgeon I put it at six but honestly you could put it anywhere as long as it stays patent but i have seen that and if you see that at post-op a1 or week one do an lpi in clinic if that's not you know your practice pattern but it now is every time intraoperatively i just use my vitrector go in through the main wound make a tiny little pi and then i'm done i never have complications from that anymore and then the tilt and decentration is a real thing it can happen especially when you only have two point fixation and so looking at the end of the case and being honest with yourself if you see a tilt now it's going to be there in the post-op setting right and so don't be scared to take out one of your haptics redo the scleral tunnel exactly like you need to fix the problem and then get the job done right five five degree of tilt is going to change the refractive error. That's not very much. 15 degree of tilt or more is going to really cause the patient problems long term. So do it right in the moment. And that's a good thing is most of these changes and manipulations of a lens can be done intraoperatively. It's very rare that I have a complication after surgery that I could not have fixed intraoperatively. When you're thinking about refractive outcomes and not just based on the technique, do you change your IOL selection at all or account for that? Absolutely. So because I go 2.5 millimeters back, I try to target around minus one diopter in the bag calculation. I try to lean way away from a hyperopic surprise. Okay. So even if I have a little bit of myopia, that's better than having, you know. And I'm sure you just counsel the patients. Do you adjust it with different powers of IOLs or pretty much minus one on each of them so my go-to lens is the c2 lucia and i have found that when i do minus one at that 2.5 millimeters i pretty much get consistent close to minus 0.5 as their outcome and that's that's my go -to that's great yeah torque do you do you try to avoid them or do you is it still an option that you've performed successfully yeah so you dr star has recently gotten into the scleral fixation of toric lenses so much that i will start trying it soon but that's not something that i've done so far to date you know it's relatively a new a new thing but yes you can scleral fixate a toric lens lots of moving parts that makes me nervous just hearing about it that is really important to get the measurements correct of course um so yeah it's exciting very exciting lots of innovation i love it and it's so interesting to see how things have come from just a few years ago honestly and where where we're headed in the future it's very exciting I gotta say that the hot temp or the low temp burning the haptics makes me very nervous why I don't know it sounds so imprecise does it I have to see it I have to see it to make it happen yeah I can show you a video I cauterized the in like one millimeter okay so it is still precise and it makes it it makes it flat like a ******. So it just sits flat on the sclera. It's perfect. So you actually don't want it to sit on the sclera. You actually want to tuck it a little bit into the tunnel. Got it. All right. So it's actually sitting in and then the conjures over it and it's not being rubbed. And the CT Lucia, the reason it's such a beautiful lens is because the haptic really does fit really nicely inside of the scleral tunnel and it has decreased risk of conjure erosion over time. That's good. And probably decreased risk of endothelmitis. Absolutely. Especially if you're using a really, really small squirrel tunnel so the yamani technique is done right now in most people's hands with the ultra thin 30 gauge and so um that's a beautiful technique and i do that as well um i do that if i want to mix it up a little bit or teach the fellow and i also just think it's fun to do but yeah you just kind of tuck your taptic into the into the needle it fits really nicely and then when it comes out your scleral tunnel is made for you is made for you exactly um and it's impossible for that to internalize that's terrific yeah brilliant well thank you this has been a joy to learn uh as you mentioned how there's been a journey and continues to be so as we help these patients thank you for your role here on our team and for sharing with us today yeah thank you so much dr scruggs that was great yeah thanks for letting me be here you can find all episodes of the mayo clinic ophthalmology podcast on our website thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more