I am Horacio Asbun, Chief of General Surgery, Director of the Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Program, and basically a pancreatic and liver surgeon at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida. Pancreatic cancer unfortunately has a poor prognosis in general. The main treatments for pancreatic cancer are surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. Surgery offers the greatest chance of a cure, in fact, the only chance of a cure. The other two, although important, are adjunctive treatments for cancer. Pancreatic surgery can be performed via open surgery, which is the traditional method, or laparoscopically, which is minimally invasive. Laparoscopy means that we insert a telescope with a camera, and next to it, we place several what we call trocars, which are access channels, generally between half a centimeter and one centimeter in length. Through these, we perform the operation with the image displayed on a screen. The difference is that a large incision or wound is not made; instead, the entire procedure is closed. It is important again to distinguish between tumors on the left side, which we will call a distal pancreatectomy, and tumors on the right side, which we will call a distal pancreatectomy.  It's called the Whipple procedure, and we'll show the diagrams later to make it clearer. But the left side definitely requires laparoscopy; it's been shown that there's a greater advantage since patients recover much faster, go home sooner, can eat sooner, and return to their normal activities. And of course, since there's no large incision, there's much less pain. The left side should be done laparoscopically nowadays, with some exceptions. The right side, or the Whipple procedure, is different because in that case, we're not just relying on a shorter recovery; there are other, more complex aspects of the procedure that make the recovery even longer. As I said before, there's the reconstruction—reconnecting the bile ducts or the digestive tract to be able to reconstruct, which the left side doesn't have. So, if you're going to do it laparoscopically on the right side, you have to ensure not only that the patient goes home a little sooner, but also that the procedure is better than the open one. And that can be achieved in select patients, not all of them, and you have to decide who those patients are.  Well, and in whom do n't we? At our center, the Mayo Clinic, what we do is individualize treatment according to the patient. We don't treat the patient as just another tumor; instead, we try to put our entire multidisciplinary team together to determine the best treatment for that patient. What is the best surgery, and do we have to start with chemotherapy first and then see if surgery is possible, or do we go directly to surgery? How do we do this? We do it by presenting each patient to what we call the Pancreatic Tumor Board. Every week, all of us in the group meet—oncological surgeons, radiologists, interventional radiologists, gastroenterologists, interventional gastroenterologists, and oncological radiologists. We present all the patients, and the decision is made patient by patient. So, what happens is that you don't just have the opinion of one doctor who is a leader in their field, but you have the opinion of a group of doctors. And even though I might feel very good and that I can make the decision without any doubt, having a group of doctors whom I respect and who are highly respected in their field is much better for the patient than having one good doctor make the decision.  I've been talking a bit about the clinical side of our institution here at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville. We also have a very strong group of basic science researchers in pancreatic cancer. We not only have them, but we interact with them, which isn't so common—a very strong interaction between clinicians and basic scientists. Right now, for example, we have several gastroenterology projects. They're taking tests on the fluid that the pancreas produces to look for markers to predict whether or not there's cancer, and what type of cancer. We're sending a piece of the specimen we take from the tumor after surgery to the lab, and they implant it in different ways to create and do a genetic study, a marker study, and also see the tumor's behavior. The goal is that in the future we can make changes to the treatment, the type of chemotherapy, or what we 're doing, according to how that tumor is behaving in our experiments. This way we can individualize the treatment, not only the clinical aspect but also the research aspect, and affect the treatment we give the patient according to how the tumor is behaving.  We're not doing those routinely right now, but we're close to starting. When a patient has pancreatic cancer, they have to worry about the things they can control, and unfortunately, the prognosis isn't very good for most patients. But there is a group of patients who can be cured. So, while the patient can't control whether they'll be cured or not, they can control their health by educating themselves about the disease and where these procedures are routinely performed. Because even though these procedures are complex, there are institutions like ours where this is a routine procedure. They educate themselves about what they want done, where, and when. Today, individuals really have a lot of power to educate themselves thanks to the internet and the media. It's not difficult to access information and find out what a patient wants and what they can do to receive the best possible treatment. So, definitely the best advice I can give to a patient who has just received this diagnosis is to educate themselves, not to become confused and bitter because of things they find on the internet, but to be able to focus on what they read and where they want to go.