Welcome to Mayo Clinic in Arizona, where excellence in healthcare is our hallmark. Every year, people from all over the world embark on a healing journey to our renowned Mayo Clinic locations in Arizona, Florida, and Minnesota. Today, we invite you to discover why Mayo Clinic is a respected leader in healthcare worldwide. At Mayo Clinic in Arizona, we understand that traveling for medical care can be challenging. That's why we're here to guide you every step of the way. We have a dedicated International Patient Center who will be your guide within our comprehensive medical system. When we receive your appointment request through our website, by phone, or by email, a dedicated representative from our International Patient Center will contact you immediately to begin your Mayo Clinic experience. This is how your Mayo Clinic journey begins. We will provide you with the necessary documentation to enroll in our system and request your medical records and images, ensuring a thorough understanding of your diagnosis and symptoms. Rest assured, your case will be reviewed promptly by world-renowned medical specialists, and your treatment will begin.  Your medical records will be reviewed by our expert team as soon as we receive them. This review typically takes five working days. Once our medical teams approve your case, we will proceed with the appointment scheduling process. We will work closely with you to coordinate an appointment that fits your schedule and individual needs. We will also assist you in setting up your patient portal, an application where you will find all the essential information you need for appointments. Upon arrival at our prestigious campus, you will be welcomed by experienced international patient coordinators who will guide you and are ready to answer any questions you may have and help you schedule any additional appointments you may need. In addition, we have a team of interpreters ready to make your visit as comfortable as possible. This team provides interpretation both in person and virtually. At U Clinic, we are committed to providing a world-class patient experience. Your health and well-being are our top priorities. We are committed to ensuring you receive the best possible healthcare.  A welcoming and supportive environment. We look forward to meeting you and exploring pathways to health and wellness at the Mayo Clinic in Arizona, where compassion and advanced medical care are paramount.