Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today we are joined by Dr. Christopher Camp, a sports medicine surgeon here at Mayo Clinic who leads a physician initiative called the Mayo Clinic Human Optimization Project. Tune in to hear how to live intentionally, consistently, and better. Dr. Christopher Camp is a sports medicine surgeon here at the Mayo Clinic, where he treats athletes of all ages and serves as fellowship director. His clinical practice focuses on the treatment of shoulder, knee, and elbow injuries in athletes. He is currently the medical director and the director of high performance for the Minnesota Twins baseball team. He is the creator and the host of the Mayo Clinic Human Andrea and I feel that this project is something that you as an ophthalmologist could learn from and benefit from through Dr. Kamp's expertise. Welcome, Dr. Christopher Kamp. Thank you so much for having me. I'm excited to be here. I love talking about this, so really looking forward to the discussion today. Well, before we get to being optimized, I have to say I have a slight conflict of interest in the sense of I was optimized by this guy with rotator cuff surgery about five months ago, And I'm proud to say with video evidence, expertise, I definitely personally was touched by his optimization and encouraged by this totally different topic today having to do with optimizing our lives in an area that you have some expertise in. But before we get there, can you walk us back? How did you get here in terms of your role and what you do and why human optimization became part of your language recently? Sure. I'm a sports medicine surgeon, so I operate on shoulder, elbow, and knee. I'm glad your shoulder's doing well. It's nice to get one right every now and then, so I'm glad that worked out. Outside of my clinical practice, I do a lot of research on injury prevention and injury management, but also serve as the director of high performance for the twins. That's a unique role in that it goes a little bit beyond just the medical side of things. I'm involved in all aspects of performance, so strength and conditioning, nutrition, sleep hygiene, mental skills massage therapy and even some of our research and analytics so in that role i've learned a lot about how we can improve physical performance uh for for a professional athlete also within the residency i'm also the associate program director for the residency about five or six years ago we created a leadership curriculum for them where we talked about all these different cognitive topics of leadership so how to manage your ego and deal with others and be more productive And so those were sort of the mental sides of performance. And I've really realized over the last five or six years of doing this that you can't separate the physical from the mental. And so trying to put those together is something that we've been needing to do for a while. And ultimately, this project, the Human Optimization Project, is our effort to do that. I think this is so exciting. I'm a performance nerd, if I'm allowed to say that. I listen to all the performance podcasts, read all the performance books. It's just always been an interest of mine. So I think this is amazing that you're not only doing it for your medical practice, but now you've expanded it to residents and others in medicine and then reaching the whole kind of population in lots of different domains. Can you give us just a summary about your vision for the different domains of the Human Optimization Project and what it's all going to include? Because it's not just physical, like you said, but there's lots of different aspects of it. Yeah, absolutely. So there's a lot of different ways you can define performance, you can define these domains. But the way we're looking at it is we have it broken down into 10 different domains. So sleep, nutrition, physical health, exercise, well being, cognitive skills, leadership, productivity, personal growth, and social and interpersonal relationships. I think that's 10. within each of those 10 we then have a lot of specific topics that we're hoping to cover underneath those and so honestly we have about 30 topics for each of those domains so if we keep going in the end the hope is to have three to four hundred or so topics that we're going to end up covering and i think it's helpful doing it this way because one of the obstacles that i think a lot of us face in this space is that we often try to separate these domains out and we say all right I just want to work on this one thing or I just look at look at this one area of my life not realizing how interconnected all of those domains are and really out of those 10 that I named every single domain touches the other nine domains and so if a great example is sleep you know if you're not sleeping well that's going to affect your ability to be a leader that's going affect your social relationships and your interpersonal skills same thing if you look at wellness if your wellness is not where it needs to be that's probably going to negatively impact your nutrition and and so every one of them touches every other area and unfortunately that means that if we're really struggling in one of those domains that it may have a negative impact on all of the other domains which at the outset can sound a little bit disheartening and you think well this is hopeless i'll never i'll never get better right what am i going to do but actually i like to look at the look at it the other way around and that if you can make even small marginal improvements in one area then that will have a positive impact in all of the others so you can kind of choose how you want to look at it i think that if you take the negative then that will sort of give you a very concerned negative pessimistic doomsday look well i'm just not going to do anything. You're right. It's daunting. If you can look at it in the positive, you think, wait a minute, if I can make one change, it'll have ripple effects. And then that can be incredibly motivating and helpful. Who's the main, main target for the project? The target audience is any human looking to improve. Wow. So that's who we're going after. It's not a medical audience specifically. And it's not meant for just elite athletes. It's not just leaders. It's not just CEOs. I think one of the greatest benefits that I've been able to experience is that I work at Mayo Clinic with excellent people like yourselves. I've spent a lot of time with professional athletes and leaders and executives, and I've learned so much from all of them for a long period of time. But I recognize oftentimes the resources that we have and these other folks have that they're not available to the masses. And so part of what we're trying to do with this is take all of this wisdom and knowledge and distill it down into a format that's helpful and consumable for everybody and then make it available to a much broader group of people. We were talking earlier about just the challenges in working on different areas. I think when you look at these domains, and I think most of us that are trying to be high performance in lots of areas can appreciate, oh, yeah, I'm doing pretty well there, I'm not doing as well here, but what are the consistent barriers you see? In this way, you rolled it out to residents first, and I understand it's expanding to physicians here at Mayo and then a broader audience beyond. What are the most common barriers, either getting people to listen to this information, or when they come to the table and say, oh yeah, I have a problem, this has been my pattern in the past. Before we talk about opportunities for change, what are the barriers you see in people's lives that leave these buckets unattended? So I think there are a lot. One of we mentioned is access to information. We talked about that, but that's getting better. There's more information out there now than there's ever been. But one of the downsides of that is that there's also a lot of misinformation out there. And it can be really challenging for people to sort through what's real, what's not real, what's the hype, what are the things I really need to focus on. So I think overwhelming information or misinformation is a huge barrier for a lot of people. Another barrier is that most of our knowledge in all of these spaces is siloed. So let's say you want to improve your nutrition. Well, you can do that. People know how to do that. You can go read these books, listen to these podcasts, watch these videos, talk to a nutritionist or a dietician or a physician. There are all these resources and things that you can do to get better in this one area of your life. So you can do that. And it takes a lot of work, but you can do that. then let's say you want to improve your your social and interpersonal skills okay you have to put all of that down and then I've got to go over here and now I have to find new teachers and books and podcasts and information and so the the information is siloed and sometimes the amount of friction it takes for us to move from one side to the other is enough to keep us from doing it so oftentimes we'll just stay in the one domain say you know what I've got this figured out And we all know people in our lives who you look at those 10 domains and maybe they're really strong in one area and they just continue to lean into that area and they neglect all of the others because the burden to get started in these other areas is really high. So I think that's one of the problems as well. So that's one of the reasons we're trying to put everything together in one resource. Another problem, probably the third problem that I see is that a lot of people have not done a good enough job defining what their goals are what their purpose their mission and what success looks like for them so we're we're it's so easy for us to adopt other people's definition of success or look at what other people are doing in a large scale and a small scale and you see it all the time say well now my friend is doing this diet or everybody's taking this supplement or this is the new sleep trend or this is the new whatever and people just immediately say well if everybody else is doing i need to be doing it too right and we see our children do that and we don't let them we tell them not to do that but then we do it ourselves so part of it is we haven't done a good job of individuals saying this is what is meaningful and important to me and so therefore i'm going to develop a plan that is consistent with that i think one of the challenges that you hit on is the misinformation and the overwhelm because when I think about if I want to optimize my situation, it's like, okay, I've got to get eight to nine hours of sleep, but then when I wake up I need to have time to meditate and read and have some spirituality and work on my faith, and then I need to eat a high-protein breakfast, but it can't be too many calories, and then I have to be a surgeon all day, and I also have to be a mom and spend time with my kids, but I need community, so I have to spend time with my friends and family, but I also have to lift weights, and I need cardio too, but I don't need too much. It's like, oh, but then I also want to read some literature, to enrich my brain, and then I still have to go to bed by nine o'clock, and it's just impossible. And then it's like, well, when am I gonna add in red light therapy, and cold plunge, and sauna? It's ridiculous, and there's just not, it's overwhelming just to even think about the optimization in general, and then distilling it down to think, okay, but actually, what are the things that are meaningful to me, and what is my purpose in life? and then how can I optimize to keep to push me on the direction that is filling my cup in the meaningful way it sounds simple but you need a guide so is that what the project is going to do is it going to guide you because I need someone to tell me there's too many things to do these are the things that are going to optimize you the best or be the most meaningful for your goals Yeah, that is our ultimate goal. And you're right. All of that excess information or misinformation is paralyzing. It is. And the whole concept of human optimization, at least how I define it, the bar for human performance is higher than it's ever been. So we all feel like we need to do more just to keep up. At the same time, though, we recognize the importance of sleep, rest, recovery, well -being. And so we're also being told to do less yes at the same time i've heard you talk about this and i love this it's total cognitive dissonance do more and do less our heads are spinning so our heads are spinning and because of that we actually are doing things and we don't know if we're getting better or worse right and you depending on how you look at it i might i might think this particular activity is making me better but if i switch my lens i might think no it's actually making me worse and we're so confused we don't know for making progress. So the way I define human optimization is the ability to do and achieve more while improving your well-being. But the key to that is the term more is 100% up to the individual. So you have to define what more is to you. What is the more that you want to work on that you want to get better? And it's going to be different for you, and it's for me. Each of us kind of have our own. So one of the things that we want to do in this project is get people to understand that but then help them put them on a road or give them the roadmap that they need to define what that more is for themselves so the way we do that is you really have to start and you kind of have to look internal and know thyself so you have to determine what what are your values and what's important to you what is your purpose and what is your mission and your vision going to be so i can't tell that to you No, nobody can tell you that. And people try, but they shouldn't. You have to determine that yourself. So we want to give people the tools that they need to do that. Then once you figure that out, then that can help give a lot of clarity through all of this information that you have. So I encourage people first to do that, to try to know themselves. And then second, I think we have to look at all of this information as tools to put in the toolbox. But as a surgeon, you know, you have a lot of tools on the back table you don't use all of them for every case and you know which ones you're going to need but sometimes things happen surprises come up and you might need that tool that's sitting back that you didn't expect you're going to use all of this information you don't have to sort it out you do not have to have all of the answers you just say okay that's interesting that's a tool I'm going to put that in the toolbox and then later if at some point in my life I feel like I'm struggling with this and I need that then I'll pull it out and use it. But many of us feel the need to use all of these tools at the same time because we hear that everybody else is doing and it's overwhelming. I want to ask about burnout because this happened to me a week or two ago and I posted on Instagram and I got some really interesting comments and it made me reflect and I thought you would really have some good insight into this. Okay, so I had a really hard day and I was walking to my car thinking like, man, that was a really rough day and then this other voice came into my head and was like no it wasn't that bad like come on it actually was not that bad it was fine it was actually not that bad and then I second guess myself and I think well maybe it wasn't that actually it wasn't that bad okay you're it wasn't that bad it's fine and then by the time I get to my car I'm like I'm fine and I posted this like funny discourse that I had in my head on Instagram and all these people commented and said that's such a medical thing to do we gaslight ourselves into denying how hard our experiences actually are and we we just blow it off and it's like no no i actually did have a hard day but i it's easier for me to just quote unquote gaslight myself and say no it wasn't really that hard you're fine and i wonder how burnout comes into play when we're denying our true experience. Some of it, I think, is probably a good coping mechanism, and it's probably better to try to blow it off. And maybe, is that a defense, or is that perpetuating burnout? That's my question. I think yes and yes, to both of those, to be honest with you. So burnout, I'm one of the rare people. I love talking about burnout. I love it. I love it. So if you think about the real definition of burnout, and there's a few of them out there, they're all some sort of variation of burnout is a cognitive state of emotional, physical, and mental exhaustion due to prolonged stress. That's sort of the rough definition. You're overwhelmed by life circumstances. And I think that's good. I think it's true. But the way I like to think about burnout is in a different framework. So I actually think about stress as one part of the equation. and then here's some simple math, but I think about it as burnout equals stress divided by progress and purpose. So progress and purpose are in the denominator. So that means they have a reciprocal effect. So if you have less progress and purpose, your burnout goes up. And then the opposite, you know, if you increase your progress and your purpose. And so I think about burnout in that way so to getting to your question when you say okay i had this really difficult day no i didn't i'm just you know i'm being weak um you know i'm i need to push through i need it i i actually think that that is probably not the healthiest strategy sometimes short term that's incredibly helpful right i have this problem i don't have the capacity to work through to deal with it now so i'm going to bury it deep down or i'm going to ignore it i'm going to deny it short term that can be incredibly helpful and maybe you need to do that if you're heading into an important meeting or something you just have to put some on the back burner but ultimately if you don't address that it's going to come out and it's going to come out in a ***** way so i think rather than doing that you're actually better to lean into and say you know what that day was really challenging it was really tough but the thing that we often do is we we look at the stressful part of it which is in the numerator of the equation and we say how can i reduce the stress in reality in our world you usually can't. Like what we do in the medical field and surgery, it's always going to be stressful. It's really challenging for us to eliminate the stress. So that part, we should try to improve that, but it is really difficult. What we can do is a much better job of appreciating the progress that we're making and tying it back to our purpose. So in that day, you could say that was a really terrible day. It was awful. And you know, here are the five things that went wrong, but you know what i learned how not to handle a meeting or i learned the mistake not to make and so if i can look back and say each of these things that was painful but it is going to help me make progress towards my ultimate goal so if you can find the progress in that challenge i think that's really helpful and if you can also tie it back to your purpose you can say you know that was really really challenging but ultimately my purpose here is to help patients and and try to you know eliminate disease in the world and i think that i did do that today i it it wasn't the easiest way and maybe i wasted a lot of time but i did make some some strides on on serving out my purpose so i think tying it back to that can be helpful and then the last thing i'll say about burnout is we one of the reasons we gaslight ourselves is because we don't want to admit that we're burned out. And I think about burnout as not a yes or no equation. So we tend to look at it either I am burned out or I'm not burned out as a yes or no. And if I'm not burned out, then I don't have to make any changes in my life. We often do that. So I actually think of burnout as lying on a spectrum. And on one end of the spectrum, you have burnout, collapse, complete exhaustion. On the other end of the spectrum, you have absolute joy and thriving. So rather than us asking ourselves am i burned out yes or no we should say am i moving towards joy and thriving because if we just ask the yes or no question the problem is we can get closer and closer and closer to burnout we keep falling down on the bottom of that scale but until we finally cross that threshold and we hit rock bottom we don't make any changes right but if you can flip that and say am i experiencing maximum joy and thriving that's a that's a very different way of looking at It puts a positive spin on it, and it lets me know that I may not be burned out, but I could be better, and I could be making some forward progress. I think all of that mentality is really good for resident education. I feel like those are great things to think of when you're going through the trenches as a resident, for sure. Yeah, and you don't want to deny that it is hard. No, it's super hard. It's really hard. But in some ways, you need the challenges in order to make the progress to achieve your purpose and your ultimate goal. So if you can see that, then we can tolerate it much better. I like your reflection on that one in terms of stress versus purpose and pleasure and that balance and thinking optimistically that way. Yet each of your domains, you can have that sort of formula. I mean, in leadership, you can say this was a really tough day in leadership and I have purpose and or progress in this leadership. in nutrition horrible day you know my diet but the purpose of right you know and yet as you're reflecting here they're the really they all add up to a big balance of stress versus purpose and pleasure one of the things I just as you comment on that because they each have their own contributions to that formula is how important you know you're one of the lists being well-being another social interpersonal um you can have a really rocky time at work and i think all of us are trained to work harder spend more get to the office earlier do more paper writing whatever and just dig in deeper and deeper deeper and yet as long as the other areas of our life are maybe in that formula supporting us we can get through those hard times get that grant written get that however when you have a home life or a personal side that is extremely fractured it's hard for that formula so my my leading here in this question is it seems like the buckets aren't always equal in your or the domains aren't always equal in their priority can you speak to how much the personal side when you're but that domain is broken or when that domain is is off in its formula, how hard is it as physicians to, A, recognize that, and B, address that? Because I think it's easier to say, this leadership issue is broken, this clinical aspect of my life is broken, this academic contribution, productivity. Speak to how important the personal side is to these domains as coloring the rest of them in your experience. It's incredibly critical. and in reality we're not great at compartmentalizing our lives into these domains and in fact even when I talk about the domains and like some of these topics within the domain I say okay I think this specific topic is actually this is more of a social interpersonal actually it's personal growth no it's really kind of leadership like I can't really bucket them so I talk about these domains as if it's a clean cut list and it's really not because all of these things go together and I that's true within our personal lives and within our work lives. And I think that we should allow that blending to occur and that positive influence to occur. Ideally, if you're in a situation where things are going well in your personal life and at home, you should allow that joy to carry over into work and vice versa. If things are going well at work, allow that home. So that's one of the things that I try to do is I try to allow the joy to flow in both directions. If I'm having a problem in one or the other, I try to keep it from negatively affecting my performance in the other. So that's hard. So I kind of let the joy flow But if there's a struggle, I try to figure out what that struggle is. I try to name it. I try to package it and say, okay, this is actually just a work problem. This is unrelated to my wife and kids. I'm not going to take it out on you all. I still love you. You mean everything in the world to me. so trying to do that i think can be immensely helpful how do you guide people and what do you recommend for people trying to find their purpose their meaning and their values that they can use to guide everything else especially i think in medicine at least in my experience you know you're so laser focused on the end game when you're in training like i just want to finish residency that that is my purpose my purpose is to become you know not a resident a board certified surgeon whatever um and then after that then it gets a little confusing it's like is my purpose to be a surgeon or a leader in some way or a parent or a friend or like how do you how do you figure it out i i can't figure it out it is incredibly challenging one of the simon sinek does a really good job of talking about finite games and infinite games and find your why all of those concepts sort of sort of come into play one of the issues is oftentimes when we're trying to figure out what our purpose is we take a very finite approach meaning my purpose is finish residency or my my purpose is do 300 cases this year or what you know these types of finite metrics the problem with that though is that we we then tie our joy and happiness to something that we don't always have control over and i think you're actually much better in trying to make your purpose more of an infinite goal or an infinite mindset so just to be fully vulnerable one of my primary drivers or visions for me personally and with this project is to do good and don't keep score I found myself I'm a competitive person by nature I have a tendency to keep track and keep score of things but I realized that that was not really helping me accomplish the goal that I wanted to do which is ultimately to do good what's helpful in that is that now I no longer pay attention to metrics that that don't really matter and the thing that I'm trying to do by doing good is not specifically tied to my vocation so I have the ability to do good whether i'm in my role as a father as a husband as an orthopedic surgeon as an educator as a podcast host whatever so it's helpful to have a purpose that sort of transcends the specific domain or the specific job that you have if you can do that then that allows us to hold those different roles in our lives a little bit more loosely and then we recognize if something were to happen and you were to lose your job that's a problem so if something were to happen and you were to lose your job or or there's some sort of change you get fired you get let go or you lose a loved one you you don't completely lose your identity you haven't built your identity around that external thing that you can't control so i think that's one of the things that can be really helpful and in defining your purpose you might be able to live it out as as a surgeon or as a gardener or, you know, whatever else it is that you like to do. But in encouraging people to do that, it's one thing I would keep in mind. The other I would, I would think about is I do think there's an order to go in. So I think figuring out your values first is probably the most important thing. So values meaning figure out what's important to you, what, what, what gives you meaning in life and what do you really think is important? And then use that to figure out your purpose or your why. Why are you doing the things that you're going to do? And what is it you hope to accomplish? And then your mission is what you're actually going to do to carry out that purpose and vision for your life. So I think going about it in that order, that sequence can be really helpful as well. I think the live intentionally that you talk about, and that's what keeps ringing in my head through everything that you're saying, is that you have to be so intentional it really requires a lot of personal reflection and thought otherwise life just passes you by and then you miss you think am i am i actually living towards your your values and your purpose i think about this too for me i've found that spending time with friends and family is so so important but that gets completely put to the wayside because on the weekends like i have to meal prep for the week so that I can be healthy so that I have time because I have a busy life as a surgeon and a mom and then I can't hang out with friends on the weekend because I have to do like catch up and so then you you're missing the things that are actually meaningful for other things that are still good but that's the race that I found myself in and you have to step back and be really intentional about that at least I have to decide where you're going to put your time And I think that's probably a struggle for everybody. That's my biggest struggle. One of my most common, simple but most common pieces of advice to people is you choose. Period. So you choose what your values are. You choose what your mission is. You choose what your purpose is. You choose what's important to you. You choose where you're going to spend your time. So often we aren't intentional about that. And then what happens is we just assume the roles, identities, and goals of society or other people around us. You know, it's like, oh, I know this person is doing this, so I need to be doing that. Or I see these people on TV or social media, they're doing this, so I should be doing that as well. So we just tend to adopt other people's goals and mission because we haven't taken the time to choose them for ourselves. So just because other people are doing all of these things doesn't necessarily mean that you have to. If that doesn't line up with your values and your purpose, we're all different, and we should celebrate that. Like that diversity is what makes us so unique and so special. so until we choose for ourselves what that thing is we're going to be lost and we're sort of turning the power over to other people and we're no longer in control yes which which really contributes to our burnout and our our lack of joy because now we're dealing we're trying to hit metrics of success that have been defined by others that we don't have control over you commented on just the choosing and being the intentional to take the time to do that yeah Certainly, I'm excited about this project you're doing, helping to facilitate that. As this develops, because this is a package and a project, you currently have a podcast. Tell us about that, first of all. Yeah, so podcast is the Human Optimization Project. So we're going through these domains and all of the different topics. So new topics are coming out every week, and they're all centered around sort of those 10 domains that I talked about. So they come out every Wednesday, and so far we've talked about things that are relevant for exercise and leadership and nutrition. And we're trying to make it very practical for people with real-world wisdom and life experience and lived experiences. The other thing we're doing, too, is we're really trying to encourage action. So many of us listen to podcasts and read books and watch videos, and we consume all of this material passively, which you have to do. You need the passive knowledge, but ultimately, if we don't turn it into action, it's not helpful. So we're really trying to give people challenges that they can do to move forward and sort of take the first step and get the first win in that process. So once we start winning, even small, it feels so good, and that positive momentum can be incredibly helpful. So we're trying to encourage a lot of action on there as well. You know, you have to take the time to turn on the podcast, and just listening to this, It's a prompt to do that for this human optimization project. Just a point in my history, I was halfway through my almost 30 years of marriage, and my wife, I got home one Saturday, and she said, we're having, you know, the kids are going away, and I've reserved this day. And we're calling it the State of Our Union Address. I love this. I love your wife so much. This is great. And she gave me an outline, and the first thing I was like, oh, my goodness. I wish I was on call today. And it went through every aspect. I mean, essentially all 10 domains, both individually, as a couple, each of our children, each of our social, you know, our finances. And it was, you know, you had to get rid of the kids for a day to do this. And, you know, by 9 a.m., I'm going, this is going to be one heck of a day. But by 4 o'clock, I was so encouraged. because you talked about things that you never take the time to talk about. And you make, as you're saying, you have to set aside the time to evaluate your lives carefully enough so that you can get to the point of understanding your purpose and pleasure and then act accordingly and have action items and delegate what you're going to do. So I just, in that regard, I encourage those of you who are married to think of or with a significant other can do that yearly state of our union. But even in our own lives as professionals, this is such a call to take that time, whether using this as a tool or other things, mentors or whatever it is, to evaluate your life and live, as you said, intentionally, consistently better. Takeaways for those people, listen to your podcast, but what's more coming for our listeners as they start to do this or continue to do this in their own lives? Yeah, so I think we're going to keep building this thing. So this is a long-term vision that we have for this. So the hope is that eventually we're going to build out a curriculum that allows people to come on and kind of choose their own pathway. We're going to put together some tools to help people determine their values, determine their purpose and their vision for their lives, and then also kind of create the curriculum that will help them focus on the things that they want to focus on. And I would tell people, we're all incredibly busy. We're all running out of time. So a couple of sort of take-home points for me are focus on the big levers. there's so much out there that people talk about and we give a lot of attention to the things that move the needle one percent or two percent you don't have time for those things let let those things go like focus on the big things unfortunately the big things are usually boring and they're not flashy but try to move your body try to eat you know decent nutritious food try to have good meaningful relationships with other people like those big things those are really the things that make up 90 plus percent of our performance and optimization so really focus heavily on on the big levers and enjoy the process along the way i think oftentimes we sell ourselves short we think that we have to endure a lot of pain and suffering for joy that's going to come at the end but you really have to enjoy the process so if you set it up in a systems-based fashion where you can have process satisfaction you know you don't have to wait until you lose 10 pounds to celebrate if you set a goal and you hit it consistently, celebrate that. So just celebrate the fact that you're taking the action to move in a positive direction. I think it can be really helpful and motivating for people. Such great advice. So inspirational. We'll link the podcast, your Instagram, your Xfeed, everything so people can follow along with the Human Optimization Project. It's really terrific. Thank you so much for being here. Thanks so much for having me. This was a blast. I really enjoyed it. Yeah. It's wonderful. Thanks for the shoulder too, by the way. I appreciate the insight and prompting and looking forward to this project, Optimizing Our Lives. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology podcast on our website. Thank you for listening, and we definitely look forward to sharing more.