 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash but it requires specific criteria be met. So if you were to ask me this question, let's say five years ago, I would probably say no. And the reason being is that we had a tremendous amount of animal data that supported pretty ridiculous hypertrophy in response to pretty extreme stretching protocols, but it was the rare study that observed any hypertrophy in response to stretching in humans, and the vast majority of studies actually finding no change in terms of hypertrophy in response to stretching. But the devil is in the details here because the human research up to a few years back was on relatively short duration, low intensity stretching, while the animal data is on like waiting the wings of quails and chickens for not talking minutes, not even talking hours. We're often talking days or even weeks or in some cases like a month at a time, we're using a stretching apparatus that put the animal in a constant stretch. So this is a little bit of a trigger warning if you're an animal lover, which it is hard for me to read these studies. There's mostly in avian models, so in quails and chickens, but some data in say rabbits and some other actual mammals. Well, yeah. So that data indicates ridiculous increases in hypertrophy. We're talking increases in not only muscle thickness, cross-sectional area, but also fiber number, so observing hyperplasia that are pretty large. Now, all this data was really kind of emphasized and came to light, and what I'm pretty sure is the doctoral work of one, Constantin Warnicke, which is a German researcher and his research group has really looked at this. And the reason why they looked at the animal data, and actually did a meta-analysis looking at the animal stretching models is he was interested in seeing if this applied to humans. And the clear thing was that it required a high intensity and high duration and high frequency of stretching. So some of his earliest work was seeing what level of stretch tolerance is reasonable that people would undergo. And he actually compared two hours of daily stretching continuously to one hour, found at least in the measurements they looked at that was primarily strength for this study, similar outcomes, but a lot fewer people were willing to do two hours. So the research that we're gonna talk about is primarily based upon daily stretching for a full hour at a pretty high perceived intensity. Gotcha. Before we move on into stretch-me-it, hypertrophy and all that entails, what is stretching? And how does it differ from lifting weights? Yeah, that seems like a ridiculous simple question, but I think it's actually a little more complex, specifically because some people are dismissing the idea of any potential for stretching being a useful approach to hypertrophy or potentially complementary because they feel like it's producing the same mechanistic basis of hypertrophy, both are mechanical tension. So what the heck is stretching? The idea is that we're actually trying to increase the distance between the origin and insertion of a given muscle. So we're taking the muscle tendon unit to as close to the end range physiologically that it can get and holding it there. Now, when we look at data on stretching, there's mixed research as to what is causing the very similar outcome that's consistently observed, which is an increase in joint range of motion. Some studies historically on stretching, we're talking like my studies by Beam and Collies, going back to the 90s and the 2000s, will report this as actually just an increase in stretch tolerance. Essentially, people are more comfortable being uncomfortable and can therefore achieve an increase in range of motion. But others are actually observing a change in length in the muscle tendon unit. And we don't have the data in humans to describe what is actually going on at the smallest level. Are we actually seeing an increase in sarcomeres in series? Or is it just that the sarcomeres themselves can achieve a longer length essentially? But there are true morphological adaptations that happen in the more extreme stretching protocols. And then there are also just the ability to reach a longer muscle length in people. And there are probably tendentist adaptations as well, but that's harder to study. So I think it's important to note that lifting is also stretching. And in fact, when we look at the data on lifting, we do see increases in range of motion. If you train with a full range of motion, think about it. You're moving to your functional end range of motion for a given joint, for a given movement, and loading it. So yes, you should expect increases in range of motion from doing heavy resistance training through a full range of motion. But you generally see greater increases in range of motion from purposeful stretching protocols. And in fact, in one study that we'll talk about later, two studies, one in the calves, one in the pecs, where they compare to extreme stretching protocol to resistance training protocol, the data trended or was significantly greater in the stretching group for increasing range of motion. Earlier you mentioned extreme hypertrophy in animal studies. Does stretching build more muscle than lifting? It's tough, because we don't have a lot of resistance training studies in animals. So it could theoretically, if we could do things that we did to animals and to call it ethical, or that people would be willing to do it. But we don't know. What about in humans? In humans, does stretching build more muscle than lifting? To the data we have at this point, the answer would probably be not, and it seems to be far less time efficient. So we have two different studies that directly compare stretching protocols head to head with resistance training. There was one by one of Kean colleagues in the calves where they compared three times per week doing five sets of 15, or I think 10 to 15 reps to failure, but a hypertrophy rep range to failure of calf raises. So it took them about 45 minutes per week to do it. Compared to daily one hour stretching and orthotic device. So basically sitting there with a calf stretching boot that would take your leg into near maximal dorsiflexion, eight out of 10 discomfort on a stretching scale of pain, holding that for an hour per day and adjusting it so you stay at eight for eight weeks. Similar changes in muscle thickness, as well as strength, intriguingly enough, in the calves from doing the stretching boot or doing calf raises. Wolan and colleagues did a different protocol. They had a self-ratcheting stretching device for the pecs. So you'd lie on your back, feet up against the wall, knees bent so you can't arch your lower back, and you have straps around your elbows. You're at like a 90-90 position of external rotation, abduction, and elbow flexion, and you'd have these straps pulled and attached to a load cell. And every time your pecs would relax and you'd see some change, they would self-ratch it and hold you. And the initial point that these participants got in was not eight out of 10, but 10 out of 10. The caveat, though, is instead of doing an hour per day, they did 15 minutes four times per week. So these would be 15 minutes a hell, truly, if you think about what it is to be at the maximal stretch tolerance you can hold, and to every time your body loosened up a little bit to get stuck into an even longer position. So it's kind of like the high-intensity stretching versus the high-volume stretching camps, if you will. But both of them, for different reasons, would be incredibly uncomfortable. I've done the former. I've worn an orthotic boot, stretched my calves for an hour, not seven days per week, six days per week. I took one day off just because I'm just not that hardcore. But I have not done the self-ratcheting 15 minutes of max exertion four times per week. But in both of those studies, it produced similar changes in hypertrophy in the pecs and the calves to doing three times per week training. In this group, they did three sets, I believe, three sets three times per week of chest flies. So I might have the sets wrong, but essentially what we were looking at was half an hour of peck training per week versus 45 minutes of extreme stretching versus seven hours compared to 45 minutes in similar outcomes. So it's tough to know if they maxed out what they could have got from their calves from the stretching protocol or not. But it might be that you can accommodate for having a shorter duration by having a higher intensity of stretch like we observed in the peck, you know, stretching study. What's your own experience then with the calf orthotic device? Did you experience growth using stretching if you can speak to the results? You know, it did. So what we did specifically, it was instead of using a unilateral within participant design because it was a case study of myself and I was unwilling to just stretch one of my calves because I'm a crazy bodybuilder, I wanted to stretch both. We used a baseline period of four weeks long while I was training calves and not stretching to see what my normal trajectory of growth and what my typical error measurement was on ultrasound muscle thickness measurement in my tricep serrate or my overall calf size. And we used that for whether there was a real change. And then I stretched both calves in the orthotic boot, eight out of 10, one hour per calf. So it's two hours per day, six days per week on top of my resistance training for the calves. And then after the 12 weeks of training, we took a week where I did not stretch and then looked at the post-post measurement to see how much that might've been swelling while I maintained a lower calf training protocol. So basically we tried to answer the question of could you take an advanced level bodybuilder who'd been purposely trying to build as much calf muscle as possible, add stretching on top of that and would they get anything out of it? Is it potentially complementary? And I'll say preliminarily, we did see a significant increase in muscle thickness. It also matched my observations that I thought I saw my calves improving during this period. Now, that's all good and fun, but this was not good and fun. In fact, I'd say it was good as far as the outcome, but man, it was extremely painful. What I would experience would be like pins and needles and discomfort and trying to jump out of my body about 20 minutes in and then going, sweet, third of the way there. And the beauty of it that you have to stay out of eight out of 10 discomfort is that while it would get better if you just held the same distance, every time it started to get better, I had to then tighten the boot more. So it stayed this way for 12 weeks. It was incredibly painful. I got a little bit better at being tolerant of the pins and needles, but my calf would go numb and then it would just kind of burn everywhere. But it seemed to work. So yeah, I mean, shout out to all the participants in these studies, because now I know what you experienced. Was this time efficient? Absolutely not. Was it worth it? Maybe. Am I still doing this? No. Now, there was one other interesting finding which I thought was really cool that Warnocky did. They compared men and women. Now, I don't think this is a true sex difference, but more correlated with sex. They observed greater increases in hypertrophy of the calves in men than women, but they also reported higher baseline flexibility in women, which is something that is seen in many other studies. And the idea here is based upon the proposed mechanism that being in a stretch produces higher degrees of tension. If you are more flexible, you may not be able to produce the same level of tension because you already have that flexibility. Now, importantly, the women still did significantly grow from stretching, just not to the same degree as men. So my suspicion is that the more flexible you are, the more you'll get out of a stretching, sorry, the more inflexible you are, the more you will get out of a stretching protocol. And if you can maintain that flexibility while still performing high tension stretching, whether through resistance training or actual stretching, you'll probably maintain the gains. So something that I very intentionally done after that stretching protocol is I do pause at the bottom of calf raises. I make sure I get as long into dorsiflexion as I can. At the end of sets, I pause there and I do occasionally stretch maybe once every two weeks to static hold 10, 15 minutes to try to keep the range of motion gains I had. And I can tell you more obviously than any increase in strength or hypertrophy, my dorsiflexion range increased dramatically from doing this and I still have most of that, maybe 90% of that dorsiflexion increase. So stretching makes more flexible. Unsurprisingly. Who are thought? And true stretch medial hypertrophy can seem to occur in humans. Do you think that's what we're seeing with length and training? I don't. And the reason being is when you look at the actual time courses required to produce hypertrophy, they don't compare. So like if you're doing, say, like if we look at some of the studies, like if you look at the amount of time spent in a truly stretched position, and say Casiano and colleagues, it's a fraction of the time compared to Warnakey that they were able to produce not doing length and bias training in the comparative group. You know? So I think it is probably part of the adaptation that's going on, but I would suspect that the actual stretch stimulus is a minor part of what's going on with say more length and training. And I think that's really interesting. And I think it's another reason why we shouldn't be dismissing stretch mediated hypertrophy as something that is potentially complementary to resistance training. Some of the hot takes on the internet that I don't agree with is one, stretch mediated hypertrophy only produces increases in hypertrophy through sarcomeres and ceres. If we just think about this from a physics perspective, if we were only seeing sarcomeres and ceres increase, we wouldn't see the kind of changes in muscle thickness that we're observing in humans that are comparable to doing resistance training. So that's one. Two, when we look at animal models, huge increases in cross-sectional area, which again, should not be happening if it's just sarcomeres and ceres. Okay? So that's not against that idea, number UNIL. Okay? The second critique that you'll see is, you know what? The whole proposed mechanism of stretch-induced hypertrophy is just mechanical tension. So why would it be any different than hypertrophy training? It would be redundant. We don't need to do it. You get a stretch from hypertrophy training anyway. Now I'll admit, this could be true. This could be true. But to paint the broad brushstroke of mechanical tension is all the same, really is not respecting the complexity of skeletal muscle architecture and the number of ways that mechanical tension can be sensed and the lack of understanding at the molecular level that we have how hypertrophy actually occurs. So I'm aware of at least five mechanocensors that respond to different types of mechanical tension. And we still haven't even necessarily linked each one of those mechanocensors to antibiotic pathways which stimulate hypertrophy, but we think they are. So some of the common ones people talk about and talk about with far too much confidence compared to the data we have are one Titan, right? So this is attaching the myosin actin chain to the ultra structure. And when you're doing an esoteric contraction, it unfolds and there's probably a signaling cascade. Okay? So there's a sense that it would probably be stimulated by a stretch as well as contraction. Another one are what's called costamers or focal adhesions. And these are what help us generate lateral force transmission and also active sensors. And they probably respond more to contraction rather than stretching. But that's the, those are the two that most people know about, but there's others. In fact, I think this is wild and really cool just to demonstrate one of them. The actual nuclei and muscles themselves, nuclear flattening may produce an anabolic response. And when you stretch a muscle, those nuclei are getting flattened as well. But there's also membranes that are changed in response to stretch opening calcium channels that could have a potential impact and more. There are things that are beyond my expertise because I'm not a muscle physiologist. I think there's a couple of different protein complexes I had never heard of until I dug into this. And I'm like, oh, what's that? So we're still just barely uncovering the actual process of mechanotransduction. And there is good reason to believe that mechanotransduction is different when you're doing a long duration, high intensity stretch than simply moving from concentric to eccentric and having some pause at best in the length and position. So I don't think we can say that they're necessarily the exact same stimulus. Another thing that Warnocky proposes in some of their papers, and what I experienced through that pins and needles, is that when you are in that really stretched position, and also you're getting this compensatory contraction from your muscle, there's an occlusion effect. So it may have some overlapping effects with blood flow restriction training. And again, hyperplasia was observed in these animals, which it's very difficult to even set up an experimental model to observe hyperplasia in humans. But generally the thought process is that traditional resistance training in humans is not producing hyperplasia. But if we're seeing robust increases, we're talking 50% increase in the number of muscle fibers and animal models, you would think that maybe something's going on here with stretching. So through all of those various mechanisms, both higher level and at the actual, you know, molecular level, potentially being different, I don't think we can rule out that stretching might be complementary to lifting. But like I said, I'm very open to the idea that they are relatively overlapping and redundant. But I don't think we can say that. I don't think we can say that only untrained individuals will respond to this. I don't think we can say that it's only sarcomeres in series or how do we explain cross-sectional area and muscle thickness changes. And I don't think we should really write it off yet, especially with just a mechanistic rationale, when we barely understand the mechanisms of what's going on. And to answer your original question, it doesn't make sense that having, you know, 45 reps per week in a lengthened position for only maybe 10% of a rep is comparable to seven hours per week of stretching or even the 60 minutes that was observed in the Wallen and colleagues in that extreme stretch position. I think they're fundamentally different and that leaves the question open of what's going on here. So stretching causes hypertrophy? It does. In humans. If it's intense enough, long enough and frequent enough? Should we apply this? Who should apply it? How do we apply it? Tell me the specifics and the practical applications. All right, so if you are a competitive bodybuilder who is crazy, go wild. You know, if you want to actually replicate what I did, if you want to do some of these extreme stretching protocols, I would encourage you to have fun with it. You're gonna struggle to be able to actually apply some of these because you don't have an orthotic device or you don't have the self-ratcheting peck stretching device. But Wallen and colleagues did another recently published study. I don't believe they actually looked at hypertrophy, but they did find strength increases from people being given guidance on their own without necessarily some type of, you know, BDSM torture device of doing extreme stretches that they hold for a similar frequency and duration per week, perceiving it to be the max stretch they can tolerate. They did see increases in strength, even when done from home. So there's potential application here. Now, just because we have this new research on stretching doesn't mean we should forget the other research on stretching that's looking at more at acute performance. We know that if you do sufficient stretching to actually alter muscle tendon unit architecture acutely, it will have an acutely negative impact on strength and power performance in probably the resultant hypertrophy. So the only time I'd say you don't wanna do all this extreme stretching stuff is prior to training, even with maybe a couple hours, because I can tell you this is not just a quick stretch that is observed in some of these older studies that show a negative impact on power. If you're stretching on that day, you probably don't wanna train that day later. I think you need to do either post-workout at night or on your off days. If you're gonna do it at all, okay? That's number one. And then you can try some of these protocols. And I would say just because we got the seven hours per week that Warnock has done, I don't think you should go that hardcore. You probably wanna ramp up into it. I do think there is some unknown level of injury risk or potential, especially when you're also doing resistance training on top of it, because we're really pushing tissue to some pretty extremes here. So I think you should be more cautious than that. I would say maybe start with one to two times per week, 15 to 20 minutes, and maybe build up to the point where you're doing something similar to woolen of four times per week of 15 to 20, maybe 30 minutes. I wouldn't take it further than that in most cases. What I did, I wouldn't recommend. That's for bodybuilders. That's for people who are really trying to turn over every single stone. For everyone else, I think this is a poor return on investment. I think it's a bad proposition. It's not the best use of your time. It's logistically infeasible. It's heavily uncomfortable. It's not fun. And you're not gonna like it like you like lifting. However, there are some tools which can be very useful for when you're, say, traveling, don't have access to a gym or you're in a position, like let's say COVID, for example, where certain muscle groups are very hard to train with what you have access to. There are some things which are really useful when you're, say, traveling. When I'm traveling and I go to an area where I know I don't have access to good gym equipment, I may not have the time to get away, I take BFR wraps with me, and now I will probably do stretching. One of the harder muscle groups to train when you're, say, traveling, you don't have gym access is like your hamstrings. But it's pretty easy to stretch your hamstrings, right? I remember specifically when we were in Belarus and I was coaching Bryce Lewis at the 2017 World Championships, the only gym access I had was the training hall and sneaking in some sessions between other weight classes actually competing, which meant I could sneak into military press, a bench, a row, you know, you put the racks up to like I'm seven feet super heavyweight, you do some chins with your knees bent, you can get a little bit of work in, but I also had a hip injury at the time. So I couldn't do much squats and deadlifts. So instead I just did BFR and bodyweight lunges. But I didn't really have a good answer for how do I train my hamstrings? I didn't want to be like, hey, will you help me do Nordics? But I could have just sat there and done a 15 minute hardcore stretch a couple times per week for my hamstrings, and that would have been pretty effective. Same thing for my calves. So I think this is a great tool when you are gonna be stuck in a hotel room and you want to still get a decent stimulus that week while you're away traveling, or maybe you for some reason can't get to the gym, et cetera, et cetera. And just knowing that this is a tool you can have in your tool belt, I think can be really useful in those instances where you may not have gym access. Once or twice a week, 15 minutes, start easy and go from there at the end of a session at night or in the morning, essentially just far away from a session or nearly after it, correct? Perfect. Quick fire round of rebuttals slash questions. Let's go. Do only begin as benefit. Hard to say. I would suspect that it has much more relevance to how flexible are you? And I think we have enough data that yes, while resistance training does improve range of motion, there's probably more range of motion you could get from stretching based upon head to head comparisons. So I would say probably not, but they might benefit a little bit more than someone who's more experienced. Do all muscle groups benefit? Hard to say. We have data on the pecs and the calves. I think it's very plausible that there could be some muscles which are very difficult to get into a true physiological stretch to produce that mechanical tension, to have them benefit. Right now, I would say we have no reason to think that not all muscles would benefit, but it may be some muscles which are simply infeasible to put into these kind of extreme stretches at the very least, if I want to be super conservative, I know the pecs and the calves respond well. What about interset stretching? You didn't mention interset stretching. Do you think that place role can be used? I think it can be used, but I think there's a little more risk to it. And I think it's not necessary. We do have a fair amount of data indicating that pre-training stretching can have a negative impact on strength and power if it's done to the point where it's actually going to produce high levels of tension in the muscle tendon unit. So you'd have to think the same thing would occur in interset stretching, even though we have data on it. So it is inducing tension stimulus, but to me, it makes sense to not induce attention stimulus when it can harm the rest of the tension stimulus you want within training. So while I'm not opposed to it, I think from a pragmatic perspective, it probably makes more sense to have it at the end of the workout, something like a DC stretch, talking about dog crap training from back in the day. And that also was something that was anecdotally derived, and it was probably ahead of its time, but it made sense logically, like, oh, if I'm in the middle of a bunch of chest sets and I do this massive crazy stretch, I'm gonna have to dump load or I'm gonna be maybe a greater injury risk. But if I do it at the end of the workout, it's just additional tension and maybe a different type of tension. So I think you could do interset stretching and indeed there is a study that might indicate some potential benefit there, but I think there is a non-negligible chance of it simply harming the total stimulus you could have. And I think probably resistance training at this stage, we have to admit, is at least as stimulative, but with a lower level of inefficiency. Final question. Yes, sir. Name a few common stretches for different muscles. You'd recommend, give me three. Sure. So I think a sit and reach hamstring stretch is probably a really good one. I think a straight leg dorsiflexion stretch where you go up to say a wall or you go up to say steps and you do one calf at a time stretching it. That's probably a better one, especially if you have grippy shoes and trying to get into the kind of the downward dog position to stretch your calves, which both people can't stay there for a long time. And then since we've also got data on the pecs, I think a 90 degree angle door stretch where you just go into the door jam of a door and you put your arm at 90 degrees and then you try to turn away and move forward so that you can get a good stretch across your pec. And again, all of these stretches are probably dependent upon not just the technique, but also getting to the point where you're experiencing eight or higher out of 10 stretch discomfort and then holding it for at least 15 minutes. That's hard. So be aware that you may be all excited by watching this video, you go and try it and you're like, oh man, I don't want that smoke. It's okay. Try just five minutes the first time and be build up to it. You will get better at this. You will still hate your life, but it'll be eventually sustainable if you build up to it. Beautiful. Eric, where can people find you? People can find me stretching my calves, stretching my pec, stretching my hamstrings in a hotel room, because I worked past the point that Jim closed every day. No, I'm just kidding. Great place to find me, 3dmusclejourney.com. That's a great one-stop shop where you can pick your level of nerding that you want, right? You can read some of our blog posts. You can go to our YouTube channel and have a little more blended, kind of anecdotal science evidence-based information. Or if you want, like, hey, I just want to read the books about all this stuff. You can go to muscleandstrengthparaments.com, which we have a link to from 3dmusclejourney.com. Or you can take our link to the Mass Research Review, where every month we're putting out an issue covering all the latest data. And I've written probably like seven articles about stretch-mediated hypertrophy, because it's something I'm just nerding out on and very interested in. So that's a great place to go. And also, you probably want to follow me on Instagram at Helms3dmj. Once our case study on me is published, I will absolutely be putting that out on my Instagram, talking about it, probably doing some YouTube work. So that's also a great place where you can find me promoting the fact that I was on other amazing channels like this one as a guest. Highly, highly recommend checking out Mass Research Review, great resource. Also highly recommend liking the video. That's it from the Strava Science Channel, way out. ["Streve of Science"]