! Wait a second, this isn't muscle and feels, but rather, it's a stronger by science podcast, with the muscle and feels hosts, just the two of us, Alexa, play, just the two of us, there's no Alexa here, Fatso, so unfortunately, no music here, anyways, just the two of us for this episode, I am Dr. Pack, this is- I am Dr. Milo. Where are you Milo? I'm sitting right across you, as the viewers can probably tell by the fact that there is a heavy echo. Is there though? Or is there not? But more broadly speaking, we are currently in New York, in Harlem actually, doing a study with Brad Schoenfeld, but unfortunately, our dear co-host has decided to take a vacation, very unbecoming of a strong by science podcast host, no grind set, vacations overrated, it's 2020 for bonus series note, we wish them all the best, but all this means that we'll be just the two of us for a couple of episodes, we'll be touching on a couple of hot topics, meaning power building and a secret second topic that will only reveal to listeners when we actually discuss it. For sure, while some of us are out here grinding, others are enjoying their time away in Italy, we wish them the best. But that said, aside from being here for the full range of motion versus partial or long muscle and study, we are officially a month or so in the United States, we'll be leaving for a couple of weeks and then we'll be back to see that study off. Keep in mind that we will keep you updated with a detailed podcast episode and I'm pretty sure a lot of other material and content and so on and so forth on the study. However, we are here to talk about power building, but before we do that, I need to carry the torch this time and give you the infamous plugs. So bear with me, this is the second time that I've ever done this, so I'll try to do it as naturally as Greg Knuckles does it, but obviously, you know, the guy is an absolute legend, so big shoes to fill. If you're enjoying the show, please like, rate, subscribe and tell your friends. It really helps us out. I messed up the accent there a bit, but hey, you understood what I said. If you're interested in hiring a virtual coach to help you with your training and or nutrition, Strong Over Science has a team of excellent coaches that can help you. We've recently added a couple of new coaches to the team. There's been some general updates behind the scenes and in general, if you want to get premium one on one coaching, find out more about Strong Over Science coaching at strongerbyscience.com slash coaching. If you also want to purchase supplements from a reliable source and you want to support the podcast at the same time, buy from bulksupplements.com using the code SBS pod for a 5% discount or meet Milo around your house and he'll give you those supplements that you asked for so you can look like him. In terms of this is applying no supplements included and Milo is not going to meet you at your house. Don't sue us. Obviously, joining the Facebook group and subreddit of the Strongerbyscience.com universe will allow you to interact with fellow minded, not like minded fellows, folks and obviously keep up with everything that is going on. Both communities are actually quite active, both the Facebook one and the Reddit one. When I mean active, I don't mean us just posting there. Just tons of people interacting on a daily basis, fitness threads, some misc threads as well, but a lot of cool content behind the scenes going on in our communities. Obviously, check out the newsletter so we send you high quality informative content, no spamming with a bunch of ads, sign up at strongoverscience.com slash newsletter. A lot of cool upcoming newsletters coming out. Written by myself, Milo Wolf and obviously the odd guest newsletter as well, but they are jam packed with information. Hey, I'm getting it now. If you have any questions that you want us to answer on this podcast, aside from replying to the respective Q&A that we post on the Facebook and Reddit communities, you can also send us a voice So I voice memo at podcast at strongerbyscience.com. That is it as far as the plugs go. How did I do fellow co-host Milo? I could be biased, but I think he did marvelously well. I think people are still sleeping on the Strongly By Science newsletter. That's strongbyscience.com slash newsletter. If only because we take the latest research, sometimes we're aware of studies that haven't even been published yet. So we can get the breakdown exclusive for you on the stronglybyscience.com slash newsletter out to you as soon as possible. So I think that if you want to stay up to date with the research and you want to do so for free, strongbyscience.com slash newsletter is a great place to get your information, get it early, and get it broken down at an easy to consume level. But otherwise, I think you crushed it. Thank you. And we are barely selling anything outside of the coaching, of the coaching plug. Like the rest is legitimately free information. So feel free to sign up. Now that we've sold our souls and we've sold you on, we've sold you things that cannot be sold because they are not being sold or whatever. Let's start talking about power building. But let's define this weird term in my opinion. Everybody in our echo chamber knows. Is there an actual definition for power building, Dr. Milovalov? Yeah. I think power building is a term that kind of started coming around in like the early 2010s. Like when I think power building, I think back to Omo-Riso, for example, where I think that is around the era when he was still active, or IPO-Moisov. When he was still active is when the term power building started gaining a bit of traction. Just the idea that you didn't have to solely train for aesthetics or for hypertrophy, or you didn't have to solely train to increase your squat bench and net lift. And that your strength goals could be a little bit more varied as well than just maximizing your one rep max on the squat bench and net lift. Obviously, the idea had been around for quite a while before with back in the day, things like circus lifts or just people training more broadly and not competing. But I think with the emergence of social media around bodybuilding and power lifting and those niches becoming more and more distinct, maybe, there was kind of the idea that you had to either train for hypertrophy or for power lifting to a greater extent than before. Like back in the day on YouTube, for example, if you were more inclined to train for hypertrophy, you would follow people like Matt August or Chris Lavado or back in the day Mike Chan, Jeff Seyd, etc. You had kind of these characters. But then you also had the more power lifting centric characters like Johnny Candido back in the day. And I think that people were quick to assume that because the training styles weren't that similar, you couldn't do both at once. So then eventually that led to people emphasizing the idea of power building a bit more, which is the idea that you can train to increase both your squat bench, deadlift, or max and any other lifts you want to get stronger at. But simultaneously, see pretty solid improvements in size. Now, since then, as one infamous video titled Power Building is an abomination, as pointed out, there has been some controversy around whether or not power building is truly something that people should be doing, whether or not it can truly be done and get a good amount of hypertrophy and strength at the same time. But equally, I think the goal of getting more jacked and getting stronger simultaneously, even in the absence of any competitive endeavors, like you don't necessarily want to compete in bodybuilding or in powerlifting, is a remarkably common one. Like for sure, you have people who just care about size or strength. But I think many people, at least temporarily or seasonally, in different phases of their life, maybe for a few months out of the year, care more about strength. And then maybe they lose the interest in strength for a few months, and they go back to pure hypertrophy training, or what have you. But I think most people do have some degree of both hypertrophy and strength interest in their training. So this podcast episode, I think, will just be aimed at breaking down the positives and negatives of power building, giving you practical ways to implement power building, and hopefully leave you with more understanding as to how to actually power build, should you desire to do so. The one thing I wanted to add is, if you're somebody coming from the outside and you're like, okay, power building, I've heard this thing, it probably builds a lot of power. Similarly, to powerlifting, it has nothing to do with power. And it's just a combination of the words, powerlifting and bodybuilding. And I like the way you went about it, because I was thinking exactly the same as far as the back in the day stuff goes. Back in the day was when powerlifting was somewhat booming, or at least the strength training was booming, and it was the time where it was super cool to say, just focus on the basic lifts, get strong on the compounds, and you'll gain all the muscle in the world. And I think it was that era that gave birth to the idea that you need to sort of combine powerlifting and bodybuilding to get the best of both worlds. Now, do you have any, are there any examples of common power building approaches that come to mind from that era, that really, that maybe you try yourself, any programs? I mean, not to plug the strong by science universe any more than we already have, but I was actually running the first original version of the strong by science program when I was around like 1617, which involved a few sets on the main lifts on the squat bench that lift overhead press with an amrap at the end, followed by essentially a lot of accessory work, like of five to 12 reps in the most part, which was also it had a few elements, right? On the one hand, it had the relatively heavy lift at the sore of the session, followed by mostly how perforary work, alongside an element of linear periodization where you would start off really light, you would start off with sets of 12 reps on the main compound lifts, which if you heard on the strong by science program, that is a painful session. But then it would gradually over the weeks become heavier and heavier, culminating after around 20 weeks in testing one or max. And throughout that period, you've effectively power built quote unquote, because you've spent most of your time training in the hypertrophy rep ranges on hypertrophy exercises. But you've also done some heavier strength work and you're ultimately still chasing bigger strength numbers on the squat bench that lift overhead press. So that was one of my first introductions to power building. It's interesting as well in the concept of power building, because I think recently, especially in, for example, French power lifting, like in the French power lifting scene specifically in the IPF, there's been an increased shift towards more specificity. So I think quite a few top French power lifters are now known for almost exclusively doing squat bench deadlift when training for power lifting. So there can be hyper specificity when it comes to purely chasing strength, which I think can contribute to the idea that you can't both get stronger and gain muscle at the same time very effectively, because you see these approaches that are hyper specific when it comes to maximizing your power lifting total. And so I think that the strong by science program, go check it out. It's essentially free. It's about I think $10 minimum. But I think that's a very good entry point. If you're not sure what to do power building wise, it will give you a very good entry point into the world of power building without having to think too much about the specifics. But that was also my first entry point into power building. But what about you pack? When did you start your power building journey? Yeah, it must have been somewhere around the same time as you. But I remember being super wowed by fat PHA, PHA T the routine by Lenard was fat like, I think fat stood for an I got it power hypertrophy adaptive training. And it was supposed to be some, some form of combination of both like, you know, power, like for some reason, people adopted the term power, and then use it for strength in our echo chamber when they had a perfectly nice term strength, which doesn't mean something else. So I remember seeing that and seeing that Oh, you know, you get to combine the big lifts that have these magical properties. And I'm not sure Elaine claimed anything, anything insane about like hormones and stuff. But back in the day, like the barbell squad and the barbell bench press were supposed to be much better than any sort of bodybuilding alternative. And I think that was one of the main reasons that power building became a big thing. Because SBD was also seen as somewhat non negotiable. But again, I think it was mainly the idea that you that here's the best way to combine everything. However, let's just just for, for clarity sake, say that the idea behind power building is that you're working on maximal strength specifically and usually in the big three or maybe big five alongside typical, you know, bodybuilding related goals. So alongside maximizing hypertrophy, because strength as well is something that I don't know, some people have slightly different definitions of what strength means and what it means to be to be strong. So yeah, that's my that's my own experience. As far as direct literature, looking at power building and defining the concept. I know you've prepared an extensive list of references. Would you mind just reading one by one all the power building specific studies that we have? Oh, you like power building, name every single power building study out there. Which is to say, there are none. On a serious note, I think there are plenty of studies that find both an increase in one or max and an increase in muscle size at the same time. So it's not as though you need to be perfectly specific to either goal to observe an improvement in both. That is an important distinction. And certainly, I think strength and hypertrophy as to two fitness characteristics you can train for share many underlying physiological adaptations. So one of the positives we'll get into of power building is that it does place an emphasis on getting more muscular over time, which for strength long term, certainly there are obviously technique technical aspects to each lift. There are your muscle adaptations, architectural adaptations, like the way your fibers are laid out potentially. But one of the most influential things any given individual can do to get stronger in the long term is to simply gain more muscle. All else being equal, a bigger muscle is going to be a stronger one. And power building potentially more so than most piloting approaches does put more than emphasis on getting bigger. Maybe even to a greater extent than is necessary for purely maximizing strength, like for instance, you might opt to grow your biceps, even though they are not necessarily conducive to a bigger bench press or deadlift or squat, or you might opt to do back training a few times a week, even though they don't directly back training doesn't directly improve your squat bench or deadlift. So there is more of an emphasis on the long term pursuit of an increase in muscle mass, which long term will lead to an increase in strength. And that is one of the positives of power building. But as far as direct literature goes, we don't really have any, like when it comes to making the claim, for example, that a power building approach will for sure be better or worse for hypertrophy than a pure hypertrophy focused approach, for example, while we can make educated guesses, for instance, saying that super low repsets aren't ideal for hypertrophy, and therefore including these will take away from maximizing hypertrophy, it is mostly just an educated guess. It falls under the making educated guess from generalized principles, sort of category, versus we have direct empirical evidence to base this decision making off of. With that being said, I think there are a few studies, for example, that have compared super low rep training, like just doing singles, for example, to doing sets of 10, or we had a study by Corvallo and colleagues actually from a few years ago, that compared doing just pure hypertrophy training, compared to doing a strength phase first for a few weeks, and then doing hypertrophy training for the remainder of the study. So there are a few studies like that out there, but there are few in far and between, and they basically allow us to say a few things. One training for hypertrophy and strength doesn't look the exact same. However, you can gain a good amount of muscle size, even by training for strength, and you can get a good amount of strength, even by training for muscle size. There are a few key differences in how one would train for size versus strength. Specifically, one of those differences lies in the repetition range. We do have evidence generally suggesting that doing fewer than about five reps per set is going to lead to less muscle growth on a pro set basis, compared to doing sets of five or more reps. So for instance, we have a study by Brad Schoenfeld and colleagues from a few years ago, comparing doing seven sets of three, to doing three sets of 10 in resistance-trained men, finding that doing seven sets of three to a reasonably similar proximity to failure leads to the same hypertrophy as doing three sets of 10. With a kicker being, doing seven sets of three takes about two and a half times the time, or at least it did in this study. So it's at the very least a far less time-efficient way to train for hypertrophy. You get the same hypertrophy doing less than half the sets, provided you just do over five reps essentially. And similarly, we have studies looking at sets of two to four, also finding sligh-less hypertrophy generally. And so one of the key differences between training for strength, at least defined as one rep max in the squat bench deadlift, and training for hypertrophy is going to be the rep range. So you have to make some concessions in either direction there. Either you go a little bit heavier and go lower in reps, sacrificing some potential hypertrophy, or you go a little bit lighter and go higher in reps, but you're sacrificing some short-term improvement in strength. That's one of the trade-offs that you have to make. Another thing that we know from the research relatively well, and again, this falls under the category of generalized principles that we've gleaned through conducting different studies, is the principle specificity, which is to say that for strength, we want to train movement patterns that are quite similar to what we're trying to get stronger in. So for instance, we have a study by Plotkin and colleagues where they either performed just a squat or just a hip thrust. And as you'd expect, squat strength increased more in the group that adjusted squats, and hip thrust strength increased more in the group that just did hip thrusts. So strength is specific. This is just one example. We have many different studies looking at this general concept, but the strength gains accrued during training are specific to the exercise being trained. And so if you wanted to get better at the squat, for example, and that is one of your goals, you would need to include more squat type variations that might be beneficial for hypertrophy. Because for hypertrophy, you probably want a slightly less specific exercise selection. In fact, we have a systematic review by Brandao in Colton, actually not Cassiano and colleagues looking at exercise variation and hypertrophy. And that was conducted a couple of years ago, finding that some degree of variation in exercise selection is beneficial for more homogenous hypertrophy. So you don't just want one exercise or one movement pattern in your training program to maximize overall hypertrophy. And so if you're also training for strength and strength requires you to be more specific and include more squat type movements, for example, that might come at the cost of overall hypertrophy. So that's kind of a push and pull here. On the one hand, you're being pulled in the direction of greater specificity and mostly including similar movement patterns for strength, and you're being pulled in the direction of greater exercise variation when it comes to hypertrophy. There's certainly a degree of exercise variation, which is excessive. So if you're doing say more than about three or four exercises for a given muscle in a given week, and you're constantly changing exercises week to week, that might be a negative for even hypertrophy. But for strength, you might often want to stick with two or three maximum exercises for a given movement pattern, and all of them pretty closely resembling your competition squat, for example. It could be the competition squat, a high bar squat and like a competition low bar pause squat. All of those are very similar as far as hypertrophy are concerned. And to maximize hypertrophy, you would need greater variation. So as far as exercise selection and exercise variation, there is another trade off to be aware of here with power building, where you have to kind of decide, all right, do I want to lean in favor of maximizing strength gains here at the expense of hypertrophy? Or do I want to lean in favor of maximizing hypertrophy at the expense of strength? Another trade off might be in relation to relative intensity or proximity to failure, where generally, the research does seem to suggest that the closer a set is taken to failure, the more hypertrophy it will cause. So for hypertrophy, you at least want to take your sets reasonably close to failure most of the time. And I would say on average, taking most of your sets within about two reps of failure is pretty reasonable. And there's a case to be made for taking some sets even to all that failure. For strength, however, the opposite is almost true, where there doesn't seem to be a consistent relationship between going closer to failure and seeing greater strength gains. The main thing that seems to mediate strength gains is how heavy the load on the bars. So if you're training full nerve max, for example, as per a meta regression by Swinton and colleagues of several hundreds of studies, the heavier you go in terms of percentage of your max, the more of a strength improvement you'll tend to see. Whereas for hypertrophy, it is more so about proximity to failure. So for strength, you typically want to stay a bit more submaximal because there is no additional benefit to going closer to failure, but it will cause more fatigue. Whereas for hypertrophy, you'd want to go a bit closer to failure. So yet again, you kind of have a conflict in how you would train for one versus the other, creating a necessary compromise. And again, it's up to you to what extent you decide to compromise in favor of strength or in favor of hypertrophy. Similarly, the load, as I mentioned earlier, does matter quite a bit more for strength than hypertrophy. So while it's better for hypertrophy to train with at least five reps per set, and you can go all the way up to 30 or 50 reps per set for hypertrophy, as long as you go close to failure, for strength, the heavier you go, generally the better. Now keep in mind, I'm talking about maximizing your one repetition maximum here. If you were training for a five rep max, for example, you would most mostly want your training to revolve around five rep max load training. So you'd go a little bit lighter. But when it comes to purely maximizing strength, the heavier you can go, the better. However, yet again, there seems to be a potential benefit of including different rep ranges and different intensities for hypertrophy. So although we don't have a formal meta analysis on the topic yet, Zach Robinson of data driven strength has performed an in-house meta analysis on studies that compared using a single rep range versus multiple rep range in a given training program and measuring hypertrophy. And although it's not a huge effect, it's potentially a relatively trivial to small effect, there does seem to be a potential benefit to including different rep ranges for muscle building, as opposed to just sticking to one. And again, to come back to strength, you would want most of your training to be quite heavy if you were to maximize strength improvements. So if you're purely going for maximum strength throughout your whole lifting career, most of your training should probably take place in the one to six or maybe one to eight rep range, like sets of five to six for hypertrophy when you're most focused on building muscle size, all the way to sets of one to three when you're closer to your competition or to maxing out. So that doesn't really align with the idea of getting a variety of rep ranges in. Although it's a relatively small benefit, yet again, there is a compromise to be had between strength and hypertrophy. I think those are the main ones I can think of off the top of my head with one exception actually, which is volume. So with volume yet again, and there is a meta analysis that is about to be published on a topic too, that kind of reaffirms much of what we already thought. But yet again, with volume and strength and volume and hypertrophy, there is a concession or compromise to be made. For strength, you don't need to train with particularly high volumes to maximize strength gains. So for most lifts, somewhere in the ballpark of eight to 15 weekly sets, including variations, will probably be sufficient to roughly maximize your gains and that lift. However, normally there's a wider range depending on circumstance, depending on lift, etc. However, for hypertrophy, we now have, first of all, the consensus is that between 10 to 20 sets is sufficient to see robust hypertrophy. However, we now have a string of recent studies around eight studies total now, looking at higher volumes, so above 20 sets per week per muscle, compared to more moderate volumes of 10 to 20 sets per week per muscle. Broadly finding that there might be a benefit in terms of muscle growth to going even above 20 sets per week per muscle. Of these eight studies, four have found a benefit of going with higher volumes in excess of 20 sets per week per muscle and four have found minimal differences between sort of more moderate volumes and those higher volumes in excess of 20 sets per week per muscle. But overall, there does seem to be a potential benefit of going quite high in volume and certainly higher than you would for strength. Putting all that together, there is yet again a disparity in how you would best train for strength and how you would best train for hypertrophy. That doesn't mean there's never a place for higher volume training for strength. For example, if you're really far out from the meat or you're really far out from caring about maxing out, you could experiment with slightly higher volumes of say 15 to 25 sets per given muscle for those main movers like the quads, the glutes, the chest, the triceps, etc. But more broadly speaking, you probably want to train with higher volumes for hypertrophy than you want for strength. And yet again, you have to come to a compromise. Do you care more about strength or do you care more about hypertrophy? If you opt to go the direction of hypertrophy and going with higher volumes, there is another concession to be made, which is that those higher volumes will probably fatigue you a little bit more than sticking with lower volumes. And so day to day, you won't be quite as strong, you won't be able to look quite as heavy, which will probably make your training a bit less effective for power lifting or for strength as well, since the load on the bar is quite important as far as maximizing strength improvements. So as far as all of these things go, you kind of have to make your own decisions, right? Do you mostly rely on heavy low rep work that is pretty specific with relatively lower volumes, more submaximal? Or do you mostly rely on hypertrophy style work with higher volumes closer to failure and more diverse movement pattern selection? The decision is ultimately done to you. And towards the end of this episode, we'll try and give some practical recommendations as to how we implement this stuff to kind of get the best of both worlds. But I would say those are the opportunity costs or the tradeoffs to be aware of as far as what the research says. So a silly criticism that has often been or is still mentioned around power building and combining pure strength and hypertrophy training is that may lead to certain muscular imbalances, at least from a visual standpoint, or that for the majority of people, it will not allow them to develop an quote unquote aesthetic physique. And going for both goals at the same time is actually something that can be deleterious to your body image, at least as it pertains to the echo chambers standards in regards to what is aesthetic and what is not. Do you have any thoughts on that? Yeah, I think they  this comes back to the infamous spider physique claim. Look, ultimately, you should be training for the reasons that got you into training. If you want to look a certain way, prioritize that in your training. Like, I have many coaching clients that come to me and say, I really want to grow my arms or my chest or my glutes or what have you. If that's the case, we can put more of an emphasis on that. I think you can still see great gains in most of your muscles, if not all of your muscles, even while power building. That is an important thing. And it mostly comes down to your priorities as far as your own physique goes. I think we've both previously spoken to not really liking the booty builder programs or the sort of like excessively siloing the lifter into one category programs. I think the same can apply here. I think the claim that power building would categorically give you a certain kind of physique assumes that all power builders train these that same way, have the same genetics for something. It's essentially drawing a broad generalization that isn't really warranted. But I think that certainly if you take a more strength-centric approach to power building, there will typically be a few muscles that grow a bit less than others. So if you're really focused on maximizing the squat bench deadlift, and yeah, you still stick in some hypertrophy work, you can get to a point where you're back specifically, your calves, your arms, your shoulders, end up slightly underdeveloped. But I think that's just a matter of creating awareness. One common mistake I see with power building is not, well, sandbagging your accessory work. So I think people, that is one thing we'll get into is common mistakes with power building. But I think one common mistake that isn't relatively easy fix is to take your accessory work for hypertrophy seriously, or essentially just as seriously as your strength work. Obviously that's assuming that you care about hypertrophy to the same extent as you do strength. But I think that if you are aware that you want to improve your physique alongside your strength goals, treat your hypertrophy work with intent. It shouldn't just be something that you stick on to the end of your session and blast through because you've already done the quote unquote hard work that took up a lot of your mental bandwidth. It should be something that you quote unquote attack with intent. You execute another buzzwords that are often used in the industry. But on a serious note, I think that thinking about your hypertrophy work as just as important as your strength work can really help. And thinking about the fact that if you're focusing on the squat bench deadlift, you're already getting training in for a few of the muscle groups in your body. The glutes, the quads, the adductors, the hamstrings to an extent, the pecs, the triceps, the front outs to an extent, those muscle groups are already being trained to decent extent. So if you wanted to balance it out, you would likely need to include a fair amount of back work, bicep work, shoulder work, hamstring work, calf work. It's not as though you can just get away with doing back once a week, you know? But I do think that the general criticism of if you power build, you'll have this sort of physique and that's what no one wants. We're lies on a number of assumptions about what people actually want to look like and how they actually train like and what their genetics are like and assuming that the five people you've seen power build or representative of the whole population, I think it's just the number of assumptions based into it where, hey, if you look at yourself and you don't like the way your physique looks, that is a perfectly valid way to change up your training. But making a categorical statement about a whole population to me is a bit fallacious. But anyways, Pac, what about you? Do you have a spider physique? Not really. I do have a big chest though, bless my genetics for that. However, yeah, I wanted to touch on this ridiculous idea where you have, I think, survivorship bias, a lot of biases in general and just people, oh, remembering the one super strong power lifter that was used as an example and usually people that have certain anthropometric characteristics that highlight the spider physique even more that are then used or were used at least in articles or as sort of examples and videos warning people about the dangers of power building and the infamous spider physique. But in reality, if we look at lifting traditionally and if we start talking mainly about observations like the entirety or the entirety, a good amount of the old school bodybuilders that often get praised for their super aesthetic physiques, they were doing plenty of strength work on top of their usual bodybuilding stuff. Sure, they weren't calling it power building, but the idea was, hey, we're lifting heavy iron, we're doing a bunch of stuff, we're training for quite some time and nobody seemed to really be suffering by this sort of side effect. At the same time, building muscle takes a lot of time. So the idea that, oh, you engaged in more SPD focus training for six months that one time, you are now looking like an absolute abomination, dead lift specialist. I think that's also a fear mongering. And I'm not entirely convinced that if you were to even, let's say, twist the power building, anyways, do let's say 70% strength and then 30% hypertrophy, I very much doubt that the majority of people would end up looking anything but jacked. Sure, if you were to clone them and then have them do the opposite and have them focus mostly on hypertrophy training, you would probably be able to see some differences in terms of how they look, but assuming that they're not sandbagging or all their hypertrophy work, I don't think anybody would look in a way that is not perceived as jacked by the majority of individuals. So I do think it's a bit of a strong one and a bit of a fear monger to say that power building in general or combining both approaches is going to lead to some weird physique or will have you look strange. As far as my own personal experience goes, yeah, I was always blessed with a big torso and big legs. So I have a spider physique now that I think about it. Oh my God, okay, stop the podcast. The guys will see you later. I have some correction, correcting to do by the stuff we said at the beginning, peace. But yeah, that was my experience. Yeah, I can fully agree with that. And I think people are quick to make broad generalizations about power builders based on a few examples they see. But hey, if you want to talk about power builders, let's talk about the goat, Ronnie Coleman, a time Mr. Olympia. He was doing his triples and singles sometimes on squat and deadlift. And hey, he got pretty jacked, you feel me? So hey, every power builder is super jacked. You heard it here first. Just do your singles and triples and squats and deadlifts. No more worry about anything else. Something, something hormones. But yeah, on a serious note, I think power building does also present certain advantages. And this is something that back in the day on YouTube, there was a lot more focus on, I think, when power building was the hot thing, right? I think that people were quicker to mention the positives of including some strength work or some of that quote unquote mindset from strength based training into hypertrophy training vice versa to an extent. So one of the benefits I can think of, for instance, is that for many newer lifters, power building or power lifting rather, comes with the ethos of progressive overload, where adding weights to the barbie to week, tracking progression, ensuring you're training sufficiently hard because you're actively adding loads to the barbie to week or month to month or what have you, that comes as part and parcel of the culture because you're tracking numbers very closely. And that is something that is also beneficial for hypertrophy training, but that is sometimes not as focused on by hypertrophy trainings, where because you have a greater variation in exercise selection, because you're not constrained by specificity quite as much, it can become very easy to not care about the numbers anymore. And in some extreme examples, just focus on the pump. I think that trying to increase your numbers over time and keeping an eye on progressive overload, one, if nothing else, as far as lifter psychology goes, I think it gives you many wins every week. It's like, oh, I got a little bit stronger this week, nice. It feeds into your competence and the self-determination theory. It improves your self-efficacy, makes you feel a bit more confident with regards to your mastery and grasp of lifting. And so I think that a slightly increased focus on progressive overload, or at least trying to progressively overload week to week, is one of the positive aspects of what strength-based training can bring to someone who's mostly trained for hypertrophy. However, that can obviously be taken the wrong way, wherein a power builder will only focus on their numbers on the big three, and then disregard any numbers on anything else and put no effort into it. But I do think that that is one of the benefits of power building, that anyone transitioning from a pure bodybuilding style training approach to more of a power building style approach will typically benefit from. So I think that's one of the main benefits and certainly something I noticed going from more of a power building approach to a hypertrophy style approach is just consistently looking at last week's numbers, that notebook style approach. I think that's potentially that was brought from power lifting or strength sports, more so to hypertrophy training through power building style approaches. Like as much as I don't agree with everything, the British bodybuilding scene is done over the years. One thing it has done is note booking or essentially just keeping track of numbers week to week and even going somewhat heavier sometimes of like three reps on RDLs or one half U. And I think there is some value in that and at the very least, it keeps you training sufficiently hard to maximize hypertrophy and places the focus in the right places. So that's one of the benefits of power building. I think another one that is somewhat more obvious, but as we spoke about earlier, maybe people overlook is that placing a greater focus on developing the prime movers, like the glutes, the adductors and the quads will make you stronger in the long term. Like sure, and we have a whole article on this on Strong by Science, sure there will be people smaller than you that can lift more than you, right? Like just looking at how jacked someone is, doesn't tell you everything about how strongly they will be, but within the same individual, if nothing else about you changes, let's say you've reached maturity, your body proportions aren't changing anymore, you're the same height, et cetera, the biggest way you can get stronger over time is to get bigger, right? And I think that power building as far as what hypertrophy training brings to strength-based lifting, that is one of the main things it can bring to your training. Are there any other positives that you can think of? So I wanted to say nice on bringing up the ethos, the mentality transfer from strength training to hypertrophy training, because I think that's one of the main, so I'm just gonna echo you, but add a bit of my own thoughts as well. The idea that, okay, every week we're adding weight to the bar, I think that that was one of the main reasons a lot of people found strength training interesting and found it stimulating, especially at beginning stages of one's lifting career where you can add more weight more frequently, and sometimes that was also combined with some form of crazy calorie surplus, but it is one of the reasons why I would recommend power building to a lot of not necessarily pure beginners, but people early in their lifting careers. I think having that combination of, I think having that sort of more number centric approach where you're like aware that, okay, this another week, I gotta add weight to the bar, not that you wouldn't do that with a hypertrophy sort of program, but in the context of strength training, it can be a bit more straightforward, a bit more fun, and unfortunately, and that's something that obviously you can work away from in the lifting world when you become a lifter and lifting becomes part of your identity, so do strength standards to a certain extent. Now that's not for everyone, but it's rare that you're gonna hear people talk about your lateral raise PR or your machine chest press PR. So having the big three in there may, and this is completely anecdotal, may help some lifters with feeling more like lifters and feeling like they can relate to other people and discuss their PRs and their strength. Aside from the other positives that you mentioned, I don't think there's anything much bigger, so I don't know, I guess community and belonging, but you hit the nail on the head. I think actually community and belonging is another one that gets downplayed. I think that they're, unless you're competing in natural bodybuilding or you're particularly friendly and close to your local gym community, or you have many friends who are into lifting more broadly, I think that focusing on strength can often be a great way to socialize, and this is more of an anecdotal thing, but whenever I focused on strength for a few months and I was squatting or deadlifting, like say four, five, six, whatever plates, that often initiates many more conversations, and I think that lifters who train for strength tend to be a bit more sociable on average in the gym, and so if you're, it's not uncommon for someone who's been training for hypertrophy for a while to join, say, a powerlifting team at a college or university, what have you, or to just train for strength in the gym and kind of find a mini-community within their own gym who trains for strength and make the gym into more of a sociable place, so a slightly increased sense of community in the gym can be another positive power building where you can kind of dip your toes into both worlds of, okay, I'm training for hypertrophy and I'm just part of the general gym community, but also be part of that strength-based community that is present in at least quite a few gyms around the world. Another, not positive of power building, but something that makes power building more effective for hypertrophy than you might expect, is that depending on how you pick your accessory lifts, and we'll go into practicals in a little bit, but depending on how you pick your accessory lifts, you can get a decent variation in excess selection, just as part of power building is an approach. So let's say for example, instead of picking the competition squat and the paused competition squat as your two-squat variations, you decide, all right, let me do the competition squat and the hack squat as my two exercises. Yes, you're sacrificing a little bit in terms of specificity by picking the hack squat over the pause competition squat, but this is allowing you to relatively effortlessly get a greater variation in excess selection and to maximize hypertrophy. To go back to the whole trade-offs conversation, I think one potential trade-off that is emerging from the research now, and this isn't something that is as clear cut as some of the other trade-offs, is lengthened training. So it all comes back to this. This is your classic muscle and feels podcast episode where we inevitably resort to talking about lengthened partials again. But there is a distinction between how to train for strength and how to train for hypertrophy in this regard. When it comes to strength, once again, the findings from my very own metanoss, some range of motion actually, found that training in the specific range of motion of your outcome at those joint angles is going to result in greater improvements in performance compared to training in different joint angles. To put it in simpler terms, if you're trying to maximize your powerlifting squat to parallel depth, but you're training with a four-ranger motion squat, you will likely see less of an improvement in your powerlifting squat than if you just consistently squatted to parallel depth. Basically, train in the range of motion that you're competing in or trying to get stronger in. There is some research suggesting that combining different ranges of motion, so having some of your training as four-ranger motion training and some of your training as partial range of motion training could lead to better overall strength gains. That would lend credibility to the idea that powerlifting can do some highly specific competition squat-style training, for example, alongside some partial range of motion training like some half squats or some pin squats or what have you. But in general, you want to be specific with your range of motion when it comes to strength. When it comes to hypertrophy, on the other hand, there's more and more research seemingly suggesting that length in training is important for hypertrophy. And in fact, there's even some research now suggesting that length in partials, so not even doing a four-ranger motion, could lead to more hypertrophy than doing a four-ranger motion. The evidence isn't 100% beyond a shadow without yet, but the evidence does seem to be leaning that way. And so if I were to coach someone for pure hypertrophy, I would have them include quite a few length in partials and an exercise selection that is more centered around length in training, that places more tension in the stretch position, that places the target muscle in a more stretch position, whereas for powerlifting or for strength in general, I would keep the range of motion much more specific. So again, you kind of have a pole in two directions and you have to pick which one you end up going more in. I think you can combine it to an extent where, especially if you're not concerned with maximizing your strength, you could do all of your main lifts with powerlifting or strength-style range of motion, so squatting to parallel depth, deadlifting the regular way, benching with an arch as you would in powerlifting, if that's your preference. But then for your accessories, you could include some more lengthened, biased exercises. So that could be, for example, doing some flatback, no arch benching, or it could even be doing some astragrass squatting, or that sort of thing. And that could provide you with some of the benefits for hypertrophy whilst influencing variation. Or you could go even further, and since I mentioned combining some powerful range of motion training with some partial range of motion training for greater overall strength gains earlier, you could combine your specific work of powerlifting, squatting, benching with an arched back with some lengthened partial training. For example, like doing some lengthened partials on the bench press, or doing some lengthened partials on the squat, or on the leg press, or what have you. And that could possibly, it's untested as of yet, but could possibly be a good option for those who want good hypertrophy, while still potentially gaining that benefit of being pretty specific, and including both a full range of motion and a partial range of motion in your training for better overall strength gains. But I think as far as positives of powerbuilding go, that kind of wraps us up pretty well. And I think we've discussed a lot of the negatives of powerbuilding, which mostly come down to opportunity cost. What I want to open up as a conversation now with you, Paak, is just discussing how much of the potential gains are we missing out on. Like, do you think by powerbuilding, we're getting like 50% of maximum hypertrophy and 50% of maximum strength gains? Or do we think we're actually missing out on less than that or more than that? How do you see the trade off there if you had to give rough percentages or ballpark figures? Yeah. Unless we're talking about the powerbuilding caricature where it's like, okay, I'm in the gym for four hours, three and a half of them are me doing four sets of squats and three sets of bench press at one to five repetitions. So if we're not talking about that caricature and we're talking about powerbuilding, the traditional way most people have done it and with some consideration around, hey, let's balance both strength hypertrophy training. I think, because obviously we've got to give some ranges because not every approach will be the same and it will depend on people. But I think you're not going to be looking at less than 70% of potential gains for either domain by depending on how you arrange things. But if you were to play your card thread, quote unquote, as we will suggest in a second in terms of what's the best way to approach powerbuilding, I think you could be making 80 to 90% of potential hypertrophy games and somewhere around 80 to 90% of strength gains as well. Like if you play your cards, right, I don't see why you're going to be missing out on much or for some people, it won't even be meaningful gains for some others that care about maximizing everything in theory, yeah, they're probably missing out on a bit, but overall, I think you can get the best of both worlds by powerbuilding the right way. What do you think? I think it's pretty solid take. The way I see it, I think that you can get a really good amount of both, but the more you choose to spec in one, the more you tend to sacrifice in the other. So for instance, I think that you can probably get about 80% of the potential overall physique development alongside around 80% of the overall strength development. However, if you want to get say 95% or plus percent of the total potential strength development, you would probably be looking at like 60% of the overall physique development. The reason I say that is because I do think those compromises we mentioned earlier in excess selection, repetition ranges, intensity, approximate failure, range of motion, volume, et cetera, do cause some friction, and so you couldn't just get 100% of both. And I think as you chase those last few percentage points in either capacity, whether it's physique or strength, that is where you're going to have to make the most concessions to keep getting that additional potential gain, right? So if you're trying to get say 95% of the strength gains, you might be talking about like a 60% of your potential physique development, or if you're trying to get 100% of your potential strength gains, we might be talking closer like 50% of your total physique gains, right? Because there's going to have to be some concessions in your other pursuits. But I think that for most people, the good news is that you can probably get around like 80% of each at the same time. And the difference between making 80% of your potential gains and 100% of your potential gains, I think is small enough that for most people, they'll be pretty happy with that, especially if they're inclined to want both improvements in the strength and size. They can see those with relatively modest trade-offs. So yeah, I think overall the power building pill is a positive one, especially if you're at least someone interested in both strength and size. But it also all depends on how you apply it. And I do think there are some mistakes that are often made when trying to apply this stuff and we can go through some of those. The one thing I want to highlight is that obviously, you have to take the percentage that we just mentioned and the potential trade-offs as far as hypertrophy and strength gains go for power building and further adjust for the time that you're going to be spending power building. So we're talking about 80% of potential gains that use that as a rough figure, at least for hypertrophy, but that's usually in the context of what? Six months, a year, a couple of years of strictly power building for the love of it. So in terms of actual muscle growth, potential loss, we're not talking about a ton of gains. Obviously, if you're a beginner, maybe the magnitude there is greater, but we often speak about potential gains and what's best and people often operate as if that's what they will be doing for the rest of their lives or as if, oh, okay, I power-build it for a year. And like now you can switch to pure hypertrophy training and make back some of the gains you didn't make. Like it's really not that deep and you're not, it's not like you're giving up gains that you can't make in the future or that the gains that you're giving up aren't that big of a deal. Yeah, I would tend to agree and I think there's different ways of implementing it, but some of the research around resensitization, although it is in its very early stages, could even suggest that if, say, you spend three months of the year focusing on strength, if you opt to follow that sort of purization model where you spend ex-proportion of the year focusing on hypertrophy and then you switch focus to a strength-based approach, I think that some of the research around resensitization to training and potentially to higher volume training as you would perform for hypertrophy, suggests that you may not actually miss out on all that much. I'm not sure I'd necessarily recommend compartmentalizing it and making it more of a block-purization approach, wherein you train for pure hypertrophy, say in mind months and then for pure strength to say three months. I think nowadays for most coaching applications, for enjoyment and also for efficacy based on some of the research around strength at least, I think a daily undulating purization as much as it doesn't mean anything really, it's just a very broad and broad term is what I would probably do and I think that's what you've experimented with over the past few years actually on your deadlift and your overhead press. So let's go into how you're currently implementing power building because you've been implementing power building to a much greater extent than I have. And then once we've discussed a few approaches to power building, we can kind of give some common mistakes that we see lifters performing as well. In case you were unaware, we are in New York City as you can tell by the, I don't know, the aircraft landing, the military aircraft landing outside our window and sirens, I'm not sure why an aircraft would have a siren. So I have been personally training mostly for hypertrophy but still have some strength specific goals, namely overhead press, one-hour rem strength and deadlift one-hour rem strength. And given my exposure to the minimum dose research for strength primarily and more specifically, the way we went about testing that in power lifters, I, what I've done is I've taken highly specific strength training principles, I'm sorry, highly specific strength training and essentially thrown it on top of a pure hypertrophy program. So when looking at the current literature on minimum effective training dose for one repetition maximum strength training, we see that three to six very specific sets, so heavy sets and the one to three, one to five rep range are seem to be enough to lead to meaningful strength gains. So essentially what I have done is I've thrown a single and some back offsets over my bodybuilding style training and that's literally being it. That allows me to sort of use those movements as a bit of a warm up for some sessions in the sense that I'll go in, I'll warm up on the overhead press, do my single, do my couple of back offsets and then I'm ready to do my hypertrophy push session. Same goes with the deadlift usually as the first exercise on a pull day. But the one thing that I want to highlight is that with such low volumes of strength training and some, I'll say avoidance of the nocebo that you need to be warming up for 30 minutes for a deadlift and that you need to do a bunch, like you need to rest a bunch between each warm up, you've seen me get those sets in what, less than 15, 20 minutes, especially when we're talking about like two to three sets. And mind you, I'm not some elite deadlifter, but my deadlift is in the mid-ish, 600. So warming up for a heavy single, if you really want to, and after getting used to it, it can be pretty time efficient. All that to say that I personally, I am a big fan, at least for those that have mostly hypertrophy goals in mind, because if you are somewhat more strength,  and things like that. And doing a bit more volume for your strength movements, and specifically again in the 1-5 reprints, makes sense. But for those that want to make solid, one repetition maximum strength gains, but want to primarily focus on getting maximally jacked, or at least being close to maximally jacked, throwing a few singles and back-off sets, and those could be as low as three sets per lift per week, but somewhere in the three to six sets per lift per week range. I think that that's a great way to combine both approaches. You're not adding a ton of extra time on top of your workouts, and the amount of strength gains that you're probably getting out of those few sets are worth the extra bit of time. Additionally, allow me to note that if you're doing very specific strength training on top of your hypertrophy training, and you're doing that for quite a bit, and you're used to doing a bunch of volume afterwards for the musculature that is also involved in those lifts, all it will take for you to actually peak and test your strength is to just take it easy a bit on the bodybuilding slash hypertrophy work for a week or so, do some heavy specific lifting, take a couple of days off, like rest completely, and then obviously terms of condition apply, but I think it's likely that you're going to be in pretty much peak strength. So that sort of approach allows you to stay in peak strength and maintain peak strength without really doing much. Yeah, I would tend to concur with all that. I'll give an alternative approach to powerlifting that I've used in the past, which is a lot more hypertrophy centric. Before I do, I wanted to add one thing to your peaking and tapering approach, which is like the casual lifters peaking and tapering approach, which is in general, the research started to suggest that doing a priming session like 24 to 48 hours before you max out might be a good idea. So on any lift, as Pac mentioned, take a few days off and then go into the gym max out and one or two days before you max out, ideally the day before, do a few singles at like 50 percent of your max. It should be really easy. Try and lift it as explosively as possible. This can be a great tool as well for those who are actually competing in powerlifting, but aren't taking it that seriously if using the approach that Pac mentioned, because it can allow you to practice the commands on a day before and just have some practice with the lifts before you actually go into your meet. But doing a priming session on those lifts, just single reps, maybe three sets on each lift at around 50 percent of your max is an approach that I think has some merit based on research where we generally see a slight improvement in strength by doing that. As far as other palpating approaches go, I think it ultimately comes down to what dual priorities are, like how much do you care about how much of your strength, and then identifying where that means you should fall and your training should fall on the specificity continuum. You can view your training as being perfectly specific to strength, wherein your exercise selection is highly specific to the competition lifts or whatever you're training for, your repetition ranges are highly specific, your range of motion is highly specific, your volume is pretty low to maximize strength or relatively low, and I think that where you fall on a specificity continuum should be dictated by how much you care about strength versus size. You can afford to be less specific if you care mostly about size and less about strength, but you'll have to be more specific in the exercises you select, the repetition ranges you train in, staying more sub-max in one terms of RP, etc., if you care more about strength. For me, when I was power building maybe a year or a year and a half ago, because I wanted to see my squat bench and net lift go up, what that meant for me was doing sets of five at a relatively sub-maximal RP of RP 7 or so, a couple reps in a tank at least, on the main lifts a couple times a week. So I would do sets of five on competition net lifts, sets of five on the high bar squat for lower squat, and sets of five on the bench press or close grip bench press, like maybe twice a week for a few sets each time. And that's enough to give you some reasonable strength gains, but because it is still in that effective hypertrophy range of five reps or more, and it's relatively close to failure and it's not the best exercise ever for building muscle, but it's at least reasonable, that to trade off in terms of hypertrophy, I would say might have been on the order of a few percentage points, maybe five percentage points, while still giving me a notable increase in how much strength I was gaining on the squat bench net lift. So that can be a really low impact way of incorporating some strength work into your program. And that's where something like the often maligned starting strength program, or even like what's called starting lifts or whatever it is, the other one's strong lifts, strong lifts 5x5. Those are kind of reasonable, because the hypertrophy range is five reps to maybe like 30 or 50. So even though you're going relatively heavy and still seeing some strength improvements with sets of five, you'll still be building most, if not all of the muscle you could, at least in terms of rep range. So it can be a really good sort of rep target around five reps to both see most of the potential hypertrophy gains, but still get some appreciable improvement in your top end strength, quote unquote. So that's one way of incorporating it that would be very hypertrophy focused. And the rest of the program would just be purely hypertrophy centric, making all of the choices that lean in favor of maximizing muscle size. So that's the way I would previously go about power building. I think that the top single approach can be highly hemificient. And if you view your training in terms of specificity or average specificity on that continuum, you're essentially being highly specific for a few sets a week, shifting the average specificity of your training by a little bit, but giving you practice at the actual test, which is testing on a max. So I think that can be a really good way if you care a bit more about strength than that, whereas the five reps on the main lifts a couple times a week can be a good way to do it if you're a bit less focused on strength and you mostly care about maximizing hypertrophy. So I think those are two pretty good ways of incorporating it. Do we want to talk about common mistakes now? So the first common mistake I'd say one power building is over committing to the strength stuff, but approaching the strength work as if you are a power lifter and essentially not being aware of time and rest periods in between sets, warmups and essentially doing a power lifting focus training and then expecting to do bodybuilding on top of that. I think being more intentional with the strength training part of power building is something that can make power building more effective overall because it can allow you to be more time efficient and also have more energy for the actual building part of power building. So I do see a lot of people who think, okay, this is power lifting and bodybuilding combined. Therefore, I will do power lifting treated completely like power lifting with no exceptions and then do bodybuilding on top of that, which that then leads to in my opinion, an insanely favorable sort of setup. Additionally, we also have, which I really alluded to, the issue with very lengthy warmups as it pertains to the big three. That's a mistake that I see and like a common sort of not red flag, but I don't know what you'd call it, but a common mistake by power lifters in general, where warmups have become sort of like a low routine before they're lifting, which okay, I get if you are a world champion power lifter and you have this sort of ritual before your training that allows you to get in the mood, but the idea that you need to be spending 35 minutes warming up for the warmup itself and doing a bunch of mobility drills and foam rolling and prehab, reshmihab, corrective exercises. Sure, we can be reductions and say if it makes you feel better, do it, but in the context of power building, simply let's say you're also focusing on the squat on top of your usual, the barbell squat on top of your usual high-perch free training, keep the warmup very specific to that lift, warmup just on that lift without the extra mumble jumble, be present for those few sets. You don't need to rush through them, but at the same time, there's no need to be resting five to six minutes between super light warmup sets on a squat, do a few sets with a barb, then slowly add weight to reach your top set, but don't, as we say in the UK, take the piss with your rest periods and the overall warmup in general, because again, you're trying to combine two training styles at the same time, spending 20 minutes, which in some cases can make for an actual hypertrophy workout, spending that time warming up doesn't make much sense. Yeah, and that reminds me of another trade-off that we forgot to mention, which is in rest times for hypertrophy, it seems like even just resting for one to two minutes between sets is going to be close to optimal or even optimal for maximizing the hypertrophy response on average. That's based on the most recent meta-analysis by singling colleagues that we were involved in that's been pre-printed as of like two months ago, maybe, but when it comes to strength resting for a little bit longer probably makes sense when it comes to maximizing a little on the bar, maximizing the intensity, which seems to be one of the main variables involved in maximizing the strength response. So that's another consideration and I think that alongside the excessive warming up that a lot of powerlifters tend to do, or a lot of strength-based lifters, the increase in average rest time does lead to a pretty practical bottleneck for power building, which is just time overall. Maximizing the hypertrophy response in trained lifters, especially, I think is more often than not constrained by time rather than recovery. Most lifters can recover from more training volume and closer to failure than they realize. So as I mentioned earlier in the episode, we have around eight studies looking at very high volume training of 20 or more sets per week per muscle, still generally finding neutral to positive effects of doing more volume. Equally, in the literature at least, there are next to no documented instances, as was noted in a review paper by Belling colleagues in 2020, of overtraining syndrome. That's not to say you can't overtrain, but it is to say that at least within single muscle groups, you can do pretty high volumes and benefit and you're relatively unlikely to overtrain because if you were to overtrain, we would see that you wouldn't grow more muscle in these studies. So I think that most people are more so constrained in maximizing their muscle growth by just how much time they have to train. And if they're now taking long rest time between sets and they're warming up for longer, they might be severely limiting how much volume they're doing in the given session. So I think limiting how much time you spend warming up to maybe around, for most people, like 10 minutes, 15 minutes to get to a relatively heavy single is pretty reasonable. Even 10, 15 minutes is a long time when you consider that for hypertrophy, you probably could have done five hard sets of compounds at that time. Like that is a meaningful amount of additional volume you could have done instead. So there is a non-negligible trade-off there, but I would say that the real mistake is one, just taking too much time in the warm-up. Two, not considering rest times properly. And three, I think that you need to be aware of the additional time cost that comes with power building if you approach it the wrong way. And that is where the trade-off can often occur. I think that if you're being cognizant of putting in sufficient effort and intensity and quote unquote intent on your accessory walk, that's not so much an issue anymore when it comes to hypertrophy in the power building style approach, but the time component is the more tricky one. And honestly, I think that for many lifters who are constrained by time, that is where the real trade-off of power building comes in. It's just that if you're not willing to extend your sessions a little bit, or if you're not willing to be quite cognizant of your warm-up time, you'll typically be curtailing your volume by quite a bit, which can impact hypertrophy negatively. So I think that is a common mistake. And that's why, you know, even though you don't see a huge trade-off in power building and how much muscle growth you see, that is why for most trainees who come to me and say, hey, I want a power build, I don't necessarily jump the gun and say, yep, let's do it. There's going to be no trade-off. Because for me, trainees, they are still constrained by how much time they have to train. So I think that's one common trade-off that you have to make when you're power building. All right. Is there anything else you wanted to add on the topic of power building before we move on to some Q&A? Just training to failure on more sets for some of your hypertrophy work may be a good way to ensure that you're not sandbagging things. Would you agree with that? In the context of power building, taking an extra few sets to actual failure, to absolute failure, is probably a good idea and is not going to hurt your gains? I think there's a few things you can do. One is definitely take more sets to failure on accessory work. The issue there is that it'll create some additional fatigue. So it is a bit of a double-edged sword. But other techniques to make training more time efficient, like for example, antagonistic paired supersets, which we just published in the study on courtesy of Burke et al. 2024. Supersetting movements with no muscular overlap, like a bicep curl and a tricep pushdown, or a pull down in a bench press, or a light extension and a leg curl. That can be a great way to increase time efficiency, which especially in the case of power building, where you might be limited on how much time you have for hypertrophy work, can be a great option. But I would say on average, training a bit closer to failure is probably a good idea, at least as far as your accessory work goes, since you're being a bit more submaximal on your main lifts and making a bit more time efficient. In addition to other time-saving strategies, like antagonistic paired supersets, potentially drop sets, or what have you. So I would agree. We've covered most things power building, but we have a bunch of awesome questions, which I will move to my other screen so I can see because I am somewhat blind. Well, Pac, if you're blind, put your glasses on. I hear you, viewer and listener, who could sense that I'm not wearing my glasses, and I will do just that. So I'll start us off with a question from the Facebook group, which I urge all of you to join, by Chuck Michael Michael, Michael, it's M-I-K-E-L, so I'll say, Michael, just for the fun of it, do strength athletes need to do hypertrophy work, especially given recent negative studies. I am not aware of the negative studies that are being referred to here. Are you, Dr. Malawu? I am not whatsoever. I'll give my two cents. I think that hypertrophy work in the broad sense of the word or the term, probably yes. I think that some sets of like five to eight reps, maybe even five to six, further away, farther away from a competition is a good idea. In the long term, for a given individual, all else being equal, increasing the size of those prime movers specifically for the squat, the quads, the glutes, the adductors for the deadlift, the glutes, the adductors, the hamstrings, quads to an extent, and even the lower back potentially. And for the bench press, the pecs, the triceps and the front delts, increasing the size of those is going to be quite important in the long term, as far as maximizing your performance of the powerlifter. But the key there is to not think of just increasing their size, but to remain relatively specific. So, mostly perform close variations of the main lifts. There is still a requirement for specificity to be there. And if you start doing sets of 20 on bench or sets of push-ups only or what have you, that is not going to be as effective as if you stay relatively specific, even in the offseason. And I think in general, the principle specificity does service quite well. But when it comes to a, and I might get some flak for this, but a relatively unskilled test of strength, like most of the powerlifts tend to be, increasing muscle size is pretty important. And so I'd say in the offseason, do sets of five to six, which I would categorize as hypertrophy work for strength athletes. And then as you move closer and closer to competition, start tapering away from those and closer to heavier lifts and so forth. As far as the, and I know there's some questions down the line about this, as far as other muscle groups, I don't think you necessarily need to do any hypertrophy work. Pac, anything to add there? Yeah. So fully agree with you on the way you expressed your take that, yeah, probably a good idea. And from the limited data that we have, trying to look, looking at like strength changes over time and specifically in powerlifters, there does seem to be some form of relationship between body weight and strength, which could indicate, you know, more muscle mass is good for strength changes over time. But I'd say, look, if you're going to spend the time doing it, doing, doing the hypertrophy work, in order for that hypertrophy work to be effective, you need to be relatively close to failure. And just because it's bodybuilding slash hypertrophy work, just feeling the muscle group that you're training, feeling the burn or getting a bit of a pump is not, does not constitute you training close failure. That's the one thing that I've observed. And it may be just my observation is that power lifters are sometimes really good at, you know, gauging proximity to failure when it comes to the big three, but then sort of sunbagging their hypertrophy work. So if you're going to do it, which we recommend that you do some form of hypertrophy work, everything that you said, make sure that it is at a legit zero to let's say three RIR. Other than that, no, that's, that's my, my addition there. So next question would be from Tom Warner on Facebook. And he asks, does growing non prime movers help with power lifting performance? Do bigger lats, traps and biceps help in any way? Now, as far as direct literature answering that question, I don't know, we don't have any. And as far as indirect literature, okay, Milo has left the building. But I'm here by myself. Okay, guys, listen to Milo is keeping me a non joke. But as far as building a rationale for doing more lat trap and bicep work, I would be, I'd find it difficult to say that you, it makes sense to do a lot of that. Sure, some dedicated lat work and I include some dedicated lat work for the majority of the power lifters that I train is not a bad idea in the sense that doing, you know, a few chin ups and a few, few lat pull downs grab one for me, please as well, Dr. Milo Wolf, who is getting ready to top us up in terms of caffeine, taking us to good 600 milligrams each. But yeah, doing some direct lat work that will also obviously involve some work for your biceps, and maybe even doing some direct trap work or just doing some back work in the form of rows and stuff. I don't think it's a bad idea because the trade of there is a bit of extra time spent, and potentially some benefit if you're looking to absolutely maximize power lifting performance, but doing a bunch of lat work, a bunch of trap work and a bunch of bicep work, no. So just recently I removed all bicep or all direct bicep work from a power lifter that I'm working with because he had some elbow issues. And although we had it, we had some direct bicep work in there for vanity sake. And because, you know, it's not going to take much aside from time in terms of like overall fatigue, just doing chin ups and some, some a bit of chest supported rowing or even non chest supported rowing, that should give you enough, sort of enough of a stimulus to tell yourself that, okay, if there's much to be gained from having strong biceps or more muscular biceps, I'm making some gains on them. So I'm probably covered. But yeah, I wouldn't, I wouldn't run a lat trap and bicep specialization cycle, or like a side delt specialization cycle for no reason. All right, I think I mostly concur. And I'm going to put out my hottest take, although I haven't done any temperature checks around this recently. I remember this being quite a contentious take back in the day. I just don't see why training your lats, biceps, traps, whatever else to question, answer, asked that isn't the prime mover would help out of the performance. I think not my expertise, not a medical doctor, not a physiotherapist. So take this with a huge grain of salt. Don't take this too seriously at all. But from what I understand, the research around imbalances of strength doesn't necessarily generalize well to strength athletes who are pretty strong overall. And so the idea that you need to train your back musculature for every set of pushing musculature, for example, you do, this seems to be a little bit updated as far as injury prevention goes. And then as far as actually directly assisting with palatine performance, none of those muscle groups can meaningfully help move the load in the squat bench or deadlift. Like the biceps flexes the elbow, which is the opposite of what you're trying to accomplish during the bench press. So if they were to get meaningfully activated during the bench press, and contribute towards say shoulder flexion, they would also make the role of the triceps more difficult. Similarly, the lats cannot get a deadlift from off the floor to lockout. So I just see that all these muscles have pretty limited applicability during the squat bench and deadlift, which made the claims back in the day by certain individuals that for a big bench, you really need to train your lats, bro, even more questionable, because the roles of the lats are largely the opposite of what you're trying to accomplish. And I get that having a big back looks cool. And it makes you feel like you have a bigger shelf to press off of. But as far as actually moving the weight in the bench, I don't think it does anything. So yeah, I think your efforts would be much better spent training the prime movers. And I hope this isn't a hot take anymore, because it shouldn't be. But that is my take. And I largely agree with Paco on this one. Yeah. And if you then if you look closely into the some of the people that make those claims and then look at the back training that they're prescribing for bench press, even that back training is not really intense enough. Sometimes it's like band work on top of some some some relatively light rowing and some prehab and then throw in a few few buzzwords around shoulder health and so on and so forth. But I never got that. Plus if you're doing a few chin ups, a few rows, I was in a few sets of chin ups, a few sets of rows or whatever, some back work in your sort of offseason parlix in work, it's likely that you are covered. And especially if you're a parlix, you're likely a relatively strong individual in general. And you're hitting minimum effective dose as far as hypertrophy goes for your back. So no, training your back even more. I don't think that that will that makes any sense. And that would be a cool study at some point. I don't think we will see it anytime soon. But you know, strict powerlifting training zero sort of non prime mover accessory work versus a ton and seeing who's going to get stronger and bigger. So I asked you the next one, how do you want to do this? Sure, I was going to finish off this question just by saying that I think anecdotally, having some power of just do some lat trap bicep calf side dot whatever you want to call it training as part of the routine can keep them a little bit more engaged, like for some people, they enjoy having some training in there. In that case, sure, but that largely falls under the umbrella of context and things that I that I almost think aren't worth mentioning usually, like when talking about training decision, because context always applies. So it's almost not worthy of mention, I would say, like it's kind of like saying, Oh, yeah, but you might want to do higher reps if you prefer doing it. It's like, yeah, but you could also prefer doing lower reps. So it's an argument in favor of both sides. So essentially negates itself, I would say. But I think that if power of the enjoys doing it by all means, please go ahead and do it if it keeps you more engaged in the process. Shall I hit us with the next question? Let's do it. Jason Gross on Facebook asks, what is the best way to implement power building for someone over 50 years old in terms of volume and frequency? Let's hit that one first since there are three separate questions. Cool. So I don't want to hit us with the dependisms now, but let's operate on the assumption that over 50, maybe you're able to handle a bit less volume and frequency, I guess, a bit less volume. I'll just use that assumption. I don't I don't think that overall volume recommendations would change that that much in terms of strength and hypertrophy. Obviously, toggling, obviously focusing more on strength if strength is your main thing, then if that's your goal, then focus more on strength. The same goes for hypertrophy. But overall, I'd say starting potentially what 10 to 20% of general volume recommendations for either or either domains would be a good starting point and adjusting from there. So but I don't know, it's a bit of a loaded question in terms of telling you the best way. So I'd say starting a bit slower, actually starting a bit slower in terms of overall volume and how you combine things, see how that feels for a few weeks, and then adjusting from there. So either adding more strength work or more hypertrophy work, depending on what you want to primarily focus on, that would be one of the main sort of considerations that take if looking specifically to guide somebody over 50. Aside from that, I don't think there's any actual response we can give to what is the best way to implement power building for somebody over 50 besides that. I'd say actually, sorry, one thing is you could also consider focusing on training non-spd related lifts for strength and seeing if maybe there's an alternative variation there that feels better, like a box squad or like a safety bar squad or whatever. I tried my best to reach as far as I could with my response here without saying it depends. So what do you think? I largely agree. I think that on average, older lifters will have slightly worse recovery, starting around that age. So potentially reduce volume slightly, at least experiment and see whether or not that results in better performance day to day. But beyond that, there's not any other categoricals I would say. So nothing else to really change necessarily on account of age, I would say. Certainly there's things outside of training that I'd recommend like potentially a slightly higher protein intake, mostly a bit higher in eat especially, that is unrelated to power building. As far as the next question goes, Jason asks, how many days off for recovery of joints tissue, assuming good conditioning and free of injury? Pak, lead us off. All right. So again, I wouldn't change things much or have like a recommendation that is specific to people over 50. It's not like we have a ton of direct literature in this context because he has also said assuming good conditioning and free of injury. So assuming good conditioning and the fact that you've been lifting  15 weights, I assume, for over a decade at that point, a normal split where you are essentially arranging exercises based on preferences and time availability would do fine. I'd probably say, hey, maybe don't try doing something like squatting every day or, I don't know, small or super high frequency strength training where you're doing a ton of very specific training back to back to back. Usual recovery timelines probably apply here. Depending on what you're used to, I'd say, training three to five times per week and having two to three days off every week and potentially organizing your program in a way where you're, let's say, doing lower body as your first day, then you're doing upper body and then maybe taking a break and then repeating or just arranging your routine in a way that makes sense in your essentially giving about 24 hours for each, unnecessarily muscle, but for each strength lift, giving it a day in between. What do you think? I'm trying to give a very specific answer, but I feel like that's not really possible here and what I said at the beginning pretty much covers it that don't think of it any differently than if you were 25 and just arranging your routine. Yeah, I largely agree. I would say the concept of rest days as being necessary is predicated on certain assumptions. So for instance, you're assuming that each training day will be of a certain volume, typically in a certain proximity to failure, but the idea that you need rest days isn't necessarily true. So for example, if you were to take the same amount of sets and given week at the same relative intensity, but you're doing them in three days versus seven days, I'm not sure that the lack of a rest day would cause an issue necessarily. And in fact, I think, again, not medical advice whatsoever, but a few years ago, around seven years ago now, I remember because this before I went to college, so there's both signs. Strong by science had a survey around how loved is training styles and asking them how many injuries they had and stuff. And very few variables were meaningfully associated with higher injury rates. So for instance, the frequency of squatting or benching or deadlifting, from what I remember, wasn't associated with prevalence of injury. So I wouldn't worry too much about categorically taking more rest days if you're older. I would say just manage overall training load in accordance with your recovery. If your performance is pretty good week to week and you feel pretty good, there is no need to necessarily modify things. Finally I think any specific recommendations would be entirely anecdotal here because we don't have the research to specifically tell you, all right, if you're under 52 days of rest, if you're over 53 days of rest, if you're over 70, four days of rest, you know, like we just don't have that research. So let's say just approach it like you would if you were 20 or 30 or 40 or 50 or 60 or 70. So that is my general take. All right. Next question we have is by Thomas Markov from Reddit. He asks, isn't power building just doing the big three and the six to 12 rep range with some extra accessory work? What programming strategies make for a more thoughtful power building program than just doing a power building program with higher rep schemes and more arm lock? I mean, we covered all of this in the episode thus far, but just to summarize, we don't have a set definition for power building. So it's the idea of combining both specific strength training and high purge fee training. So no, it's not just doing the big three in the six to 12 rep range with some extra accessory work. You can have many different forms depending on who you ask, but I just refer to the previous sort of parts of the episode where we went over what we think is the best way to power build. So obviously keep in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that a lot of the things that we see in our community and in our echo chamber, I've said echo chamber way too much on this episode. You know, there's no set definition for what power building is and it's not something that we've clearly, clearly tried to fully understand and whatever, whatever, whatever. Same goes with things like deloads that were just recently defined. So just refer to the previous parts of the episode and that should cover you. All right, I will add on one thing that I forgot to mention earlier. And that is that in the same vein as certain muscles don't really get trained well from the main power lifts, like the back musculature, biceps, calves, side delts will have you. There are certain exercises you should probably include on top of a pure power lifting approach that would make power building more than just doing the big three and six to 12 rep range. So basically, let's start from the ground up. For the hamstrings, some sort of leg curl is a good addition because the biceps femoris is short head doesn't get trained well during compound movements in all likelihood. Then some sort of knee extension isolation movement is a good idea for the rectus femoris because you don't necessarily get much rectus femoris stimulus from things like squatting. It kind of goes without saying, but some sort of calf raise exercise ideally with your knees extended is a good idea for calf hypertrophy because you wouldn't get much of that with just the power lifts. Similarly, some sort of hip abduction and adduction work in your training, maybe once a week can be pretty helpful for overall hypertrophy. It's certainly not top of the priority list, but I think if you're willing to go for the higher hanging fruits on that tree, you can include that as well and you wouldn't get that work from just compound movements. Some things like direct ab work wherein you're actively flexing your spine is probably a good idea as an inclusion at least once a week in your program. If you wanted to, you could include some direct forearm work because you don't in the big three get any major direct forearm work. I think deadlifts do count for something, but I think if you want to optimize growth or at least increase it substantially, doing some wrist curls once a week would go a long way. We have a whole already gone form training. You can check out on strongwessons.com, but just including some wrist flexion work once a week goes a long way. Some sort of tricep isolation exercise, ideally with your arm overhead is a good idea just because that would stretch out the long-term triceps, allow it to actually contribute meaningfully to elbow extension. Because it's biarticular, it probably doesn't get the best stimulus during a compound movement like the bench press, so some isolation movement makes sense. The same goes for biceps just because the big three don't really train the biceps a lot well. Having some sort of incline pressing exercise in your program probably makes sense because your upper chest probably doesn't get the best stimulus during something like a flat bench press. The only study we have comparing the incline bench press and the flat bench press showed superior upper chest growth from the incline bench press. And then back training, relatively obvious, but do some rows, do some pull downs. We have a whole podcast episode on the topic that we previously published. I think that's our most recent episode, so go check that out. And yeah, I think that power building is a bit more than just doing the three main lifts in the six-quad work range because otherwise you would miss out on most of the growth of all the muscles I just mentioned. So I just look out for that in an effective power building program. You certainly don't need to include everything I just mentioned. Like you don't need to train your calves. You don't need to do hip abduction, adduction exercises. But if you're looking to be quite holistic and complete in your targeting of all the muscle groups, I think that's a pretty good list to go off of as far as exercise selection goes. Anything else to unpack? No, that was that was put on. And yeah, we actually should have mentioned that earlier. Paper coming out on that as well recently accepted on regional hypertrophy from the lab. And specifically on what you said, rec fem growing more from leg extensions versus leg press and straight leg calf raises much better than with your knee bent. So yeah, that's a consideration as well in the context of power building that makes sense. So exercise selection is important for hypertrophy specifically. I'll ask the next question by Jonathan Studd from Facebook. So if you don't compete, would you be better off doing deficit, deadlifts and paused as to grasp low bar squats instead of traditional deadlifts and parallel depth low bar squats? I can hit us off. You can hit us off as well. I'll go ahead. I would say yes in a likelihood. I'm not going to say it depends because I've been known to hate that answer. I would say yes on average because you're getting more of a stretch on the glutes, add afters and quads in the deficit deadlift. And you're getting more of a stretch on the glutes, outers and quads on the astragras low bar squat compared to just the parallel depth low bar squat. We have a few studies comparing more shallow depths to deeper depths on the squat, for example, generally finding better growth, especially of the hip extensors like the glutes and outers from squatting deeper. I think generally the concept of longer muscle length training is better for hypertrophy has been validated relatively widely. So I would recommend switching to those. I think that in general, if you just like the idea of strength overall, but aren't tied to the idea of the squat bench and deadlift as performed in the power lifting sense, including exercises that take you into a deeper stretch position and focus on strength in those, will still make you plenty strong on those partial range of motion or those more partial range of motion. But it will probably provide you with a better muscle growth stimulus. So I'd recommend switching to those pack anything to add on that front. Awesome. I will read the last question, which comes from two snares and symbol from Reddit asking for someone who is interested in maximizing hypertrophy while still building squat bench and deadlift strength. What are your thoughts on low fatigue training for the big three, i.e. one to three sets of one to three reps with three to five reps in the tank versus the minimum effective dose method of doing one single at around or P nine. Well, first of all, we'll see you in court. And second of all, we'll see you outside. Now, third of all, I think that might be more effective than the minimum effective dose method, which is not a method of doing sort of heavier, lower, heavier and higher RP, lower RIR singles and back ups. Now, obviously, we don't have much data on this. And the bit of data that we have is from our studies on minimum effective dose training for power lifters specifically, but based on the totality of current available evidence, if you were to compare three sets of sets of one to three reps, so still pretty heavy weight, weight at a three to five RIR versus one single at 0.5 to one RIR, I would bet quite a bit of money on the former winning. Now, that doesn't mean that you cannot combine both approaches into one, which is what we recommended earlier, where you are essentially lifting a heavy weight for one repetition to be as specific as possible, because you're only doing so much volume for your SPD related work and having, I think there's some merit to being a bit closer to failure for in the context of very low volume training, because you are, you know, you don't have such a frequent exposure to that lift and you get a bit more sort of grind specific training from it in the sense that, you know, being one to two reps in reserve will require a different focus than being at five RIR, let's say, but then you can follow with two to three back offsets at a very low RPE and you can get the best of both worlds. Now, do we know for sure that one approach or the combination of both is better than the other? No, but I think that that's a good way to combine it. If for any reason staying in the zero to point point five to two RIR range makes it more difficult for you to be efficient with time and requires you to hype yourself up and so on and so forth, then I think it's totally fine to keep things at three to five RIR. I don't think you're going to miss out on a ton of gains. So you are pretty flexible here. I would just urge you to not rely on just doing one single. Sure, we had some people in our studies do just one single twice a week for the squads, three times per week for the bends and once for the deadlift, but those were likely to not see meaningful strength gains. They made strength gains and they had, I think, like a 30% chance to making gains that were regarded as meaningful, but the group that did just a couple of back offsets after that had like a 99% chance of seeing gains that were beyond what's considered meaningful. So add your, your back offsets, do your top single. And yeah, as the great Greek philosopher trainer and politician NS once said, top, top single, couple of triples call it a day. Yeah, I largely agree. As the creator of the minimum dose method just pointed out, I think in this example specifically, one to three sets of one to three reps at three to five reps in reserve versus just one single but heavy, I would strongly suspect the one to three sets to win out. For one, I think you're going sufficiently heavy with one to three sets of one to three reps or P six or so to get most of the strength benefit. Like you're going pretty heavy still there. You're going to like 80, 90% of your max typically. For two, going closer to failure is not necessarily better. It does allow you to go slightly heavier, but going to failure inherently doesn't make a set better for strength. So if anything, I would prioritize lower RP walk over super high RP walk, at least as far as maximizing strength outcomes in the, in the overall program, not necessarily maximizing per sets the most. And so let's say multiple sets of few reps at somewhat more, some maximal RPs is a better way to go generally. I think that being more submaximum is better on average, being heavier is better on average, and multiple sets is going to be better than just one set. I think that keeping the number of sets relatively low overall still makes sense, especially if you're trying to keep strength as a small part of your program. The, those response relationship between number of sets and strength seems to be considerably foreign quote, it seems to cap out considerably earlier than for hypertrophy. So one behind the scenes analysis that we're aware of shows that the benefits may cap out as early as around 10 sets per week per lift. So just doing a few sets once or twice a week might get you much of the way there as far as strength gains go. So as the, the creator of the minimum dose method pointed out, I do think the former would be slightly better, but also pointing out that the minimum effective dose method doesn't exist. All right. I think that about rounds us out. Pac, would you go to the outro? Sure. Thank you for listening to yet another stronger by science podcast. I know many of you are like, wait a second, did my Spotify app or my Apple podcast app just malfunctioned? Did we just skip an hour and a half of the usual expected time for these podcasts? So we have barely, we haven't even made it to two hours when we're left on our own devices. We're out here slacking, but in all seriousness, thank you so much for listening. Let us know if you like the slightly shorter duration. Obviously we try to keep it as detailed as possible. And don't forget to check out our YouTube channel, stronger by science, youtube.com slash stronger by science, I guess just YouTube stronger by science. A lot of content, a lot of short, shorter form content comes out there and we have some exciting stuff with some exciting guests that we are looking forward to sharing with you very soon. Check out stronger by science.com for new articles for coaching and obviously don't forget to sign up to the newsletter and all the other plugs that we said at the beginning. So from us over here at stronger by science in New York, we bid you adieu and we'll see you next time. Peace. Peace.