 guessing вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам with another great episode today for people watching on YouTube. As you can see, Pac and Milo are in the same spot. Currently in the United States in beautiful New York City, the big Apple, the city that never sleeps, how are you guys liking it there? We are liking it in the sense that we are here on a mission and that mission is furthering science, consuming more fiber than we have ever been able to. And also living the most boring slash manlike lifestyle ever, meant in the best way possible. So we're loving it. Specifically, we're not only advancing science. Specifically, we are not only advancing science through seeing what the human body does with 100 plus grams of fiber per day, using modified tortilla wraps with 30 grams plus fiber per wrap, but also through conducting actual science. Namely, we're conducting the first study on range of motion and length and partials, specifically in trained lifters. And by that, I mean, we had quite a few inquiries for participation. And as far as recruitment went and who ended up in the study, we specifically went for the ones, the participants with the highest training experience. So we asked them how long they've been training for, and we specifically recruited the ones with the most training experience. So we might be looking at a sample with an average training experience of three to five years, maybe even more, depending, we'll see. So seeing whether or not length and partials actually produce more hypertrophy in trained lifters in the context of a pretty well-rounded upper body program with compound pressing, compound pulling, curls, tricep extensions, and so forth. So we're actually in New York for that very purpose, besides all the high fiber stuff. Good deal. Yeah, that's hype. I'm excited to see how it goes. Also, congrats on the recent Partials Past Failure calf raise study. Do you want to briefly recap that for the audience? Sure. Let people know what research you've been up to previously. Sure. I can also recap the lay extension study if you think that would make sense. Oh, yeah, that too. God, there's been so much. There's been so much. We have published two studies with the help of Stephen Larson, who is in fact Norwegian and not Danish as I previously stated on a podcast. With his help and him spearheading Vita Collection, we've conducted two studies on range of motion. The first one was a comparison of leg extensions performed with either a 40 degree hip angle. So with the rectus femoris a bit more lengthened or with a 90 degree hip angle with the rectus femoris a bit more shortened. So essentially seeing how hip angle and therefore rectus femoris stretch impacts hypertrophy from my extensions. And basically we found greater hypertrophy of the rectus femoris from doing leg extensions with your hips a bit more extended versus a bit more flexed and therefore the hip rectus femoris being a bit more shortened. Similarly, we conducted another study in the calves specifically measuring gastrocnemius hypertrophy, looking at a within participant design comparing just doing full range of motion calf raises, wherein the set was ended when participants couldn't get another full rep on the calf raise versus using a condition wherein after participants couldn't get a full rep anymore, they would extend the set just doing partials so they couldn't get up all the way onto their tippy toes anymore. They would just keep going until they either just gave up because going past failure on calf raises does involve a lot of pain or whether they couldn't even move out of that lengthened position anymore. So either volitional failure or momentary failure in the lengthened position. And by doing lengthened partials past failure on a set per set basis, so both conditions did the same number of sets, going past failure with lengthened partials did seem to result in a bit more hypertrophy, nominally around 40% more hypertrophy. So all else being equal, if you take a set past failure on calves, you may see more hypertrophy by doing lengthened partials after failure. I call those lengthened supersets, people have called them a bunch of things, people have been doing those for a while as Greg has outlined in a previous episode. I think he do them on basically every isolation movement. So yeah, why not? First study on the topic and it does seem to help with hypertrophy. Good deal. Good deal. That's very hype and congrats on both of those studies. So today in this episode, we are going to talk about back training. What a segue, I'm a pro. But before we talk about back training, let's get some of the standard plugs up top out of the way. So if you enjoy the show, please like, rate, subscribe, and tell your friends. It really helps us out. If you're interested in hiring a coach that you work with online to help you out with your training and or nutrition, Stronger by Science has an excellent team of coaches that can help you out. You can learn more at StrongerbyScience.com slash coaching. If you'd like to purchase supplements from a source where you don't just have a proprietary blend, you don't know what's in it, like you want to get the actual active ingredients directly. So you're not taking a bunch of underdosed nonsense and you want to get it at a good price. And in fact, you want to get it at an even better price. You can go to the already affordable bulk supplements.com and use code SBSPOT at checkout for an additional 5% off your order. If you want to join our communities and stay fully in the loop with goings on in the Stronger by Science universe, you can join our Facebook group, which is Stronger by Science Community Facebook or our subreddit, which is reddit.com slash r slash Stronger by Science. Check out our newsletter where we send you high quality informative content every couple of weeks, not just spamming you with a bunch of ads and telling you to buy shit. And the newsletter's really been really been popping recently. Pak and Milo have been writing excellent newsletters, if I do say so myself. You can check that out at strongerbyscience.com slash newsletter. And finally, if you have questions that you'd like us to answer on the show, record a voice clip less than 60 seconds and email it to podcast at strongerbyscience.com. So with that all out of the way, we are discussing back training on this episode. And that is, I think specifically upper back training. We're not talking a bunch about how to train your spinal erectors, get the Christmas tree going in the lumbar region, if you get super shredded. That's not the topic of this episode. Mostly lats, traps, rhomboids, upper back training, pulling exercises, etc. etc. So yeah, that's what we're chatting about on this episode. Just out of curiosity, why did you guys select this as a topic? Not that it's a bad topic, but do you have any specific interest in back training these days? I mean, I think like any lifter, growing the back is pretty important, like both for physique. And maybe not so much for the bench press. That's one of the claims I hear thrown out a lot, oh, if you want to bench big weights, you need a big back, train your lats for the bench. It's super important. But I do think most people want to have more muscular backs. And I think that recently on the podcast, we forayed into slightly more obscure or research heavy podcast episodes. And as it turns out, back training is not one of those topics where you can super heavily lean on the research. And I think that's something that not that many people are aware of. That while we have quite a few comparisons of exercises when it comes to like the biceps, the triceps, the quads to an extent or at least different training approaches, as we'll soon find out, there's not a whole lot when it comes to the back. And so I wanted to kind of clarify that for viewers and kind of inform people as to, hey, we don't have a whole lot, but this is how it's go about it. Yeah, I think something that a lot of people aren't that acutely aware of unless they read a lot of research is that when we say there's a fair bit of hypertrophy research, there is. But almost all of it is on biceps, triceps, and quads. And then there's a non-trivial amount on hamstrings, a non-trivial amount on calves, and that's about it. That's about it. I'm really struggling to think of studies that assess trap growth or lat growth or spinal erector growth or, I don't know, just about anything else, delt. Not to interrupt you. Yeah, I mean, we are actually finding a study in the delt. There's like five muscles that get all of the research, maybe like four studies on pet growth or something. But yeah, when it comes to back muscle ature, the research directly assessing it in longitudinal studies is very, very limited. Yeah, no, fully agreed. And I think that is one of the limitations. I think there's a discussion to be had around generalizability of findings from one muscle group to the next. That is a whole different kind of ones, whether or not the findings we have in the biceps or the triceps or the quads, as far as principles like, oh, long muscle training or loadability or what have you, whether or not the findings in those areas generalize to training all muscle groups. But I do think, as we'll discuss in this episode, there is the potential for research to be done in other muscle groups. So for instance, one thing we're planning now with Stephen Larson, who I mentioned earlier, is at least looking into whether or not we could perform a study in the lateral delt, the side delts on hypertrophy, because theoretically, even using ultrasound, for example, the side delt is a relatively superficial muscle. So we could ultrasound it relatively easily. One of the obstacles in doing so is just the identification of anatomical landmarks to locate it precisely and have a valid measurement in that we're truly measuring the lateral delts and not another area of the delt altogether. People have argued that there's many subdivisions of the delt and so forth. But I think the biceps, triceps, calves, quads just tend to be the ones that we can measure most easily as a result of ultrasounds being cheap, cheaper, rather not cheap, they're often still $10,000 to $20,000, but then using them is a lot cheaper than using an MRI. So yeah, that's why those muscles tend to be measured the most often or the most frequently, but we are planning on hopefully slowly changing that where possible. And like you mentioned, not only are they superficial and therefore you can ultrasound them. There are also anatomical landmarks you can use to standardize the measurements. So most quad measurements and studies are taken at 50% of femur length, which yeah, I mean you can you can identify the top and bottom of the femur, just you know, look at that linear distance, take half of it, make a little mark on the quad. And so if you want to make sure you're actually measuring the same point in the muscle today and 12 weeks later, that's easy enough. Whereas, yeah, for the delts, having a way to like standardize it so that you're sure you're scanning the exact same part of the muscle twice in a row. I don't think that's like an impossible hurdle to overcome, but it is it is a non-trivial challenge that isn't present when you're dealing with the muscles on the long bones like biceps, triceps, quads, hamstrings. For sure, I agree. One thing Stian and I have played around with to an extent is using henna paint. So just a semi-permanent mark on the skin that can be reapplied throughout the study. So then you're measuring the exact same site, pre and post intervention, so that at least your measurement location on the body is reliable. Obviously, it doesn't guarantee perfect reliability and all that. But it is one of the sort of tricks that you can use to increase reliability of measurement and assess changes more accurately. I was personally interested in back training because as they say, shows are one from the back and seeing as I'm an aspiring competitive bodybuilder, I wanted to make sure I get the latest info from the best source, aka Milo and Greg. Plus, the back is not a the back musculature. It's not something you see often. So it poses a bit of a philosophical question of whether is it really there at the moment? Like I cannot see it. I cannot see my back at the moment. Is it there? Does it appear when you train in? Yeah, that's maybe the first philosophical question that any of us contended with. Like if you've ever played peekaboo, which I assume all of us did when we were two years old. Yeah, I mean the philosophical notion of object permanence, that's something that's really core to the human condition. So yeah, I like, of course, the Greek person is the one that brings philosophy into it. But yeah, that is an interesting angle for the discussion of back training that would never have occurred to me. Yeah, sure, absolutely. To the philosophy of my science, baby. So let's get into it. Let's see. One of you guys want to talk about the research that does exist on back training? Yeah, and contrary to most podcast episodes we have, I think the science segment will be remarkably short in that we have about two studies to discuss when it comes to back training and how it impacts hypertrophy. And worse yet, neither of these studies actually measure back hypertrophy. So we're just talking about how back training might grow your biceps instead. So first we have a study by Manarino and colleagues from 2021, truly the manliest surname there is, looking at the dumbbell row versus the dumbbell supinated curl. So specifically in 10 men, not a huge sample size, but it wasn't within participant design, which slightly bolsters its power. They compared doing underhand dumbbell rows with one arm to doing supinated dumbbell curls with the other. They performed eight weeks of training, two sessions weekly, four to six sets in each session with their age 12 rep max. So in total, they were doing around 10 weekly sets for their biceps for both arms, either with underhand dumbbell rows or with supinated dumbbell curls. They measured size of the biceps both pre and post, at a couple of sites, if I recall correctly, using ultrasound. And basically when it came to comparing the underhand dumbbell row and the dumbbell supinated curl, hypertrophy of the biceps was superior in the supinated dumbbell curl condition. So it's difficult to make any generalizations or draw too many inferences from a single study, because this is the only study we have comparing rowing exercises to curling exercises for the biceps. But I think as a very tentative takeaway from the findings on bicep hypertrophy, you could say that maybe slash probably rows are not as good for your biceps as curls. And I think that's somewhat intuitive for one reason. I think when you're selecting an exercise to maximize hypertrophy of single muscle, ideally you probably do want that muscle to be as close to the limiting factor as possible. So when you end the set, that muscle is being taken at least relatively close to failure. I'm not sure how much that matters at the very extremes, like if for example, an exercise is taking the biceps to two reps in reserve upon hitting failure as a conceptual tool, or all the way to failure, like the biceps is what gives out. I'm not sure how much of a difference that would make. But at the very least, all else being equal, taking a muscle closer to failure via, for example, an isolation exercise should be better for hypertrophy than taking it further from failure, as would happen more typically during a compound exercise. And at least in this study, based on the findings here, something like a row might be worse for hypertrophy of the biceps than something like a curl, which makes sense. For strength outcomes, the findings were very intuitive, which is to say that strength improvements are specific. The arm that trained bicep curls saw greater gains in bicep curl tenor at max than the arm that trained dumbbell rows. And conversely, the arm that used dumbbell rows gained more strength in the dumbbell row tenor at max compared to the arm that did curls. So strength gains were specific, all that to say. Specifically, in this case, as I mentioned earlier, hypertrophy was measured at three sites. And overall, when they combine those sites, hypertrophy with a biceps was about twice as large when doing curls versus rows. Overall, the findings, as I mentioned, I think just indicate that curls are probably better for bicep hypertrophy compared to rows, and that strength improvements when it comes to curls versus rows are probably specific to the exercise you train. Nothing too groundbreaking, but I think that it is interesting, if nothing else, for people who are trying to count volume. Nowadays, one of the questions you often get for how shall I be counting my weekly sets, is do you count back training as bicep training as well? The answer to that might depend somewhat on whether you're talking about rows or pull downs, as we'll come to in a second. So yeah, those are my takeaways from that study, one of only two studies on back training and overall hypertrophy. What do you guys think? Are those pretty reasonable takeaways? I mean, I missed the days where things were simple, where rows were the main exercise for biceps. All you needed to do was rows, chin-ups, and focus on the compounds, which meant anything you wanted it to mean. Now, we're here geeking out about bicep curls and looking at the figures and charts. I mean, I'm not happy about it, but I have to accept it. Yeah, I think the issue was they didn't do enough rows. So just while I'm being serious, I think your evaluation of the study is great. Yeah, I mean, I don't know what to say. This is a very non-scientific take, but I've done a lot of bicep curls. I've done a lot of rows. And after a set of bicep curls, it feels relatively obvious to me that my biceps worked harder. I try not to be this guy, but there are studies I read that I'm like, did we need a study on this one? And in this case, it's like, yeah, like, kind of no shit, rows aren't the best bicep exercise. But while I'm being while I'm being less serious, let me preface this by saying I might be about to share a little bit of fake news because I haven't looked into this that deeply. But it's just like a little, a little like fun fact slash potentially factoid, which another fun fact, different things. A lot of people use the term factoid to refer to little fun facts, but fact oids are actually fake news that sound like little fun facts. So yeah, this may be a little fun fact, maybe a factoid who knows, and quite frankly, who cares? So the reason I give it this preface is this thing that I'm about to say, I heard from a like I learned from like one of my history teachers, like one of my history professors in college, I went I went to college as a history major for people that don't know that bit of lore about me. And this history professor, at least two other times, I've repeated things that he taught us in class that have turned out to be completely untrue. So yeah, I think I think he just didn't care that much, had tenure and was just like, yeah, if I hear a fun thing and pop history books, I'll just repeat it as if it's a fact. So all of which is to say this may fall into the same category, but allegedly, something that folks used to wonder about was the construction of Viking longboats, because they I see you guys smiling, you guys didn't expect it to go there, right? It was a Greg ADHD masterpiece there. This is relevant to rowing. You'll see why in a second. So yeah, apparently, there used to be a lot of questions and concerns about the construction of Viking longboats, because according to what people knew about boat construction, they didn't seem like they would be particularly seaworthy, not that they would capsize or tip over, but that they were too wide and rested too low in the water. So that they would create way too much a drag to actually do what it was said the Vikings did, which was basically like roll up real quick on the shores, raid a place and then get out before local ships could chase them down or whatever. And so if they're creating that much drag, they shouldn't be fast enough to shock people with how quickly they get to shore and start a raid and be able to escape afterwards. Too much drag shouldn't be fast enough. And they had relatively small sails as well. So most of the power was generated by rowing. And people kind of knew how hard folks could row a boat. And they're like, none of this makes sense. Like what's going on here? How did the Vikings do what they did? And then like, I don't know, maybe like 20 years ago-ish, they found a mass grave of Viking warriors just where like a bunch of them had been buried. And yes, and they they could examine the bones. And so a thing about bones and muscles and whatever, all of that stuff, is the size of tuberosities on of like, well, just traction epiphasies in muscles more generally is somewhat indicative of how strong the muscles were. So your biceps, they insert on your radial tuberosity, like that's, that's just where your biceps attached to your forearm. And the stronger your biceps are, the more linear tension they're putting on the radial tuberosity. And it's pulling and pulling. And the stronger your biceps are, the more your radial tuberosity would have to remodel. And so kind of the bigger that bump is, generally the stronger your biceps were. And apparently, when they found this, this mass grave of Viking warriors, they had some of the biggest radial tuberosities the world had ever seen. And then folks were like, okay, well, never mind, that's that's how the Viking long boats worked. These guys were just so fucking strong, that even though the boats created more drag than was optimal, they just made it work. And if anything, the wide design sitting low in the water did help them maintain stability and not capsize on the choppy North seas. So it was like inefficient design for speed, but efficient design for stability. And they made up for the poor hydrodynamic design by just being strong as fuck. And they got that way from rowing a lot, all of which is to say, if the subjects in the Manorino study, if instead of doing four to six sets of eight to 12 reps for eight for eight weeks, if they would have instead done eight to 10 hours of rowing every day from the time they were eight years old or whatever, they may have gotten really impressive bicep growth from that to the point that it would confuse modern ship builders. Truly a his excitation moment. I think we can discord the study all together in favor of our Viking ancestors just being jacked really like if they had big biceps and all that was row presumably they didn't curl, right? That's one wouldn't think it's such a fun fun fact that you'd hear at certain seminars where you know, barbells and barbell row specifically are presented as the thing I could totally hear a lot of S&C coaches being like, you know what, the Vikings back in the day, blah, blah, blah, and call and also sell like a Viking thick as a Viking back program, you know, that could be a good product, by science.com. It really only works if you're doing like six hours of rows a day. Good. I mean, you know, also, somewhat related to that, the rowers that I have known like the people that did competitive crew, they did all have pretty impressive bicep development. So I don't know. Yeah, I think I think the issue with this study is they should have just made the people do 14 times more rowing volume than curls. And you might say that's not a valid comparison. That's not science. What are you talking about? You need to equate variables between groups. But yeah, of course, three sets of rows isn't going to do that much for your biceps. But if you make a sport out of rowing, yeah, you'll probably get decent bicep development from it. And that's another point in favor of extreme volumes for extreme gains. Look at the Vikings, you know, that's true. That's true. All right, let's let's move on. Cool. So that was study number one on back training. And unfortunately, no back high purchasing measurements. So we still can't tell anything about back training. And as it turns out, that is a trend that continues into the next and last study on back training for hypertrophy. This time they compared the pronated so overhand wide grip pulldown to the shoulder width barbell supinated curl. So interestingly, I think that some people have written about this study saying that the results might not generalize to like wide grip pulldowns being potentially worse for bicep hypertrophy. But it's worth noting that the only study we have comparing pulldowns to curls had participants do pulldowns with a wide grip. And with an overhand grip, which people commonly claim is worse for biceps, like if you really want to train the biceps in the pulldown exercise, you need to adopt an underhand grip to  prolethiziaeaboflexors. In this case, they compared the wide grip overhand pulldown to the shoulder width barbell curl, in 29 men using a between participant design. They measured elbow flexor muscle thickness, and they trained twice a week using three sets of 8-12 reps on each set. This time, in contrast to the findings comparing the underhand dumbbell row and the supinated curl we mentioned earlier, they did actually find pretty similar, almost identical in fact, elbow flexor muscle thickness increases between doing barbell curls and doing overhand wide grip pulldowns. Now, going back into the section earlier with the caveat that we can't make too large of a an inference or generalization based on just one study, to me this kind of suggests that potentially vertical pulling, like pulldowns, pullups, etc., might be slightly better for biceps than horizontal pulling, like rowing. If in an alternate universe, when you're rowing a boat, you had to row vertically, who's to say the Vikings there wouldn't have been more jacked, bigger biceps is what I'm saying. So yeah, if nothing else, I think we might take away from these two studies that pullups and pulldowns might be slightly better bicep builders than rows, but I think that's a tentative takeaway and it still doesn't really tell us anything about how to grow your back, unfortunately. I think if we want to go back to like non-scientific observations of real-world things, for pullup slash pulldowns, I would just toss a gymnast in there. I don't think they do that many curls, they do a ton of pullup-related things, and the ones that do rings especially, dude, their biceps are fucking huge. They have tremendous arm development and yeah, that doesn't necessarily mean that rep for rep pullups and pulldowns are as effective as curls, but I do think it suggests that you can get pretty decent arm development by doing enough pullups or pulldowns. I agree with that, and I think I've always found the claim that underhand grip pulldowns or chin-ups are better than overhand grip pulldowns or chin-ups for bicep growth or for just elbow flexor growth, I guess. A bit odd. Greg, do you think that is true? What is your rationale for that being true and true? There's one citation there. Yeah, I mean, it's one of those things where I, oh, and I think we're going to talk about this in a little bit. The idea of what muscles or regions of muscles the body recruits to do different things. I think a lot of that stuff is overblown. I think that if you're doing elbow flexion stuff, all of the elbow flexors are going to be worked pretty hard for the most part. And so yeah, there's not a ton of direct evidence on it. And in terms of anecdotes, I don't really have many because I can't do underhand grip stuff particularly well. I don't know exactly what it is. I think I just have kind of limited supination range of motion. So as I get close to the top of a rep, it feels like it's putting some very uncomfortable torque on my wrists. So I don't even have that much first-hand anecdotal feeling about this stuff either. So yeah, I don't have a horse in the race, honestly. Just a question though, because I know somebody who had a horse in the race and has answered this question with a definitive answer. When did you last compete at Mr. Universe? And what was your place? Never. Okay, because Mr. Mike Menzer, RIP who did win Mr. Universe, has stated multiple times that the lat pull done with an underhand grip is the best bicep exercise better than curls themselves. So I mean, Vikings, Mike Menzer, scientific evidence, that's the order, the hierarchy of scientific evidence in my head. Strong by science tracks again. What I would say is, I think I can put forth a somewhat hot take. First, I'll discuss what I think is the common rationale for why the underhand pull down or the chin up are viewed as better bicep exercises than the overhand pull down or just regular pull up. I think, and I could be wrong here, so I don't want to strongman the usual stance. But I think it has to do with internal leverage and essentially just the quote unquote, your mechanical matching principle. I am partial, but intended, to the view that Greg has, which is that when a set is taken to failure, I suspect that pretty much all the muscles that contribute at least somewhat to that joint action are going to be taken to failure. Like it's kind of like a all hands on deck sort of situation versus like a, okay, well, we're going to failure, but let's only use the muscle that has good leverage a situation. And so like, I don't think that there's going to be a huge difference in bicep growth on account of differences in internal leverage based on length or what how do you and so I think that overhand, unhand pull downs, the bicep growth or the elbow flexor growth shouldn't differ too much on account of differences in internal leverage. So I don't think they would be that different. If anything, I could turn it around and say, well, the biceps are form supernators or radio ulnar supernators rather. And if you pronate your hands, your lengthening the biceps bit more, which I don't think the difference in length is meaningful enough to amount to anything. But I think as a hot take, they might be better than underhand grip pull downs or pull ups for bicep growth. So yeah, it's a hot take, but I certainly don't think there's a big difference between underhand and overhand. And if anything, I would say overhand might be better. And at least in this study, although it wasn't a comparison of underhand and overhand, overhand grip pull downs, they didn't seem to result in no bicep growth. So it's at least something. Don't you think, sorry, sorry, don't you think reason for the for the underhand grip pull downs and chin ups being better for biceps may also be at least from those that claim it just a bit of oh, intuitively it makes sense because my arm is facing that way. And that's how I flex my bicep. That's that's how I felt why I felt people were like, yep, these are better for your biceps. Because there's no saying that direct scientific evidence to, to like really support that. I could see that being the case. I don't know, I do I do have a bit more anecdotal experience with like underhand grip versus reverse grip curls. And I can say so I feel like, I don't know, I still feel like I get plenty of pump in my biceps doing like overhand grip pull downs with the but I do wonder if people are comparing it to the sensations they get with underhand versus reverse grip curls. Because personally, when I do reverse grip curls, I feel like I feel like my brachio radialis just kind of like gets in the way a bit more and gets enough of a pump fast enough that I can't get like a really good feeling bicep contraction, which does apply for reverse grip curls, but doesn't for pronated like pulling exercises. So I don't know, I do wonder if someone, if people may be kind of like generalizing from those sensations, like, yeah, you really do feel like underhand grip bicep curls are hitting your biceps better. Therefore, underhand grip anything is hitting your biceps better. I don't know, it could be something like that. Yeah, I do wonder to what extent, like, we commonly and by we I mean, the fitness audience, the fitness enthusiasts commonly use how a muscle feels during an exercise as some indication as to the exercise's effectiveness. And I think, I don't know, there's a whole discussion to be had around whether or not that is even a good way to guide training. I think at this point, we are very much dealing with evidence, sorry, absence of evidence, like there is no strong evidentiary basis for saying that, oh, I feel my brachial radialis more in this exercise or my bicep torn this exercise, therefore it's a better exercise for this muscle. So it's just always interesting to me how commonly people use that rationale and how widespread it is, like, people will use it above and beyond the scientific evidence oftentimes in deciding what is a better approach, which has always been a misgiving of mine and how people approach training. So and the irony there with back training is that sometimes with some variations of exercises like rows and barbell rows specifically, that then stops being the case. So how a muscle feels will be used for like pull downs and whether they train your biceps effectively and which whatever machine row variation or pull over or whatever variation is best for lats based on feeling, but then you do have proponents of cheat rows where I don't know if anybody has felt cheat rows on their back. And those are presented as game changing, thickness building exercise for the back. So a bit of a strange one. But yeah, I am with you, my brother, in terms of, you know, just because it feels good doesn't mean it's targeting the muscle the way you wanted. Now, I feel like we need to dig into that because I'm confused. I feel cheat rows in my back way more than strict rows. Like it's not even close. But are your are your cheat rows cheat rows or strict rows with a twist? You know, like have you seen like Kyler Woolham do cheat rows with 405? Yeah, like extremely cheaty. And you feel them on your you get a back pump from cheat rows? Yeah. I so I feel like my back like we're totally in the realm of anecdote now whatever that's that's the episode that the people need though. But I feel like my lats have like a really extreme strength curve where like as as elbow or a shoulder extension increases, like the strength drops off really, really quick. And yeah, yeah, I mean, there's similar like differences in strength curves for other exercises and whatnot, I guess. But yeah, with for me personally with my lats and most mostly for rowing, like it does feel particularly extreme. And so I find that if I do cheat rows and really focus on like trying to resist the eccentric as much as possible, it yeah, it just absolutely lights my shit up. Whereas for if I'm doing like strict rows, I feel like I don't know how to describe it. But I feel like I become unable to do reps before I am particularly fatigued or tired. Yeah, like it feels like my muscles just can't complete a rep anymore, but they haven't really been that stimulated. It's just like, yeah, I'm so weak in deep, deep shoulder extension that it only takes like the tiniest modicum of fatigue before I give out. But then if I drop the loads quite a bit more so that I can do a lot of reps strict, it just feels like, I don't know, it feels the same way almost like I might get a little pump in my lats. But once again, it feels like I fail before I'm really like that fatigued comparing the sensation in my lats when I fail strict rows versus the sensation in my triceps when I fail a set of tricep extensions. But then if I get some good cheating going on and really try to resist the eccentric, yeah, like the sensation I get in my lats at the end of the set then is more normalized to the sorts of sensations I would get in other muscles at the end of a set. But you are controlling the eccentric, which is like the main thing. I can see how you get a nice pump if you lift a ton of weight and then you try to control the weight down. But if you see people doing cheat rows, it's just absolute madness. It's just the yank the bar and then throw it on the floor. It probably would still look uncontrolled though. Especially with the start of the eccentric, I don't think I'm actually slowing the bar down that much, but I'm fucking trying to. Yeah, so I guess it's almost more like accentuated eccentric training in a way. Yeah, as a way to do that, which is interesting because the evidence on that is for hypertrophy, not too compelling, which just points to how little we know about back hypertrophy training. But I think that one other way, like going back to the study I outlined earlier in the episode in the calves doing partial past failure, like I'm not going to make a sweeping generalizations about every muscle ever based on one study at looking at this concept. But I think most back training is quite similar to calf training, where the shortened position like the very top of the rep is most challenging, like what you're describing where you're relatively weak in full shoulder extension, and that makes straight reps feel a bit odd. That same concept of back training being hardest in the shortened position, I think may make the findings of the calf study applicable here, where doing partials after you can't do them before rep could probably increase hypertrophy at least on a set per set basis. And in the absence of any direct evidence on back training, I think you do need to make some degree of inference and generalization from other studies. So it might be warranted to think, okay, let's find a way to make the length and position a bit more emphasized here, which cheat reps are technically one way to do, like you are allowing yourself to lift more load and length and position by making the shortened position a bit easier to achieve, or even not caring about achieving it whatsoever. One thing you brought up Greg that I would want to touch on and I know you have a fair bit to speak on is rows training the lots. And how do we really know that they do? Does it have anything to do with fiber orientation? Is it related to the function? Can we use fiber orientation to really inform our back training? Because we don't have any direct evidence on back hypertrophy. So we're kind of left to either making generalizations or inferences from other studies on non back muscles. Or we can also try and use bow mechanics and anatomy to inform how we should train the back. I guess my question to you would be, what are your thoughts on using fiber orientation to guide back training? Yeah, I think that's about the best you can do. I also think it's possible to kind of like overcook it and like over generalize a bit, maybe get like a little too lost in the sauce on the topic. So for instance, there is a degree to which someone who's like maximally skeptical could say, hey, we don't know if pull ups or pull downs or rows actually grow the lats because we don't have affirmative evidence to support that. And my response to you, if someone were to say that would be, well, technically, you're correct if you don't think we have a way to make any inferences about the world without formal published science. But on the other hand, of course they do, you know, like there's, there is a degree of skepticism that's useful and productive. And there's a degree of skepticism that is divorced from reality, I guess. Where it's like, you know, there is research on this topic. But I'm sure these individuals haven't actually looked it up to see like, hey, does, you know, does putting chicken in a hot pan actually cook it? You know, like, I'm sure there's research on that. I've read the research on that topic. But like, I'm sure it exists. But I'm sure these fucking people don't need research, like they don't personally need to see studies to support every fairly obvious thing they do in their lives, right? So yeah, there's not any like direct research on back growth. But at the same time, hey, we know that the lats are shoulder extensors. We know that pull ups, pull downs, rows are resisted, like shoulder extension exercises. We know that when you do resisted exercises that train the agonists for a particular joint action, that muscle tends to grow. Therefore, yeah, like we have a pretty good idea that those are effective exercises for training the lats. And so yeah, I mean, you can you can make inferences about what joint actions a muscle accomplishes based on fiber orientation. There's also a lot of like modeling research that looks at how much torque various muscles can create at particular joints for particular joint actions. There's also like acute EMG research, just looking at, hey, when you do this joint action, what muscles do we see increases in electrical activity in, you know, there's, there's a lot of various ways one could go about determining what the agonists for a particular joint action are. But a lot of that's fairly obvious, you know, for shoulder extension, it's mostly going to be the lats and the teres major scapular elevation, got some levator, you got a lot of a lot of traps, scapular retraction, mid traps, rhomboids, like, yeah, most, most of the things that one would be curious about in terms of like broadly what muscles are being trained by these back exercises. We know that the extent to which I say I think sometimes this gets like a little bit overcooked is I don't know when so. Like for all of this, we are like everything's an extrapolation, right, like since we don't have direct evidence on back training and like what exercises cause more growth in what muscles, like since that research doesn't exist, we are generalizing and making extrapolations from mechanistic stuff. But I do, I do think that there's value, I guess, in being somewhat epistemically conservative about how much you do that, where it's like you want to know, where like when you don't have like established facts, you kind of have to like tentatively and conservatively make inferences that are like one step removed, and then once you start trying to confidently make like inferences and extrapolations that are like two or three steps removed, I think you can start to get yourself in trouble and wind up being like way too confident about stuff where you probably shouldn't have like that much confidence about things that are like one or two degrees even more basic. Yeah, I feel like I'm rambling a bit because I don't really know how to like intro this concept all that well. But one thing that I see, so like in the absence of direct direct research on back training, I see a lot of instances of people trying to make like really confident inferences or predictions about like specific variations of back exercises that are going to be like way, way more effective at targeting a particular muscle or a particular region of a muscle based on fiber orientation or based on the principle of neuro mechanical matching and oftentimes like using those two things together. And so neuro mechanical matching is and I'll link a review paper in the show notes, but it's basically the idea that your nervous system tends to recruit the muscles that can meet the torque requirements of a particular joint action in the most bio energetically efficient way. And so fibers most closely oriented to match the line of pull for an exercise should have a mechanical advantage. Therefore, they should be the ones that are preferentially recruited and used for that joint action. And so there is quite a bit of evidence for that concept in a general sense. There's plenty of evidence on just regional muscle activation as a real phenomenon. And for neuro mechanical matching in particular, there's a reasonable there's a reasonable bit of evidence. But a lot of the most direct evidence comes from studies on inspiratory muscles. So this was like first, first observed and researched in a breathing context. So like, when and why might someone primarily breathe with their diaphragm versus their inner costals versus their scalenes, etc. So that's where most of the direct research on this phenomenon is. And the muscle, like the muscle groups group that has gotten the next most attention is the calves. Because the bio energetics of walking are a like, well understood, but also like non trivial problem in like the the biomechanics research. A lot of the biomechanical principles we know about come from like walking and gate studies, just because we do a shitload of it. And that's, yeah, that's just what bio mechanists have been studying for a long time. Like if if you read biomechanics journals, like, I may be exaggerating, but I feel like a third of the studies are about walking in some way shape or form, like it's a very well understood phenomenon. And so if there's a new principle that you're investigating, in this case, neuro mechanical matching, yeah, yeah, makes sense to look at it in a walking context. And so, yeah, like the the specific calf muscles that have the most leverage to accomplish plantar flexion at various points in the stride do seem to be the ones that are most recruited. So yeah, neuro neuro mechanical matching, it's it's a real thing. The issue is that I think it's, I think there is a tendency to over generalize from that phenomenon in a specific resistance training context, because most of the research does come from walking and breathing. And I don't know about you guys, but when I breathe, I'm not assessing the RPE of my diaphragm. I'm not like, Oh, that was a tough one. I got two breaths left. You know what I mean? It's an extremely submaximal thing. Same thing with walking. Like I'm a big guy. And sometimes I walk uphill. Sometimes I exert myself a fair bit relative to how much one could exert themselves when walking. I've also done calf raises with heavy weights to failure. And I can tell you, my calves are not being stressed nearly as much walking as doing heavy calf raises to failure, not even close, like walking is is a submaximal thing for your calves. And so that's relevant because there was, I think there, I think at this point, there has been one study investigating neuro mechanical matching in the context of like actually difficult exercise, and not even that difficult, but just like a difficult ish where it's like, Hey, instead of looking at things that are extremely submaximal, like breathing or walking, let's just ramp up the intensity a little bit and see the extent to which neuro mechanical matching still applies. So there was there was a study in the calves where they, they looked at lateral gastroc, medial gastroc and soleus recruitment as plantar flexion torque increased from 10% to 70% of MVIC. And at really, really low levels of recruitment, you saw the soleus doing the most work. You saw the medial gastroc doing the middle amount and the lateral gastroc doing the least. But then as the intensity of the contractions ramped up, and again, not even to like an MVIC, but just like 70% of MVIC, you saw, you saw the activation of all three muscles begin to converge. So even though the soleus was the most neuro mechanically efficient one to create the necessary torque at low levels of torque requirements, as requirements increased, just the other calf muscles needed to be recruited and used more. And so, yeah, I think, I think neuro mechanical matching is less, is like relevant in the most basic global sense to like resistance training stuff. So like, for instance, I don't like your, your nervous system is going to recruit the right muscles to do things, you know, like if, if you're trying to do elbow flexion, your nervous system is not going to be like, Oh, well, let's recruit the quads just in case, you know what I mean? Like, like, there is just the principle that like, it is a bit of a fuzzy concept because it's hard to disambiguate it from just like, Hey, I'm doing elbow flexion, my nervous system is recruiting the elbow flexors, like it's, it's trying to take it one step further than that and say, Hey, it's going to recruit specific elbow flexors more than others and or specific regions of specific muscles more than others based on like fiber orientation. But it's, it is just kind of like an extension of that like very, very basic principle that like, yeah, the nervous system is going to recruit the muscles that accomplish the joint actions necessary. But yeah, like we, we see that as the level of effort increases, the muscles that need to be recruited and  recruited a lot. It just kind of converges on everything that it can accomplish the necessary joint actions, needing to be more active and needing to do more stuff. There's also been kind of like indirect evidence for that general idea in the context of like multi-joint exercises and what muscles are being recruited to accomplish particular joint actions. So there was a study by Kroll and Golis on the bench press back in like 2017, looking at pec and front delt and tricep activation, or, well, EMG, EMG amplitudes, not exactly activation, whatever, similar enough. As loads increased from I think 70% to 100% of one RM in the bench press. And what you saw was that it did seem like the nervous system favored pec recruitment. Like pec recruitment at 100% MVC wasn't that much higher than 70%, but as loads increased, muscles that maybe did have like a little bit less mechanical advantage for doing all of the things one needs to do in the bench press, so like the front delts and the triceps, recruitment of those muscles did increase as load increased, which is similar to what we saw with the calves in the specific neuro-mechanical matching study that I just talked about. We see a similar thing with muscles in the squat as well. Like quad EMG with one RM loads, isn't that much higher than quad EMG with like 70% one RM loads, but as loads continue increasing, or also as you get closer to failure, I forget the researcher, but there was a study on built usage in the squat back in the day, I think from like the mid-90s that was looking at quad and hamstring EMG as people approached failure in a squat. And yeah, I mean, it kind of seems like the quads from like rep one in a set with like 70% one RM are doing about all they can do really. And then as loads increase further, or as you get closer to failure, the body's just recruiting the hip flex, or the hip extensors more and more and more to kind of like make up for it so you can continue completing reps. I have some general thoughts about that and just kind of like quad hypertrophy studies more broadly, but that's another discussion for another day. All of which is to say, I really think the idea of neuro-mechanical matching becomes less and less relevant if you're actually training hard. If you are doing a single rep and like 40% of one RM for some exercise, and you wanna know, hey, what muscle or what region of a muscle is contributing most to that first submaximal rep, then yeah, go crazy with neuro-mechanical matching. Like make whatever inferences you want, and there's a decent chance you'll be right in making those predictions. But if you're actually training heavy, training hard, pushing sets closer to failure, your nervous system is recruiting more and more and more of the musculature that can accomplish the necessary joint actions. And I think that makes a shitload of sense intuitively because like a basic biological principle that I don't think we think about that much in a resistance training context. Because we tend to be thinking with an abundance mindset. We're training hard, we're trying to get big, we're eating plenty, we're eating a lot of protein, we're trying to get fucking jacked. That's how we tend to be oriented, but a lot of biology is oriented around how can I not starve to death? Because that is still the biggest issue for most organisms on this planet, and that was the biggest issue for humans for a long fucking time until like the mid 50s for industrialized countries, and still for a lot of people in a lot of countries today. It's a really good thing that your biology is really tuned towards not starving. That's a big thing. And so the idea of neuro-mechanical matching essentially has that in mind where it's like you need to do something easy. You don't need to create that much plant reflection torque, but you need to create some as you're walking along and you're walking 15,000 steps a day. You're a hunter-gatherer, you're trying to find honey, you're trying to find edible berries. You're walking a lot, and you have these three different calf muscles that can all create plant reflection torque, but one of them has slightly better leverage than the other two. And so if the nervous system can lean on that one a little bit more than the other two, that might save 30 calories a day, which might be critical for not starving to death. Same thing with breathing, you know? You take a lot of breaths in a day, and if one of your inspiratory muscles has slightly better leverage than the others in particular postures, yeah, lean on that one. That's gonna save some energy. Like it's an energy-saving thing. Like if you can accomplish something more efficiently, you save some energy, your biology fucking loves that shit. Like that's a lot of things are tuned to conserve energy. But guess what you're not doing when you're taking a set of binge press to failure, or rows to failure, or pull downs to failure, or pull ups to failure, or shrugs to failure. You're not fucking conserving energy. Like the challenge that your biology is facing is fundamentally different. It's not, it is much less, how can I most efficiently accomplish this relatively easy joint action, and more the challenge is just, I need to create as much torque for this joint action at this joint as possible. And what resources do I have at my disposal to be able to do that? And if there are multiple muscles and multiple regions of muscles that can all contribute to that joint action, during the first rep that's not maximal yet, it may not even be particularly hard, it's gonna say, yeah, let's do some neuro-mechanical matching. Let's really focus on the muscles and the regions of muscles that are the most, like bio energetically efficient to use here. But then as that challenge continues increasing, it's gonna recruit more and more shit because it needs to to accomplish the challenge, which is no longer conserving energy, it's just getting it done, like being able to create as much torque as you need. All of which is to say, yeah, neuro-mechanical matching is a real thing, and I think if you're training hard, it becomes less and less relevant beyond just the very most basic considerations of, yeah, like if a muscle does have, like can technically contribute to a particular joint action, but has like way worse leverage or has like some other unfavorable characteristics. Like for instance, thinking about like the rectus femoris in the squat, yeah, like the nervous system isn't gonna rely on it all that much because you're also trying to extend your hips, rectus femoris is a hip flexor, it's gonna be deprioritized for that reason, you know, like so there's some other stuff like that in play. But yeah, for the most part, yeah, the harder you train, the less relevant neuro-mechanical matching is. Yeah, I think that's, oh, the other thing I wanted to mention as well is even to the extent that it is relevant, it's also challenging, I think, to make confident and broad generalizations about like, yeah, just confident and broad generalizations, I don't need to say more than that. Because for different individuals, the muscles that are prioritized, even for relatively low, like low torque activities, like when neuro-mechanical matching is more relevant, the muscles that are recruited and prioritized early do also differ considerably between individuals. So in the CAF study I mentioned, and another one that we can link in the show notes, looking at the hamstrings and like the specific muscles or specific heads of muscles that are recruited in different exercises, like compared to others within single individuals, there's quite a bit of variation there as well. So like in the CAF study I mentioned, they found that with like the lowest intensity contractions, the soleus tended to be prioritized, but between individuals there was quite a bit of variation. Like some people were leaning on the medial gastroc a little more, I think one or two people were even leaning on the lateral gastroc a little bit more, even with the low intensity contractions. And so yeah, like you could look at that and say, yeah, in general, based on the principle of neuro-mechanical matching, yeah, for low intensity stuff, body seems to use the soleus a little bit more. But you still couldn't even like confidently state that is a generalizable thing that would apply to everyone who would be receiving that information. For some people it may be one of the heads of the gastroc. The hamstring study that will be linked in the show notes was looking at stiff leg deadlifts and Nordic curls. So like an e-flection based hamstring exercise versus a hip extension based hamstring exercise. And yeah, they found that for those two different like types of hamstring exercises, the specific muscles being recruited, like the long head of the biceps femoris versus the semi-membranosis versus semi-tendinosis. Those three muscles have like slightly different leverages and are slightly more or less efficient for hip extension versus an e-flection based hamstring exercises. And they did see on average, you had a particular pattern of muscle activation with the stiff leg deadlift. You had a slightly different pattern of activation for the Nordic curls. But within individuals, like it was all, it was all jumbled up. Like the one that used the semi-tendinosis more for most people, for like four or five folks, the biceps femoris was recruited more heavily with submaximal contractions and vice versa. Like so yeah, even to the extent that neuro-mechanical matching is like a true and valid and relevant principle, the specific muscles and the specific regions of muscles that are preferentially recruited and prioritized, also still differ between individuals. So yeah, even to the extent that it's true, it's hard to make like that confident of generalizable statements about what's going to be prioritized for all of the people like listening to pieces of advice. So yeah, yeah, TLDR, it's a cool principle to be aware of that matters less as you train harder. Yeah, I think it's really interesting to hear how many sources, well, think about how many sources of inter-individual variation there could be in your mechanical matching as well. Like even just thinking through it a little bit, if two individuals have differently sized, let's say, brachialis muscles, all else being equal, there might be differences in your mechanical matching as well, even in submaximal tasks. Similarly, insertion sites matter and we don't exactly know how differences in tenant attachment, et cetera, could impact your mechanical matching. Like there are so many variables that could play into it, even assuming it does play a role, but it does make it very difficult to inherently draw sweeping generalizations for a given exercise for all individuals, as you mentioned. So it doesn't surprise me that there are going to be differences between individuals in what muscles get recruited at what level essentially. The sources of variability are quite large and relatively unknowable at this point, short of just dissecting yourself and then somehow reviving yourself. Similarly, I think one thing that sprung to mind when you were talking about your mechanical matching and how it may or may not be worth considering in your training and evidence for or against it with lifting, one thing relatively obviously is that we don't have any evidence, like any super direct evidence to date, looking at your mechanical matching and somewhat refuting or somewhat confirming whether or not it matters for hypertrophy, like beyond the very broad level of, oh, if a muscle can't contribute to this joint action, it's not going to be hypertrophy meaningfully. Beyond that, we don't have any direct evidence that I'm super aware of, that is very directly designed to address that question, right? But one thing that comes to mind is, do you think that the evidence in favor of exercise variation for inducing more homogenous hypertrophy in a muscle is at all evidence in favor of new mechanical matching? Like for example, for context for a listener, we have a meta-analysis systematic review by Cassiano and colleagues from a couple of years ago looking at the idea of exercise variation for inducing more homogenous hypertrophy. So whenever you train, if you're only doing a single exercise, we do have evidence of regional hypertrophy occurring, so certain parts of a muscle growing more than others, which could imply to an extent that different areas of a given muscle, let's say your biceps, are more active during certain tasks than others, which could have to do with differences in activation in different muscles or different regions of a muscle during different exercises, which could be seen as new mechanical matching. Now, because there is evidence of this happening, some could construe this as evidence in favor of new mechanical matching for hypertrophy. So I'm curious to hear whether or not you think that constitutes any reasonable evidence in favor of new mechanical matching being a consideration for hypertrophy? Yeah, I mean, I do think that... Like I do think that it is a... Like I think that it's like a relevant thing, but the... Just like how many eggs you should put in that basket is maybe not the highest. So let's see, an example that comes to mind, man, I should have this right on the tip of my tongue, but the study that... A lot of people, myself included, cite, I think most frequently, to support the idea of exercise variation for making sure you get well-rounded development in all parts of a muscle. Was that one for maybe like 2012 or 2014, looking at all squats versus an exercise variation group that I think was doing a quarter of their stuff from squats, maybe some leg press, maybe some lunges and deadlifts, I believe. Similar overall quad growth, but more evenly distributed growth in all heads of the quads than just doing squats. I think that's one of those things where if you looked at those exercises, I don't think you'd have a strong a priori reason to say, oh yeah, just doing squats, that's definitely not going to adequately prioritize the vastus intermedius, but yeah, if you add some deadlifts into the mix, that's really gonna make sure, due to something about the mechanics of the deadlift, is going to make sure the vastus intermedius gets targeted and utilized. You know what I mean? I think you would just look at all of those exercises and be like, yeah, you're doing some knee extension and all of them, I'm sure they train the quads just fine. And yeah, you know what I mean? So I do think that they're, I think that it's useful and relevant in the broadest sense of, hey, we do have, like we do know and understand that different exercises can recruit and maybe preferentially target particular regions of a muscle. I don't think that there's, like I don't think we can have that much confidence in the exact specifics of that. And so in the broadest sense, you can say, hey, to make sure that you're really maximally using and growing as much muscle mass as you can, do a variety of exercises because some of them may target slightly different regions and yeah, go for it. You know what I mean? There's a difference between that and very confidently saying no. Like you really need to fucking add lunges into your quad training routine because you're gonna get 3% less vastus intermedius growth if you just do squats. You know what I mean? There is a difference between those two things. And I don't wanna overstate my skepticism, I guess. It's like as the challenge in an exercise ramps up, the amount of musculature recruited does as well, which does make neuro-mechanical matching less and less relevant as the challenge in an exercise increases. But there is still a difference between muscles that are really maximally or near maximally recruited and utilized from the start of a set like pecs in the bench press or like quads in the squat. And muscles that you see a ramp up in recruitment as a set goes on. So with the squat studies I mentioned, you did see an increase in hamstring EMG as either loads increased or as sets got closer to failure. But you also don't tend to observe that much hamstring hypertrophy from squat training. So more and more hamstring did need to be used, but it also doesn't seem like the hamstrings wind up being used enough to get like a super robust training stimulus and that may be relevant in certain exercises for some things, you know what I mean? So it could be that for, I don't know, like for the LATs for instance, since we're talking about back training here, like your LAT fibers with like closer to a horizontal orientation would have like a more direct line of pull and better like leverage for rowing type exercises and the ones that originate closer to the ilium and are more vertical. Theoretically they would be like more effective for like row or like pull ups or pull down type exercises. And so like there's no direct evidence on this, but like, you know, I find it very plausible that if you were doing a set of pull ups, those kind of more vertically oriented fibers would be recruited the most and, you know, might experience the most stimulus, the most growth from pull ups or pull downs. And then as the set gets closer and closer to failure, kind of the fibers in your LATs being worked, it just kind of gradually creeps up the muscle until near failure. You do still produce shoulder extension from the more horizontally oriented ones that like originate on the thoracic vertebra. But it could be that recruitment of those ramps up late enough in a set that they're still contributing quite a bit for the last rep or two, but they're not getting like the strongest stimulus, you know what I mean? And so yeah, like, you know, but it wouldn't be the case that like only the most vertically oriented fibers are getting a robust stimulus. Like it's less of a binary thing and more of just like the stimulus spreading as things get harder, but muscles that are kind of like the most distant from what was optimal at the start of a set may still end up getting recruited, but like not that, like not stimulated that hard by the end of a set, but there will wind up being more musculature that is stimulated well than one would like predict based on what's most efficient at the start of a set. Yeah, I agree. And I think that as little as we know about your mechanical matching and what the direct implications for hypertrophy then are as a result, I think that just keeping in mind what the joint functions are for different muscles and making sure they're covering a variety of them within your program is a decent cover all from a practical perspective because even if there are differences in your mechanical matching, say if you're only doing the underhand that pull down, if you're then throwing in some overhead in that pull downs, maybe some pullovers, maybe some other rowing exercises as well. The minor differences in how differences in activation might cause differences in hypertrophy in your lats, for example, in just the underhand pull down will then in a likelihood be washed away if you add in one or two or three more back exercises total. And I think especially for a set of relatively diverse muscle groups as are present in the back musculature, just adding in in total like two or three exercises for the back at least across your training week, I think will largely circumvent any just theoretical concerns at this point about how your mechanical matching could impact back girls. I think that it's at this point, it's much more of a semi founded theoretical concern than it is anything that we need to be overly concerned about when it comes to back exercise selection. Or at least that's my view. I think the reason why it's been spoken about so much online is in large part just we don't have an indirect evidence. So I think it has led to a lot of theory crafting around, ooh, if we consider fiber orientation, this exercise might be best. But I think that's probably misguided to an extent given that there are other principles of exercise selection we do have that have a fair bit more direct evidence behind them versus your mechanical matching directly impacting hypergeophia time, especially as it's taking closer to failure as we've mentioned quite a few times. So yeah, I think it's something that can be put in the basket of may or may not be important, but not something we need to consider overly heavily at this stage in the research sort of thing. Yeah, I agree. I agree. I do think that in the absence of strong, robust direct evidence, there is just kind of like a tendency, there's a tendency of people to want to like argue about shit. And when you're dealing with a topic where there's really no good reason for anyone to be like super confident about anything, it kind of gives people a bit more license to, just to kind of like cook a little bit harder where it's just like no one has a trump card, no one has a, we have this study on this specific thing that found this and it's good because it was in this population, good design, strong controls, blah, blah, blah, whatever. Like when you don't have that and you really want to stake a position on these are the best back exercises. Yeah, like you kind of, you gotta do, you gotta do a bit more work to try to justify a level of confidence in things that no one really has that good of a reason to be that confident about in the first place. And I think that it, yeah, I don't know. I think that it then ends up leading to people diving into PubMed, trying to find stuff that seems like it could be useful and relevant for being able to stake strong positions on topics like this. And personally, here was, so, I don't know if you guys know this, but I'm basically not on social media anymore. I like, I'll check the stronger by science groups and the macro factor groups. And that's about it. Like if I scroll a feed the first time I see something that annoys me, I'm just like, yeah, that's enough for the day and I sign off. So I don't, yeah, I don't follow the chatter that closely at all anymore. And the thing that broke me, honestly, and like maybe I shouldn't admit this, but like who cares? Yeah, if people get mad about this, I'm not gonna see it anyways, because I'm not on that shit. But there was, there was like a multi-month fight about whether the lads wrap around the rib cage. People going back and forth about that as it related to like exercise selection, like, do they wrap around the rib cage? Does that mean that like some particular like row variations gonna stimulate the lads more and all of that? And like, when I first saw it, I was like, oh, this is interesting. Let's look at a post or two, check people's sources. Cause like, yeah, maybe there'll be some interesting points raised. And if nothing else, I can get some fun citations out of it to like learn a little bit more about back anatomy or whatever. And then as I kept seeing shit about it the next day and the next day and a couple of weeks later and then it gets brought up like a month later, I was like, no, just no, Jesus fucking Christ. Like, you know, it became obvious that there was no, yeah, that there was no, A, that there was no like conclusive proof that could like carry the day and convince all parties and be even like, even to the extent that one could establish that the lads did or did not wrap around the rib cage. You're still then like two steps removed from being able to say that like some particular exercise definitely causes more lat growth or not. Cause there's no fucking direct evidence on that in the first place. And just like the more and more that that shit kept popping up on my timeline, the more and more I just thought I should log off. Like I need to, this is, this is rotting my brain. And so yeah, it was a combination of factors, but that was one of the most salient. And so now, yeah, I don't, I'm just like not on social media anymore. And so yeah, if people are still talking about this shit, I don't know. And also I don't care. Yeah, I fully understand. And I think when it comes to excess selection and a large amount of,  вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам the idea that you can use science to inform what you do in the gym. Sick. Hell yeah. While that is true to an extent, like you're not going to do exactly the program being used in some of these studies, or you probably shouldn't. That doesn't mean that you can't glean insights into generalizable principles that will then inform your training, and that you can then combine different principles and that can very easily form the basis of your program. But there has been the argument made that, ah, what happens in the science doesn't actually inform your training, you couldn't write a program that is actually based on science at all. And that's, that's a bit black and white. I think that's very uncharitable. But I do think that a lot of exercise selection and a lot of decision making in the gym is kind of tantamount to gambling, or like educated betting sort of thing, where you do have generalizable principles that seem to hold true most of the time in most circumstances across the studies we have at least. So then you use those principles and you make an educated guess, and you think this is more likely to work than not. And you do that. And I think with back training specifically, that is kind of what you have to do. And when you get to the stage, or on social media, you're arguing about whether or not an assumption holds true, that is still about two to ten assumptions away from having any relevancy to actual hypertrophy outcomes. Yeah, that is when your gambling may have gone one step too far, and you are just essentially engaging in softestry at that point. And that's fun, but not really relevant to training necessarily. Yeah, I, dude, I think the world would be so much better if, and I totally understand that I'm sounding like, sounding like my parents at this point, like, oh, I don't, I don't, they teach kids the important and relevant stuff in school. But instead of saying, ah, they need to teach people how to do their taxes, I'm going to argue that people should learn something that's even less useful and relevant to their day-to-day lives, but will help inform their thinking and decision-making throughout their lives. I think, I think people in school should take a course on philosophy of science and inference. Because, yeah, like, I don't know, there's, I, just like, just the idea that like you would completely issue things we can glean from the scientific process because you wouldn't apply training protocols used in research studies one-to-one in the real world is, I'm that's a hell of a take. I mean, like, there, there is a bit of like reasoning that needs to be done, like, is, is something so unrepresentative of how people train in the real world that maybe it does limit the generalizability. Like, that is, you do see protocols like that from time to time. It's like, okay, well, that's, that's something to consider. But, yeah, I mean, I don't know, like, the, like, I mentioned like food science before. It's like, if you've seen like a food science lab, it doesn't, it doesn't look fucking identical to your kitchen. But if someone figures out like, hey, this is something that like increases my art browning, like, it doesn't matter that they're using like research equipment and like every fucking sensor in the world in order to do it. And it doesn't look like the gas range in your house. Like, shit still works. Like, it generalizes, you know what I mean? And yeah, some things generalize, some things don't. And yeah, like, that's, that's wild. Like, so, so many things you use in day to day life come from like research that was done in like a contrived sense. Like the fucking everyone uses GPS and like the base, the basic research that was originally conducted in order to like establish that that was like a thing. I don't know, looks different from like satellites up in the sky that are beaming position data down to your phone. But it's like, yeah, you're going to use GPS, you know what I mean? Yeah, I agree fully. It's something I've struggled with both in the applied setting and in the research where I think in the applied setting, at a certain level, it's almost fashionable for coaches to resort to it depends on systems where they cannot ever give a an answer that is true on average or likely to be true on average. They always just have to resort to independentism and contextualism, where I don't know if it's just become a norm or whether it's indicative of a lack of expertise or what have you, but I have seen many, many coaches always just resort to a default answer of it depends. And much in the same way as it pains me to see people view generalizability of inferences in a black and white fashion and often be overly cautious in the research setting of having any confidence in generalizing stuff. It pains me to see coaches just resort to Oh, I see that some experienced coaches say it depends as an answer to most questions they get asked. That must mean that that is what expertise is. When in reality, you can still have confidence in there being average effects. You can also express that with caution, but saying it depends isn't really informative. Just the same way as saying that research never applies or generalizes or has ramifications for your training. It's also not informative. It's also unreasonable. So I don't know. I think sometimes as an evidence based fitness crowd, we get lost in some of this stuff. Yeah, I think that's true. I think with the it depends thing. I do think that there's a little bit of monkey see monkey do. And I, I do often think that that is a nice little dodge for I don't know. Um, because if you like I am, I am notorious for slipping a bunch of it depends is into a lot of the things that I say. And if I, if I do just give like a flat, it depends sometimes sometimes it's because I don't know and I don't want people to know I don't know, but rarely most of the time when I say it depends, it's because I'm being a dismissive little prick because someone asked me a question and I, the, the actual like it depends answer would be like, ah, here's like the average effect, but there's like several things that could modulate it and like here's why and here's just like a branching tree. And I think about it for a second. I'm like, oh, god damn, I don't have 30 minutes to type an answer to this question. So yeah, it depends. Try it out, see what happens. And I do think a lot of people that have expertise, it, a lot of answers start with it depends and then it's a long answer. It's like, yeah, it depends on these five different things. And you know, here's, here's a branching path of, of logic that depending on which of these things apply to you, we do still wind up with some sort of like tangible actionable advice at the end. But then I think a lot of people who want to fake expertise, see that the answer starts with it depends and they're like, oh, baby, yeah, let's, let's use this. Yeah, yeah, I don't know. But I apologize to anyone listening if you, if you've asked me a question and I responded with something that was just like, yeah, it depends whatever, just try something out. I was, I probably had a lot of questions in my box and I was just being a dismissive little prick and I, I apologize for that. Yeah, that's totally understandable. I think that what I've seen happen, maybe kind of bringing those two points together is that people say it depends and then bring up a list of variables that they have no evidence for the answer depending on. So if they'll say, oh, it depends on your overall program, this and this and this. And oftentimes when you actually dig into it, I don't know that it depends on that. I don't know that we have evidence for it depending on those things, at the very least. Is it possible? Yeah. Or are you potentially just listing other variables in an attempt at making it seem complex and making yourself seem expertly? Maybe. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. Another thing I'll say though, to kind of shift, shift responsibility a little bit, I do think a lot of times, a lot of times when I give a flat, it depends answer. What I actually mean is you didn't provide me with nearly enough information or context. And I don't feel like having an extended back and forth with you in order to extract the information and context I need to give you a confident answer. So yeah, I could either type for 30 minutes to explain everything it depends on and you can figure out which one of these roads applies to you. Or I could ask you a series of questions. And since I check social media once a day, I can wind up getting an answer to you 10 days from now, which neither of us want to do. Or I can just be a little dismissive and say, it depends. I do think a lot of that could be circumvented by people putting a little bit more effort and context into questions they ask in the first place. That makes it way easier to narrow shit down. Instead of like, brother, if someone asks me like, hey, should I do bench press or dumbbell press? And that is the extent of the question. You're getting either an it depends or do whichever you like more. That's going to be my answer to that question because like, yeah, like if you don't even tell me what your fucking goal is or a little bit about your experience with the two exercises or goddamn anything else, if you just say which one of these do I do, you're getting a dismissive response because like, you're being lazy and you're being lazy, I'm being lazy. Like you put a little work into making sure I have enough information to answer the question. I'll give you a good answer. You know what I mean? I think that there's an element of that as well. Yeah, I agree. I think the degree to which your answer is informed and helpful depends on how informed and helpful the question is. So like if someone asked me that question, I would just be like, I think on average, this one is better. Do that. Yes. You know, that's the best you can do at that point. Shifting gears a little bit and going back into what the episode is actually about, as opposed to finessing the listener into a philosophy of science episode, related to Dirty. Why don't we have more direct evidence in the back musculature? Like, obviously, we have studies in the biceps, triceps, quads and calves, and that's for a relatively simple reason. It's just that those muscles are, one, the quads tend to apply to a lot of athletic tasks. So like this quad, for example, is one of the most commonly researched exercises. And if a study seeks to lean insights into morphological adaptations or hypertrophy outcomes or what have you, the quads tend to be measured quite, quite consistently. In addition, the quads, calves, biceps, triceps, even the pec to a slight extent, are relatively easy to ultrasound and with ultrasound being one of the most commonly available and cheapest ways of assessing changes in muscle size, that is what is typically done. The issue with ultrasound in the back is that it's quite tricky. So the back has a lot of different muscles, which as Greg outlined earlier, they have a lot of different functions. They, some of them were superficial, some of them are deeper, since ultrasound is predicated on the depth of the muscle as well. If the muscle is a bit deeper, it can be difficult to get a clear image and therefore outline its aponeurosis, the interfaces and what have you, and clearly measure the thickness of the muscle that we're trying to measure. So ultrasounding the back musculature, to my knowledge, I haven't seen any studies do it, like in humans at least. But Greg, I, as I understand it, you have seen some studies that have used MRI to assess the back muscles. So I want to get your opinion on, could we use MRI to assess increases in muscle hypertrophy of the back musculature? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I, there will be a couple studies about this linked in the show notes. This wasn't something that I had looked into prior to you tagging me in the outline saying, have you seen studies using MRI on this? And I hand it when you asked, but I was, I was pretty sure that there had been studies that had assessed back muscle size in vivo. And so I was like, yeah, I can, I can dive into the old PubMed machine and see what's going on here. And yeah, so you can use MRI, several studies have. There, there's even been research evaluating the reliability of measurements of various back muscles using MRI and the reliability is pretty good. Low, low percent CV values. Yeah, it seems like you can, you can measure back muscle pretty well. I do think it would probably depend on the region of the muscle you're talking about. So with the LATs, for instance, I think you could probably reliably measure them a bit, a bit higher up. But I think the further down you go, once you start getting into muscles that originate or insert in the thoracolumbar fascia, I think things would start to get pretty sketchy pretty quick, because there's a lot of shit going on in there. Like very thin sheets of muscle interspersed with relatively thin sheets of fascia, like it's, and it becomes a mess. But I do think that for like, a lot of the meat of the LATs, you could assess it pretty well. Traps, I see absolutely no reason that would be an issue. Yeah, rhomboids, they're deep, might be challenging with ultrasound, MRI should be fine. So yeah, yeah, it can be, it can be assessed. I think, at least in the outline, one of, one of the questions here was, why is there not more research on back musculature? I'll just tee myself up for that one. So why is there not? Since you can seemingly measure it with MRI relatively well. I think that there are a few things in play. One is, like you mentioned, Milo, ultrasound is a lot more accessible. And it is more challenging to use ultrasound for superficial muscles, like for the traps, for the LATs. I think you should be able to use it just fine. Like for LATs, like we've mentioned already, there is research assessing pec hypertrophy. And I think you would probably standardize LAT ultrasound measurements the exact same way you would standardize pec, like just, you know, count the ribs, just make sure you take the measurement at the same rib each time. I really can't think of a reason that that wouldn't work just fine. But yeah, some other back musculature, it's deep, difficult to standardize. But I think, I think that there are a few other factors in play. So one is just simply, why study something hard when you can study something easy? It is easy to take an ultrasound scan of the biceps or quads. You don't need to deal with logistical hurdles related to scheduling time with an MRI. Yeah, it's just easier to do. And there's more stuff to draw upon. Like I said, I really can't think of a reason that you couldn't just ultrasound the last the exact same way you do the pecs, count the ribs, do it at the same rib each time. But since people don't do that, before you could do a hypertrophy study, you would first need to do a reliability study, because it has previously been established that you can reliably assess pec size with ultrasound. So you can just say, Hey, we're doing this thing, other researchers have done it, here's a citation, it's reliable, badabing, badabum, good to go. Before you introduce a new measurement, you should validate that you can you can make valid and reliable measurements. So you'd probably still need to schedule time with an MRI and say, Hey, we used this as the criterion measure, we took a bunch of ultrasounds, we did a reliability study. So yeah, basically, you would need, you would need to do a study before you could do the study you wanted to do just to make sure your measurement was good. And so yeah, like why, why do something that's, why do that when you could just do another study on the quads, you know what I mean? So yeah, that's the first thing, why do something hard when there's plenty of things that are still fucking hard, but quite a bit easier that you could do instead. The second is why do something expensive when you can do something cheap? Your lab probably has an ultrasound already, you probably don't have an MRI in your lab, you would need to pay in all likelihood to schedule time with an MRI. A lot of schools, there's no MRI on campus, you would need to like pay to access an MRI at a local hospital. And even for schools that do have MRIs on campus, like if it's, it has like a medical research wing of the school. Oftentimes, even like between departments, you still have to like pay the other people at the school for time with the MRI. So yeah, there generally is not that much funding in hypertrophy research, like money's already pretty tight. So yeah, why do something expensive when you can do something cheaper? That is a factor. Another factor, even if money wasn't a concern, why take slow measurements when you can take fast measurements? Pre and post assessments, especially if you're doing a lot of stuff, taking a lot of measurements, can be annoying to schedule. They tend to be the longest visits that you're going to have with research subjects. They can present a burden if someone has like a tough schedule, lives far from the lab, or would need to come in on weekends for like longer visits. And so if you would need to use an MRI, even if you had funding for it, just takes longer to get an MRI than it does to do an ultrasound scan. So why do something slower when you can do something faster instead? And like I mentioned, a lot of this has to do with funding. So yeah, both in terms of like if you needed access to an MRI and also just like is anyone going to pay for research on the back in particular? So a lot of like hypertrophy research and healthy young adults, like a lot of that you're just kind of like scraping together any funding you can get. But you know, there are a lot of things that do get funded because they relate to like disease states in particular populations, like you're not trying to get like a $2,000 grant from a supplement company to do the bicep study you want to do. You're getting a tens or hundreds of $1,000 grant from the NIH to do something that's related to oftentimes like osteoporosis or osteopenia research, sometimes like gait or balance conditions or like stroke rehab or whatever. Like there's, yeah, there's a lot of things where there is big money sloshing around. And I'll tell you what, it's not fucking trap growth or lat growth. Like as cool as I think it is, I, most people with the money to write big checks, aka governments and sometimes medical organizations, they're mostly interested in like resistance training interventions if they're funding resistance training stuff. They're mostly interested in things that are, that have like a big effect on activities of daily living. And the biggest thing for activities of daily living is just like, are you ambulatory or not? Like can you get around on your own? Can you walk upstairs? Can you stand up from the toilet? Can you safely bathe yourself? A lot of that stuff is lower body, you know, you're interested in the hip musculature, you're interested in the calves, you're really interested in the quads because there's like a lot of quad atrophy with aging. Sometimes interested in grip for that reason, because you know, we have opposable thumbs, primates, very cool, got to be able to hold on to stuff. I really can't think of that many instances where like weak lats inhibit your ability to carry out activities of daily living. So yeah, I mean, there's, there's a lot of big money sloshing around to study, to study back hypertrophy or back strength. And lastly, there's just like difficulties and potential confounders downstream of a lack of basic science. So for instance, there's a lot of research looking at hypertrophy of the quads and biceps. And there is also research looking at the ability of people to voluntarily activate their quads and biceps. And we know that in relatively healthy people, they don't struggle to activate, recruit, utilize that musculature. Outside of certain disease states, you can, you can tap into basically all of your motor units to create torque. So if you're interested in whether two different exercises or two different variations on an exercise cause like different amounts of quad growth, you can safely say that, hey, it's due to like these different characteristics between the exercises, whatever. You don't necessarily have to say, well, you know, this could be due to something related to the intervention, or it could just be that people can't activate their quads. You know what I mean? Like that's not, that's not a method of inquiry you need to, or like a line of inquiry you need to really contend with. Whereas a lot of like basic science research like that hasn't been done for back musculature. So in the absence of that, any study you did do, you would have to inherently make more tentative inferences. You know, you could say, hey, due to some characteristic of the exercises used, this, you know, this lat exercise was better than that one or whatever. But, you know, it very well could be that instead of people, instead of like percent VA for the lats being like 95% plus like it is for the quads, it very well could be that it's 70%. And it very well could be that just due to small sample sizes and quirks of randomization, you just had one group of people that just really couldn't recruit their lats all that well. And the exercise they did was perfectly effective, but it looks like it wasn't because voluntary activation is poor. Like I don't think that that is a thing. Like I don't, like I think people can activate and utilize their lats just fine. But I couldn't point to a study to verify that. So, yeah, until that research is done, literally any research you did, you would have to be like, you'd have to be way less confident in the sorts of inferences you could draw. And I think that that also just presents some friction. Like people, people want confidence in the results of their studies and you can have quite, you can quite frankly just have more confidence in studies on the quads or the biceps than you could in studies on the traps or lats or whatever. Because we know more about like the neuromuscular function of the biceps and triceps and quads than we do about the lats. So, yeah, I think that that's like a relatively low, like low on the list of reasons why people aren't doing this research. But I wouldn't be surprised if that contributes as well. But I do think, I think a lot of it is just like time and money and just kind of like why bother, you know, like like you guys can attest to this. Doing a training study is a hell of a lot of work. And we already know a lot about these other muscles. And like if you're put, if you're going to take like the time and effort to do a training study, you want it to be on something that like, you feel pretty good about like, like this shit's going to work and like be publishable. Like you don't want to, you don't want to sail into the unknown and just like wind up with something like not publishable due to question mark, question mark, question mark. Like maybe you can't take good measurements. Maybe as you're doing your study, the first study looking at voluntary activation of the lats comes out and guess what? It's 60% in healthy young people. So, oh fuck, you didn't get that data on your subjects. And so now that like questions, whatever inferences you can make from the from the study you just did, like, yeah, like, what, just why fucking do that when you know you can do when you can investigate similar questions on muscles, we know more about. So yeah, I think I think those are some of the biggest things contributing. Yeah. And those were all the the issues we we had to consider now before running the parcels versus full ROM study. Because ideally, it would have been cool to look at the back. But one ultrasound may have not been that reliable, especially with participants having to be marked at specifically the same place, and so on and so forth, plus MRI, assuming we had like hundreds of thousands in funding to be able to pay an external, I don't know, hospital or whatever for us to do the MRI. As you mentioned, we would then have to figure out how in New York City, we would have to get each participant to get the MRI, and so on and so forth. So, biceps and triceps, it is. Oh, yeah, I mean, another another thing as well, like you you saying that just made me remember this. If you don't, even yeah, even if money's not an issue, if there's not like an MRI at your school that like different people can just schedule time with, there aren't that many fucking MRI machines out there. And in most medical systems, there's like a multi month wait time to schedule an MRI for like a serious medical condition that needs an MRI. So there's also a question of just like, is this efficient and quite frankly, like ethically justifiable use of like critical medical infrastructure? You know, how many people are going to die because I want to because like it takes too long to diagnose something that they needed an MRI for because I scheduled 40 people to get a flat MRI for a hypertrophy study. You know, like don't do it. They're very well new games kind of like second order unintended effect related like body counts of your study. So you don't want that blood on your hands. Yeah, no, I think that all those are valid obstacles to studying the LATs and the incentives also seem to be stacked in favor of measuring other muscles. Like you mentioned, in other like performance, oftentimes we care more about the quads or the hamstrings than we do about the back muscles culture necessarily. And so both as far as obstacles in the way of measuring the LATs, like even with ultrasound and I  as I mentioned, identifying the landmarks anatomically to get reliable sites of measurement. That is relatively straightforward, the way you described it. The one caveat I would give to that, just from experience, is I do think most people store a fair bit more subcutaneous adipose tissue in where you'd measure the LATs versus where you'd measure, for example, even the PECs. And if they have several centimeters of subcutaneous adipose tissue, where they have their LATs, they can make visibility a whole lot less effective, clear, and then measuring the LATs becomes a lot more challenging. Like, certainly with subcutaneous adipose tissue being larger in some participants than others, even for the calves, it can be relatively difficult to measure the gastroc, even for the triceps. And those are probably smaller muscles and thickness than the LATs, and probably carry less fat compared to where you carry fat on the LATs. So visibility can be a real concern there as well. So all those reasons why we don't have studies in the LATs. Let's talk about some practical stuff. I think that as far as actually training the back musculature goes, there's kind of some quick and dirty guidelines I use for classifying different functions of different parts of the back. You can certainly get more granular than this, but I'm not sure it would meaningfully improve your programming or your subsequent results. So for my purposes, I typically categorize the functions of the back into kind of like three muscle groups or three types of functions I need to worry about. So I kind of classify the LATs and the teres major together as they tend to share many functions, the sort of upper back, mid back together, so the lower trap, mid trap, the wrong boys and so forth, and then the erector spinay, which are kind of separate. I'm not sure we even necessarily want to talk about them at length, pun intended. And then finally, the upper traps and the levator scapulae. I think those are kind of like the four muscle groups I would consider, and they each have slightly different functions. So for the LATs and teres major, I typically think of their functions as being shoulder extension, like any sort of polar or motion, and shoulder adduction. So if you think about a full range of motion lateral raise, you think about the eccentric phase of that movement, that would be shoulder adduction. So essentially to train them, I typically think those two functions, to train LATs and teres major, so that could be a cable pullover, a dumbo pullover. Most pull downs will train those relatively well through shoulder extension or shoulder adduction. We'll go into exercise selection more specifically later, but just kind of being aware of those functions when considering exercise selection is a good thing, just so that then you can pick at least one exercise targeting one of those functions in your program, just so you have a reasonably well-rounded program in targeting most of the muscles in all likelihood. Then when it comes to the lower traps, mid traps, and rhomboids, their main functions seem to be scapular adduction, so essentially like bringing your shoulder blades closer together, and scapular depression, so kind of bringing them down. And so oftentimes, those functions would be accomplished during most rowing exercises. Then we have the erector spin a muscle, which is what a lot of people refer to as a lower back muscle. I'm not sure many people necessarily think of the quadratus lumborum. I think that's the name. I don't know how you pronounce it, because I've never heard anyone say it, because that's how rarely it's spoken of outside of therapeutic contexts. Yeah, you got it. As someone with a janky QL, it is quadratus lumborum, and you nailed it. Thank you. I appreciate that. But most people think of the lower back muscle, which is the erector spin a, which contrary to popular belief, there are three different sub-muscles in that muscle group, and some of them run quite far up the spine, and so they can actually make, I think, an appreciable difference to the appearance of your back. So having a more developed erector spin a muscle can make your back look a bit bigger overall, even sort of like your mid and upper back, depending on the section you're hypertrophy-ing meaningfully. But the main functions of that muscle are going to be lateral flexion of the spine, like dumbbell side bends. The individual Greg was previously referring to, who was doing a lot of side bends in the gym, and had the most developed obliques in the world, may also have had very developed erector spin a muscles, because that is one of the functions of the erector spin a. And then secondly, that they're also responsible for spinal extension. So whenever you're thinking of keeping your back straighter, for example, during a deadlift or a squat, it is your erector spin a being involved heavily and keeping your back more extended, which makes it all the more interesting when people refer to squats and deadlifts, meaningfully targeting, like, building your six pack, because your rectus abdominis muscle is responsible for the opposite of that function. So if anything activating that muscle would make the job of the erector spin a more challenging. So just to fun aside, but meaningfully, like practically, I think that hip hinging, so RDLs, deadlifts, and even squatting movements where you have a meaningful amount of load on your back and you're trying to keep your spine extended, they will provide a decent amount of stimulus for your erector spin a. You can include some isolation work or you can try and purposely extend and flex your spine during rows, for example, but those would be the kind of ways you would want to train your erector spin a. And finally, we have the upper traps and the later scapulae, which are broadly responsible for scapular elevation. So shrugs, essentially. So I think those are the kind of four muscle groups I would consider when considering your back training and just having at least one exercise that reasonably targets those, each one if you want to have relatively well rounded programming and hypertrophy of the back musculature. In general, as I mentioned earlier with the regional hypertrophy systematic review by Cassiano and colleagues, I do think having at least two to three back exercises in your program every week is reasonable and trying to hit those main categories of like one movement that's predominantly targeting shoulder extension and adduction, the target of the lats and terrace major. One movement that's primarily targeting scapular adduction and depression, like some sort of row variation for your lower trap, mid traps, rhomboids. Some sort of shrug variation being beneficial for your upper traps and ovators scapulae. Those are probably good ideas. Obviously, not everyone cares about their upper traps. Not everyone cares about maximally hypertrophy in their erector spinay, but just being aware of the functions that they are responsible for can allow you to train them should you desire to actually train them. So yeah, I think those are kind of like the broad takeaways I would give on exercise selection. There are additional considerations for what makes an exercise good for the back. I think that, probably speaking, they're the same that make any exercise decent for hypertrophy. There's a ton of granularity here. Like we mentioned, we don't have direct comparisons of different back exercises, so we have to rely on generalized principles from other muscle groups to inform this. I think that as Mr. Langton-Partial himself, you can make a decent case that the back training and the back specifically could benefit from the length and partials or emphasizing the length and position somehow, just because the most back exercises you can think of, whether you're talking about row variations, pull downs, or pull ups, tend to be most challenging in the shortened position. And so relatively speaking, you are missing out on some challenge and loading in that length and position. If you were to do some partials after you hit failure and do those in the length and position, that would be one way of doing it. Or you could just use length and partials. Or like Greg was doing with cheating the weight up a little bit, that is another way to emphasize the length and position, because you're making the shortened position easier and getting more load in the length and position ultimately. So yeah, I would say those are the main things to consider exercise selection wise. Obviously, the same things, like the same basics, like, oh, make sure the exercise is sufficiently loadable that you can actually get close to failure. But I would hope that the listeners of the Stronger Science podcast would be aware of those things that you pretty much learned on day one in the gym already. Yeah, I agree with all of that. Wow. I love how the philosophy of science section of the podcast was not contentious, but certainly a lot to be said about it. Meanwhile, as far as actually training in the gym, it's like, yeah, just do some of everything and, you know, you're good. Yeah, I think the basic takeaway is all of the things you think you already know about back training, guess what? It's right. Yeah, the exercises that target your lats that you think target your lats, guess what they do? Yeah, that's all I'll take right there. From a more practical perspective, and just as a coach, there are a few guidelines I like to follow when it comes to programming. One is like any muscle, if you're trying to maximize hypertrophy, it probably makes sense to do most of your training in a relatively heavy rep range just to make sure you're training pretty close to failure. There is some research by our own lab suggesting that when you go much past around 12, 15 reps, your accuracy and gauging how many reps you are away from failure might tend to decrease. So you're most accurate, engaging how close to failure you are when going relatively heavy, like maybe below 12 reps or so. So practically, I'd say do most of your training between five or 12 reps. But then, including a variety of rep ranges across the week, probably a good thing, maybe going all the way up to 20 reps or 30 reps on occasion, maybe even higher if you wanted to. Then another practical consideration is, as I mentioned, I think two to four exercises or so as a sort of like rough ballpark, maybe even a minimum for back training, depending on whether or not you include the erector spin a and upper trap exercises as well, is a reasonable guideline. What I would do, just to sort of like cover any additional bases just in case it makes a meaningful difference would be to try and have a variety of both direction of pulling, so some vertical pulling like pull ups or pull downs and some horizontal pulling like any sort of rowing variation across the week. And additionally, if you want to go the extra mile, I tend to think of it as also like, maybe day one has some overhand pulling day two has some underhand pulling and day three has some neutral grip pulling, just varying the grips being used might provide some additional variation. So, how many different muscles are present in the back and how their functions vary, that might meaningfully increase variation and increase hypertrophy and sort of maximize homogeneity of hypertrophy because regional hypertrophy is a documented phenomenon from training. But equally, in my experience, most people do have a slight preference for one grip over another. Like for example, for me personally as a lifter, most of my lifting career, neutral grip rowing and pull downs have just felt the best like they don't seem to bother my elbows or my joints all that much. I feel my lats the most. And so if there is one grip that you prefer over another, I think it's fine to bias it most of the time. I see it as similar to rep ranges where if you really enjoy somewhat higher up training, you can probably do most of your training that rep range. And as long as you have some variety in there, I can't really make the argument that you're necessarily missing on on growth. And the same thing goes, I think for neutral grip versus overhand grip versus underhand grip. So yeah, and the final thing I'll say is, typically, I think a somewhat narrow grip on most back exercises, like as opposed to taking a super wide grip will probably increase the degree of stretch being experienced, which might be a good thing for hypertrophy. I suspect I don't fully know. So yeah, that's basically my rough guideline on how to train the back. Use the same rough volumes as you probably use for most other body parts. In my personal experience, they can handle a bit more volume than most muscle groups can. So you can experiment with that and they can be trained slightly more frequently than most other muscle groups. But that's just my personal experience. There's a chance that is true or not true. Yeah, do you agree with that? Am I treating my back all wrong? No, I think that all sounds good. I'll add another little bit of just kind of like anecdotal bullshit, I guess. I am personally a huge fan of unilateral back training. I think that, so the concept of like the bilateral deficit, the idea that like you can recruit muscles on one side of your body better than both sides of your body simultaneously, is an idea that has become like somewhat controversial in recent years. Most of that stuff comes from Quad Studies and this is not an episode about Quad training, so I won't regale people with all of those stories. But yeah, just to say, it's like slightly controversial, but whatever. If it exists though, I do suspect that it contributes more for back muscles than maybe some other muscle groups. Just because like at least in my experience, people have, to use a bro term, slightly worse like a mind muscle connection with their back muscles than they do, say their quads or biceps or whatever. And so I find that even as someone who's been training for a long time, I feel like I can engage and feel my back muscles working better if I do unilateral stuff. So like one arm rows, that's a classic. I think everyone does them, but the one kind of a typical exercise that I really ride for when it comes to back training, I fucking love one arm pull downs. I think they're great. And in Milo, I think if you haven't done them, I think you would like them as well because you can get a way deeper stretch in your lats with one arm pull downs than you can bilateral. Like you can reach all the way up obviously, but also kind of like over to the side, you can even do them standing with like one foot, like your opposite side foot on the seat of the pull down machine. So you're kind of like hinged and you're leaning towards, like you're leaning away from the arm that you're using. So you're getting like some spinal lateral flexion in the mix as well to like even get a slightly deeper latch stretch in there. And my God, I love those. Like though I think that's my favorite lat exercise and if I haven't done much lat training in a while or even if I've been doing some lat training, but I just haven't done those in a while and I come back to them. I say this in a good way. Like listeners who don't have like as much of a masochistic streak might hear this and say, why do you do that? That sounds bad. But no, trust me, it's a hurt so good type of thing. The first time I do them in a while, like I feel like I've had like a lat tendon rupture. Like it feels dangerous. Like how painfully sore my lats get close to their insertion. And I love it. Just based purely on like both the sensation I get during a workout and the agony that I'm in for the next day or two. It feels like they're stimulating my lats more than anything else. So yeah, single arm pull downs. I love them. Love, love, love. Awesome. Yeah, I will. I've tried similar variations out in the past. For me, it's just come down to do I really want to twice the number of sets for some reason for the back? I don't for legs. I don't mind for the back. I do. So, but yeah, that sounds like a way to stretch out the lats even more than during traditional training. So I can't, I can't fault that. All right, back. Anything to add? You covered me fully. Wow. Very good. We've been both specializing in lat pull down on the lat pull down lately. And it's a shame that the strength standards universally are judged by usually SBD and not even a strict press because I am confident that we can beat a lot of people on the lat pull down on a specific machine, the matrix machine, more specifically. But yeah, Milo covered me fully like as far as practical takeaways for clients go. And yeah, overall, I do not think that training your back is rocket science. As long as you've selected two to three exercises that pretty much cover everything that Milo mentioned, I very much doubt that you're not going to see really solid back development. I think that wraps up all of the points we wanted to hit. So now we can move into some audience Q&A. Greg, would you like to see us off? Absolutely. So Joseph Robbins from Facebook asks, do you need to do both a vertical and horizontal pull for complete back development? I do not think we should answer questions by people that have that are not able to strict press as much as I am and can only push press more than I am. But joking aside, that's an inside joke between myself and Joseph, because he is an excellent push presser. So I hope you appreciated the shout out, Joseph. I'd say yes, based on exactly what we just talked about. Now, obviously, you can hear New York in the background. They're coming to arrest me for this hot take. But there's no hot take. So yes, would you, let's say you did chin ups only your whole life, would your back not look muscular? Probably it would probably look fine and you'd probably get away with some solid back development. But if you're trying to maximize muscular development of the back, doing both some vertical and horizontal pulling, this is probably your best bet for complete development. Yeah, I think I agree with Pack Fully. I think you might get more than half, maybe not more than half. That put a rough number on it. You might get around half the development for your back. Just hey, you're doing 50% of the variation you need to do. I do think that the muscles that are involved in specifically like the mid trap, lower trap, rhomboids, their functions do differ relatively substantially from just lats and terrace major. And I think those muscles will be missing out on a fair bit of stimulus. So yeah, unfortunately, I don't think you can get away with just doing one of them. You probably do need to do both of them. But I don't think asking for someone to do two exercises per week is too large of an ask for someone trying to maximize hypertrophy. I agree with that. One of my more lukewarm takes is that I don't know that like a lat rowing does much for you if you're also doing vertical pulling. Like the lat exercises where you're pulling the implement like towards your stomach to primarily work your lats instead of more towards your chest to more work, I guess, maybe like the upper fibers of your lats, but also your mid traps, rhomboids, stuff like that. Rear delts as well. I kind of think that a lat row is, it's training basically the same stuff that like a pull down is I don't think it's training your like horizontal pulling musculature as well as like a row to your chest would. And I don't think it's training your lats as well as a pull down does. There's still certainly a good exercise. Like I'm not telling people to not do it. If you're doing four or five or six slat exercises in a week, it's a perfectly good one to to consider and have in your program. But I think if you're if you're narrowing it down to two, yeah, I think pull up or pull down and like a more horizontal row where your elbows are further out and you're pulling the thing closer to your chest rather than your stomach. I think that's the way to go to kind of maximize what you're hitting with two exercises. Yeah, I think that's a lukewarm take indeed. I think it's two reasons the most be considered hot. Sick. All right. Shane Duquette asks, people argue that pullovers aren't really a lat exercise, rather they're largely a Terry's major exercise. Lats are just a stabilizer that wouldn't be worked hard enough to get a stimulus. I guess that's not a question. That's a statement, but I suppose he wants our take on it. Yeah, so I have previously stated that I think the pullover is a very good lat exercise and that is a contentious topic nowadays on the socials. I think it essentially comes down to how much stock you put into your mechanical matching and how much stock you put into the longer muscling research. And based on what we discussed in the episode, I do think that if you're taking a set of bummed up pullovers or brought up pullovers or will have you close to failure, the lats will be taken close to failure, no matter what the difference in internal leverage is, or at least within reasonable constraints. And specifically when you consider that the dumma pullover does likely stretch out the dumma pullover or any pullover really, in this case, in the question, does stretch out the lat quite meaningfully. I think it's going to be a very effective lat exercise. That is my stance. No one can tell you for sure. Again, it's a sort of question that is predicated on assumption after assumption after assumption. So it is essentially just educated gambling. And my educated gamble is that I think that it's a good exercise. Anything to add? It's the only lat exercise that gets me sore. And as we know, soreness equals muscle growth. And that's why basketball yesterday was a muscle building activity because we're both very sore from it today. But in all seriousness, no echoing my low. We cannot tell for sure. I feel my lats a lot. My lats hurt a lot after. And I say for certain it's the best in the world. No. Do I believe that my lats are not doing anything there? Equally no. Yeah. And just to finish it all for mind, I think that when we do this educated gambling bands, we have to consider the strength of each piece of evidence we're using. I think that the evidence in favor of neuromechanical matching, playing a large role for hypertrophy is relatively preliminary and or weak. Or is I think the evidence for a relatively generalizable principle of lower muscle length training being better for hypertrophy is by comparison relatively strong. And so that's ultimately what I weigh more heavily in my weighing up of the evidence. So that's kind of where I fall. I have a middle ground take, which is that I kind of feel like it's a distinction without a difference. Like not entirely, obviously the lats and teres major are two separate muscles. But I think when people are interested in lat training, like oftentimes they won't just like wide barn door lats that fucking block out the sun when they do a rear lat spread. And when I think back to like a lot of the best backs in bodybuilding history, when people say, oh, damn, that person had like crazy wide lats. A lot of times like they, well, they did, but they also had like really developed teres major. And I think that people often don't like really go out of their way to target it. So I think even if it's the case that it's predominantly working your teres major, I mean, a lot of people listening to this podcast, I'm sure it could tell the difference between the two. But I bet more than half of the people even listening to the stronger by science podcast don't fully know the difference. And if you just looked at someone who had just a really great like bodybuilding, highly competitive back with like good lat development and great teres major development, I bet more than half of the people listening to this episode would be like, damn, that person has crazy lat development, super wide, whatever. So I think like, let's let's just assume it's not a good lat exercise. Still a good exercise. And I suspect I suspect most people if they even if it's a great teres major exercise and a bad lat exercise, they would look at the effects it has on their physique and say, damn, this was a really good lat exercise. So there, there is a large element to which I kind of think that like, even if it's not a good lat lat exercise, like who cares, you know. Yeah, I concur fully in thinking that most people couldn't even tell the difference between teres major and lat hypertrophy, especially outside the context of the bodybuilding stage where people are at essential levels of body fat. And even then, wouldn't be surprised if people still weren't able to tell the difference. So I agree. And I think, I don't know, it's one of those ongoing debates on the socials that I, I think is. What was the law you mentioned again, or the heuristic regarding the proportion or the relationship between the importance of a debate and the intensity of it? Was it Sears law? I think so, yes. No, that might have been the headline one, wasn't it? No, that's, that's better edges law. You got it. Yes, Sears law. Where essentially the importance of an argument is inversely proportion, the importance, yeah, is inversely proportional to the intensity with which it goes on. So, yeah, moving on, we have a couple questions from Christian strand. I think we can only cover the second one. Cool. Yeah, so he asks, are deadlifting movements suitable for back hypertrophy training, especially the erectors? Yes. So in some circles and some, I mean, bodybuilding and natural bodybuilding circles, the, and I guess traditionally the deadlift is often sometimes presented as a back exercise, sometimes as a leg exercise. And there's this notion that, you know, you can really tell which bodybuilder has been deadlifting based on their back development on stage. Now, I do think that having some sort of hip hinge makes sense for erector development. But the idea that a bodybuilder's back and keep in mind, a bodybuilder usually performs multiple rowing and pulling just multiple back exercises. The idea that the deadlift is primarily a back exercise. I do not think is true. However, the deadlift as a form of a hip hinge exercise can be a way to develop your erectors and that I guess can add to the thickness of the back or how impressive it looks from behind. But yeah, that's about it. Not really a back exercise, if you ask me. Yeah, before Greg is going to give what seems to be a hot take based on the smirk he has displayed. I don't know. I think deadlifts for back are quite overrated. That is my contention. The way most people deadlift, I just don't think that they're going to be trained particularly close to failure or just in a particularly good way. Like the same way you would establish whether you think an exercise is good for hypertrophy. I think that a lift fails on many of those counts for the back. Especially for lats, teres major, rhomboids, etc. I just don't think it's going to be a very effective exercise. For the erectors, I don't really know. I suspect it's probably at least decent. But I would say you're almost certainly better off with an isolation exercise because it's relatively unclear. We can't epistemically make out whether the erector muscles are being trained particularly close to failure. It's just hard to tell. Is a lifter rounding his back during a deadlift a cause of weakness in the erector?  naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n rhomboids, then like, rose to your chest, I think, yeah, probably so, you know, like, it's a general purpose thing, and there are specific purpose things that target the same muscles, probably do it better, allow you to safely train those muscles closer to failure, et cetera, et cetera, But I do also think that, I don't know, like the maximalist take that like, oh, it's like a bad back exercise because you're not taking most of these muscles close to failure, training them through a full range of motion, blah, blah, blah, whatever. Like I will admit that I don't have like firm citations for any of this, but like no one has firm citations for fucking any of this shit because there's no research on back growth. I think that deadlifts are like a pretty good back exercise. And I think that if you train them the way that athletes that deadlift competitively would train deadlifts or just like pulling in general, like like hip hinge pulling, whatever. I think that you get pretty good back development from it. I do think I do think the thing that suffers is lat width. Like I don't think you're going to get as really sick lat spread from deadlifts. But I have spent my entire training career around power lifters. I was going to say many of whom, but I'll upgrade that to most of whom, most of whom don't do accessories. We don't, we don't really like accessories for the most part. We want to go in, lift heavy shit and then go home. Like there are absolutely power lifters that do plenty of accessories. A lot of us don't. So yeah, spent my entire training training career around power lifters, quite a few strong men who mostly train events and maybe toss in some like front squats or bench press for like general preparation. But again, oftentimes don't do much accessory work. You don't see that many pull ups. You don't see that many rows, whatever. And weight lifters who really fucking hate accessories even more than the power lifters and strong men. Like you're going to see a lot of clean pulls. You're going to see a lot of snatch pulls. I mean, like the sport is snatching clean and jerk and accessory lifts are like snatch pulls, clean pulls. Like you might, yeah, like occasionally you'll see someone do like some lunges because they do a split jerk and they don't want to be like super imbalanced. But yeah, you don't see that many accessories there either often. Some countries do a lot of accessories. Like you see Chinese weight lifters do a lot of accessories. Yeah, most of the weight lifters I have trained around not a ton of accessory work, not a ton of direct back training. Athletes in all three of those sports, tremendous lat, like tremendous back development. Again, you don't see like crazy lat width, but like fucking thick traps, like upper back thickness, like the type of thing you'd get from like rows to your chest, extremely on point, really developed directors. Like I have just seen far too many people who've gotten extremely impressive back development with very few rows and very few pull downs, just basically only doing deadlifts. And I'm like, eh, you know, could they have maybe achieved the same level of development with less time and less effort by choosing some other exercises instead? Yeah, I'd say definitely maybe and potentially even probably. Like I'm very sympathetic to that. But I also think that if someone says, hey, I want really great back development and I don't like doing rows, I really think you can just do a shitload of deadlifts and pull downs and be in pretty good shape. I think that's a decent take. And I don't want to make it sound like that lifts to nothing for your back, like putting aside your rectors even. But I do suspect like it's almost like we flip positions here where you're more of an empiricist in the absence of any formal empirical evidence and I'm more of a rationalist. But I do think the case against deadlifts theoretically for back is relatively strong. And I do suspect like you might be just dealing with a fair amount of solid worship bias, like the people that you're around or probably quite a bit more jacked in the average weight lifter, like personally, I've known quite a few weight lifters and powerlifters that skip their accessories altogether and their back isn't very jacked. Like, and obviously I could also be dealing with so I should buy us. But I think it's it can be difficult to disentangle that whole causality situation. Because like, I know people who don't really with weights are relatively jacked. You know, so yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, when when I walk into a powerlifting gym or like when I walk into a gym and I'm just looking around like, yeah, who else here is powerlifter? Like who are my people here? I will say the things that do jump out to me most are overdeveloped quads, overdeveloped pecs and overdeveloped traps. Like I do. I do unironically think that deadlifts are like quite solid for trap development. But like when I think of when I think of powerlifter physique, even if someone is not like super muscular and well developed to begin with, I do like slightly better upper back development than most of the rest of their physique is still something that like jumps out to me is like a core part of a powerlifter physique. Fair enough. I think that's a fair take. We must not discount though the presence of accessories to school. Yeah. Like many powerlifters are not that great at doing their their accessories, but still plus, but potentially their strength training background, you know, doing a few years of your five by fives and your whatever generic programs. So your five, three ones that all include some form of like chin ups and rows. And yeah, I don't know. With weight lifters, I like O'Milo. Like I've seen some because I've trained at Olympic weightlifting gyms in Greece. And sure, like obviously, if you look at a guy, some of those people on the beach and you see their back, you can definitely tell that they're doing something that they're working out. And I think really developed directors can make a back look, you know, much more trained than if they're not really well developed. But I don't know, man. Um, aside from some phenoms, like if you look at, for example, Joe Sullivan, who has recently, I don't know, gotten into bodybuilding or something, and he's, he's a beast when it comes to like squat and deadlift strength when his back looks jacked. But nowhere near a bodybuilder who may even be naughty and is, I don't know. But again, I'm getting into specific comparisons. Overall, I think deadlift's great. But if you're like, okay, I want my back to get bigger. Focusing on the deadlift, I think is not the way to go. If that makes sense. I think that's where we're coming from. Yeah. I mean, I, I said multiple times that I do think that like rep by rep and set by set, there are probably better options, but I do think I think, I think things have come full circle to the point that people, uh, probably underestimate deadlifts as a back developer. Very much. I think that's pretty reasonable. So it depends. Sure. Cool. Next question. Uh, yeah. Okay. So Randy B. 718 on Reddit, uh, asks a lot of strength programs, including SBS seem to recommend one back exercise, uh, for back work every day. How optimal or suboptimal is this for hypertrophy? Mr. Gray, I guess I can answer this just in the context of like why it's in the stronger by science programs like that. Please do. Um, and that's the back exercises. Unlike exercises for a lot of other muscle groups, um, can be limited by like grip strength and hand fatigue. And this is, this is anecdotal, but like if I'm going to do, you know, two vertical pulls and two horizontal pulls in a week, if I do them all in a single session, um, sometimes even if I'm using straps, like by the last exercise, I just feel like I'm not fucking doing anything because my hands are fucking tired. Um, whereas if I just do like really, really hit it hard for one back exercise a day or like sometimes two, if I'm really like focusing on my back training, I'm like, okay, like I can get it in and things are good. So yeah, I, I practically am a fan of spreading out back work just purely due to hand fatigue. Um, you don't want that to be a limiter. You do one back exercise a day. I also think it's good. I also think it's reasonably good for grip development because like you're getting a little bit of like, you know, secondary grip work in, in virtually all of your training sessions. Um, and just, uh, the research on frequency tends to indicate that, um, higher frequencies have a mostly neutral to maybe slightly positive impact on. Muscular development. So, um, just, just in general, as with any other muscle group, I don't think you're missing out on anything by spreading your volume out a little bit more and you may, you may be getting something positive out of that. So yeah, I, I with, with any muscle group, I think it's, I think it's, uh, neutral to positive to train it every training day and just kind of like doing the full body thing. But I think that that's like especially true for back training just because yeah, like your, your ability to train your pecs isn't going to be limited. If you're doing three peck exercises in a workout, you're not going to be like, damn, on this third one, I really feel like I'm not using my pecs well because my hands are tired, you know what I mean? But like, that kind of can be the case with back training. So with back training, even more than training for other muscle groups, I just think it's practically beneficial to spread it out through the week. Um, yeah, just, just so hand fatigue doesn't limit your ability to train the muscles you're trying to train. Wow. Besides hand fatigue, that is exactly the answer I would have given them as well as to why it might be beneficial. Um, yeah, I think that's pretty reasonable. Hand fatigue may be top of mind for me because I have very small hands. Yeah. I have experienced the only time I've ever really experienced my forearms being an issue. When training my back was when training with Kiriaka's Grizzly. When he made me do like a 30 rep drop set with like my first set being five reps and still using straps. The only thing I felt was an indescribable form pump. My, my back felt unaffected. And so I think that, uh, yeah, for most people, it may not be so much of a concern, but for some people, it can definitely be. Okay. Um, mouth words. I think I know who this is. Um, he asks, uh, cheaty rose, good idea or the greatest idea? Uh, is this, is this whole thing? I think that is yes. Okay. Uh, okay. So cheaty rose, good idea or the greatest idea. I recall some discussion recently around length and partials and how cutting the top rom in pullups or rows still hits the length and position. But when I think of body English, I think more about hip extension to make the length and position easier out of the bottom. Is it all just a self fulfilling prophecy so we can do back work every day because the lats are big, they can take it when they're actually cutting out the hardest, most beneficial portion of the range of motion to do so, or is it truly exposing the lats and back to more work by circumventing the limitations of the biceps or something? Uh, or maybe cheaty rose are better for strength and hypertrophy on account of horking around bigger weights. All right. That is a multifaceted question. I'll try to answer. I do think cheaty rose first up are probably better for strength and hypertrophy, but specifically when strength is defined as deadlift strength, probably, because they are then more akin to deadlifts than straight rows are. And so it becomes more specific to deadlifts and specificity is important. But then when it comes to wire cheaty rose beneficial, I'm not sure they're beneficial for growth necessarily. Um, I think the benefit in terms of the length and position could just as well be achieved by doing partials instead and cutting out that whole position entirely. You would still be able to use more load on account of missing out on the most challenging position in the lift. And therefore you'd be challenging that length and position a bit more. And I think you'd be missing out on the additional fatigue that comes with involving your hip extensors and involving your lower back a bit more as well. Or what have you. So I'm generally in favor of keeping rows stricter. And I don't think they're necessarily more beneficial by involving more body English for strength. As I said, I think they're probably more beneficial if you're cheating. But then I think are your rows really where you want to increase specificity? Could you not just do strict rows and do more deadlift work potentially? That's a different discussion altogether, but I think for hypertrophy, I wouldn't necessarily recommend it. Um, and I think she arose if they are to be beneficial for hypertrophy of the back would be beneficial predominantly through allowing you to handle more load and length and position. I think even if you're cheating, provide your lifting the load of maximum intent, you'll still be using your back to its fullest and the length and position just with more load. And you'd be making the shortened position relatively easier to achieve by getting more momentum into it and essentially hoisting the weight up, so to speak. So yeah, that's my take. I wouldn't really recommend cheating rows for hypertrophy necessarily back. Exactly the same take with the, the added benefit of, I don't know. I don't see much, much of a benefit for cheating rows. We besides having fun and lifting heavy stuff for the fun of it. I don't, I don't get what more you'd get from a controlled row where you're more likely to control the eccentric because you can handle the load. You can focus on getting that stretch and it just doesn't become a sort of like, okay, let's survive this set and just move the weight up and down until an arbitrary number of repetitions has been hit. Like I've seen power lifters talk about cheat rows as a, as an accessory to the deadlift and okay, sure, whatever, but like, why not just do some hip hinge variation as an accessory to the deadlift. The few videos that I've seen of like world class power lifters swearing that it was the cheat rows that helped their deadlift have left me unsatisfied with the explanation as to why that, that's true. Plus obviously the all of the confounders with the main one being them still deadlifting. So overall, you know, if you like cheat rows and you have a lot of fun, well, doing them and you're in the gym and your workouts are 10 times better and you still do your pull downs and your, whatever, chest supported machine rows, sure, do them. You're not going to lose muscle mass. You're still going to make some gains for sure. But if you're trying, if you want to maximize herbergary fee and you are, you want that an exercise or a row variation that is effective at doing that, then cheat rows are probably not your best bet. Yeah, I'm on record within this episode saying that I like cheat rows. Um, I do feel my lats more in them than, uh, like strict rows targeting the lats, but I am also on record in this episode saying that I think that like pullups and pull downs are a better lat exercise than like lat rows are. Um, and those two things coexist. If I'm, if I am to do rows for my lats, I do, I do like cheat rows. I think, I think that there's an art to them. I think that like a cheat row done well and a cheat row done poorly look visually identical and it's just kind of, the only person that knows the truth is the person doing them. But yeah, like if, if you're still pulling with maximum intent, like before, like before, like the, the hip hinging contributes to getting the weight up, you're essentially doing like a maximum intensity partial at the bottom of the, or like a maximum intensity, like isometric at the bottom of the lift. And even if the weight does still come down fast on the eccentric, you're still resisting it as hard as you can. Like it should still be a pretty good stimulus. Um, but I do also think it can be easy to get lazy and basically you're, you're just doing like partial RDLs and you happen to be holding onto the bar and it touches your belly. Um, and yeah, those two things can look very similar. And I think as you fatigue in a set, it's easy for like a good cheat rows to become bad lazy cheat rows. And in general, I do still think that for lat development, you're better off with pull ups or pull downs. And I really don't see much utility for like cheat rows to your chest. Like when people are doing them, they're mostly doing like the lat version of rows rather than kind of the upper back, like mid-trap rhomboid upper lat version of rows, I guess. Um, so yeah, I think, I think they're fun. I think they can be effective, but I think that I think that if you're trying to maximize efficiency, like you're trying to get the most possible per set out of your time training, I think that there are better options for the muscles that you would be training. Um, but I also just think if you like doing them and if you are actually like exerting maximum effort with your lats and like not just using hip hinging to move it. Uh, yeah, I think that there are more effective exercises, but I think it still can be effective. And, um, if you enjoy it and if your time in the gym isn't like super limited, yeah, go for it. Why not? Like have some fun. Have some fun. Um, another thing that I'll just say as it relates to like efficiency more broadly is I do think that I do think that a lot can be said about like the joys of training and doing things that you like doing and, uh, how things matter less if you just have time in the day to spend more time in the gym. Because for instance, like I can say that I don't think cheat rows are like the most efficient exercise in the world in terms of like how much you're stimulating the muscles on a set by set basis. But that only fucking matters. I think if you only have like 30, 30, 45 minutes to train, if you're someone who is a gym rat, you'll love the gym. You go four or five days a week, spend an hour and a half, two hours there. You have plenty of time in your training week to do exercises that aren't like as efficient on a set by set basis. And you just love doing, you know, like, um, if, if like 10 sets of lat work in your, in your workout is enough to like get as much stimulation for your lats as they can get in a workout or whatever. And you're doing 15 sets of lat work in a workout. Who fucking cares if like three of those sets aren't the most efficient? Like, yeah, past a certain point, you're, you're maybe training more than you like strictly need to just cause, just cause you love it, you know? And, um, yeah. So if, if you have 90 minutes per week total to train and you're trying to make the most of that time, I'd say, yeah, do something other than cheat rows. Um, but if you just really like doing them and, or you have plenty of time in your week to do other exercises, yeah, go for it. Why not have fun? That's, that's my take. Beautiful. We started this podcast out being strong by science and now it's strong by art. How to perfect your row, the cheat row specifically. Art or by science. I mean, my, my like most emotionally felt training takes are mostly like just have fun, I guess. I don't know. Like I do. I, I really and truly think. Yeah, whatever. Now we're back to philosophy by science. I think that I think though that, um, a lot of, a lot of like training content online is developed and delivered as if everyone in the gym is trying to be a world champion powerlifter or a world champion bodybuilder or a world champion athlete in some sport or another. Um, or if they're not there at least training with the same sort of orientation as those people where, you know, given, given your amount of time to train, um, any effort that is not used as efficiently and effectively as possible is wasted time. Like if, if within a year you could gain three pounds of muscle and you in fact only gain two pounds of muscle, that's a tragedy, you know, because like that last pound is really fucking critical because you're, you're absolutely trying to maximize everything. And like I just don't think many people are on that goddamn wavelength. Um, I think most people are trying to make gains like they're, they have some physicals they're working towards. They want to get stronger. But like most, most people who train consistently, like someone who's been in the gym for more than a couple of years and it has dawned on them. They're never going to be a world champion in anything or maybe they never even wanted to in the first place, but they're still going week after week, month after month, year after year. They are mostly training because they love it. And like there are still some results that they want to get, but if they, if they could enjoy their training 50% more or get 10% better results, they, they might tell themselves, yeah, like I'm going to do the thing for 10% more results, but a lot of their behaviors are geared towards, no, I'm going to do the thing I like 50% more, more. Cause like, yeah, once you're in it for a while and the gains slow way the fuck down, which they do for everyone, you stick, you stick with it because you like it. And yeah, I don't know. It's something that does frustrate me a little bit is how, um, is how centralizing ideas of like effectiveness and efficiency are, which are really only like the number one most salient and almost like solely important thing only for people who have like the most aggressive, like highest level competitive aspirations and in doing so things that people enjoy doing are kind of like put down and shit on. And it's like, Hey, you're doing this thing that's not like, like, like why, like why would you do cheat rows? Like it's just an ego lift. You're wasting your time. There's like better things. And it's like, yeah, you know why people do ego lifts because they're fucking fun. And, yeah, maybe they're not the most effective exercise in the world, but guess what? I've been training for a long ass time and if things went really well for me, maybe I'm going to put on a pound of muscle this year. And guess what? I don't give like, I'm not going to be a fucking bodybuilder. So like, if I gain a pound of muscle this year or like, honestly, zero pounds of muscle this year, I don't care. I just enjoy lifting weights and working out. And so like, yeah, yeah, if, if I just like doing something, I'm going to do it. And I really feel like that's how most people who train for a while are, you know, like they just like an exercise or they're just like trying a new thing. And I think that it's, I think that it is like relatively toxic for, um, for, yeah, just notions of enjoyment to be completely eschewed, um, and, and things to be put down because they're not like theoretically the most efficient and effective way to train. Because efficiency and effectiveness are, I think important concerns for everyone, but I honestly don't think they're the main concern for most people. And, um, yeah, like it's, uh, yeah, just, just, just like notions that like, if you're not training like a robot that's trying to like completely maximize everything all the time that you're doing something wrong. Like I don't think that that's like a helpful orientation, I guess. Yeah. And like for the record, our training is my mind, I did more than my mind, I was, but my laws as well is very heavily focused around the stuff we enjoy. The issue I think with ego lifting is the ego response to the criticism of, oh, you're doing this for ego lifting. And then instead of saying, yeah, that's why I'm doing it because I love it. And it's fun to do whatever, the zercher shrugs from boxes and whatever, cheat rows or even cheat curls or whatever. It's that people try to justify the ego lifting by forcing some mechanism or explaining that, oh, no, you know, this targets this a bit more. And then when you see also bodybuilders do that, then, and powered mechanisms and rationales for why this form is better than the other, it just creates this, this weird environment where from both sides, from one, the optimal bros and then the non-optimal bros, the idea of lifting for fun is not okay. It's not considered. Yeah. Because the, the, the ego bro, instead of saying, yeah, man, cool, bro. I'm a recreational lifter. Yeah. I'm here lifting weights. I'm bettering my health and I'm still getting a ton of benefits. I don't care about that theoretical 0.3 centimeter muscle gain that I could get. You know, many people get a bit of a knee jerk response, give a bit of a knee jerk response that includes some reason why they're doing it because they feel guilty about having fun. So we're here to break that stigma stronger by science. Yeah. I, I do, I do think some of that is like a kind of understandable defensive response though, cause like people, people come at them. Ah, almost like in an accusatory way, like by doing something that honestly looks quite fun, but maybe isn't optimal, you're doing something wrong. You know. Yeah. Whereas like if, if that, if that energy wasn't attached to it and someone just asked them neutrally like, Hey, why are you doing this thing? They might say like, Oh, well trains my lats. Also, I think it's fun. Um, you know, I think, I think that some of that is like people matching the energy that people come at them with. And if the, if the whole kind of like, if the social rules of the soup you're swimming in are.  like, yeah, if you're not doing things that are, like, optimal and maximal, you're doing something wrong, then you almost feel like you need to justify things on those terms, even if that's not why you're doing those things in the first place. Yeah, I agree. I think when you're questioning the non-optimal brog, which is having fun on – with a presupposition of everything one does needs to be done to maximize utility and progress, then the way you communicate that to the person treating their lift, for example, can come off as quite aggressive, or like you're questioning why they're even doing it and why they're not acting in line with your own reasons for lifting. And I think, like, seeing someone else treat can almost come off to you if you're lifting with the purpose of maximizing gains, for example, as like transgressive, like, oh, why is this person not acting in service of the same ideals as I am? And then it can cause you to question yourself and why you're lifting in the first place and, wait, I could live for fun too? And then that kind of gives you a bit of a pause and reflection, hopefully. But yeah, next episode, How to Have Fun. That's the title. Honestly, man. Where it's at. Training these days is super fun. No structure, freestyle, overhead press six times a week. We're in the gym an hour, hour and a half. Peace. Like, I think especially for recreational lifters who've been lifting for a while, lifting for fun is the promised land. And that's how you can lift. Yeah, keep at it. Because there comes a point where, cool, realistically speaking, maybe I could gain an appreciable amount of muscle mass on my calves because I have never trained them directly. But at this stage, you know, even with the most optimized of programs, we're not looking at an insane level of muscle gain, if any at all, for some muscle groups. So yeah, big proponents of lifting for fun. Don't let that, don't let our hatred for the cheat row, the track, the track from that. It's not the cheat row itself. It's the, you know, people trying to force the cheat rows and optimal exercise. It should be acceptable to say it's a fun exercise. Do it. It's cool. Yeah, truly the duality of man to hate the cheat row for scientific reasons and to envy the cheat row for the human condition, you know. Absolutely. Absolutely. So I think, I think that wraps it up for this episode. Cool. I think so. Do you guys have any, any closing thoughts before we sign off? Not really. I think that's it. Cool. All right. Well, thanks everyone for listening to another episode of the Stronger by Science podcast. We will be back in a couple of weeks and during the intervening fortnight. Be good. Hope you enjoy yourself. Do whatever kind of back training you feel like doing, whether that be pullovers for lat development, whether that be cheat rows, whether that be, you know, a good standard pull down and row to your chest. It's all valid. Some of it may be more effective than others, but guess what? All back training is good back training. Big backs are sick. So we're, we're wishing you love and light and big backs for the next two weeks and we will be back then. Talk to you soon. Bye.