 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere So, what are the mechanisms of hypertrophy? Before we begin looking at specifics, I want to ask you a very general question, which is, what is muscle growth? It's an increase in size of the muscle tissue and it's scientifically called hypertrophy. And how do muscles grow? So, that gets a little more complex. So, when you say how, generally speaking, it's the addition of sarcomeres to the muscle and to the fiber. There's two ways that can take place, or two primary ways that can take place. From a sarcomere addition, you can have either in parallel, which is similar to adding sarcomeres like sardines in a can next to each other, or you can have sarcomeres in series, which is like adding links in a chain. The primary way that, and this is very well documented, that muscles grow is through parallel hypertrophy. So, kind of like adding sardines in a can. Sarcomeres in series is a little more unknown. Certainly, we do know that sarcomeres can be added in series with certain protocols, like certain stretching protocols. Do you have shown that casting, some like rodents or even humans, they've shown where you cast them in a certain length in a short position and you can add sarcomeres. But that is not resistance training. And the research and resistance training is quite unclear as to whether that actually does occur. We have somewhat more evidence that you can get in lengthening, in a fast go lengthening. And that does seem to occur to a limited extent. Generally, the research has shown early on, this is a suggestion that occurs in the first few weeks of training, potentially by also doing some like eccentric protocols may predispose some lengthening. But it generally seems less of a factor, much less than getting sarcomeres in parallel and the extent to which it contributes to hypertrophy still remains, I think, questionable. Okay, so we just touched on longitudinal hypertrophy potentially and radial hypertrophy. Before we go into the stimuli of the night, initiate these processes. What about hyperplasia in the sort of deeper lifting sphere? Is it often your talk of muscle hyperplasia or essentially the addition of new muscle fibers? Is that something that happens in humans? To what extent does it happen? Are there any ways to train for it? Give the ability. So it's been documented pretty well in animal models, particularly bird models. So there's been the seminal studies by Antonio and Ganyet where they taped up a bird's wing into a stretch for many days. They attached a little weights to them, progressive overload, they attached a series of heavier and heavier weights. And that did show substantial hypertrophy, substantial hyperplasia. There's also been some preliminary evidence in steroid users. So there was a fairly recent study that looked at power lifters and they took natural power lifters versus special supplemented power lifters. And did seem to show that there was some evidence of hyperplasia. So the working model is that muscles can grow to a certain point, but beyond a certain point, the functionality, the spacing within, there's different theories about that, but the spacing within the fibers becomes difficult to carry out functional tasks. And when it reaches this critical threshold, it will split up and become more fibers so that each smaller fiber becomes more functional and has greater total hypertrophy. The general consensus at this point though is that in non-special supplemented individuals doing resistance, traditional resistance training, that it does not have much, if any, effect on muscle growth. Are there any ways in humans to make hyperplasia occur more readily, like for example stretching interventions versus lifting? Is there anything we can do? Hyperplasia? Yes. Well, that's never really, if you're asking me, is there any evidence, empirical evidence? No. We can speculate, I mean, the way that you would do that, conceivable way would be to take special supplements. But through traditional training calls, I would doubt it again, if the model shows that the reason that you get hyperplasia is because muscles are growing so extensively that they become non-functional, if you can find a strategy that can make muscles grow that much, I wouldn't know about. Sure. What do we know about the stimuli for actual hypertrophy? Like what tends to initiate the hypertrophy response? So there's multiple hypothetical mechanisms, but I think it's very clear now that the primary mechanism for muscle growth is mechanical tension, mechanical stress. Now, it's important to remember that people generally think of mechanical tension as just heavy loads and trying to do them contractions, but lengthening. So there's first of all, there's obviously eccentric and concentric actions, which can have different tension effects, but importantly as well, there's active tension and there's passive tension. So your work is getting into the passive tension a lot. So when you're training, let's say in a lengthened partial, there can be significant passive tension depending on the muscle and how the exa is being implemented. Both forms of tension, there's some really interesting evidence, both acutely looking at enzymatic, so I don't know how deep you want to get into it, but mechanical tension is carried out to what is called mechanical transduction, where the mechanical forces are transferred into chemical signals. They're transduced and that's why it's called mechanical transduction. And these chemical signals go through an enzymatic cascade that ultimately leads to transcription, protein transcription, and then translation, and that is how muscles are developed. So the enzymatic cascade, this transduction of mechanical forces can be carried out both through, there's evidence of this where the signaling cascade is equally produced through both passive and active forces. So it leads to the at least speculation that there can be synergistic effects and which is by the way been somewhat shown in the literature when you look at the with the marshals and other similar types of studies that have looked at where passive tension has been combined with mechanical tension. So bottom line is that that is the primary mechanism now. There are, hypothetically still can be others. I know there are some influencers in the field who are very dogmatic that this is clear and there's no way you can ever say that as someone who's a student of the literature. We don't have good evidence. It's very difficult for us to study mechanisms to try and tease out what's happening between one mechanism and another because when you alter one mechanism, invariably you tend to alter other mechanisms. But metabolic stress has been hypothesized to be a potential mechanism. I think the evidence is very mixed on that. If you're asking my opinion, I think on the spectrum of strong to weak or weak to strong, I'd say it's weak, but we certainly cannot rule it out. And by the way, there are, so we've only have some evidence like lactate's been studied and we have some evidence that we wrote all review paper on this. Some evidence shows it may be a stimuli. Other evidence shows it might not be a stimuli. And there's limitations to the evidence that we have and how they're carried out. So like one study injected lactate into the blood of humans. Well, generally speaking, we're looking at lactate that's localized to muscle tissue, not that's in the blood. And is that really the same or are you getting a similar effect? Can you really extrapolate that evidence? But muscle damage is another topic. We have quite good at it. It's pretty compelling evidence that muscle damage does upregulate satellite cells and satellite cell activity. And there is very compelling evidence that satellite cells are heavily involved in the hypertrophic response to training. Now that doesn't mean that there's a synergistic effect though. So there could be. We don't know. But does the satellite cell activation that's upregulated through muscle damage complement that the satellite cells that are upregulated through traditional training? Because it's certainly both contraction and muscle damage both have effects on satellite cells. These are things that just are not well documented. And look, there are things like the pulp. Does the pulp cause muscle growth and have a mechanistic effect? Well, we do know in vitro when you hydrate a cell, there is profound increases in muscle protein synthesis and a decrease in protein breakdown, which is basically a hypertrophy homerun. You Brits don't know about baseball, but the audience probably knows. Now, does that necessarily translate into what the pump does? So again, you can't necessarily extrapolate these things. So my point here, hopefully I'm making the case that there's just a lot of uncertainty as to other potential mechanisms. I think there's pretty good evidence that there are other things can cause an adiabolicous. Plus, I think the more compelling question is, is it synergistic with the mechanical tension? And that to me is where it gets much more hazy and I don't have good confidence, but I certainly also don't dismiss the possibility. And like I said, I think anyone who does is either doesn't know or just wants to make an inference on social media. Traditionally, it was common to hear that the muscles are being torn and then rebuilt again. How is our understanding of that changed over time? Well, there is remodeling, but I don't necessarily think they're rebuilt to a higher extent. So yeah, you have to rebuild. Muscle has to be rebuilt. I think the theory was more to the extent that to get and this was taught to me when I was younger. That to strengthen that basically when you break down the muscle, the body wants to then repair it to a greater extent than before it was broken down. That's not been documented, certainly in the literature. It's a hypothesis that needs to be tested and I would be skeptical. But here's something I'd say. I think there is no question that if you get too much damage, if muscle damage is a positive influencer, it would be at moderate, modest to moderate levels because if you have a lot of muscle damage, if you're walking out of the gym, you can't walk or certainly if you can't walk the next day, even more importantly, because generally it's not going to manifest that quickly where it happens right after the workout. But let's say the next day you're walking around like Frankenstein, you're not going to be able to train. And if you're not training, you're not getting. So I think the important thing to remember if there is a benefit to muscle damage, people that take the muscle damage concept and say, yeah, I got a training for damage, I'm going to really trash my body. And yeah, and then they're not able to train for the next week or whatever. It's kind of counterproductive. So one common thing people use in training is soreness. I think sometimes the assumption is made that delayed onset muscle soreness or DOMS tightly relates to muscle damage. What do you see the link between the two as being? Do you think we can truly use soreness as a predictor of muscle damage? How would you even use soreness in your own training? So it is generally a marker of muscle damage. So it is correlated, but it's not a perfect correlation. There's some evidence that soreness has more to do with the extracellular matrix. And by the way, this is, again, I don't know how deep you want to get here, but the extracellular matrix also, the damage does not necessarily have to be just to the sarcogeumas themselves. You could get damage to the even sarcolema as well as the extracellular matrix, which sits above the sarcolema, basically the salmembrane. There is really good evidence, and it's emerging, that the extracellular matrix is very involved in the process. And there's some speculation that damage to the extracellular matrix may cause the extracellular matrix to communicate more with the cells themselves. These are all things that, again, we're just in the preliminary stages of understanding. And I think five, ten years from now, we might have greater clarity right now. We can just say that it's very equivocal as to whether there is benefits. And to your point about soreness, while it is a general gauge, I think it would get, if you have too much soreness, that's going to generally impede you from carrying out good work out, and that would be a negative. Can you use it? It generally does indicate a novel response. So I think on a very general level that some soreness is potentially a positive, but I don't think that if you don't experience soreness, it's necessarily a negative, because, I mean, it's very clear you can be gaining and not being sore. Is there any good evidence for any sort of marker to indicate that somebody has had an effective hypertrophy workout? Is there anything that we can look at and be like, yep, that's a check? I mean, on a general level, if you are increasing a performance marker, either the number of reps or the amount of weight, I think that can serve as a good general indicator that your workout was productive, because you're inducing a progressive overload over time, but that's not going to hide every work out. You're not going to be improving, so again, if you're asking is there a per workout marker, no, not that I could think of. Really, the markers are going to be more general over time. Early, you made the distinction between sort of a plasma hypertrophy and myofibrillar hypertrophy. Could you briefly define the difference and how that might impact how we should train? Do we have one training type that has been more consistently shown to cause more of one than the other or what have you? So this is another topic of great controversy. Just briefly, sarcoplasmic high-perch B is an increase in the sarcoplasmic fraction. So it's the area surrounding the contractile elements. And briefly, the myofibrillar component is when you're increasing the contractile element size. Generally speaking, there's going to be a three to one ratio of sarcoplasm or sarcoplasmic volume. So fluid surrounding the proteins in the muscle. But proteins do not necessarily just have to be the contractile elements. There's other proteins, including enzymes and other proteins, T-tubules. And the theory is that there is a sarcoplasmic high-perch B is that there's going to be a disproportionate increase in the non-contractile elements. So you would get conceivably like T-tubule growth, other enzymatic growth, etc., other proteins within the fibers that would attract more fluid. Because again, the muscle wants to maintain that ratio. And thus you would get non-functional high-perch B because you would be getting greater fluid. You would be getting greater muscle size without getting more sarcomere additions that are going to be involved in strength and functional capacity. The question is, A number one does it occur? And that is still somewhat equivocal, but there is some evidence that does. And the next question is, how might you train for that? Well, there is some evidence that higher rep, so higher repititional volume may be involved in that process. So I'm working on my colleague Cody Hoan, give Cody a shout out. The lab of Dr. Mike Roberts, terrific lab, did show a study where that did indeed occur. But again, it was one study and they showed that basically they did a heavy load versus a lighter load study and did show that basically the contractile, both of them produced, I want to emphasize, it wasn't like you just got sarcomlasmic high-perch B. The higher repetition group did also see my fibro lap-perch B. But they also got the sarcomlasmic high-perch B where if you're a bodybuilder, that could be quite important. On the other hand, if you were like a wrestler or someone who was to make weight or power left, or you need to make weight for a competition, that would actually be a negative because it's conceivably not contributing much to your strength and would be giving you extra weight. Now, again, an isolated study, I think that needs a lot more replication before we can have a compelling evidence that that would be considered compelling evidence that it does occur. So another distinction that's often made is between type 1 fibro growth and type 2 fibro growth or slower twitch fibres and faster twitch fibres. What does the evidence say about fibre type specific hypertrophy and the mechanisms or the types of training that might stimulate one versus the other? To me, this is one of the more interesting topics. I've had interest in this for pretty much since I started training because if it's possible, if you can actually target type 1 fibres with one type of training and target type 2 fibres with a different type of training, then you can have greater... it would be synergistic and you get greater home muscle hypertrophy. So training throughout a spectrum of rep ranges can give you very similar home muscle growth. And this is really compelling evidence on this, that anywhere between five reps up to 30 plus reps can give you very similar home muscle growth. The question is now that there would be a logical basis by which your type 1 fibres are more endurance oriented. So conceivably, if you do light load training where you're keeping the fibres under load for longer periods, that would stress the type 1 fibres to a greater extent. And doing heavy load training, maybe you need to reach a certain threshold. You can see the way that may target your type 2 fibres to a greater extent. Now, I will say this, you will... certainly you don't just get type 1. It's not like light loads just give you type 1 and heavy loads just give you type 2. Very good evidence that you get type 1 and type 2, but I'd percheve throughout both. There is some evidence with light load and heavy load training that there are differential effects on fibrohypertrophy where that does indeed occur. There's several other studies that refute that. So a very equivocal results that I think is weak. There is some evidence in blood flow restriction training in particular, which shows preferential type 1 hypertrophy. And that is somewhat more strong than the light load training without blood flow restriction. So could that be due to certain ischemic effects? We don't know. Or perhaps pulling a blood to a greater extent, not clear. But there's also evidence. So there's more, I think, evidence of blood flow restriction, but that's not compelling either. But we have... I would say that we don't have evidence that I would consider strong. If anything, it's weak to moderate. So what I would say is that even though we don't have evidence to that effect, or strong evidence to that effect, I think there's enough evidence to say that it's not going to hurt you to do both. If your goal is maximal hypertrophy. So to have some light load training and some heavy load training involved. So let's say 5 to 10 reps on one end and maybe 15 to 25 reps on the other end. So you're training throughout that spectral load and range. Could that be synergistic? It's possible. Awesome. Sure. You mentioned ischemia and earlier also metabolic stress. Where does muscular hypoxia come into play? Is there any evidence on that and how it relates to hypertrophy? So, interesting. There's so much... such equivocal findings in these studies. There was a study some years ago that they casted the legs of humans. And they just did blood flow restriction. So without any type of contraction. And what they found was that the... so they did blood flow restriction on one leg and the other leg just was a control. And what they found was that the cuffed leg, 5 minutes a day, showed less atrophy in the extensors. And in the flexors actually showed slight... not much, but slight... I had hypertrophy. Whereas there was more atrophy, basically the control leg showed atrophy and more so than the control. However, so that was really interesting. But a few months ago, a study came out that replicated the protocol to some extent and showed nothing. So, again, very questionable. Trying again, as I mentioned, to tie these mechanisms comes very difficult. And I think we just were really to me at the preliminary stage of understanding factors other than mechanical tension. And how they may be involved and if so, to what extent? In terms... so I want to take a step back and ask about contraction types or muscle actions more specifically. How much do we really know about the inclusion of both an eccentric and concentric muscle action versus an isometric action as far as muscle hypertrophy goes? So I'll tackle the isometrics first because that's a very difficult topic to study. Because how do you equate volume with an isometrics? And it also, by the way, is more difficult to achieve. How are you reaching fatigue or equating the level of effort that's involved? But most importantly, how are you equating volume of an isometric whole? So where you can do that more, you talk of repetitions. You can equate repetition volume. So I'd leave that to the side for now. Now, certainly, we know that isometrics can promote hypertrophy, whether they are effective as eccentric and concentric is still very much uncharted territory. When it comes to eccentric and concentric, there is evidence that the enzymatic cascade, so the interest of the signaling, is different between eccentric and concentric, which will lead you to speculate that combining them may add synergistic effects. There also is some evidence that, shout out to Marty Franke, a colleague of mine, who's done some of the work in this area, that there may be differential effects longitudinally, regional hypertrophy in the muscle, whereby you get more distal hypertrophy in eccentrics and some more middle hypertrophy. You know, this was just in the vastus lateralis, like we're in other muscles, if that factors in. But again, not just a lot of evidence. So I think, at least in my opinion at this point, it's a matter of using both, as most people do, they train throughout a concentric-e eccentric combined fashion. Might there be a benefit to including some specialized eccentric overload training? I think there is. So there is some evidence particularly. Flywheel training seems to show benefits. Hypertrophic benefits may potentially additive, so that that could be a strategy to overload the muscle and achieve hypertrophy. But again, I wish I had more concrete evidence to present to you and opinions. But again, it's so important to recognize, and I just want to reiterate that evidence exists only continuum. And when we look at the literature, not many topics, applied topics, that I can confidently say we have very compelling evidence. I think one thing that I think we just as dispensational is the repetitions that over a wide spectrum of loader ranges, contrary to the way we used to think we needed heavy loads to maximize hypertrophy, the evidence in my opinion is very compelling. That you can achieve very similar home muscle growth over a very wide spectrum, but many of the other topics, particularly mechanisms just because of the difficulty in studying them, we just don't have great evidence. To tie all this up, we've discussed the mechanisms, whether or not we have strong evidence for them playing a role or not. How does all this apply to training? Like, do your training recommendations change as a result? What are your training recommendations in mind of all of this research? Yeah, so conceivably, yes. The more we know about the mechanisms, the more we can target what works and what doesn't. To the point that I mentioned earlier, I think one of the things that certainly the implication from mechanical tension implies is that including passive tension exercises that have a passive element to it would be very important. Actually, you've had some very important research recently that does show that. So for instance, leaning back when you're doing a leg extension, so instead of sitting at a 90-degree angle, going down like a 40-degree angle, could it be that even a greater angle may prove it more possible, but basically you get more passive tension in the rec fem, and that has been shown to lead to greater growth. It's been shown from a hamstring standpoint that you want to do seated hamstring curls rather than lying hamstring curls. Again, if you're looking to maximize, get every ounce of muscle that you can out of the exercise, and why not if you have the opportunity? Even maybe leaning somewhat forward in the seated leg curl, where you get even more passive tension involved. So these are where the more we can understand the mechanisms, the more they can help us. I do think that based on the lack of non-evidence, if you want to go down that route like metabolic stress, I think getting the pump can be, it's not going to hurt, and conceivably there may be a benefit. So why not focus at least a portion of your training, maybe a small portion, on some pump training can be effective. Having some eccentric overload, I mentioned earlier, could that be because you get some greater muscle damage? Again, you don't want to get too much muscle damage, that is a negative, but maybe the application of some eccentric overload, and I would also say that novelty is something that brings about some degree of muscle damage, that changing around, I'm a proponent of keeping a general, keeping your more complex exercises in a general rotation, but then using your single joint exercises less complex movements to rotate. I could do a leg extension today and do it again in six months and do a perfect leg extension. If I do a squat today and don't do another squat for six months, I'm going to do a pretty shitty squat. So these are things that novelty might bring about some mild to moderate soreness, which would be somewhat indicative of some actual muscle damage. Again, I don't think it's going to hurt, could that, in his satellite cell response, are there other factors involved in the muscle damage response that may be effective as a hypertrophic stimuli? That's additive, we don't know, but if it's not, everything in training certainly is cost benefit, in my opinion. So if your cost is minimal and your benefit is potential, why not implement it? Just on the back of that.  people, especially those who train recreationally and those who like diving into the science behind hypertrophy and behind lifting, often, at least in my opinion, fall in a trap where they focus too much on understanding the mechanism behind certain adaptation versus focusing more on the outcomes that we observe in the research. Do you, what's your opinion on this? So, it's really a separate, so here's what I'd say. I think the mechanisms give us good insight into what we can study. But yeah, if you're the average person, you just want to look at the research on variables, trying to get into the mechanism, figuring it out yourself. Now, we haven't studied everything, so I think as long as you understand the research on the variables, then you could say, you know what, I think it's lacking if you have the ability to do that. Now, unfortunately, most people that are not scientists lack the ability to really understand, to appreciate these things to the extent that you need to. But if you can, I think you can then say, hey, look, we have this research on repetitions, on loading. But hey, maybe based on what we know, that there could be, we see different atrocellular pathways that are upregulated, maybe we're going to do this I think that's where you could potentially use that. But yeah, to your point, I think going based on the variables that we have, the research on the variables that we have would be your first line of defense. Thank you so much. This was both insightful for, I assume, the viewers, but also for the two of us. Shout out to my two colleagues and visiting scholars at the Applied Wossel du Domit Lab. Total respect. Thank you. Lots of cool stuff coming from our lab here in New York City. Anything you want to let the viewers know before we say goodbye? Loss of power. That's it. Don't forget to like, subscribe, and we'll see you next time. Peace.