! And we have another great episode for you guys today. We're going to be talking about bulking. And before we do, I just want to ask you guys, how did you guys have fun, the last couple episodes while I was away? I think it feels camouflaged as stronger by science. But in all seriousness, no, we had a lot of fun. The episodes turned out well. No offense to you, not because of your absence, but rather because of the chemistry between the two of us. But overall, they seem to be well received. And yeah, it was a blast. Glad to hear it. Glad to hear it. Yeah, I checked the YouTube comments, checked the podcast email, and seems like very, very positive reception. So I'm glad that went well, but not at all surprised because you guys are great. So yeah, let's go ahead and hop into the episode. But before we do, just have some quick plugs here at the top. If you're enjoying the show, please like, rate, subscribe, and tell your friends. It really helps us out. If you're interested in hiring an online coach to help you with your training and or nutrition goals, Stronger by Science has an excellent team of coaches that can help you out. You can learn more at strongerbyscience.com. If you want to get some supplements and you don't want to deal with all of those opaque proprietary blends, you want to actually know what you're getting, get it at a good price, and in fact, get it at an even better price. You can go over to balksupplements.com and use code SBSPOD at checkout for a 5% discount. If you want to stay up to date with all of the goings on in the Stronger by Science extended universe, join our Facebook group and or subreddit that is reddit.com slash r slash Stronger by Science or Stronger by Science community on Facebook. Check out our newsletter where we send you high quality informative content every couple of weeks, not just spamming you with a bunch of ads and bullshit you don't care about. The most recent newsletter on supersets I thought was really good, also very well received. So yeah, if you want all of the exclusive heat, head over to StrongerbyScience.com slash newsletter. And if you have questions for the podcast, you can email them to podcast at StrongerbyScience.com and to increase the probability that we address your question versus others. We will address text based questions sometimes, but we prefer audio clips because this is a podcast, it's an audio medium. So record a voice note on your phone, try to keep it under a minute and email it to podcast at StrongerbyScience.com. And if we like it and we're doing an episode on a relevant topic or just a Q&A episode, we will try to answer your question. Alright, so let's get into it. We're talking about bulking. Take us away. For sure. I think it's, before we start, I think it's fair, not fair, it's wise to very, very, very quickly share our personal experiences with bulking. Just so we tell the audience, look, we've done this. We've gained a lot of body weight in the past in an attempt to maximize muscle growth. We are certified bulkers here. I'll go first and say, hey, the best bulk, not the best, but the most aggressive bulk I did was the first year of college where I think I gained about like 40 pounds in three, three to four months. Because back then we thought that, hey, you got to get big. You got to eat big to get big. So that's my bulking experience. So I've done, I've done, I would say, two pretty big bulks. One intentional, both of them were intentional, one more well-advised than the other, I would say. So I initially competed in the 181 weight class, 82.5 kilos for non-Americans listening. So I was, I was a fairly little guy. And I was interested in competing in the first Raw Unity Meet, which I don't think they're still going anymore. But when Raw Lifting was first starting to come into its own, I realized I'm very much dating myself with this because it is the biggest game in town now and has been for quite a while. But this was, I believe 2007. Raw Lifting was just starting to become a bit of a movement and there were no like big Raw Federations. There was just like a kind of second tier Raw Division in most Federations. And so there was the idea of like, hey, let's have a Raw Unity Meet where the best Raw Lifters from all of these different Federations can come together for a big meet. It'll be cool. And it was. But yeah, so I was like, I had been a 181 and I kind of saw who was signing up in all of the weight classes, like to try to get in and like what the qualifying totals were. And I saw that the 181s were absolutely stacked and I saw that the 198s were absolutely stacked and I saw that there weren't that many people registering for the 220s or again, 100 kilos for non-Americans listening to this. And I thought I could hit the qualifying total. So I said, fuck it, I'm going to go for it. So I had been walking around at like 183 and just doing a small cut to 181. And I balked from 183 to like 206 in like three months. And honestly, that went spectacularly well. Like I was 16, 17 at the time. So I already had a couple years of pretty serious training under my belt. But, you know, I still had youth on my side and plenty of potential still in the tank. So yeah, yeah, that went really well. And I do not regret that one. The second big bulk I went on, I had been competing in the 100 kilo class for a while. Like that was a weight that I was quite comfortable with. But the gym that I was training and coaching at, we were going to the IPA North Carolina state championships and taking a team. And we wanted to fill out as many weight classes as possible. Just to like, there was there was a 0% chance we weren't going to win like the team competition for the meat. But we just kind of wanted to just wanted to be dicks and run up the score. So we were like, yeah, let's let's try to fill out every weight class we can and and have people podium in as many weight classes as possible. And me and the gym owner were both 220s. And so, you know, you give the nod to seniority. So I bumped up to 242 for that meat. And like at that time I was walking around at like 223, 224. So I could have just not done anything and just been a really light 242 and it would have been fine. But, you know, you got weight classes and you tend to be able to gain more strength if you're in an energy surplus. And so I said, fuck it, if I'm a 242, I'm a 242. So I, I bulked from, yeah, like 223 to like, to I didn't have to cut for that meat. I think I think I came in at like 238 without like cutting or water manipulating or anything. But I, I put on like a solid 15 pounds in the span of like two months leading up to the meat because it was kind of like touch and go whether whether the gym owner was going to compete or not. So once, once I got the nod that like, yes, I am a 242. Yeah, I put on like 15 pounds in two months. And I do think it helped me perform a little bit better on the platform. But also that was around the time I was finishing up college and my lifestyle changed quite a bit. Wasn't nearly as active anymore. And it ended up being a big pain in the ass to try to lose some of that weight and get back down. So, yeah, I think it was net productive for that one meat. But I, in hindsight, probably shouldn't have done that. What about you, Dr. Wolf? My bulking stories are far less heroic than the good Mr. Knuckles' or even yours pack. I never did that silly of a bulk. Like I, the craziest I got was bulking from around 200 pounds to like 250 over the course of like a year, which like 50 pounds of weight gained. That's a lot. That's about a pound a week. So that's around 2% of bulking weight per month, which is on the upper end of things, as we'll discuss. But certainly no two month, 40 pound gain bulks like the good Dr. Pack described earlier. But yeah, in general, over my lifting career, I have gained around, I don't know, maybe 120 pounds from lowest to highest. So a sizable amount of weight. I will say actually, more recently, during my one month spent in New York City for a study back in the fall, I did gain around, I didn't weigh myself once because I was too lazy to bring a scale. And then a month, I think I gained around 12 pounds or something. America's baby, hell yeah. I was eating AdLibitim and I was being cheap, you know, so. That's what freedom does to you. Yeah, that's true. The food was just so good. America is so advanced that the food was so good that I couldn't help but over it. So, you know, I think I don't think anyone is is talking about goldfish theory enough in reference to the obesity crisis. Like, you know, people people try to talk about all of these things why Americans are fatter than Europeans. Is it that we eat more? Maybe who knows? Is it that we don't have as much walkable infrastructure and are less active? Ah, who knows? Seems like a stretch, wild idea. But if you take a goldfish and put it in a little bowl, it doesn't get very big. But if you put it in a bigger bowl, it gets much bigger. And if you've ever driven through the Great Plains, we have a lot of space in America. And I wonder if human biology is like goldfish biology and we're just trying to expand to fill all of that empty space. Who knows? For anyone who can't pick up on sarcasm, that is not at all serious. I don't think human physiology and goldfish physiology are the same. I do think the amount we eat and the amount we don't move are much larger contributors, but who knows? Inquiring minds should look into it. On that note, just to counter Dr. Wolff's bulk shaming, we have the first study that we're going to be looking at today by Rosanek et al. from 2002. What a segue. Putting Dr. Wolff's approach to shame and I'm about to tell you why. Because these people took 19 untrained individuals that were either assigned to a control group where they maintained a regular diet or a high calorie supplement group where they essentially consumed an additional 2,000 calories per day through a high calorie supplement that if I'm not mistaken was mostly carbs. Now, they also followed an eight week resistance training program and they measured body composition using hydrostatic weighing and assessed strength via a plethora of one RM tests. I said plethora specifically for Milo because she loves when I use that word, but they essentially tested strength on the bench and squat. Now, in contrast to Dr. Wolff's very conservative approach, the group that was consuming an extra 2,000 calories a day and was likely on a very heavy surplus, gained fat free mass and body weight obviously, but they did not gain any additional fat mass. So they essentially made the straight up gains from the YOLO bulk that they went on, whereas the control group simultaneously gained fat free mass and lost a bit of fat mass. Now, who's laughing now Milo? You took it easy while Greg and I ate in insane surpluses and the literature is here to support it. But in all seriousness, how is this possible? We see that these individuals consumed a very heavy surplus and while resistance training essentially managed to allocate those calories mostly to muscle building. The caveat here is that they were untrained individuals that were very sensitive to muscle growth and to the stimulus presented by resistance training. And in that case, it is actually possible to take advantage of greater surpluses and actually make gains because even the control group made gains. So they gained muscle and lost fat simultaneously. But I'm curious to hear what Mr. Greg Knuckles has to say about this study because I am sure you have some at least one fun fact that I've missed out on. Not really. I did just want to fact check one thing. There were two supplement groups. One just, it was just carbs and the other was carbs and protein. And that difference didn't really seem to matter. Both of the supplement groups, it was an extra 2000 calories per day and both of them just gained mostly muscle, very little fat, very good results. The one thing that I would add about this study, I think, is that the just in terms of like terminology is the intention of the researchers was to put them in a very large surplus. They told them to maintain their current dietary habits and consume this 2000 calorie supplement. But if anyone listening to this has experience with weight gainers, like weight gainer shakes, I'm sure you know this firsthand. They really fuck your appetite for the rest of the day. Like if you have a, I used to drink a mass gainer shake that was like 900 calories per serving and I didn't want to eat much the rest of the day. I still did because you got a sacrifice to win, etc., etc. But yeah, 2000 calorie shake, that's a lot. And when you actually look at the weight changes in the study, if memory serves, the two supplement groups gained like two, two and a half kilos of fat free mass and basically no fat. And so the energy density of fat free mass is like 800 calories per pound, give or take, like 800, 850. So they ended up actually not being in that large of surpluses. So either the really high calorie supplement they took, they decreased other food intake to kind of offset that. You know, just having less appetite throughout the day or their energy expenditure increased a lot because they were training hard and started consuming more. But either way, they didn't actually, if you look at the results, they didn't actually end up being in a net 2000 calorie per day surplus. I strongly suspect even in untrained subjects, like an actual 2000 calorie per day surplus is going to be fucking wild. You're going to gain a lot of muscle. You're going to gain also a lot of fat in the process. So yeah, it still ended up being a pretty large surplus. But when I hear people talk about this study, they often say like, oh yeah, like a 2000 calorie per day surplus is good for untrained lifters. You can't take that away from the study. The researchers intended to put them in that large of a surplus, but dietary adherence and training studies is often considerably less than perfect. And when you look at the actual body comp results, it's pretty clear that the actual surplus they were in was still pretty large, but quite a bit smaller than that. Yeah, and I think that illustrates a trend with the bulking research wherein while researchers often aim to have participants gain a certain amount of weight to compare the effect of the different surpluses, oftentimes things end up being a lot more moderate than desired and the groups end up looking a lot more similar than desired as well. That's even the case for a study by Homes and colleagues we'll talk about later. But yeah, personally to me, these results aren't too surprising. Like if someone came to me and never lifted weights before and over eight weeks they gained three kilograms. I wouldn't be shocked to see that that was largely muscle mass and little to none fat mass. So yeah, good news for the beginners. You can make great gains and eat in a large surplus and probably not see any appreciable fat gain. Hooray, absolutely. So what if someone isn't a beginner? What if there may be an elite athlete on one of Norway's national teams? Well, I'm glad you asked that because there is a study by Garth et al from 2013 where they did take 39 elite athletes from various sports, rowing, kayaking, soccer, we call it football now in this podcast, volleyball and some others. And they were essentially randomized into two groups. One group that received nutritional counseling and was specifically given meal plans designed for them to gain roughly 0.7% of body weight per week. And the other group essentially was told to eat ad lividum. And they had an 8-12 week intervention that was aimed at weight gain. And both groups continued whatever they were doing for their sports. So they did their usual sports specific training, but they also included an additional four strength training sessions per week. If we look at the diet plans that were provided for the group that received counseling, they essentially were on a high protein diet where they ate roughly around 1.42 grams of protein per kilo body weight and about 5 to 7 grams per kilo body weight of carbs. And the rest essentially came for fat. And what they did is they assessed the body composition via DEXA. And after the intervention was done, the group that received counseling and was specifically provided with a plan that put them in a surplus, they increased their energy intake significantly. So they ended up consuming roughly around 3.5 thousand calories versus roughly 3,000 calories in the ad lividum group. And they also ended up consuming, obviously, as a consequence, more protein, carbs and fats. Surprisingly though, their body weight increased more than the group that was eating ad lividum, with their fat mass also increasing more than the group was eating ad lividum. However, when we look at the lean body mass increases in both groups, even though it increased in both groups, there were no significant differences between them. So the group that was eating, that was following the advice, the counseling, the group that was provided a meal plan gained roughly 1.7 percent as far as lean body mass goes, where the ad lividum group gaining around 1.2 percent. But we see that the Yolobolk approach in highly trained individuals may not actually met more muscle growth. And this was one of the first studies to hint at there. As far as strength goes, they did not really see any difference there as well. And the group that gained more body weight saw a decrease in 40-meter sprint performance with no changes observed in the ad lividum group. And people, I think, assume that the bulking research is much more solid than it really is. I assume that people think that there's studies and studies on different surpluses and different populations. But up until recently, we only had a few studies, including one of them being this one, to actually hang on to and decide whether a large surplus could also be beneficial for trained individuals. But this study hints at a potential no given the much greater fat gain in the group that was in a heavy surplus versus the other group. Yeah, yeah, no, I agree with that. And an important point you made there is we really don't have that much research on this for a couple reasons. One is any study with nutritional controls, like attempts at nutritional controls, is going to be tough. And yeah, so a lot of training studies, a common complaint you'll hear about them is like, oh, well, they didn't control the subjects diets. And that's much easier said than done. And even a lot of studies that say that they control subjects diets don't actually, like they give them dietary advice, ask people to track their nutrition, and then on the back end just look to see like, yeah, was it similar enough to actually control things? It generally needs to be impatient. And if it's not impatient, you still need to have people come into the lab multiple times per day to prepare and feed them food in the lab, which obviously makes studies dramatically more expensive. But oftentimes the closest thing that the closest you'll come to actual nutrition controls are studies like this where you're dealing with like elite level athletes where, you know, maybe they're living and training at a national training facility where they would have people on site to, in some cases, provide the meals in other cases, you know, like be able to provide food according to like some meal plan that would be easy for researchers to like monitor and track quite accurately. So, yeah, it's hard to have like actual controlled nutrition research. This is about as good as you can do oftentimes in free living situations. And because of that, there really isn't that much research on bulking. And until, God, what, like two or three years ago, maybe these were the two studies we had looking at different surpluses. You had one that was a supplement study in untrained subjects, and you had this one study on like really elite athletes and really nothing in between. And now we have like three more studies, but we're still dealing with a pretty small body of research. So that was that was something I wanted to call out. The other thing just worth noting, just kind of like piggybacking off something you said, Packer, I guess the tone with which you said something. You sounded like a little surprised that the nutrition counseling group ate way like quite a bit more than the ad libitum group, because I think, and maybe I just like misheard your tone of voice, but just going off of what like I interpreted by how you presented that. I think like a frame of reference a lot of people have in mind is that if people eat ad libitum, they just kind of naturally gravitate to an energy surplus, and it takes nutrition counseling to get people to eat less. But that very, very frequently is not the case in like an elite athletics context. Like, you know, I'm not talking like elite power lifters and bodybuilders here. I'm talking like real athletes, like people that might represent their country in the Olympics. That's like a decent heuristic, but you know, maybe not in the case of like dressage or something. But, you know, when I say like real sports, I think people know what I'm talking about things like soccer or volleyball or ice hockey or whatever. So in a sporting context when you're dealing with really high level athletes that are training two, three, four hours a day, very intensely lifting and oftentimes like a lot of cardio as well. It is often difficult to get people to eat enough to just maintain their body weight. Like if you talk to sports dietitians, they'll readily tell you that that's one of the biggest struggles they have with a lot of their athletes. Now, if it's like American football players, they might have like some lineman on the team or it's just like, yeah, this person is coming into camp like 40 pounds overweight. Like they tend to eat too much. But like with most positions, it's like, no, we need these guys to gain weight. We need these guys to eat enough to like maintain their weight, maintain their performance, hopefully try to build some muscle in the offseason. And that's fucking hard. So it wasn't surprising to me that kind of that normal assumption people have was flipped in the study where it did require the nutrition counseling group to get people in a pretty large surplus. And in the ad libitum group, the just kind of normal level of intake that people gravitated towards was was a bit lower. Yeah, that is my personal bias there. Leave me at my own devices and tell me to eat as I like. I'll see you in a couple of days at plus 50 pounds. Join a rugby team and see how that goes. Dude, uh, no, no, we don't have time for story time. But yeah, just just from working with like a like young American football players like high schoolers who are quite talented but needed to gain, you know, 1520 pounds to get to the size that they would need to be to be tantalizing enough to college scouts. It was a fucking struggle. Like, and that's also like slightly different because they were young. But yeah, it's, it's, um, it's hard. It's hard to get athletes and a lot of sports to eat enough because if you're muscular and young and exercising a lot. And I mean, there is in a lot of sports, there is a advantage to kind of be.  amlodipine, n-atrally-lean, just because in most sports, they'd have a speed or power component. Fat mass is additional mass you're moving around the field that isn't necessarily aiding in performance. So it tends to be beneficial to be lean, but it's also not beneficial to be cutting all the time. So a lot of elite athletes are naturally lean people who have a higher than average ability to gain muscle. I don't think that's surprising for most people to hear, but they do tend to be... People that complain about being hard-gainers, it's kind of like that, but also when you do get the menacer+, they gain a lot of muscle, but they tend to naturally gravitate towards being leaner and smaller. I'm speaking with a broad brush there, but I think that general phenotype is more overrepresented and high-level athletes than the general population. And yeah, with those folks, if you can get them in a surplus, good things happen, but it's hard to get them in a surplus because they tend to not have that big of appetites. Yeah. A couple of my takeaways from the study. I mean, in general, I think when you're interpreting this body of research on bulking, it's instructive to look more at rates of weight gain over the course of the study and the purported surplus. And that's where I want to give a shout-out to MacroFactor, because actually we've been using MacroFactor in a few of our studies to at least assess the dietary intake and habits of the participants to see whether or not at least the baseline and after the study, if there were any differences between groups that could have contributed to differences in hypertrophy observed or what have you, or at least serve as a way to account for dietary differences between groups. So there are ways to somewhat monitor that, and MacroFactor has been helpful in that. But I think in general, when you're looking at this body of research, it's helpful to look more so at the rates of body weight gained versus the surplus they are aiming for. So in this case, we're kind of comparing in the study, gaining around half a percent to one percent of body weight per month to about one to one and a half-ish percent of body weight per month. So a more very modest rate of weight gain to a more moderate to fast rate of weight gain. And from what I've seen on social media for this study by Gorth, there's kind of two interpretations. The first one is to say, well, the faster bulk group actually gained around one and a half times much lean body mass. They gained, I think around 1.8 pounds versus 1.2 pounds of lean body mass in the slower bulk group. And hey, and people who have been training for a while, 50 percent more growth sounds like a good deal to me. And yeah, they gained more fat mass, but cutting fat is way easier than gaining muscle in trained lifters. And therefore that extra 50 percent of muscle gained is meaningful, and we can just spend an extra few weeks cutting and that can add up over the long run. Therefore interpretation two of the study is, well, statistically speaking, they were pretty similar in terms of how much lean body mass they gained, but the slower bulk group, the ad lividum group, did gain like something like five or six times less fat. But in reality, the absolute difference was actually pretty small in how much fat they gained. So I think both interpretations of the study are slightly misleading. To me, this study, I know some people will claim this is like a big win for more modest rates of weight gain. I kind of think it's a wash because, yeah, lean body mass gains were slightly larger in the more aggressive bulk group, but I also think that lean body mass specifically can be swayed pretty easily by calorie intake and carbohydrate intake specifically. So when you're measuring lean body mass, glycogen weight and associated water weight can be swaying the measurements pretty easily, even after a couple of days, I would say. And two, I think the trade off in additional lean body mass gained versus additional fat mass gained in the long run here would largely wash each other out. If you gain weight faster, you might gain a little bit more muscle in this case, but you're also going to have to spend more time cutting. If you gain weight more slowly, you get a bit less muscle, but you also have to spend less time cutting. And so in the long run, I think within this range that we're observing within the study of comparing like half a percent to one percent of body weight gain per month versus like more like one to two, it seems like mostly a wash to me at least as a coach. But it's interesting to see on social media the different interpretations of this study specifically. Yeah, I agree. It is a bit of a Rorschach test. I do, I mean, when you're dealing with different levels of energy intake, whether that be like smaller versus larger surpluses, surplus versus maintenance, maintenance versus deficit, whatever. It is it is worth like keeping some things in mind when the proxy for hypertrophy you're looking at is lean body mass. Because like I suspect that some of the difference, maybe all of it honestly, but at least some of the difference is at least attributable to differences in food intake. Whether that be higher levels of glycogen and associated water content or simply just like food mass in the digestive tract, which scans as lean body mass on a dexa. So yeah, when when you're eating more, there's just more undigested stuff in your guts at all times. And yeah, that's that's something people don't talk about all that much. Like when when people shift from like a surplus to a deficit and they lose a lot of weight very quickly, you'll often hear people chalk all of that up to glycogen content like you're in a deficit now, your glycogen is lower, water weight goes with that. But also like the mass of stuff in your intestinal tract is is a non trivial factor there. In fact, oh, I'm blanking on the author's name, but the first water cutting study that was done back in maybe like 2017, 2018 or so, Read Real, I think was was the lead author on that one. The weight cutting approach they used was like for the first month or so, they just had everyone on a low residue diet, which was, you know, I think it was a small deficit as well. But basically just like taking as much fiber as you can out of the diet in order to have stuff that would like go through the intestinal tract faster. And like just just that reduced body weight by like, I think somewhere in the neighborhood of like 1% or so, which, you know, we're dealing with percentages, but in real terms for most people that's like pound and a half, two pounds, give or take. And so yeah, like when you're dealing with like different size surpluses, a bound of stuff in the gut could make a difference or it could not, you know, like I said, it is a bit of a rorschach test. But yeah, there are things to keep in mind when interpreting small, non-significant differences in lean body mass gained in a context of different size energy surpluses than just glycogen content. But I do, since the size of the surpluses were different, I would not claim that that fully makes the like 0.6% difference in lean mass gains completely illusory. But I do think that if that nominal difference would tend to overstate or understate the magnitude of the real difference, I think just the difference in surplus would tend to mean that it would, if anything, tend to overstate it. And the actual difference in gains in muscle were smaller than the like nominal differences in gains in lean mass. Yeah, I fully agree. And it's unfortunate that we don't have more studies that take direct measurements of muscle hypertrophy. Like oftentimes we end up looking at lean body mass, which as you mentioned, will directionally be favoring higher rates of weight gain, like glycogen and just higher food weight in general. But yeah, let's move on to cover some of the rest of literature on bulking. Speaking of direct measurements of muscle mass, the transition experts this time. We have a study by Helm Sedal. This was a recently published study that gained a lot of traction for the right reasons called effect of small and large energy surpluses on strength muscle and skin fold thickness in resistance-trained individuals, a parallel groups design. And what they did here is they took 21 trained individuals that we had a minimum of one year of resistance training experience and they randomized them to essentially one of three groups, either maintenance where they were supposed to maintain their weight and eat at maintenance and moderate surplus, so a 5% surplus and a high surplus where they were supposed to eat at 15% over maintenance. They followed a supervised resistance training program three days per week for eight weeks and they looked at strength for the squat and the bench, but also took muscle thickness measurements and skin fold assessments to look at changes in hypertrophy, but also to assess modified changes. The nice thing in the study that I appreciated as Greg mentioned, controlling, so running these sort of interventions and controlling nutrition can be quite challenging, but they actually did monitor the participants intake and adjusted it every week, much like you do with an online coach to an extent. And what we saw, so I'm not going to get into a ton of the details in regards to the training program, but they did a full body resistance training program with a bunch of exercises including the squat and the bench that was assessed and they looked at the biceps, triceps and quads in terms of assessing muscle thickness pre and post and measured skin fold thickness at eight sites. Now the interesting thing with this study if you look at the body weight data of the participants is that the group that was supposed to be in the 5% surplus ended up somewhat overeating and so essentially we have a comparison here of a group of eight, of a bunch of people that ate at 15% surplus making this a study where bulking versus maintaining was compared. Now the group that maintained saw similar gains in muscle thickness as the groups that were gaining weight with a slight exception for the biceps where there was a bit more gain for the group that was actually overeating. Overall this study painted a picture where being on maintenance calories may allow you to make similar muscle gains as being on a surplus as the group that did gain weight gained more fat as well and essentially changes in body mass were a very strong predictor of changes in skin fold thickness but they were not a strong predictor for change in muscles thickness or strength gains because the groups also made similar strength gains. Now I'm not sure how much we want to touch on the way the authors actually performed their analysis because it's pretty interesting. Greg do you want to touch on that at all? Wasn't it just regression? Yeah but the reason they changed their data analysis that's what I was hinting at. They're original because people ended up gravitating towards pretty similar rates of weight gain or at least like they didn't wind up being between group differences. Yeah exactly. Yeah I think some of that honestly was probably just down to sample size. I do suspect that if you had and that's not a criticism of the researchers but I do suspect if you had groups of like 100 subjects and you told 100 people to be at main ends, 100 people to be in a 5% surplus, 100 people to be in a 15% surplus. I do still think there would be heavy overlap in terms of the individual rates of weight change in those groups but I suspect you would wind up, I think you could have adequate dietary control for there to be like mean group differences in rates of weight gain but yeah with 7 people per group. Yeah you're going to need like maniacal levels of dietary adherence for there to be group differences there. But yeah it does just underlie the point that yeah it's tough to get people into the precise magnitude of surplus or deficit that you would like them to be in. Sometimes just because people aren't going to eat exactly as much as you tell them to and sometimes because it can be hard to calculate or estimate exactly the amount that they would need to eat to achieve the size surplus that you want them to be in. So when you're estimating energy requirements, ideally someone has been tracking for a while already like they've been tracking their nutrition, tracking their weight and you can just from there kind of like solve the energy balance equation to fairly accurately estimate their maintenance calories and then you know bump it up or down from there corresponding to the desired rate of weight change you want. Again a little plug, macro factor does that for you, it's very cool but you can also do that by hand and that is something that researchers do when that's available to them. But often times you just kind of have someone's basic demographic and anthropometric information plug it into like a TDE formula and you know a number pops out and then you bump that down you know X percent, up or down X percent to try to get to a particular rate of weight gain or weight loss and I think something that is underappreciated is just how much potential for error there is in those formulas. So like the way they work is you estimate your BMR and then you multiply that by some activity factor to estimate total daily energy expenditure and then you have a value that you are assuming is maintenance and you can bump it up or down from there to try to get into a surplus or deficit of a particular magnitude. I will note I don't remember like for sure that that's what they did in this study but I suspect they did something similar to that at least for the initial recommendations. But yeah, so something that I think is underappreciated is that like the typical error of BMR formulas is like around 200 calories per day and they have like or the standard deviation for error in BMR formulas is like 200 calories per day, give or take. So that means like just within two standard deviations of the mean you could be over underestimating BMR by like up to 400 calories and errors of like 200 calories are really, really common. And from there, assuming you select the right activity multiplier, which is another thing entirely because they're like kind of vague and not super well defined. Let's say you select the right activity multiplier for literally everyone to the extent that the BMR calculation was an over underestimate, you're magnifying that with the multiplier you add on top of it. So the like error of that initial TDE calculation will inherently have more error than the error in the initial BMR calculation. And so yeah, then if you want someone in a really small surplus like a 5% surplus from there, good luck. Because at that point you're dealing with a surplus of like, you know, maybe a couple hundred calories and your initial TDE estimate might be off by like, like 500 calories or something. So yeah, for one person, you take that number bump it up by 200, they're still in a deficit. For other people, you take that number bump it up by 200 and you're putting them in a pretty big surplus. And yeah, then with like ongoing monitoring, like monitoring what they're eating, monitoring their weight of weight change, you can kind of correct those errors over time. But just generating those initial numbers is like there is always going to be error. And I think considerably more than people expect. And so then when you're dealing with relatively small groups and a relatively short term study, I don't think it should be much of a surprise that a fair number of people aren't going to end up gaining weight at the rate you would like them to. Like even if dietary adherence is perfect, your recommendations just from the start are going to be much less than perfect for a hefty percentage of your subjects. Which if this was like a one year long training study, you could wash that out. Like you know, people are gaining or losing weight faster or slower than you want for like the first month or two, but then you're monitoring weight change and you're like, oh, we overestimated for these people underestimated for these we can adjust. But yeah, with small groups and a short term study, it's the most predictable thing in the world that you wouldn't wind up with rates of weight gain that actually differed by all that much. Yeah. And just to expand on those findings, I think this study ended up being essentially a comparison of maintenance to a modest or moderate surplus. Which I think those sort of comparisons end up being relatively frequent in the bulking data. But in this case, the one important thing to note is that even just being in maintenance that result in substantial hypertrophy and strength gains in a relatively well-trained population. And if you zoom out and look at the literature overall, as in a meta regression by Murphy and colleagues, if I recall correctly, you do see that people can gain muscle even with whether they're trained or not, that you can recomp. You can gain muscle and lose fat at the same time. And this is one of those studies that was actually conducted in a relatively well-trained population and that still found appreciable gains in muscle size and in strength at maintenance. Which I just thought was worth noting because that's maybe not so much in our evidence-based fitness niche, but just in general, still a clean up looks around is that recomping is really suboptimal or that you can't really gain much muscle while maintaining. I think that is a lot more of a dial than it is a yes or no. You can gain muscle maintenance. You can even gain muscle in a slight deficit. But it's essentially going to continue from less likely to gain muscle to more likely to gain muscle from a harsh deficit to being in a larger surplus. So yeah, just one interesting finding. I did think it was interesting that hypertrophy and strength gains were pretty similar between maintenance and the surplus here. But again, being in a surplus isn't going to hurt from what I can see in this study and previous studies. Interestingly, this wasn't the only study that used a regression approach if I'm mistaken. And I think the next study we'll cover is also looking at a regression approach to look at the effects of bulking on hypertrophy. Nice attempt and a transition there, Dr. Wolff. I wanted to also touch that an important asterisk for the Helms et al. study is that if I'm not mistaken, their data collection was affected by the pandemic that was ongoing at the moment, thus the somewhat smaller sample size than anticipated. And to plug the SBS YouTube channel, there is a video with the lead author himself touching on this study and the topic in general coming out soon. So make sure you subscribe. Yep, you got that right. It's an ad by us in the middle of the podcast. So if we look at some of the literature that has tried to essentially plot how muscle gain and weight gain go together, if we look at a paper that is usually focused on for when talking about energy deficit and how calorie deficits impact lean gains and strength, we see that overall eating in the deficit after a specific point and the authors have identified the point being at around a 500 calorie deficit. Past that point gains in muscle mass actually losses in muscle mass are observed. But when if we look more closely as Milo briefly mentioned, we see that the closer you are to maintenance and then the closer you are inside a surplus, the better that is for muscle growth. And that's something that previous analysis have also looked at. So there's a Bayesian regression by Smith et al. from 2021 called predicting adaptations to resistance training plus overfeeding using a Bayesian regression, a preliminary investigation essentially also supporting the idea that if you're gaining approximately 0.55% of your body weight per week, you are essentially gaining mostly fat free mass. However, we must be somewhat cautious when interpreting this data. The reason I think it's wise to mention it in the context of this episode is that as Milo said, although we do have some evidence showing that muscle gain is possible at maintenance calories, the overall state of the literature does support that a slight surplus is probably a good idea if you want to maximize gains, something that has been touched on with papers that have actually looked at why is an energy surplus required. And there's a classic paper by Slater et al. essentially looking directly at that question whether an energy surplus is required to build muscle, which concludes that I think roughly and Greg, correct me if I'm wrong, roughly around 300 to 300 calories over once maintenance, obviously with some limitations there as far as the absolute number is probably best in order to maximize muscle gain at least when trying to understand muscle gain mechanistically. Overall, because a lot of people took the Helm et al. study and ran with the idea that all you need to do for muscle gain and to maximize muscle gain is maintenance, the overall state of the literature does support that it's probably wise to be in a slight surplus if you actually want to maximize muscle gain. Yeah, so one take I will give regarding the Smith paper specifically is because they ran a regression analysis, especially with smaller sample sizes, regressions can be somewhat deceiving. I think if you're not somewhat in the know, in the sense that they can, I think, give people an unduly confident estimate of a relationship. So in this case, for example, if you look at their plot of how much body weight was gained versus how much of that body weight gain was fat free mass, you actually see that when you're gaining around 2% of body weight per month, which is a pretty aggressive weight of weight gain, all of that weight gain would be considered a fat free mass. And this was in resistance train meals. So I think for some people, this paper serves as a rationale to say, hey, we can gain weight superfast and we should just be getting muscle mass, baby. But in reality, I think one, the sample size here doesn't necessarily lend itself to an inference that sweeping. And two, just like we mentioned earlier about more aggressive weights of weight gain, typically favoring, you know, typically favoring an interpretation that is positive for dreamer walking or just very aggressive rates of weight gain due to potentially inflated readings of fat free mass gains, whether it's why food weight or carbohydrate weight or what have you. This study, I suspect, detected the same where I very much doubt that people gaining 2% of body weight per month in an advanced population can expect to gain only fat free mass. I think this study is overestimating that likelihood. Oh, yeah. I just think this study is certainly quote unquote biased as far as the results go towards favoring more aggressive rates of weight gain. Yeah, that's my hunch. I'm very open to being proven wrong. Greg, do you disagree with my anti-tumor book propaganda? No, yeah, I agree with what you're saying. Another thing that I wanted to just point out about the study is like one of the things that will jump out if someone clicks on the link and reads the abstract is the subjects were described as resistance-trained males. And that's a broad category, you know, people that have... So the recruitment characteristics for this study in the Helms paper, I think, were the same. It was people that had at least six months of continuous resistance training experience. You see that, you assume they're going to be pretty similar populations. But then when you look at the changes that occur in those studies other than the fat free mass outcomes, I think strength is a pretty good indicator of how well trained your study population actually is. And if memory serves in the Helms study, it was like 12 weeks and strength in most of the major lifts increased by like 8 to 11 percent, give or take, which, you know, if you're gaining strength even in the neighborhood of like 1 percent per week, I'd still say like you're a pretty intermediate-ish lifter. Like that's not a super advanced population. Like it was a pretty well-trained sample relative to the literature, but not like crazy advanced. Like if I could expect to put, you know, 30, 40, 50 percent on a lift in the span of a year, I'd be like, yeah, you got plenty of room to run there. But in the Smith study, it was a six-week study. And I think their main lift, if memory serves, like I hadn't read this paper in a bit, but if memory serves, their main strength test was a leg press, and people were putting like over 20 percent on their leg press in the span of six weeks. So people are gaining strength at like 3 percent per week. Eh, they have some training experience. Sure, like I don't think the researchers were relying about their recruitment criteria, but this was a not that much above untrained sample, I would say. Like if we're being charitable, we can say extremely early intermediate. So much like the Rosenek paper that we discussed.  in those populations. So I actually buy that the subjects in the Smith study were gaining on average basically all fat-free mass when they were bulking at a rate of 0.55% per week. I can buy that, but I also think that's primarily because this was a not very well-trained-at-all sample. And I say that based on the strength outcomes reported in the study. Pretty big gains in leg-press strength in a very short period of time. Yeah, and just to wrap up the discussion on the hypertrophy observed here, as I mentioned earlier, based on the regression analysis, they ran on how much of the increase in body weight was just fat-free mass. Around 2% of body weight gained per month, it was based on this analysis, all fat-free mass. So you can gain 2% of body weight per month and just gain muscle. Now one that does kind of fail the SNF test, where for me, for example, weighing around 220, that would mean that in the next 12 months, I could gain around 50 pounds and have that all be fat-free mass, which just looking at advanced bodybuilders, that's not really happening. So I do think training status here does play a role. But additionally, in this study specifically, they also looked at a couple of muscle thicknesses, elbow flexors specifically, and the extensors. So essentially, biocytes, brachialis, et cetera, and quads. And if you look at the elbow flexor muscle thickness changes as it co-varies with body mass gain or body weight gain, you see that actually with higher rates of body weight in this study, you see less of an improvement as you gain more weight. So that doesn't really track with how fat-free mass changed. So I would say if anything, I would be just a bit skeptical of the relationship between fat-free mass gained and body weight gained in this study, and I wouldn't take these results verbatim and apply them through your training and gain 2% of body weight every single month as an advanced trainee. I would earn much more on the side of caution and maybe gain around 1% of body weight per month or closer to that sort of figure. But yeah, I think this study, I do think you make a good point about extrapolation because if you apply this to a very different population, so advanced lifters, and if you extrapolate timescale, so if you say, hey, over the next, I'm gonna bulk for 10 months, what's it gonna look like? Yeah, I don't think the results would apply one to one. But given the population they used in this study and very crucially the fact that it was a six-week study, do I, does that pass the SNF test? For me it does, but I think even in this population, if they ran it out to four, five, six months, I think by the end of that, if you're gaining it 2% per month, the amount of fat you gain probably would have started trending up also just as this training status increases, you're putting 20% on your leg press in the first six weeks, I don't think that rate of progress is gonna keep up over the long term. But yeah, for people without a ton of training experience, going into an intensive training program and a relatively short-term, relatively large surplus, yeah, I think in that context, this makes sense to me, but once you extrapolate too far outside that context, you would wind up with some pretty erroneous assumptions. For sure, no, I agree. I think in general, given that we only have the rate of four somewhat direct studies on bulking, and a lot of them aren't on particularly trained populations, if anything, I would consider the populations pretty closely and make careful extrapolations from this data, specifically from this study. Yeah, I wouldn't advocate for gaining 2% of body weight as a resistance-trained male, quote unquote, just because I think if you've been training for more than a few years, that might be a pretty aggressive rate of weight gain. It might lead to the infamous dreamer-bulk situation. No, I agree. I think when I look at these studies, what I see is in the two studies where the people were either untrained or didn't have that much training experience, Smith and Rosenek, you do tend to see pretty good, pretty favorable results with quite fast rates of weight gain. And so I think like, yeah, if someone's relatively untrained or like, yeah, maybe you've been fucking around in the gym for a while, but you're about to start taking your training seriously for the first time. I do think it's quite plausible that for your first couple of months of training, if you really want to hammer it with big surpluses, you might gain a little fat, but I think a much larger percentage of the weight you gain will be fat-free mass than you might expect. Like that, in that period when you're primed for rapid growth and some energy into the system to facilitate rapid growth, good things happen. I will also note that in both that study and the Rosenek study, the in the Rosenek study, the control group and in the Smith study, the subjects gaining weight at a slower rate, but still gaining weight actually experience net recomp in an energy surplus or at least at net rates of weight gain, meaning the number on the scale was going up, but they were simultaneously gaining muscle and losing fat and gaining muscle faster than they were losing fat. So if you're a relatively new lifter and you don't want to hammer the big surpluses, good things still happen. You'll still gain quite a bit of muscle and probably lose some fat in the process. And I think to on net to gain predominantly fat during that very early training period, you'd probably need to go for a crazy cuckoo banana land surplus, but anywhere between maintenance and a pretty big surplus, good things happen. With more well-trained lifters, so in the Helm study and especially the Garth study, you tend to see the ratio of fat gain versus muscle gain to start tipping very hard in the direction of fat gain at much slower rates of weight gain. So I think in the Garth study, the nutrition counseling group was gaining weight at like 0.35% per week or something. There was like 0.17 in the ad libitum group. And so those are both relatively slow rates of weight gain and you saw fairly similar hypertrophy results in those two groups and like five times as much fat gain at like the 0.35-ish percent body weight per week gain. So it does appear that in more well-trained lifters, larger surpluses may offer a slight benefit for hypertrophy, even though I suspect that's the case, although it is relatively equivocal in the literature, like not super clear yet. Surpluses do seem to be better than maintenance, but I don't think you could make a super strong evidentiary case that large surpluses net more muscle growth than small surpluses in well-trained populations. But even if they do, the difference probably isn't that big, but you do start seeing rates of fat gain go up at considerably slower rates of weight gain and therefore smaller energy surpluses. So as training status increases, the magnitude of surpluses you should be in probably needs to go down as well. We're about to get to listener Q&A, but there is just one more thing that I wanted to touch on before we did. If you're interested in reading some stronger by science content that is tangentially related to this topic as well, two articles will be linked in the show notes. One of them is called Should You Bulk or Should You Cut Before You Bulk? How Body Fat Levels Affect Your P Ratio? And that ended up being like four parts and like a big back and forth with some other fitness folks about the topic. But basically as part of that article, we did a subject level meta-analysis of all of the studies we could find that reported baseline body fat percentage and changes in fat and fat-free mass with longitudinal training interventions. And what we found pretty unsurprisingly is that the probability of recombing increases as body fat percentage increases. So essentially like the lean folks tended to gain pretty similar amounts of fat and muscle in these studies and I'll note these studies weren't diet controlled. Whereas the people with more body fat tended to gain about as much muscle or about as much fat-free mass as the leaner folks while also losing fat in the process. So what was observed was a higher probability of recombing as body fat percentage went up. Perhaps suggesting that people with more body fat maybe don't need to be in as large of deficits to maximize hypertrophy. Or perhaps maximizing that ad libitum feeding conditions, they're more likely to lose fat and gain muscle in the process. But maybe they'd gain even more muscle if they also like increased energy intake. But essentially we've talked about the influence of training status on probability of recombing. But we have evidence that body fat levels influence that as well where you are more likely to recomb if your baseline body fat percentage is higher. Another thing that is related to this is we've mostly talked about we've mostly talked about hypertrophy outcomes to this point, but just to briefly touch on strength as well. I wrote an article a while back called does muscle growth increase your potential for strength gains that will be linked in the show notes. And the first part of that article is analyzing a paper that came out a while back. But the end of the article, if this interests you, I did an analysis of the open powerlifting dataset looking at strength changes based on differing rates of weight gain between consecutive meats in all of the lifters that were in there that had competed a sufficient number of times. And what you see is like a pretty compelling linear relationship where gaining weight tended to be predictive of increasing your total on the platform and gaining more weight was predictive of increasing your total more. And losing weight and losing more weight was predictive of your total decreasing. So that's also probably suggestive of muscle growth occurring in the process with more muscle growth occurring at greater rates and greater total amounts of weight gain and vice versa for weight loss. But one of the other interesting things is that even though total strength, like just your powerlifting total scaled with how much weight was gained or lost, IPF points and like Wilkes points or like measures of relative performance were unrelated to weight gain or loss between meats. And I wouldn't necessarily draw any causal inferences from that. It could just be that powerlifters aren't the best at predicting whether their bulkier cutting will make them more competitive. But yeah, yeah, so it does appear that yeah, bulking will help you put more pounds on the bar and that is probably reflective in this population of building more muscle as well. But it isn't always a one-way ticket towards your relative performance and competitiveness and strength sports increasing as well. You know, it can in some contexts and may not in others. So that article will also be linked in the show notes. And it is time for some viewer Q&A. All right, so Charlotte Lake on Facebook asks, how much does bulking optimize hypertrophy over and above maintenance? I'll cancel for this one. I think there are kind of two dominant narratives within the evidence-based fitness space. As we discussed throughout the episode, the three or four direct studies we have on this topic and just in general, any study where you have people lifting weights and not necessarily observing a change in body weight over the course of the study, do suggest at least in relatively untrained populations, you can definitely build muscle without gaining weight. Now, the direct research we have on bulking versus maintaining, for example, a study by Helms and colleagues, we mentioned earlier, by Smith and colleagues, and even on a broader level, the meta regression by Murphy and colleagues, do all suggest that being in a surplus will increase hypertrophy, at least to some extent, compared to being in maintenance. One of the narratives in the space right now is that being in a surplus might become more important as you grow more advanced, but essentially, you need to line up your docs slightly better, the more advanced you get to even see any appreciable hypertrophy anymore. So essentially, the details may not matter as much to a beginner gaining muscle, as it does to a more advanced training gaining muscle. I don't know that I can confidently back that claim right now. My suspicion is that a variety of training related factors, environment related factors, like for example, for training, volume and proximity to failure, and for environment, things like being in a surplus, consuming sufficient protein, et cetera, essentially just shift how much muscle you gain up or down, but not necessarily that an absence of a surplus will categorically make it impossible for more advanced training to gain muscle. I think the influence of a surplus versus being in maintenance or even a slight deficit on hypertrophy is appreciable. I don't think it's going to be nearly as important as training, for example, or at least, major differences in training. Like I think that, for example, let's say, doubling your volume from five sets a week to 10 sets a week might play a larger role for hypertrophy than the difference between being in maintenance versus a very slight surplus. But I do think it plays an appreciable role and that if you're aiming to maximize hypertrophy, you should be in a surplus. But I think you get diminishing returns on the surplus, such that even being in say, like a one to two on a calorie surplus will probably give you most of the benefit of being in a surplus as an advanced trainee and you don't necessarily need to do in bulk. So I think considering context and viewing a surplus as one of the variables, not necessarily the main one, but certainly something that can help is where I would kind of rank it. It's difficult to give hard and fast numbers besides saying that you can gain muscle without being in a surplus, but being in at least a bit of a surplus does tend to help. So that's the very lukewarm, wishy-washy, yet evidence-based answer I can give. Unfortunately, not much more I can say there. I have a weird hypothesis about this. And I'm just floating this for the first time here as a trial balloon and you guys can tell me if it sounds dumb or not. But I actually suspect that surplus versus deficit is not the defining characteristic. I think that whether or not you're preserving versus losing body fat is the more important characteristic. Like there are a lot of like biochemical regulatory factors that are influenced by fat loss where like your body doesn't wanna starve and when you go into a def, like when you lose body fat, which tends to occur with an energy deficit, but if you're also gaining lean mass pretty quickly, well, you would probably still be in a deficit, but like the number on the scale might be going up due to the differences in energy density between fat and lean mass, et cetera, et cetera, kind of like the control group in the Rosenex study, like they gained 1.4 kilos of lean mass, lost I think like 0.8 kilos of fat mass and due to the difference in energy density, they were probably still in a net deficit, even though on average they gained weight. But regardless, gains and losses in body fat do tend to be reflective of being in a deficit or not, but I think that like, I think that like looking at some of the refeeding research, like the ratio of like fat to muscle gain after people have lost quite a bit of fat, you tend to see like preferential fat regaining versus muscle growth in that scenario, and you tend to see like biochemical and hormonal changes when fat mass is lost that make it harder to build muscle. And so I kind of suspect that I think that that, I think that that like, I think losing body fat pumps the brakes on a lot of like factors that will influence hypertrophy, whereas a lot of those same things, if you are at kind of like normal body fat levels, like you're not currently in a fat reduced state, you don't tend to see those things like regulate in the opposite direction as people are gaining massive amounts of body fat or like gaining body fat pretty quickly. So I kind of suspect that if you are at least preserving fat mass, that is the biggest factor because you're not kind of like feeding into pathways that are going to like pump the brakes on muscle growth, but I don't know that being in a large enough surplus to gain fat mass would necessarily improve things further I think that practically you, I think practically it's mostly just kind of a better safe than sorry type of calculus where like, so like just to expand on that a bit more, like in the in the Rosenek and Smith papers, you saw like really fast rates of muscle growth or at least like fat free mass accretion without gains in body fat, but one thing that was lacking in those studies were like really, really big surpluses where people were actually gaining quite a lot of fat in the process to see if that would allow like even faster accretion of fat free mass. I am like a little bit skeptical about that. I don't know. I think like if you're eating enough to preserve fat mass, you might be doing enough. And it's like the preservation of fat mass that matters more maybe than strictly whether you're in a surplus or deficit per se, even though those two things tend to be related. But like I was saying, I think that oftentimes it just comes down to like better safe than sorry type logic where if you want to make sure you're at least preserving fat mass, you know, it's easier to gain fat mass than just like perfectly teeter along that tight rope of like, am I just preserving it or am I slightly decreasing it? You know, so I think that practically being in a purposeful surplus and purposefully gaining weight helps you make sure you're at least preserving fat mass. Yeah, I don't know. Did that make any sense? Let me know in a sense. The one question that would pose back to you is, do you think it's more on a on slash off switch basis or do you think it's definitely more of a sort of dimmer or dial situation where, you know, if you're mostly preserving fat mass, that's what matters versus like you're a hundred calories below maintenance, muscle growth is really being hampered now. I suspect it's like pseudo logarithmic. Where like the, so if deficits are, you know, on your x-axis going to the left and surpluses are on your x-axis going to the right and your y-axis is propensity for hypertrophy, I think that in quadrant one, negative on the x, positive on the y, I think that at small surpluses, that's when, or small deficits, that's when you're in the positive, but like relatively rapid changing slope portion of that logarithmic curve. I think as you're getting into larger deficits, I think that's kind of when you're in that strong, well, moving from left to right positive slope of the logarithmic curve, but as you move further left, accelerating rates of negative effect part of the logarithmic curve, where like larger and larger deficits lead to like worse and worse muscle growth outcomes in a pretty rapid, pretty rapid fashion. And then kind of the y-intercept where, you know, you're crossing the zero line of net fat stasis, I think that's where that logarithmic curve is like really starting to flatten out, where if you start to gaining fat, maybe there's some stuff that like works slightly better and helps you gain slightly more muscle, but you're already to the point of diminishing returns or like very rapidly approaching it at that point. Yeah, that makes sense to me. Do you think that somewhat conforms with the Murphy matter regression, or do you think that just something that hasn't been picked up on, because we're not looking at super large deficits typically? I think it conforms with the start of the Murphy matter regression, but I mean, it was only looking at deficits, you know, I think you would need to extend it to also add surpluses into the mix. Sure, makes sense. Yeah, cool, next question. All right, okay. Red Sui, I don't know how to pronounce that, but on Reddit asks, since January 2023, I've been running long box averaging around one kilo per month, sometimes a bit more, sometimes less, circa two to 300 calorie surplus. I still find I put on disproportionately more fat than I'd like to, however, I find it easy to lose the majority of the excess fat in a quick eight week cut. Would it be advisable to go on longer, but smaller surplus box, e.g. around 0.5 kilos per month, or the other way around, higher surplus, trying to put on more muscle, or trying to put on more absolute muscle, and then just cutting the fat away? My mind says the former, but the heart calls out to the latter. Now, what do you guys think? When it comes to, like, if we were to assume that losing fat is indeed that easy for that individual, and there is no situation where they wouldn't be able to lose fat efficiently in the future, I think that both approaches obviously can work, but from a practical standpoint, and that's something we've touched on in the podcast before, I'd recommend the more conservative approach where there's less fat gain alongside potential muscle gain, because sure, things do seem somewhat manageable now with his weight gain and then fat loss, but I don't think that it's worth gaining a bunch of excess fat, no matter how confident you are in losing that fat, because life can happen, there's other things that can impact your ability to lose fat effectively, and if you end up committing to an aggressive bulk and gain 25 pounds of excess fat, which you then have to lose, you're then having to spend time being in a deficit that is at the very best, not negatively impacting your muscle growth because that person seems to be a trained individual. So I know that your heart says the latter, mine does too, and on paper, I don't think you would gain less muscle mass even if you gained more fat, and in some cases you could be gaining tiny bit more, a bit faster, but overall, because muscle growth is a slow process and it requires you to be there consistently training over time, I would always, not always, but like most of the time, offer the more conservative approach and then have less body fat to cut afterwards. You can use this episode to sort of give you that reassurance that it's likely that you're maximizing gains, even if you're in a slight surplus. So yeah, I'm not a huge fan of gaining a bunch of fat with the thought being, oh, I'll just lose it later, because then in the end, you may end up in a situation where you've bulked for X amount of months and then you've needed to cut for Y amount of months where you could have in theory been bulking for much longer having been on a smaller surplus, which based on the current literature would probably have you gain more muscle mass simply because you'll be gaining for a longer period of time, because it's not like, oh, if you gain more aggressively, you'll just gain the muscle faster than if you gain more conservatively. If that was the case, then I could hear the argument that, okay, look, I'm gonna go on a yaw, the bulk now, I'm gonna gain as much weight as I can without impacting my health negatively. So I gain all that muscle quickly and then I'll just cut. But in this case, you're gonna be gaining at a similar rate and then having to cut and then do that again is just much messier than it could be. Yeah, I just, I largely agree with what Paak said. I think the degree to which you gain fat slash muscle in a bulk is unfortunately mostly mediated by factors out of your control. Like I think obviously if you train better, your propensity to gain muscle will improve. And if you manage your stress better, your propensity to gain muscle will improve. Same with your sleep and all that. But I think matching what is happening is better than trying to force a certain rate of weight gain and expect it to all be muscle. So as Paak said, I would probably or more so on the side of half a kilogram to a kilogram a month, see how you respond, and that should hopefully facilitate longer bulks and overall a more pleasant journey while still maximizing hypertrophy. I think going from like half a kilogram to a kilogram a month of weight gain to two or more, especially if you're already observing a lot of fat gain, probably isn't advisable. But yeah, that's my take, Greg, feel free to contradict me. Oh no, I agree wholeheartedly. I think essentially just the greater the percentage of time you can spend in neutral to positive energy balance, the better off you'll be.  and alfalfilipine. I think you even see that practically when you look at natural bodybuilders. I think that the idea that you need to constantly be bulking or cutting, I think it's poorly considered and examined where that comes from. It mostly comes from untested bodybuilders who have a competitive season and an offseason every year and they're doing some stuff that maybe makes it a little bit easier to gain muscle than it would be for everyone else. They're getting super lean and then they have six months or whatever to try to put on some more muscle and then strip all the fat off again and get ready for their next competitive season. Yeah, that's kind of what you got to do if you're competing every year and it's facilitated by chemical assistance. Most of the best natural bodybuilders will have a competitive season once every three to five years where when they cut, they get lean and they do two, three, four shows. Then when that competitive season is over, they get back to a comfortable level of body fat for them. Bulking hard, they're not gaining 100 pounds of body weight and their body weight significantly going up month over month for three to five years in a row. They're getting back to a comfortable body fat level and then staying effectively at maintenance or maybe in a very small surplus and just cruising there for years. Then when they think they've made enough improvement to their physique, they cut and do another competitive season. So yeah, I think that for whatever reason, a lot of people feel the need to either be bulking relatively fast. Even 0.5 kilos per month, that's relatively fast. If you're putting on, actually, what is that in pounds? Yeah, that's a pound a month. Actually that's not that fast. That's pretty chill. But it depends how big the cuts are. Honestly, I would say at the end of a cut, if you're at a lower body fat level than you feel comfortable at, I would say get back to a comfortable body fat level fairly quickly. Once you decide, hey, I've been lean, this was fun, now it's not fun anymore, I want to start building again. This is a recommendation I got from Eric Helms. The more I look into the literature on this, the more it makes sense. Don't binge and go crazy. If you're leaner than is comfortable for your physiology, get back to a comfortable level relatively quickly. From there, you're in a place where you can effectively build muscle again. If you're bulking pretty fast, you're just minimizing the time that you can spend in that state of neutral to positive energy balance before you'll feel the need to cut again. I think get to that comfortable level and then stay around maintenance or into a very small surplus. I think that if you're bulking fast enough that you're feeling the need to regularly cut every year or multiple times per year, that suggests to me that you're probably bulking too fast and you're not spending a long enough period of time in neutral to positive energy balance to really maximize your growth, especially if you're relatively well trained. Makes sense. The last monster cake asks, assuming A, protein intake remains evenly distributed and high enough across the week and B, weight is going up at the appropriate rate. To what extent will having a big surplus on the weekends and a big, i.e. more than recommended deficits during the week going to negatively impact a bulk? So I think this is a case where we can hypothesize, but I don't think we have any direct evidence to give you a concrete response and be like, yep, this is what's going to happen. In my opinion, unless there is a very strong rationale for going about it this way, I would recommend that you do have, at least on maintenance calories during the week where you're at and you're also training and then potentially eating a bit more on the weekend. I assume that listener is asking because that works for their schedule or because they like to eat out on the weekend or something along those lines. I don't think that being in a deficit during the week and a big surplus during the weekend would kill your gains. The YouTube video title would be for that sort of topic. I don't know, if you're committing to a bulk already and you want to maximize muscle gain, again, unless there is a really, really solid rationale for going about it this way, I would not risk potentially having a deficit negatively impact training sessions or even risk the potential of missing out on some gains if you're already committed to gaining weight. Obviously, doing that for a week here or a week there where you know that, oh, I have this big wedding or this big event coming up on the weekend and I'm going to be eating a lot and I don't want to gain excess fat, I think it's fine. I don't think you're going to be missing out on it in time, but as a default or as your main approach to your mass gaining phase, I wouldn't necessarily recommend it more from a better, safe, than sorry sort of perspective. I think that we have any direct evidence to really tell us that, oh, it would be catastrophic or it would not be catastrophic. Yeah, I agree with that wholeheartedly. Don't have a study, I can cite my vibes or that it's a bad idea. Vibe check, passed. Yeah, a minute if I pack said, I think it's more so about the average energy balance over the week than like any given day. Like I think if you fall into a deficit for one day out of the week on average, probably not going to be the end of the world as far as you gains go, but it would be preferable to be in a consistent energy surplus. Yeah. All right, last question here from ZacAttack1996. Mainments after a bulk versus going directly into a deficit. Is there any reason to do one over the other? Assuming adherence is there in both cases. So, I'll speak as a coach, not having any direct references to support some of this. I'm coming at this with the notion that most people do somewhat struggle to maintain weight loss after losing weight, which that tends to be the case. I think that having a maintenance phase after a weight loss phase can be helpful in terms of for some people at least consolidating dietary habits and physical activity habits. Like for some people, especially if it was a shorter cut, some of the habits they may have started to build up during a weight loss phase might be difficult to consolidate and use in the long term if they then go back into a weight gain phase. So for example, improving your daily step count from say 4,000 a day to 8,000 a day during your weight loss phase is a means to increase energy expenditure. That might be easier to make stick as a habit if you then spend some time in maintenance with a daily step count of say still 8,000 versus going back into a surplus and allowing your steps to drop as a means again to a surplus. Similarly, some of the diet habits you might have incorporated during your weight loss phase such as picking more satiating foods with higher fiber, lower energy density or what have you. I think that if you go from a relatively short weight loss phase straight into a calorie surplus wherein you're actually intentionally trying to pick higher energy density foods, lower fiber foods that can make otherwise health promoting habits harder to stick to long term. And so sometimes for people who are prone to regaining weight quickly after a diet phase, I think a maintenance phase can be a good tool. I wouldn't go as far as to say that everyone who's lost weight should go through a maintenance phase for at least a few weeks or for a certain proportion of the time spent losing weight after weight loss phase. But I do think that for at least some clients and for some individuals it can be a good thing to do. I think generally the more you find it difficult historically to maintain weight loss, the more you find it difficult historically to lose weight. The more quote unquote unhealthy your overall habits tend to be, like for example if historically for most of your life you've been quite sedentary and your dietary choices have been relatively quote unquote poor, I think that that's where maintenance phases typically become more helpful after a weight loss phase. But then on the other hand you have successful bodybuilders or people who've been leading a quote unquote healthy and weight management conducive lifestyle for a long time. For those people a maintenance phase might be completely superfluous. So I think it depends on the person and I think there's certain things you can look out for to inform whether or not a maintenance phase is the right fit for you after a weight loss phase. Pac, any thoughts? No, wholeheartedly agree there. And yeah, there's a lot of talk, well there's been a lot of talk about like doing a maintenance phase to hold on to the newly acquired gains and which I don't think holds much ground there. Also as a coach and that may depend on the individual and there is something to be said about behavior here as well. Going into a deficit directly after a bulk totally fine, however for some individuals as you somewhat touched on as well, learning how to be on maintenance is a skill that is essentially the name of the game after a while. There will be and I think Greg you touched on this as well. There comes a point where knowing how to maintain your weight and being able to do so without having to really be on top of everything because obviously life will come in the way. There is something to be said about that. However, I wouldn't necessarily say that you have to wait and maintain again as the listener said. There is no particular reason to just maintain and then cut besides just giving yourself a break. Other than that, I don't see physiologically anything wrong with just going straight into a deficit. But traditionally, I'm not a huge fan of the idea that oh okay, the new tissue and that's how it's expressed sometimes. You've acquired this new tissue and now you have to essentially let the gains settle whatever that means. If you go into an insane deficit directly, then that might undo some of the gaining you've done but I assume the listener doesn't mean that. Yeah, I agree with both of you. Although I think looking at your face Milo, you've realized that now. The question was about maintenance after a bulk versus maintenance after deficit. But I don't think it hurts to approach this from both angles. I think you both absolutely crushed it. Just to add a little bit more onto what Pac is saying, there is this relatively common idea that after a bulk you should spend some time at maintenance to quote unquote solidify the gains that you've made because if you go directly into a deficit, you're going to lose more of that hard earned muscle tissue that you gained near the end of your bulk or whatever. I will note there's no research to support that at all. There's not that much research on bulking period and I can't think of any research on subsequent bulk and then cut phases manipulating a maintenance window in between those two. Maybe it exists, if not I haven't come across it. Any takes on the matter are purely speculative and no one should be that confident about anything. But I will say that I suspect the perception that spending time at maintenance helps you quote unquote solidify the gains is driven by one of two things or maybe both of them. One is just that if you're in a bulk, your body weight is elevated and your muscles look really good because your body weight is elevated both due to full glycogen replenishment and as discussed previously just more food in the intestinal tract. If you go directly into a deficit, you're doing a 180 on both of those things. Your muscle glycogen will deplete, your muscles will look flatter and you'll also just very quickly have way less contents in your digestive tract. Number on the scale goes down very quickly, muscles start looking a lot flatter very quickly and you look at those two things in tandem and you're like oh shit. And your performance might go down quite a bit. I find that the bulk versus maintenance thing, I do find that just recovery from training is way easier in a surplus than it maintenance at least for me who knows other people's results may vary. Also your recovery from training may drastically change. You're going from one end of the spectrum to the other very quickly leads to pretty big changes might leave you feeling very fatigued and depleted quite quickly. You perceive that as losing muscle whereas if you have a maintenance phase in between even if it doesn't do a goddamn thing for helping you solidify your gains, when you shift from a bulk to maintenance some of those things I just described will occur but it will be much more subtle. So your muscle glycogen levels may drop a little bit but your muscles will still look pretty full like you're not going to perceive that you've lost muscle there. Your performance is still going to be pretty good. You'll still have a fair bit of food in your digestive tract. You might drop a couple pounds on the scale but it won't be anything drastic. And then if you shift into a deficit a month later, you're basically completing the other half of that process. Your muscle glycogen levels drop a little bit more. The food in your digestive tract drops a little bit more. Your performance and recovery may decrease a little bit but you're kind of already at the midpoint there. So you're winding up in the same place regardless but by doing it in two steps neither of which feel particularly dramatic versus one step that feels very dramatic, now you perceive it as helping you solidify your gains versus not. So I think it could just fully be an illusion. Second, if you're spending like two, three months at maintenance like we've discussed on this episode so far, being in neutral energy balance may be a little worse than being in a surplus for building muscle but not that much worse for well-trained people who aren't like already in a weight and fat reduced state. But you can still build muscle at maintenance and do so fairly effectively. And so I wouldn't be surprised if some of the perception that spending some time in maintenance helps you solidify your gains is just that spending time in maintenance helps you make more gains. And yeah, so there's nothing like magic about taking that phase to help you solidify what you did in a surplus. It's just, oh, like you're still, like you're not in a weight reduced state and you're still in neutral energy balance. Like that's a place to still gain more muscle. And I kind of think that if you don't feel the strongest urge to go ahead and cut, you can just stay there for a long time and keep building muscle and it'll be good. But yeah, so I think part of it is an illusion kind of doing the glycogen replenishment in two steps rather than one. And so neither of them feels as dramatic. And to the extent that it's not a losery, it's probably just that spending time at maintenance just does help you build more muscle, not necessarily like quote unquote solidifying the gains you made during your bulk. Yeah, that's my general take on it. But again, there's no direct research on the topic. So yeah, who knows? But yeah, I think it's mostly just perceptual and still being able to build muscle at maintenance. I think it's a fair analysis just to defend my owner from earlier after being exposed for mishearing that pack. I think the same thing as I mentioned regarding weight loss maintenance after a weight loss phase kind of applied to weight gain if you're someone who struggles to gain weight. So like, you know, if after a year of bulking, you finally managed to put on 10 pounds of weight, but it was a real struggle, you could spend some time at maintenance as a means to try and maintain some of those habits that you've established and kind of gently transition from the thing you find harder to the thing that comes a bit too naturally to you. But yeah, my mistake, I think that wraps us up nicely. It's all good. And that's a very understandable mistake to make because the flip side of the question is is definitely the one that gets asked more frequently, I think. All right. Any closing thoughts? Trust the bulk and take it easy. Slown steady wins the race. Absolutely. All right, everyone, thanks for listening to another episode of the Stronger by Science podcast. Happy bulking out there. And we will talk to you again in a couple of weeks. Peace.