

=== FILE: Are Low Carb Diets Bad For Muscle Growth？ (Science Explained) [-U18ennZOso].txt ===

 the ketogenic diet, a hot topic that's been buzzing around the fitness community forever. Whether you're a veteran gym goer or just someone who's heard the word keto in passing, this diet is all about cutting back on carbs and loading up on fats and protein. It's often hailed as a miracle diet for fat loss, but is it secretly sabotaging your muscle gains? But let's take a step back for a second. What is the keto diet? The ketogenic diet, or keto for short, is based on drastically reducing your carb intake, often to less than 50 grams per day. The idea here is to force your body into a state of ketosis where it primarily burns fat for energy instead of carbohydrates. This diet has gained a reputation as a go-to diet for weight loss, although its superiority to a plain ol' calorie deficit is questionable as carbohydrates are not actually your enemy when it comes to fat loss. Keto proponents often argue that carbs lead to obesity, a claim that mainly comes from the carbohydrate insulin model, which essentially suggests that insulin is the primary cause of weight gain. However, this theory has been debunked by numerous studies and remains a controversial topic of debate in the scientific community. Keto is often promoted as a superior diet for fat loss, but the research that exists comparing keto to more traditional carb-rich diets shows no significant difference in long-term outcomes. Now, there is data showing that you may lose weight a bit faster if you follow a keto diet, but in the long term, there doesn't seem to be any major difference between keto diets and a plain ol' calorie deficit. This isn't to say keto is bad for fat loss, it's totally fine, just not the magic bullet people make it out to be. So the question that remains is, can you build a ton of muscle on keto? And can you follow a low carb diet in general, even if it's not keto per se, and still make amazing gains? Or are you potentially leaving a bunch of gains on the table simply because you don't like consuming carbs? Thankfully, a recent systematic review and meta-analysis by Vargas Molina et al looked at this very question, specifically focusing on randomized trials on resistant-strain participants with a minimum duration of 8 weeks. This review essentially found that when it comes to fat-free mass, there were no significant differences between keto and traditional diets and that both approaches resulted in muscle gain. So, there you have it. Thank you for watching and we'll see you guys next time. Just kidding, as always, terms of condition apply. First, only 5 studies were included in the review and most used DEXA to measure fat-free mass, which isn't necessarily the most accurate method for assessing muscle growth. That said, there was one study that did use ultrasound to directly assess muscle growth and did find that keto resulted in muscle growth after 11 weeks. But there's a catch with the overall results. The participants in these studies didn't gain much weight overall, which makes it tough to expect significant muscle growth. As we covered in our bulking video with Dr. Harry Helms, check it out, it is possible to gain muscle in a calorie deficit or while maintaining your weight, but it's harder, especially in trained individuals. And while recomposition, aka losing fat and gaining muscle at the same time, is possible, we must interpret the results of this meta with some caution. When looking at some of the other literature that exists on the topic and 2022 systematic review and meta analysis by Corey Cattow, found the diets rich in carbohydrates led to greater improvements in performance, strength and muscle mass compared to keto in athletes and trained adults. Interestingly, keto seems to be slightly better for fat loss, but when it came to muscle growth, diets that included carbs appear to have the upper hand. So is keto an amazing option if you're aiming to absolutely maximize muscle growth and strength? As it stands, the evidence points at a soft no. While you can still make gains on keto, obviously, a diet rich in carbohydrates is likely a safer bet if you want to absolutely maximize muscle growth and exercise performance. However, if you love keto and you don't mind potentially leaving some gains on the table, go ahead and just make sure you're in a slight calorie surplus, consume approximately 1.6 grams of protein per kilo of body weight and consider timing the very few carbs that you consume around your training sessions. Keep in mind, and even if you're an advanced lifter who wants to make amazing gains, yes, keto may be suboptimal, but at the end of the day, you're going to be fine and you're still going to reap the benefits of resistance training. That said, if you're just a low carb diet enjoyer and you're not necessarily a keto fanatic per se, and you still want to consume mostly proteins and fats, you can take a more moderate approach to low carb diets. Adding an extra 50 to 100 grams of carbs to your diet, so around an extra 200 to 400 calories, especially around your training, could give you the best of both worlds. So you can still be consuming all the foods you love, like great quantities, you can mostly consume fats and protein, but at the same time, you can still reap some of the benefits of ingesting carbs around your training and potentially some of the benefits of carbohydrates post training for recovery. Additionally, this sort of approach may make it easier for you to adapt to a lower carbohydrate intake, especially if you haven't really been dabbling with low carb diets before. So altogether, keto and low carb diets in general are fine, but given that restricting your carbohydrate intake will not really give you much of an edge in fat loss or muscle building, it's difficult to really recommend going low carb as a default option for the majority of people who want to get jacked. And that's the real issue here. It's not that low carb diets or keto diets are promoted, it's just another option for people that have certain food preferences or find it a bit easier to manage their hunger if they consume more protein and more fats. Many keto proponents will make the case that a ketogenic diet is far more superior for fat loss and sometimes even for muscle gain than a regular diet that contains carbs. These sort of sales pitches come with a bunch of fear mongering around carbs, insulin, words like inflammation, sugar fear mongering, and in general they make it seem as if consuming carbohydrates is not only not going to do much for your performance in the gym and for potential muscle gains, but it's going to have insanely deleterious effects on your health and in general will just lead to you being a worse version of yourself, which is not true and is not really supported by any scientific evidence. Now for those of you out there that don't really care about keto or low carb and are you're just looking to maximize muscle and strength gain, carbohydrates are still your friend. As far as how many carbure should be consuming per day to ensure your maximizing gains, a systematic review by Hansel Lanzantal suggested that the commonly recommended range of 4 to 10 grams per kilogram of body weight might be a bit of an overkill for those focused mainly on resistors training. Although more research is needed to determine the optimal carbohydrate intake for maximizing gym performance and muscle gain, studies on bodybuilders show that they typically consume around 3 to 7 grams of carbs per kilogram of body weight daily, which doesn't necessarily mean that everyone should follow that exact guideline, but if you're somewhere in that range, they're likely maximizing gains. A super simple approach to organizing your macros without it being some sort of a magical recommendation or anything like that by no means is to aim for a minimum of 1.5 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight, as that's been shown to be enough to maximize strength gains, and it's very close to the 1.6 grams per kilogram of body weight recommendation for muscle growth, around 0.6 grams of fat per kilogram of body weight, and then allocating the remainder of your calories to carbs by simply dividing whatever calories you have left by the number four. Keep in mind that just because overall keto doesn't seem to be ideal for muscle growth, if you want to give keto a try or low carb diets a try because you want to give them a try for whatever reason, feel free to do so without being in fear that you're leaving massive gains on the table. All I'm saying here is that this shouldn't be your default approach because it's no magic bullet for either muscle gain or fat loss. If you're looking for a way to better manage your macros, give macro factor a go. I've worked with plenty of clients in the past who've used macro factor and have been very positive about how it has allowed them to manage their macronutrient intake because it simply did it for them. It will coach you and adjust your macros based on how you're responding, and it can be a great way to potentially give low carb diets a go. If you want one on one coaching, and this can be a great investment for some people who want to essentially outsource all the diet management and all the thinking to somebody else, premium online coaching is available by Stronger by Science. The coaching system over at SPS is genuine. I'm not saying hire a coach for the rest of your life, but a few months working with a coach and having the manager of nutrition can be quite valuable as far as learning how to manage things long term and obviously seeing some results. That said, don't forget to like, subscribe and hit the notification icon. Additionally, don't forget to head over to StrongerbyScience.com for podcasts, newsletters and free programs with articles, both nutrition, training and a whole bunch of other stuff. Google Macro Factor because aside from the app, you also have plenty of really high quality nutrition content and we will see you guys next time. Peace!

=== FILE: Battle Royale 2 (Episode 139) [oksb-ECPwVk].txt ===

angiAvastatin,angiAvastatin,angiAvastatin,! Welcome back to the Stronger by Science podcast. I'm Greg Nuffles. I'm Dr. Pak, aka Pak, and I'm Milo Wolf. And we have another great episode for all of you today. We're doing another Battle Royale episode. The one we did several episodes back was very well received. The people were clamoring for more arguments, more discord. So yeah, we're going to run it back. That is what you have to look forward to. But before that, just our standard plugs here at the top of the episode. So if you enjoy the show, please like, rate, subscribe, and tell all your friends. It really helps us out. If you're interested in hiring a coach to help you with your training and or nutrition, Stronger by Science has an excellent team of coaches that can help you out. You can learn more at strongerbyciences.com. If you want to purchase supplements from a good source with good prices, none of that proprietary blend bull hockey, and you want to get them at even better prices, you can go over to balksupplements.com and use code SPS pod at checkout for an additional 5% off. They're already low prices. If you want to stay up to date with all of the goings on in the Stronger by Science extended universe, you can check out our Facebook group and subreddit. And in fact, that is where we solicited questions for this Battle Royale episode. So if you're listening to this and you think, damn, I have a really good question that I think they should have covered here. Well, if you were in the Facebook group and or subreddit, you would have had a chance to submit it. So check it out at strongerbyciencescommunity on Facebook or reddit.com slash r slash stronger by science. Check out our newsletter where we send you high quality informative content every couple of weeks, not just spamming you with a bunch of ads. It's really good stuff. You can check that out at strongerbyciences.com slash newsletter. And if you have questions that you'd like us to answer on the podcast, the next time we do a Q&A episode, record a voice clip, a minute or less, and email it to podcast at strongerbyciences.com. Let's get into into the Battle Royale. So the way this works, if you didn't listen to our first episode of this format, is there will be a topic that we have a very brief debate about what's what's the time limit or attempt at a time limit per side of the argument? We'll sit at three minutes. Yeah, three minutes. Okay. So we have like theoretically three minutes, like I'm gonna go 30 seconds to a minute long, and it is what it is. But we kind of we try to keep it short and snappy. One person argues for the particular statement or position one person argues against. And then the third person adjudicates who won or who lost. And we talk a little bit about the concept generally, and then on to the next one. So that is how it works. And without without out of the way, let's let's get right into it. Milo, I believe you're adjudicating the first one. And let's let's do it. All right, let me see the both of you up. The statement is aggressive fat loss phases are best outside of competitive contexts. aggressive fat loss within this context means losing more than 1% of your body weight per week. So essentially, the claim that you should be losing weight aggressively at a rate faster than about 1% of body weight per week for fat loss for anyone who's recreation lifting. The person arguing for this statement will be Greg and the person arguing against the statement will be pack will always have the person going pro the statement first. So in this case, Greg, whenever you're ready, you can argue in favor of the statement. And I'll start your timer. All right. So yeah, I, I will admit, I interpreted this statement a little bit differently than than the way you just explained it Milo. Not necessarily that aggressive fat loss is best for recreational lifters, but just that if someone is going to do aggressive fat loss, is it better that that person be a competitive athlete or not a competitive athlete? So I'll just note that at the at the top of my answer. But yeah, so in arguing for this statement, which I do think I actually agree with, I think that there is a misconception for people who are just trying to lose weight, that it is always best to lose weight at a slow rate. That's something that's stated as if it's essentially self evidently true in many parts of the fitness industry. And I do think that there are some advantages to that. But there is some research looking at initial rates of weight loss and likelihood of maintaining weight loss over time. So there was a paper by Knackers from 2010 that we can link in the show notes the association between rate of initial weight loss and long term success and obesity treatment to slow and steady when the race. Essentially finding that people who lose weight faster early on in a weight loss phase are more likely to maintain more of that weight loss in an absolute sense over time. You would think that there would be rapid weight regain on the back end. That's not what you tend to see. On average, people did regain weight, regardless of their initial rate of weight loss. But it actually wasn't all that different between fast, moderate and slow rates of weight loss. And the idea is that people who have quite a bit of weight to lose going ahead and at least early on dropping weighted a faster rate helps them make more tangible progress towards their goal and might help them maintain motivation to continue on with those lifestyle changes and probably reducing rate of weight loss a little bit after an initial phase. But yeah, there are some advantages to rapid rates of weight loss in non competitive people. With athletes on the other hand, I do think that it is generally ill advised for a couple of reasons. One, with athletes, it is much more critical that you preserve lean mass to preserve your performance once you have lost weight. And also, if you look at the research on relative energy deficiency in sport or red s, which any competitive athlete would necessarily be in a state of red s to achieve a state of rapid weight loss, you see pretty quick performance declines, but you also see hormonal disruptions, amenorrhea, oligomenorrhea, drops in testosterone levels in men. And along with that increases in injury rates, especially like tendon issues, a lot of stress fracture issues. And so yeah, yeah, you will be in a state of red s if you're an athlete trying to achieve a rapid weight of rate of weight loss. And I think that in almost all cases, the risks outweigh the potential benefits of just dropping weight a little bit slower. So yeah, I think that there are large drawbacks for athletes to pursue aggressive weights, rates of weight loss, and with non athletes, those types of drawbacks aren't nearly as critical and relevant. And there are some unique advantages for people who with with quite a bit of weight to lose who are trying to maintain that weight loss long term. All right, beautiful. Pack now your statement against aggressive fat loss phases being best outside of competitive contexts. All right. So I will approach this from the listeners perspective, and I will make the assumption that I'm talking to people who are interested in making solid strength and muscle gains. So although you can lose body weight faster, and it's not going to be the end of the world, if you're somebody who has been trying their best in order to maximize muscle mass and strength, but more specifically muscle mass, given some of the current data on low energy availability, and I'm talking about people losing roughly 2% of their of their body weight per week. So there was a study by Oxford Detail from 2023, looking at low energy availability in trained females. The ones that were on an aggressive calorie deficit ended up losing a bunch of fat, but also seeing a decrease in muscle protein synthesis. There was a slight decrease in their resting metabolic rate, but they also lost muscle mass. Additionally, when looking and we touched on this on the previous episode, we touched on the meta analysis and meta regression by Merphy and Collard looking at energy deficiency and how that affects resistance training gains in lean mass and strength. Greater calorie deficits resulted in, well, or at least increase the likelihood of things going south as far as your muscle mass goes. So in addition to that, and obviously, you Greg, you mentioned some of the literature looking at weight regain over the long term, and the fact that losing more weight at the beginning was was positive. But I'd make the I'd propose that for serious lifters who have spent a ton of time trying to build to build muscle mass, spending a bit more time dieting while also engaging in progressive resistance training may in some cases also lead to some additional gains, assuming that they're not in an in an extreme deficit, as we just mentioned. So you could be looking at a period of time where you're ensuring or at least doing your best to ensure that you're not losing any of the precious muscle mass that you built. At the same time, for some body parts that you may have not trained that hard, especially if you have a bit more body fat on you, you may have the chance to make some gains. And overall, it is an opportunity for somebody to get really familiar with taking things one step at a time. That's mostly me saying it from a coaching perspective that for some individuals, an aggressive diet, especially, especially for those that have spent a lot of time controlling their intake and mass gaining in a conservative way, going to aggressively may lead to them stopping their diet a bit earlier or having having issues with, you know, going after diet. But again, that's mostly from a coach standpoint. My main argument is that if you spend a ton of time building muscle mass, and you are a natural lifter who's not a genetic freak, taking slower is likely to help you lose just body fat or mostly body fat versus risking your gains. So yeah, that's my my forced stance here. I think that you're supposed to be arguing that competitive lifters should be doing aggressive fat loss. I could be wrong. That's how I interpreted the statement, because I think we both ended up arguing against that proposition. Yeah, I think we might have an issue with my statement being too vague. So my statement was essentially that unless you're a competitive athlete, that's how you can lose weight, like, possibly, yeah, and that's better. Yeah, that's what I sense. If you'd like, we can redo the segment, or we can just skip this one and edit it out. Or leave it or leave it as a nice or full of knowledge, knowledge. Yeah, or you could present it that it's so obvious to both of us that competitive lifters shouldn't be doing aggressive weight loss phases that we both interpret the statement that way. I will, I don't know, I'll be straight up. So just just to make this more more useful for the listeners, the arguments for competitive athletes doing aggressive fat loss, mostly boiled down to like, you don't want to spend as long of a period of time dieting. So go ahead and cut faster, get the weight off quicker. If you lose some muscle, you got mechanisms of muscle memory, my nuclear domain theory, etc, etc, blah, blah, blah, that will allow you to more quickly regain the muscle that you may have lost during the dieting process. Therefore, it's a good thing to do. I don't think those arguments are all that strong, one, because like the the actual like risks associated with rapid weight loss, like during the period you're you're actually losing weight are real, you know, like, if it all goes well, cool, if you end up like getting hurt, like during that period of rapid fat loss, well, now you have the period of like injury rehab to contend with and not not just the initial cut. And also like the assumption that you're going to be able to rapidly regain the muscle you lose, like all of that data comes from like training cessation type contexts. The data that we have looking at body comp changes of like physique athletes, for instance, after they lose a lot of weight, and then their competitive season is done, and then they start eating more. You tend to see preferential fat regain before you see a ton of like muscle regain. So I think I think that the theory that like, oh, well, you lose some muscle, maybe, but it's all going to come back like immediately. Like that's just not really borne out that well in human data. But yeah, those those are the arguments kind of in favor of those rapid weight loss phases. And I'll also note, just as a coach, you don't see good lifters doing it, or good athletes in sports. I don't know, like I've like I spent some time coaching, like pretty high level American football players and basketball players who like most of them by and large were trying to gain weight. But like the ones that did have some weight to lose. Like it's not like oh, season's coming up, let's try to cut like 20 pounds in a month like it was kind of understood that that's not going to be good for anyone. And in powerlifting, yeah, I mean, like if people are trying to drop a weight class, they do that, they do that gradually. If people do have like a rapid period of weight change, it's usually like a water cut. But if someone's, you know, five kilos over their weight cap, they might lose like half a kilo per week for a couple months, and then like a water cut at the end. But like no one like I legitimately can't think of any high level lifters who have found success doing like really aggressive weight loss into meets or kind of period. I don't know, like it's, it's not something you see good athletes doing. By and large. I think, I think your stance was still was still solid for the average lifter. I think you're still defended the fact that oh, an aggressive fat loss phase is totally fine for a recreational lifter who wants to to lose fat. So then I try to argue against that that if you're the average SPS listener, and Greg says you should lose weight fast because it's fine. And the literature says that it's not going to impact your weight loss long term. Then I try to come up with arguments against that. So I think we covered the we did we battled. And it was Royale as well and Royal as well. Fair enough. Okay, so Milo Milo, who you got? Honestly, I think the listener one, the information was good from both sides. I think we covered both the competitive and the recreational aspect pretty well. Initially, more so the recreational side of things like with Greg saying, hey, you can probably lose weight faster. If you're relatively overweight, and from a research at least doesn't seem like that's going to have any long term negative influences on your weight loss maintenance or anything. And then with Pac saying that hey, if you are a bit more serious about lifting, potentially don't need to lose as much weight, etc. There might be specific downsides to losing weight too fast, such as muscle loss. And then Greg kind of tiny enough saying, hey, although some mechanistic and animal research has found that regaining lost muscle might be easier than gaining in the first place, like quite a bit easier. In practice, you don't often see that bearing out super well. So yeah, I'm going to call this one a tie, if only because there was some confusion around the initial proposition. On to the next one. So the the statement is cheat reps build more muscle than strict reps. Arguing the pro here is Milo and arguing the anti is pack. Let's get it. Alright, so I'll be arguing for the statement that cheat reps do in fact build more muscle than strict reps. I think the way to look at this is essentially to look at the relationship between how close to failure you train and hypertrophy. So although evidence is somewhat mixed on this, I do think, generally, as evidence that a matter of regression by Robinson colleagues from 2023, the closer to failure you go, the more hypertrophy you'll see. Now, generally, the way people cheat is that they extend a set by becoming incrementally sloppier as the set goes on. And oftentimes that will result in people taking sets past failure, even on the local level. So maybe they can't get another strict rep anymore, they extend the set doing cheat reps. And although technically their back isn't, for example, able to get the barbell to touch their chest anymore during the barbell row, for example, by using a bit more momentum, they're still able to train their back, even though it's not able to produce enough force anymore to perform the rep strictly on its own. And so you're essentially performing a quasi drop set with each set by doing cheat reps. And if you look at the drop set research by Coleman and all, for example, a metanus on the topic, doing only 30% extra sets seems to result in similar hypertrophy using drop sets or straight sets. And so if each set becomes a quasi drop set by using cheat technique to oziena set and extending the set essentially, that makes each set more effective for hypertrophy, because you're essentially doing a drop set or extending the set with each set when you're cheating. This is important because most people have constrained time. I think most people overestimate how much fatigue is a bottleneck through their gains for hypertrophy, and underestimate how much volume they can and potentially should be doing to maximize hypertrophy. So if we're talking about the average trainee who has say a couple hours in the gym a week or 3000 a week, who is trying to maximize bang for their buck, how much hypertrophy they get within their constrained time, then doing cheat reps is a way to essentially get more out of each unit of time. It allows them to oftentimes also handle more weight in the stretch, which might potentially beneficial as well, based on the research on the stretch potentially being more hypertrophic than the peak squeeze. So when you combine the fact that cheat reps allow you to essentially turn each set into a drop set, which is primarily important for time constraint people, which is most people ultimately most people could probably grow more if they did more volume with the fact that cheat reps often allow you to handle more weight in the stretch position. I think cheat reps might actually allow you to build a bit more of size. Importantly, and this is something that I'm sure Paco touch on as well as the preeminent researcher on lifting technique, having published the only review paper on lifting technique. There just isn't any research to rely on him. So we're both making a speculative case. But I think my case is stronger. So I'll leave it there. All right, Wolfgang Girardi, Austrian gymnast who passed away in 2018 actual name. I appreciate the mental gymnastics there. But I'll pose the the the argument of strict technique being better than cheat reps for one particular reason. There's an area of research you may be familiar with the range of motion literature specifically. So I'll say, okay, if we look at the average gym goer and many exercises when cheat reps are used as the main sort of approach, like we look at a bench press or a bicep curl and alongside, you know, deadlifts, a bunch of stuff, you see the the stretch being less emphasized and more either use of momentum, aggressive touch and go being used and always be more aggressive touch and go being used and overall a removal of hard training and long muscle. Now, as you mentioned with cheat reps specifically, there are some cases where you may be able to handle more weight at the stretch. But if the we're talking about the average individual who's looking to incorporate cheat reps and they're using the information available on cheat reps to sort of guide what cheat reps will look like. I think you end up in a situation where you're neglecting long muscle links more than you're emphasizing them. Now, with our personal biases, our version of cheat reps is good reps, just maybe with a tiny bit of momentum towards the end or something along those lines. But if you're approaching training with the mindset that cheat reps are going to build more more muscle than strict reps, then I do see a case where people could be emphasizing training at shorter muscle lengths overall on a bunch of exercise, maybe not every single exercise. At the same time, if you're then limiting range of motion and at the same time using heavier and heavier loads, you may also find yourself at a position where you're increasing injury risk, although I'll say that with a huge asterisk next to it. Because, you know, we don't really know. But overall, I'll leave it at the fact that I don't see much of a reason to go to use cheat reps just because you may be able to go closer to failure or that you're inherently training closer to failure. Because we we've seen from the literature that people are relatively good at gauging how close to failure there are. So therefore, if we tell them, look, the best way to build muscle is by keeping things relatively strict. Now go close to failure and make sure you're taking the the musculature that you are targeting actually close to failure. I think that will suffice. And lastly, actually last but not least, if you're emphasizing cheat reps versus strict reps, you may also find yourself in a position where you're not really fully targeting the muscle that you want to target. And you're taking other muscles to failure, although that's just a minor point. Overall, I don't see a solid reason for why you why somebody would emphasize cheat reps. Obviously, the odd cheat right here and there is fine. But I think that strict reps taking certain boxes will build more muscle. I think I have to give this one to pack. I think that the I think that the statement itself cheat reps build more muscle than strict reps is a categorical statement that is is unlikely to be true as a categorical statement. I think that both of you did a good job of arguing that there are certain contexts and certain ways of doing cheat reps that may be beneficial and some that may not. And yeah, I think I think that's a very reasonable take. But I think for the pro side to win this debate, a strong case would have needed to be made that cheat reps are like categorically like categorically build more muscle. And yeah, that that wasn't really a case that was made, I think in part because we're not hacks and it would be it would be tough to make that case by any of us with a straight face. But yeah, I think both of you did well, but just for kind of like structural reasons embedded within the question I have to give it to pack. That's fair. I guess the way I view the statements for me is more so on average basis. Like do I think on average, this is true? Obviously, it's very difficult to come up with a statement and lifting that is going to be applicable and true for every single trainee. But yeah, I think if it's interpreted categorically, I can certainly see how that's an impossible argument to win. Downplaying my victory. Thank you. Hey, always if you lose, always make up for it somehow. And who knows, maybe I see pack is the adjudicator for the next question. I'm just trying to butter him up. All right. So the next question, oh, and this is a good one that could not question, but statement is studies in beginners shouldn't be considered for advanced trainees. We have Milo arguing pro and Greg arguing against. So the floor is lava and it is yours Milo. So at the risk of having Greg call out the fact that this is a categorical statement yet again and losing by default. I'm going to argue that studies in beginners should indeed not be considered for advanced trainees. So there's a few things here. One, we do have evidence suggesting that the adaptations in the first few weeks of training are relatively distinct from how adaptations keep occurring. For instance, just to play devil's advocate here, there is a camp of researchers in looking at the mechanisms of hypertrophy that argue that hypertrophy initially occurs more so longitudinally. And then in the long term occurs more so radially. So essentially by increases in the nation angle, more so additional of soccer mirrors in parallel versus in series. And so all that to say that had hypertrophy might very well occur differently in beginners versus more advanced trainees. Similarly, practically speaking, just looking at anecdotes and people training in the gym. The same training program applied to beginner and advanced trainee can have relatively different effects. So given that an advanced trainee typically carries more muscle mass has a higher strength level. Hypertrophy may occur in different ways just mechanistically on the sort of muscle level. I think that the jump from studies in beginners to studies in advanced trainees can be too large to make happen realistically. In fact, low spoiler alert. We're currently conducting a study in advanced trainees and the results may be somewhat divergent from what we see in more beginner trainees. And I think that does sometimes occur that the results that you see replicated time and time again in newer trainees don't necessarily replicate as well in more advanced trainees. I guess one area of research that does seem to be true is just the rate of muscle growth observed. Like it is generally agreed upon that the longer you've been lifting for the less muscle growth you see and that does seem to apply to going from beginner to advanced trainee.  naringinotrinis, mordvans-trinis, and importantly, one thing we, for example, don't know yet is whether or not certain factors become more important as you become more trained. Like, it's relatively rare in a training intervention study in beginners to not observe any muscle growth, even if they're doing, quote-unquote, relatively subopt-more training, whether that's very low-volume training or anything else. But if you then apply that same reasoning to mordvans-trinis, and this might be more of a case of absence of evidence versus evidence of absence, there is a chance that that subopt-more training is no longer sufficient to even cause any muscle growth. And so I think just when you consider the difference in approaches practically with the absence of evidence in mordvans-trinis and the fact that generally the mechanisms may or may not differ in how hypertrophy occurs, I think there is a case we made that anecdotes should be relied upon a fair amount, and studies in beginners shouldn't be considered as heavily or potentially very heavily upon mordvans-trinis. All right. Cool. I appreciate the arguments that Milo made, and I disagree with his perspective. Not just within the context of this episode, but I do actually disagree with this statement. This starting with an appeal to authority, starting off strong. As someone who spent a lot of time reading research in this area, I think people would be shocked how frequently initial findings on untrained lifters turn out to generalize to advanced lifters, and oftentimes to the extent that they apparently don't, like some of the examples that Milo provided. It's often a difference of translation, where concepts translate even if specifics don't. The example of training volume, for instance, one thing we do see is that higher training volumes tend to cause more muscle growth in untrained lifters, and higher muscle volumes tend to cause more muscle growth in trained lifters. But in untrained lifters, it might be the difference between two sets per week and five, where five is the high volume condition, and it leads to more growth than two. Whereas in trained lifters, it might be the difference between eight and 20, where 20 causes more than eight. You could look at that kind of small picture and say, oh, well, the study in untrained lifters finds that five sets per week causes a lot of muscle growth, and that isn't the case in advanced lifters. But conceptually, between the two studies, they both tend to find that higher training volumes lead to more muscle growth. And that's what we generally see in the research on untrained versus well-trained lifters. You do have a lot more wiggle room to make a program effective in untrained lifters, where the meme that everything works for noobs is kind of true. But things that work better in... If thing B works better than thing A in untrained lifters, that typically generalizes pretty well to trained lifters as well, where thing B also works better than thing A there, although the actual dosage of the training in order to see that effect may be different or considerably greater. The other point that I would make is that in terms of differences in adaptations to training and just like big picture physiologically how people respond to training, it is true that for your very first workout or first couple of weeks of training, there are kind of big differences in kind between trained and untrained lifters. Specifically, you tend to see much longer time courses of recovery, way more muscle damage. And there's some research suggesting that those things might influence some of the early rates of adaptations that we see in people, etc., etc. But a corollary to that is a lot of those differences. This is seen with muscle damage and the repeated bout effect. And I think it's theorized to be the case for longitudinal hypertrophy as well. Those adaptations are pretty quick. So if you expose someone to the same training stimulus for like two, three, four weeks in a row, it seems they adapt to it pretty quickly in terms of mitigating muscle damage and getting down to like kind of normalish time courses of recovery. And it's theorized that a lot of those longitudinal hypertrophy adaptations, if they occur, are occurring within two, three, four weeks as well. So if you have a training study that lasts for 12 weeks and untrained lifters, for the last like eight to 10 weeks of that, there are still differences in degree in terms of how they'll respond to training versus advanced lifters. Like they will still grow faster than advanced lifters will. But those like big differences in kind in terms of like big picture physiologically, what is training doing here seems to be pretty similar. Like it doesn't take that much training experience for the sort of like post exercise adaptive window to look pretty similar between folks. So yeah, new lifters grow faster just because they still have more room to grow. And in fact, there are a lot of situations where it can be preferable to do research on untrained lifters just because they do adapt faster. And so if a particular training intervention or training concept or whatever is in general going to be better for most lifters of all experience levels and untrained lifters who can grow a lot in the course of eight, 12 weeks, you can have enough growth occurring in both groups that you can have enough divergence and growth responses to actually be able to statistically like detect the difference. Whereas in advanced lifters, you might still see directional differences between two things, but just since less total growth is occurring, any result is going to be quite a bit less clear just because like you would either need a way bigger sample size or like a way longer training duration just to generate like big enough effect size differences to have enough statistical power to detect it. So since we do see that findings from untrained tend to generalize conceptually to trained lifters quite well, not only would it be unwise to neglect studies on untrained lifters, like not only would it be unwise to overlook them, it would also just like if there was the expectation that you needed studies on advanced lifters to draw any inferences, you would wind up with a much more impoverished understanding of muscle growth and strength and all of that stuff. And the historical track record finds that early results on untrained lifters do by and large the vast majority of the time translate and apply to trained lifters as well. Nice. So it's difficult to judge because I have to respect the 6D chess that Milo played here by making you take the against stance and him taking the pro stance on the right side. Obviously we've seen some of the literature on long muscle lengths being criticized for this exact same reason. So he's like, let me appear open minded here and get the beast, Greg Knuckles to give us a 3 minute, 10 minute response full of details on why this statement is not true. Thereby making myself look good and also winning the war versus the battle. So I'm just joking aside. I have to give this to Greg because this is a statement that we often hear and for the reasons that you just laid out. I think both Milo and I are highly guessed and it's one of those annoying sort of knee jerk reactions you see to studies where they're dismissed. Alongside the new thing that I have been seeing lately, we already know this, we have so much research on this. Why are we still doing studies on this particular topic when there's actually no studies? Anyways, all that same Milo, my brother, I'm sorry, half a point for the 6D chess and the manipulation and one point to Greg. So those are one and a half points to be given out here. You know, I will say that the whole, this is a study on untrained lifters thing, that's a criticism that I almost exclusively see when someone really just wants to say, I disagree with this thing. Because like, I don't know, I've spent a lot of time observing people online. I've yet to come across someone who has a problem citing a study on untrained lifters in support of a concept that they believe already. Yeah, I don't know. It seems like, I don't want to say that it's a criticism that's never brought up in good faith, but it seems like a criticism that is rarely brought up in good faith. It's one of those things where like, if you're going to say, ah, nah, we can't use this because it's an untrained lifters, I expect you to never cite studies in untrained lifters. And no one does that. I agree. I think it's on a relatively long list of critiques people throw at studies they don't like typically. And for what it's worth, for the record, I agree almost entirely with what Greg said. And I believe the opposite of what I argued for. Like all of the arguments I made, I kind of in my head have stronger counter-arguments against. So it was me trying to mental gymnastics my way into believing the statement. And it didn't really work either. So I get why Greg got the win here. You lost, but the audience won once again. Yeah, the audience is currently on an undefeated streak. So the next proposition is an exercise needs to be highly stable, to be maximally effective for building muscle. Arguing pro is pack and arguing anti is Milo. Take it away. Yep. So time to argue pro stability. Now, we all know that stability means a lot of things because the word is so, you know, full of meaning. Anyways, joking aside, I will argue that going for exercise that more stable is better for building muscle in the long term, simply because you have less things that you need to focus on and less demands, less resources used for anything but muscle building. So if you are trying to target a specific muscle and take it close to failure, train it at long muscle lengths, control the eccentric and all that jazz that we often say, and even the control the eccentric part with an asterisk, I think that creating a stable environment versus going for something more unstable on principle should allow you to focus more on the muscle group that you're trying to target and take it much closer to failure in a safe way and in an effective way versus being limited by the stability factor, which could potentially throw your bar path off or make the exercise more difficult for other muscles that are working as stabilizers and therefore not allowing you to fully target the muscle that you're trying to target. However, I do also want to add that by stable exercise, I mean doing your due diligence to make sure that it's as stable as possible but without that meaning that there can be a tiny bit of instability present. Other than that, I don't have much to say as far as direct literature on the topic. There are some things that somewhat counter what I just said that I think Dr. Wolfe is preparing to decide on. I think that so who cares about the literature on untrained individuals? It doesn't apply to us. I'm not a college student that hasn't trained so I dismiss it and I think stable exercises are best and stability is one of those buzzwords that is not a buzzword and we should really focus on making everything as stable as possible. Alright, I sympathize with PAC for having given a position that is difficult to argue for. For the audience, quick note, this has all been randomized so I did not in fact put myself into those compromising positions or PAC in fact. So I'll put up front before I start my argument that we have very little research on this so it could just be an absence of evidence situation versus an evidence of absence sort of deal. But what little direct evidence we have doesn't really suggest that instability at least within reasonable amounts causes any meaningful difference in muscle growth. So we have a study by Sator Bakken or Sator Bakken, not sure how you pronounce it, and colleagues comparing the Smith machine squat to the Smith machine squat on a wall board to a freeway barbell squat. And then that study, hypertrophy was largely pretty similar between the more unstable and stable conditions like it wasn't a large difference and with that being one of the only studies we can rely on and a wobble board being something substantially more unstable than most people would really ever encounter in the gym. Like I don't know of anyone who's really doing wobble board squats for hypertrophy anyways. Oftentimes you're talking about a stable exercise versus making it a slightly more stable via modification that often requires a lot of modification in the gym like it can take you a while to set up or it doesn't add much stability. So realistically within the gym the exercises being performed in my opinion based on literature and based on what I'm seeing are already sufficiently stable to maximize hypertrophy in all likelihood. Like very rarely are any really unstable exercises being recommended in the first place and the evidence also isn't strong enough to really suggest that instability is a huge concern especially within the constraints or the general comparisons we have in the gym that I don't think stability is really a criteria to go by when it comes to selecting an exercise. Like yeah if an exercise is really unstable that might present an issue. But for the most part if you're comparing an exercise like say I don't know a preacher curl and an incline curl do I think that the difference between those two exercises is stability and that's why one might cause more hypertrophy than the other namely the preacher curl is a bit more stable or will have you. I don't think that's the case where at least the evidence isn't there to make that claim strongly. So yeah I don't think stability exercises need to be highly stable to maximize hypertrophy I think it just needs to be reasonably stable and that's a bar that is so low that almost all exercises ever being done in the gym are sufficient to clear that bar. So yeah that's my brief stance but yeah I just like to note that for many of these things we have substantially less evidence than most people are aware of. Yeah I struggle to choose a winner for this one because I think ultimately you're both right. I do think that the theoretical arguments in favor of stability that PAC brought up are correct and I think the practical considerations that Milo discussed are also correct where yeah like if an exercise is too unstable you're going to be focused on stabilizing the implement more so than working the target muscle. There's not a ton of direct evidence on that but that does feel intuitively true to me but I think Milo is 100% correct that within like a normal resistance training context that isn't much of a consideration. Like the like one of the best examples I could think of would be like dumbbell bench press versus like machine chest press where like dumbbells relatively speaking very unstable you know like you have one in each hand you don't you're not even have two hands on it like a bar to stabilize it and there's like infinite degrees of freedom of where each dumbbell could go so theoretically considerably less stable in practice you do dumbbell press like five times and you're like okay this is very stable like the dumbbells are going exactly where I want them to you know. So yeah yeah I think that I think that it becomes relevant when you're talking about doing like split squats on a wobble board but yeah for for most exercises that people would actually be doing I don't think it's that serious of a consideration so yeah I think I think I think just because he was given a much easier position to argue I'm going to give this one to Milo but I think the you know I think that the key there is just it would hinge on the definition of how one defines highly stable because within the full gamut of possible stability versus instability like within that entire range I think you would put something like a squat or a bench press or a dumbbell curl all on the highly stable end of things because things can get you know you could be on a bosu ball in the middle of an earthquake you know like that's uh if if you were just looking at like a linear gradation between that as extremely unstable and like machine exercises is extremely stable there's a large unexplored chasm of extremely unstable stuff but no one does it because like obviously it's dumb and yeah so I think uh I think it would depend on I think it would hinge on the definition of highly unstable but within like a normal gym context I I agree with Milo uh that it probably doesn't make that much of a difference so the next one and I am really really looking forward to hearing both of your takes is the statement that optimal doesn't exist so the optimal approach for strength hypertrophy for training in general there's no optimal we don't know and we will never know what optimal is right Milo yeah so I'm arguing in favor of this statement that optimal doesn't exist and funnily enough this is a statement that's often made and I'll try my best to steal manna in this case I think the reason people say it and the reason I can see myself agreeing with it is that optimal isn't a clearly defined concept like optimal is always in relation to whatever the outcomes of interest are and because each individual has different outcomes of interest like for example not every individual is interested in maximizing hypertrophy they may be interested in getting bigger but not necessarily maximizing it or they might have competing goals there's such a multitude of outcomes of interest to be considered based on individual circumstances that optimal almost loses meaning when you apply it as a generalization because it's there's so much variation in what people want to achieve within the gym and the extent to which maximizing a goal for example is important to them versus just getting an improvement when you add on to this that not only are the outcomes of interest unstable but rather circumstances surrounding what makes an exercise optimal or a rapid drop more an approach optimal are also unstable for instance different people of different anthropometries different people have different reported training histories for instance they might claim that they've had better better gains with certain approaches versus others there are so many individual factors to consider that a universal truth such as the concept of optimality implies becomes meaningless or at least meaningless within the context that it's often used and I think that's what people typically take issue with when it comes to optimal is that there are so many different things to consider when it comes to the outcomes being pursued and thus what makes an exercise better or worse or what makes a rep range better or worse and there's so many contextual factors to consider when it comes to what might influence or modulate an an approach's effectiveness that optimal becomes an almost entirely meaningless idea and therefore optimal practically doesn't exist I think it's difficult to argue that optimal as a concept doesn't exist but I think people are generally arguing that optimal practically does not exist so yeah I'll leave it at that as my best skill manning of that argument great yeah I mean I actually agree with Milo I do I do like actually think that I do think optimal does exist but I do think that it's it's one of those things where one I don't think I don't think most people are actually pursuing optimal even if they say they are like it doesn't make much sense unless you are like a professional athlete and two I think that it is a moving target to the extent that it does exist where you know the the idea that like you you never wade through the same stream twice because time passes things change whatever that concept applies to training like whatever if you could find the training that was like a truly optimal today you do that training and then your body responds to it in some way and then that target of what is theoretically optimal will be slightly different for your next workout and so yeah I think I think even if you found optimal once there's no way you could stay like perfectly over the target but I am arguing pro here and I do think that I do think theoretically and practically optimal does exist which which is the statement here because you know for for any outcome you're interested in there is going to be some sort of dose response curve and they're never linear like they're they're always curvilinear in some way with some sort of like local maxima and even if it's like pseudo logarithmic where for one particular outcome you might be interested in it still seems to like trend up over time there will be there will be like countervailing forces that would on net begin to make something suboptimal past like a certain stimulus threshold so you know like like in theory if muscle protein synthesis kept increasing gradually forever as you added more volume while at some point you're going to be extending your recovery timeline so long that it becomes like a certain level of per session volume becomes suboptimal so I I do think you could theoretically define like a local maxima in any of those like dose response curves for any like stimulus and outcome of interest such that at least like theoretically optimal would exist in kind of all training domains one might be interested in but I do think you're going to have a hell of a time actually like finding it and staying over the target but that doesn't negate the I think high likelihood that optimal does in fact exist yeah I'll have to agree with you Greg on the the last statement and I think the the whole phrase of optimal doesn't exist is often in the same sort of category as the independence that we we often see and people just like to throw it as a as a way to dismiss approaching training from okay what's optimal given the circumstances of sort of perspective so I'll have to give you the win for this one and although yes we could argue that we haven't figured out exactly what's optimal and that may change over time as we update our our knowledge and so on and so forth I do think that there is an optimal approach and there's a suboptimal approach with some asterisks and some terms and conditions when it comes to gaining muscle and strength I'd just like to point out that since Greg started his statement by saying he agrees with me really I also won that's all that's all I heard from your adjudication hip-hop yes that's exactly what I meant and thank you for your kind donation Milo I got the email from PayPal I appreciate it so Milo has won actually I'm a good confused with who's who you both have beards you both have hair so yep Milo you know I'm I'm going to turn that around because in Milo's answer he actually conceded that optimal likely does exist but it's practically something that most people don't pursue and would be hard to find and that was what I was it was agreeing with I mean back to Greg it goes the statement didn't specify whether we were talking practically or theoretically you know so we argued different statements I suppose but I think that people are that is once again a categorical statement optimal doesn't exist that's that is like the the the literal denotation of optimal not practically optimal fair enough I I suppose I can concede that one moving along indeed another favorite statement of ours I guess everyone's different experiment and stick with what works for you arguing pro is Dr. Greg Knuckles not a real doctor not a doctor in any means and arguing against real doctor Dr. Milo Wolf uh yeah um so yes Dr. Greg Knuckles a doctor of love um so I am arguing the pro here and I do I do actually agree with this um both within the context of this round table and uh and in my real life um I will caveat this a little bit where I think if someone's completely untrained they have no experience they they don't know anything they haven't read anything I think that this is probably a terrible approach um because their experimentation will be very dumb and poorly directed and they don't know what they're doing and I think eventually they would land on something pretty decent but it's going to take a long time but I do think that for people who have a bit of training experience they uh have done some different styles of training programs and have observed how they respond to it um both both in terms of outcomes and just how they feel like what's um what's going to be something that is feasible and that they'll they'll enjoy doing and and get um get benefits from long term uh I do agree broadly with the statement that everyone's different and self experimentation is a way to find the best style of training for you um part of that just comes from experience um like I've I've been lifting for a long time I've trained with and around a lot of good lifters and um yeah like the the styles of training that people gravitate to can be extremely different um just like in a powerlifting context there are people who take like a fairly low volume like really  high-intensity approach. And then there are people that do more of a shaco-esque death-by-volume approach, and they tend to lead to, or they can lead to very similar outcomes. And then you talk to the lifter who does really high-volume training, and they're like, yeah, if I ramp the intensity up, I get hurt, I don't make progress, it's not good. You talk to the person who does the lower-volume high-intensity stuff, they're like, yeah, I've tried high-volume in the past, and it just does nothing for me, I just feel beat up, don't make any progress. And that's obviously anecdotal. But then when we look at the research, there's not as much as I would like in part because it would require within-subject unilateral designs or crossover studies, which have some just logistical constraints to running them, like we mostly see parallel group design studies that can't really tell you whether an individual responds better to one style of training or another. But the research that we have employing some of those study designs does hint at some of those things that I was talking about. So there was a 2016 paper by Jones and colleagues called a genetic-based algorithm for personalized resistance training. There would be too much here to really explain all of the methods, this is supposed to be short. But basically, they found people who seemed to be more endurance-type folks or more strength-power-type folks and trained them accordingly to what they assumed their genotyping was. And they found that the people who had more of an endurance-y genotype phenotype had better outcomes across the board. And several different tests, including strength and power tests, then when those same people were trained with lower volume, higher intensity, higher velocity stuff, and the opposite thing was observed in the other group, the more strength-power genotype folks did poorly when they did endurance-style workouts and vice versa when they did lower volume, higher intensity stuff. There was a paper by Hammerstrom looking at predictors of whether higher training volumes were going to benefit you. That used within subject unilateral design. They found that for some people, higher volumes didn't really do much for them. For other people, they did increase hypertrophy outcomes. The discriminating factors seemed to be whether they had an increase in ribosome biogenesis or not. But that's not something you're going to be able to measure for yourself. Practically, you would just experiment and say, hey, I'm going to ramp up volumes. Am I growing more? Yes or no? There is some evidence that for some people, the answer will be yes. For others, the answer will be no. And then my favorite study in this niche is by Carniero and colleagues, different load intensity transition schemes to avoid plateau, and no response in lean body mass in post-menopausal women. This one I particularly liked because it used an experimental manipulation that we know on average produces similar results. So that's high versus low load training, matched number of sets, training to failure. Plenty of evidence showing that on average, higher and lower loads tend to produce similar muscle growth if you do the same number of sets and take them to failure. But this is the only crossover study in that niche that I'm aware of where they trained people for like three months with low intensity training and then switched them to higher intensity training or three months with higher intensity training and then switched them to lower intensity training. And within subject, there were some enormous differences in gains in lean mass between those two approaches to training, which again, on average within this study produced similar outcomes on a group level. And also we see in a lot of other research on average produces similar outcomes. But that's something where if you just looked at the research and say, hey, these on average are the same, they're going to be the same for me. But then when we actually see that applied in practice, some of the people did way, way better with higher intensity training, some did way, way better with lower intensity training. And that does match my observations from being in the gym for a long time. And not only were there just like some outliers for which that applied where they did like way better with one versus the other, on average, there was like basically no correlation between the gains that people saw with one of those approaches versus the other. So, yeah, that's another thing that you're not going to be able to figure out what sort of intensity zone you respond best to without self experimentation. So, yeah, it matches my observations and in the scant amount of research that would help us look at this question, there are lots of hints that like the best style of training for individuals can differ quite a bit. And practically the only way you're going to be able to find that out for yourself is via self experimentation. All right. Now, Greg, I appreciate you citing research. And that's cool and all, but I'm going to go the complete opposite direction inside no studies whatsoever. But more so make a practical argument. So just as a reminder to a listener, the statement was everyone's different, experiment and stick with what works for you. There's kind of three parts to that statement. The first one is everyone's different. Technically, that is true. But by the nature of normal distributions in biological attributes, most people do wind up being pretty similar in how they respond to a lot of training variables, or at least they are likely to be. So while the statement that everyone's different does ring true, the degree to which it has a practical impact on your hypertrophy or your strength gains is likely relatively limited, at least for most people. The second part of that statement is to experiment. You can, but that is also practically difficult. So every human eventually passes away. You have finite time to experiment. And to determine cause and effect and therefore draw inferences as to what works better for you, you would need to test one variable over enough time to even detect a difference. Because you have limited time, that is difficult to impossible to do, at least for every variable out there, to the extent to which it will then improve your results meaningfully, I think. Just because you have finite time, you need a sufficient amount of time and manipulation of the target variable to really even cause a difference oftentimes, that is going to be very, very, very, very, very tricky practically speaking. The final part of that statement is what works for you. And that essentially comes down to how you measure the outcome of interest. And that gets tricky. There's a reason why in science we need larger samples to be able to detect an average effect and why we control for as many things as possible. And why we need oftentimes a sample size of say 30 to 50, depending on the type of design or more sometimes to have any reasonable amount of statistical power and be able to detect an effect reasonably reliably. That is because there's a lot of confounders that can influence the outcomes of interest. So first, let me touch on confounders. Let's assume that you are able to hold all other variables constant that could influence your outcome of interest. Let's say you're looking at your rate of muscle growth. And you are able to do the exact same exercises at the exact same time of day for weeks and weeks on end, the same rep ranges as close to failure, etc, etc. Let's assume you can do all that for a second, which is already a big jump, a big leap of faith, as I mentioned earlier. You would then need to manipulate only volume. Unfortunately, let's say you're looking at volume. Unfortunately, there's plenty of other things that aren't actually within your control. And so there's confounders that could be playing a much larger role than the variable of interest that you're looking to measure the impact of and see whether or not a certain approach works better than another. Let's say in the first six month period that you studied yourself during, you had super low stress, just because life was pretty, pretty good, you know, pretty sweet, low stress job, good sleep, etc. But during the second six month period, you suddenly had high stress for factors outside of your control. Maybe your podcast coho started arguing against you in a Bel Real format. Maybe your girlfriend broke up with you. Either way, there's things that can impact your hypertrophy with much larger impacts than the variable you're attempting to seek or test the impact of. All that to say, given that you have finite time and finite resources, and you're trying to measure the impact of variables that are playing a relatively small role, and there are more confounders that you could possibly really even realistically control for, many of which have a larger impact on the variable you're interested in, I don't think most people can really even assess whether one approach really worked better than another. And certainly not the impact of any single variable, like exercise selection, like repetition range, like frequency, like a given program even, given that a program has so many different parts that make up the whole, that you would be hard pressed to say, well, Shaco really worked for me because of the frequency. Could it be that you had lower stress? Yes. Could it be they had better sleep? Absolutely. Could it be that the variations really worked for you? Yes. There's just so many different things that could be causing the outcome of interest that you really don't have high power to detect what works better for you. Second, your method of measurement, while practically useful, i.e. am I getting bigger over time, is your outcome of interest. If you feel like you're bigger over time, that's all that really matters in the end, because that's what you care about, right? But that is also likely a measurement method that has a relatively large measurement error, and further reduces your ability to tell whether or not something really worked for you. Like one day I might feel pretty big. The next day I might feel a bit smaller. I think oftentimes the measurement methods that you have at your disposal, practically, have a relatively large measurement error. So all that to say, I think the barriers in place to just do what works for you, are just too large to really be practically relevant. And oftentimes people will end up at a multitude of false positive assumptions about their training and what really worked better for them. I think that honestly, and this is my most black-pilled take yet as a coach, I think that most people are best off starting somewhere that is on average going to work pretty well, make small deviations from there based on what their experience is. But I think the one, the process of trying to determine what works for you, is almost in futility for the most part, given all of these limitations and all of these barriers. And two, you're typically better off relegating the role of that process, if you're going to use it at all, to be relatively minor, and mostly stick with what seems to work on average pretty well. There's going to be cases where that's not possible. Let's say, for example, you really experience a ton of pain for an exercise, and that instantly restricts your ability to adhere to the other variables that you would like to. But for the most part, when it comes to non-experiential variables, like does higher volume cause more hypertrophy for you? Does 20 sets cause more hypertrophy for you than 18 sets per week? Those sorts of things, I'm inclined to rely more so on the scientific evidence than a very poorly managed attempt at telling what is better for you. Because ultimately, as much as we'd like to, I think we just don't have the means to really assortment. If I can push back against that a little bit, I saw one going back to the question. The statement was, everyone's different, experiment and stick with what works for you. It's not necessarily implying that you're testing every little variable and titrating the dose of every single variable to find necessarily the absolute local maxima of every potential dose response curve there. It is more generally find what works for you, not necessarily trying to find optimal in every little single variable. That does open things up quite a bit because I think a latent assumption in your statement was that you would be testing things that would have relatively small differences and therefore it would be difficult to measure and ascertain whether you're actually seeing differences over time. That's part of what I was getting at with some of the research I cited. Things that on average you would expect to have similar effects or you would expect differences to be relatively small on a group level do not infrequently lead to pretty large differences in outcomes on an individual level to an extent that would be measurable and easily noticeable over pretty reasonable time spans. Also, you don't necessarily need to go about setting this up the way you would like an N of one case study in the literature where you're tweaking little things and you're trying to achieve like marginal statistical significance for every outcome of interest which would require you to like just tweak one variable at a time and you know just like tinker sort of and hope you're heading in the right direction. Practically, there are sort of archetypes of training I guess you could say that have worked for a lot of people over time and I think that someone could pretty easily train with one style for six months, train with another very different style where you're changing a lot of variables for another six months, repeat the process a couple more times and from that get like a pretty good idea of kind of big picture what style of training agrees best with them and leads to generally positive outcomes and from there if they want to start like the more minute tinkering process they could but I think you can do a reasonable amount of self experimentation and find the style of training that does work for you pretty well. And yeah, yeah, I think that you were thinking, I think you addressed that question as a scientist would, where like if you were trying to set up a study that would pass peer review and say like for this person increasing volume 50% affected their gains by this much well how are we going to like define our minimal detectable difference or whatever like a lot of that stuff is just out the window when you're dealing with like a practical training situation, I think. Sure, I'll give a couple points just in rebuttal and then we can wrap this up provided Greg is happy with that. So for me, just to point your own sword back at you, I did see this as a categorical statement that hey, experimenting and sticking with what works for you is always the best approach because everyone is always different to a meaningful extent I guess. To me, like given all the limitations I mentioned, you cannot most of the time even if you think you know it works better, you actually don't. The rate of false positive errors in that inference making process on individual level is so large that more often than not I suspect people are misguided and actually end up training less effectively through doing this process, especially when it involves like large adjustments. So you mentioned for example, comparing two relatively radically different programs over six month periods. That is one way of arriving at a conclusion that is going to be more true more often than before, just because you're comparing two very different approaches that encompass multiple variables etc. Essentially the impact becomes larger than if you just looked at the impact of one variable. The issue with that approach is that one, it would typically yield a lot of time spent training what is likely to be suboptimal, then if you just took what is like a middle of the road approach that is likely to be affected from the gecko. So it doesn't technically get you closer to what works for you, then if you just started with what works for most people on average is my suspicion there. It also doesn't get you any closer necessarily to understanding what variable specifically responded better to, and so you still don't really know what works better for you. We have like a very nebulous understanding of it, but I think that understanding is as nebulous or even worse than if you just went off of averages to begin with. So yeah, I don't know, maybe I'm black-pilled, maybe Greg is very white-pilled, maybe we've just been forced to take these stances against our wills, but yeah, that's basically my stance. The reason I say that it can be useful to go very different ways, but with sort of like archetypes of programs that have been effective for a lot of people is that like programs are, I would say like holistic emergent entities that aren't reducible to just the mix of training variables in them in a vacuum where, you know, like for instance, really high intensity programs like dog crap for instance, where you're training to or past failure on every set, like they tend to be like lower frequency programs because the people that train like that and find that it works for them do generally fine. They're like, hey, this is producing good results, but like my frequency can't be that high, whereas if you just looked at those two variables in a vacuum and said, hey, what is like on average the optimal proximity to failure, and what is on average the optimal frequency, you know, you wouldn't necessarily arrive at like that same conclusion where you'd say, hey, I'm going to train past failure, but like relatively low frequency. Like those are two variables that like don't just exist in a vacuum, they do have like a correspondence to each other, and with like archetypal programming approaches, they do tend to have like a pre curated set of all of those variables that work synergistically rather than just kind of like looking to see on average, like where each variable in isolation tends to produce optimal results. And I think that, yeah, I think that can be helpful for narrowing down like a style of training that works well for people. And like I said, just practically like the the high level lifters, I know there are some commonalities in their training, but in a lot of cases, training does look very different. And if you talk to those people, they will say like, yeah, I gave this other like popular style of training that does really well for a lot of people like a really honest shot, like I was grinding away at it for like two years and then didn't get shit out of it. And then I changed things quite a bit and put like 50 pounds on my squat, you know, like, and that's that's what I was getting at with like within an individual differences and responses for variables that like on average on a group level would produce no or very small differences within an individual that it does, like, like differences are often quite a bit larger, like, you know, trying to trying to avoid the old fallacy of composition. Yeah, just to respond to the last one. Differences that are large on an individual level don't necessarily have to be attributable to the intervention that you gave them. Like I think if anything, if you've ever, and Greg, you've done this multiple times, so I'm speaking more so for a listener now. If you ever look at individual data from a study, where you essentially just have the averages reported and you see the average change pre-to-post, and you look at average changes. Sorry, if you look at individual changes for individual subjects in that study, it's not uncommon to see much larger or much smaller changes. But those can entirely be, could entirely be measurement error, biological variance, or a number of other things that could be causing the change within one single person. And even when you're describing, say, a pile of those trained for two years with one approach, and then switched to another and saw better gains, at least a scientist within me is compelled to say that still doesn't really give us much confidence in the fact that one program works categorically better for the individual. It could just be a number of confounders that often have a larger impact on progress than the exact training program. And then like, as far as inference making capabilities goes, that comparison's also somewhat unhelpful even for the individual. Like, does that mean that if you've compared Chico to say small off, and you're like, oh, Chico gave me better gains, the only strong inference, and even not that strong, based on what I just said, that you're able to make is, hey, Chico might work better for me than small off. But that doesn't really tell you all that much typically, or at least not enough to really, I don't know, I'm just skeptical, I guess. I'll leave it at that, as opposed to rambling over the same points over and over again. Yeah, I mean, I think this does go back to something we've talked about on the podcast before, where I think the scientist hat and the coach hat need to be a little bit different, where with, like in science, your kind of prime directive is to avoid false positives, like that's sort of what everything is built around. Whereas in the gym, the cost of false positives and false negatives are often equal, you know, like you don't want to overlook something that could give you better results. But you also don't want to get seduced by something that gives you worse results, but you thought it was giving you better results. But those two considerations are relatively balanced, whereas in the literature, we don't want to be building a pile of false positives that provides a shaky foundation for further investigation. And what I would say is that to the extent that false positives exist in a self experimentation context, I think what is much more likely is that two things are both generally fine and produce generally good results, and you make the false inference that one is meaningfully better than the other. Because ultimately, you're making the inference on and going back to the question, experiment and find what works. You're not going to try something, go backwards and come come away with like the inference that like, oh, yeah, this worked for me, you know, like, and, you know, it might be difficult to isolate like the precise variables that did make something work versus not work. But like through that self experimentation process, you are like you are going to wind up settling on things that did generally produce positive results. And you might wind up with faulty inferences about thing a working better than thing B when thing a and B would both be similarly effective. But you're not settling on thing a if thing a isn't producing positive results. Yeah, a little long one in it. But on that on that note, what I'll say is I get where I get where both of you are coming from. But I think the idea so I think most people when when they see this statement, and the way they approach it is they approach it from the get go from the initial setup of the training program, or nutritional approach, where they don't say, okay, let me look at what generally works for everyone, and then make small adjustments while testing, you know, things like frequency exercise selection and so on and so forth, and then see what fits my preference schedule and whatever better. But in some cases, the first step is to say, okay, what do I think works best for me based on, you know, assumptions and maybe personal preference from what they've seen, or even things like their gym circle. Like we saw that quite a bit now with the reemergence of high intensity training, very low volume, high intensity training that was again popularized and you got a lot of people saying, yep, this this is what works best for me after trying it for for a few months. So although yes, experimenting with what you may think you're responding to best in the long term is part of having an evidence based approach to training. There are still some basic things that if you're deviating a lot from, it's likely that you may not be getting the most out of your training. And it's likely that you may think they work best for their wrong reasons rather because they actually work best. Because if we look specifically at resistance training for muscle growth and strength, I mean, let's just say for muscle growth, for the example, over time, if you are engaging consistently in resistance training, it's likely that you're going to be gaining muscle mass anyways, or you're going to be making some gains. So being able to know whether that was because you did sets of three or five, five to eight reps or 10 to 12 reps or whatever is difficult. So although I do semi agree with what you said, Greg, I do feel that Milo stands takes the doubly you hear overall. But you argued for this from a very sort of, you argued for it in the best way possible. And you argued for something slightly different than what the statement was intended to be, if that makes sense, not in a negative way and actually a very positive way. But usually, this statement is thrown in a way to dismiss that we can know what works on average and that, hey, you can never know what works, man, like higher reps and a palm far away from failure. Yep, that worked great for me. I saw it, it worked great. It doesn't matter what the sign says, everybody's different. You just need to just do a bunch of stuff and see what sticks. But so yeah, that's me. I'm sorry. Now I feel bad because you're not smiling. I'll give it to you now. Two wins for Greg for this one minus five wins for Milo. No, no, you can give it to Milo. I understand that you want to butter up the next adjudicator and how's that for a transition game. As the adjudicator for this next topic, the topic is science is just confirming what bodybuilders have known for decades, arguing for we have Greg and arguing against we have pack. Greg, floor is yours. All right, just a little peek behind the curtain for the listener. This is my second attempt at trying to answer this because I accidentally started by arguing the anti, which is my actual position here, but whatever, pro. Yeah, let's do this. I think if you look at the characteristics of effective training that we have and not just little details that seem like maybe we can optimize this little thing here or there, but the big rocks. So how frequently do you train? How many, how much volume are you doing? How close to failure are you training? All of these things. When you look back at the history of the iron game, it's very rare to find a successful bodybuilders training in manners that would be considerably far outside what science has now confirmed or supported to be effective training. And it's rare to find styles of training, gaining in prominence that  again, looking back, we wouldn't now consider to be generally effective training. You know, there have been fads that have come and gone, so there was the high-intensity training era where sometimes things did get a little bit wacky, but that was mostly in consumer publications where people were saying, oh, only train a muscle once every two weeks or whatever. That's gonna be optimal, but when you look at the bodybuilders that were actually successful doing high-intensity training, like Mike Mincer, for instance, his overall volume per muscle group and overall training frequency were what we would consider today to be maybe a little bit on the low side, but still within the range of what we would believe to be scientifically optimal. And the same is true of when we look back at people who promoted really high volumes. You know, the classic, was it Haney, Rambod, whatever, the like eight by eight approach to training, doing that a couple times per muscle group per week, that was considered really high volume training at the time, and a lot of sciencey people looked at that and were like, ah, that's too much. The evidence doesn't support this, but in the decades since, there's now more research on higher volume approaches to training and science has confirmed that, hey, those bodybuilders back in the day, they were onto something. That training is effective and actually are nerd forefathers in the 80s and 90s that thought that that volume was way too high. They in fact were wrong. Similar is true with low volume training or low intensity training, I mean. So kind of pump sets of 20 or 30 were used by bodybuilders very effectively for a long time during an era when researchers thought, again, that training needed to clear a certain intensity threshold for it to be effective at promoting hypertrophy. It really wasn't until, God, probably within the last 15 years that data started coming out consistently showing that training with low intensity, like sets of 20, 30 plus, could be just as effective as higher intensity training for promoting muscle growth. These days, like really for the past like decade or so, that's just taken as a fact that basically everyone more or less agrees with, but the bodybuilders were well ahead of the researchers on that one as well. They'd been training like that for a long time. They said it worked. The nerd said they were wrong and it turns out the bodybuilders were right. So, you know, I'm sure when you look back at the history of bodybuilding, there have been a lot of training practices that now we would recognize as like suboptimal or they thought that things would make a positive difference that turns out probably doesn't have much of an effect. But I think if you look at the corpus of accumulated wisdom within the bodybuilding community, you tend to see training practices that research now suggests are quite effective and in a lot of cases that predated the science confirming their effectiveness by multiple decades. Cool. So, I'll argue against this by saying that although what you just mentioned is true, there are things that have been, that the bodybuilders did first and then were confirmed by science later when it comes to exercise science specifically. Exercise science is still in its somewhat infancy and it's just so happened that the bodybuilders and people are engaging in sort of lifting were there before the science just because it happened to be that way. However, there are many instances. So, we had the bodybuilders who because they didn't have any science to rely on, they were operating on a sort of, let's throw stuff at the wall and see what sticks while also somewhat consuming whatever science was there back in the day. Even Mike Menser was considered, you know, because he was, what was he? Not a doctor, medical doc, he was like something in medicine. Medical student, I think. Yeah, so you'd get some bodybuilders and some experts back in the day using whatever little bit of science existed to make big leaps of faith. And then you had a case of let's throw stuff at the wall and see what sticks. You see how I avoided the word there? Shit. And, hey, but in reality, there's so many things that bodybuilders used to do back in the day that they swore by that then science actually showed that was wrong. And overall science is used in order to confirm whether those hunters or those practices that bodybuilders had back in the day actually hold much ground, if any at all. So the idea that, oh yeah, the science is behind because it just so happened that the three things that came out to be true were done by bodybuilders. In some cases, take volume, for example, a bunch of bodybuilders actually, you know, where for the exact opposite of what science showed to be true, while others were pro that. And in the case of lifting specifically, given the fact that we're not talking about rocket science in some cases here, yes, bodybuilders were proven right in the sense that lifting very close to failure is good for muscle growth or, you know, the couple of things that they said that did indeed turn out to be true. But we have many examples from nutrition all the way to training where bodybuilding practices that were famous back in the day did end up being shown as not that great. And you had people like Phil Heath and a ton of bodybuilders, especially in like the mid tens that were pro stimulate, don't annihilate, it's going staying far away from failure, focusing on the pump, avoiding carbs, higher reps for cutting, single sets being the best, going well beyond failure on everything and doing super sets as a way to actually enhance muscle growth regardless of the time efficiency point and so on and so forth. So overall, I do not think that the science is just confirming what bodybuilders have known for decades. Science is looking to find the answers behind why, the why of muscle growth and how to achieve maximum muscle growth and so on and so forth. And it just so happened that bodybuilders were pursuing that before science existed there. So some things will align, but the scientists are not merely trying to confirm what they did. Bodybuilders and their practical wisdom does have an influence on the science, especially like our research for example, is very practically driven in the sense that we will try and see, okay, does X, Y and Z actually, is that actually the case? So yeah, not completely discrediting them, but I do not agree with the statement that science is just confirming what the bodybuilders have known. If I can just get one more word in before Milo adjudicates this, I actually in point of fact agree wholeheartedly with PAC's position. I think that, outside of the context of this stage debate, like my actual beliefs, I think that this perception is not entirely, not entirely, but is to large extent, just kind of an outcome of survivorship bias, where a lot of bodybuilders have trained a lot of different ways, and they've said a lot of different stuff, and then science confirms something, and it's very easy to look back and say, oh yeah, like people are saying this in the 60s, people are saying this in the 80s, because there is such an enormous volume and variety of statements made and training approaches that people have done over the years, such that it's virtually guaranteed that whatever science finds now, someone said a while ago, was it a popular statement at the time? Was it the way that most people were trained at the time? Sometimes it was, sometimes it wasn't, but it is a little bit of like survivorship bias, where you can cherry pick instances of bodybuilders saying things that agree with just about any scientific interpretation. Even when people are doing a piss-poor job of interpreting science and just cherry picking and coming to very inappropriate and incorrect scientific interpretations, guess what? There's quotes from bodybuilders from decades ago to back that shit up too, because you can find bodybuilding approaches or powerlifting approaches or training approaches that someone has found success with or someone has promoted to appear to validate just about any way that you wanna train. It reminds me a little bit of people that claim to be like prophets or to see the future or whatnot, like Nostradamus, you make enough predictions. Respect. And some of them are gonna be right. Or like a modern example. There's a lot of, like a popular meme in certain segments of the internet is like hashtag Alex Jones was right, because like he's had some correct predictions. But the people saying that, I guarantee you, they don't actually listen to Infowars. Shout out the podcast Knowledge Fight for anyone who just wants to listen to goings on in Alex Jones world. But like a recent example is he predicted that Joe Biden would drop out of the presidential election on July 20th. He in fact dropped out on the 21st, but that's close enough. But when Alex predicted that he'd drop out on the 20th, he said, and the next thing is they're going to New Chicago. And like people might remember the prediction that Joe Biden will drop out on the 20th, but we'll see if the prediction of, and the next thing they'll do is New Chicago comes true. I suspect that it won't. But yeah, yeah, I do, I don't think that that like fully explains it. I do think that a lot of just like collective experience with lifting has led a lot of like gym wisdom to converge on training approaches that are like pretty good. But I do think that the understanding that bodybuilders have like known all of this and it was like super well understood and blah, blah, blah for decades. I do think a lot of that is just kind of like cherry picking because there are, there's so many things you could use to say like, oh, bodybuilders have always believed this or bodybuilders have always not believed this. Like you could support anything just because the corpus that you can draw from is so great. That was cool that you use the profit or whatever, an astronomers analogy. I wanted to use something similar, but I was like, I'm not sure if, cause I was thinking of a Bulgarian blind lady who was predicting stuff, Babavanga, Pagna, shout out, shout out and male, shout out Todor. But turns out she was working with like the Soviet Union Intelligent Intelligence Agency. So she was actually like evidence based when it came to her predictions. But yeah, Nostradamus or whatever, as you said, but imagine the New York Chicago, I'll say it will happen just so we're covered as a podcast and they don't call us like the fake news podcast. So Chicago people, please make your way out. And yeah, hope you're safe. All right, as the adjudicator, you both win because Greg jumped ship at the last minute and therefore you both win. I will say the statement was a bit rigged against the person arguing for it because science is just confirming what a bodybuilder has known for decades. Implies that is literally all science is doing and that bodybuilders have known everything science has come up with, quote unquote. And that is very difficult to substantiate as a claim. So Greg, you win this one, pack by extension, you win this one. Yeah, and yeah, I do think that a key word there is just known because like, yeah, that does imply that what science is finding now were like previously like monolithic beliefs. Like people, it's not just that like, you could find people saying these things, but like bodybuilders knew this stuff. It was like, you know, kind of established. And yeah, like not just like these ideas were floating around but like this was a knowledge, like treated as knowledge within the community. And like, yeah, I think that that's getting like way out over your skis. I don't think you can really back that up. All right, I think that wraps up all of the statements and debates we had come up with, but there are a couple of user submitted takes or rather, rather listener submitted takes. And specifically we've picked one from Facebook and one from Reddit to argue for and against. So Greg, I believe you're the adjudicator on the first one from Facebook. Yes, sir. So Andre Bill Brow says, the pump is a useful guide when auto regulating training, arguing the pro here is PAC and the anti is Milo. Oh boy. Yeah, so when auto regulating training, so I assume what the user means is that when you're getting a pump, when you're not getting a pump, then you are adjusting based on that or you're adjusting based on the pump, which I guess is a bit of a tricky one. So to argue pro now, when it comes to the mechanisms of hypertrophy and metabolic stress, although we don't know a whole lot, there is a chance out there that the pump does indeed play a role in some shape or form in muscle growth. Now, without that meaning, it is the most important thing ever, but hey, however, after that, we're gonna go creative on this one. Arnold Schwarzenegger, okay, Greg. I don't see any Olympia trophies there. I don't see pumping iron. Last I checked you were in the governor of California and you don't have such a cool last name. So he said that the pump is like ejaculating. And if you are not having this godly feeling in the gym multiple times a week when you could by making adjustments to your training, your training is arguably much less enjoyable and therefore you're less likely to adhere to it and therefore you're gonna make less gains and therefore not getting a pump is killing your gains. You got science. So that will be my stance just to switch it up a bit here and let's see what you bring to the table. I think that people are with me on this one. I like how we switched from mental gymnastics to parkour with the Leaps of Faith now. Yeah, and I also dressed, I dressed, I dressed Greg instead of you, my bad, sorry. I meant Milo where your Olympia titles, sorry Greg, you got some of the strays there. You were the referee trying to stop us. I was throwing punches left and right, a couple of hits you, my bad. It's all good, it's all good. All right, let me take the loser stance of actually looking at the research. People often make the claim that the pump is related to muscle hypertrophy and there's a few layers to untangle there I would say. The first is what evidence do we have for the pump being predictive of muscle growth? We can argue at length and we'll probably do so in an upcoming article about the world of muscle swelling for hypertrophy, but practically speaking, do we have a strong indication that the degree to which you experience a pump during a lockout is predictive of hypertrophy? And the answer is kind of. Specifically, we have two studies by Hirono and colleagues and by Odo and colleagues looking at the effect of a workout on muscle swelling as measured by ultrasound and then repeating that workout for a period of six to 10 weeks and seeing whether or not the amount of swelling experienced during that first workout is then associated meaningfully with the amount of hypertrophy seen from those six to 10 weeks of training with that exercise with the same protocol. And in both of those studies, they did observe a significant correlation ranging from about 0.4 to about 0.7 if I recall correctly, depending on the muscle group being looked at, which does suggest that all of us being equal, you experiencing a pump probably means something with regards to experiencing hypertrophy, but there is a few assumptions baked into that that lead me to think that the pump is not a good way to auto-regulate training because we have better options out there to guide our training decisions. One, in these studies, they didn't ask people how much of a pump they felt they measured muscle swelling via ultrasound. Essentially, they measured the thickness of the muscles being trained before the workout and after the workout and saw how much of an increase there was. Now, that is very different from asking someone, hey, how pumped do your insert muscles feel right now? Because until we had evidence confirming that the two are reasonably equivalent in that they both are, in that your rating of your pump is actually closely related to how much of a muscle swelling response there is. Until we have that, you're making one big leap of faith. There's a good chance that your experience of the pump is impacted by a variety of things, and thus your perception of pump isn't perfectly predictive of how much muscle swelling there actually is, and therefore how predictive of hypertrophy your perception of the pump is, remains quite questionable at this point. Why is that important? Well, for one, even when you measure muscle swelling, the correlation's not super strong. So at the very least, you can't argue that the pump is the only thing you should go by. And I think a relatively few people are making that claim, but it's worth pointing out that the correlation's only between around 0.4 to 0.7. So even if you were to rely on the pump, it wouldn't always predict hypertrophy all that well. The second thing is, I think, and this goes back to our early discussion, there are simply much better things to rely upon to make training decisions, or at least at the get go. So when I first established training program, it'll generally be in consideration of two things. One, what the evidence on the topic says seems to be quite effective for hypertrophy, and two, individual factors. From there, you can certainly all regulate, but I don't think the pump is the most effective way to go about it. Specifically, when it comes to hypertrophy, for example, which I'm assuming this is what it's in context of, things like your recovery, which can be gauged more simply via your performance week to week, are going to be a better way, I think, to auto-regulate, because if you can recover pretty well week to week, and you're doing relatively moderate volumes, and you have the time to do more, you should probably do more volume, as the evidence out there generally suggests that up to maybe 20 to 30 sets per week per muscle, you probably see more hypertrophy. Importantly, I also think that with only two studies linking the pump to hypertrophy, and by the way, again, that's the pump measured by ultrasound. You are not an ultrasound machine, so that is one limitation. But with this only being two studies, I do think there is the room for a lot of, a lot of making mistakes when relying on the pump. For example, I get my best pump after around two to three sets per muscle, and this is an example, and I think it's somewhat illustrative of a broader point. If I get my best pump after two to three sets per muscle, does that mean that by relying on the pump, I should stop my workout for that muscle there? I personally don't think so. I think the evidence directly looking at volume and hypertrophy is a far stronger rationale for guiding how many sets I should do than the pump, with there being only two studies linking muscle swelling to hypertrophy. All I have to say, I think the evidence is premature, well, rather, the decision to use the pump to guide training is premature given the evidence, and there's a number of sort of assumptions that remain to be verified, and until they are, I think there are better things to rely upon, read the empirical evidence, and looking at performance as a proxy for recovery. So yeah, that is essentially it, and so I don't think the pump is a useful guide on auto-regulating training currently, or at least it's not one of the ones I would look to personally. Yeah, I got to give it to Milo on this one, and that is not due to a lack of verbal pugilistic skills on PACS part, but I just think Milo easily had the more easily defensible position here. Yeah, to make a strong case for, it sure would be nice to have some actual direct positive confirmatory evidence that it's a useful predictor, and that doesn't exist. So if this is at all an evidence-based podcast, the statement wasn't a negative, it wasn't the pump is not a useful guide when auto-regulating training, for that you would, in fact, need evidence of absence, but since the statement was phrased positively, it is a positive predictor, in absence of evidence is sufficient to say, yeah, we don't have evidence, we don't have strong reason to believe that it is a useful guide. So yeah, yeah, I give it to Milo because that was the position that was always going to win, I think. I took offense when Milo said that we're not an ultrasound, because last I checked, I was, but that aside, we have a review coming up, looking at acute proxies that could potentially predict muscle hyperachrypathy, fun fact in the works, pre-printed in the next few months or so. So the listener doesn't think we're just joking around here. Yeah, no, I mean, you can just put your mouth around someone's muscle and yell, and put your tongue on it and kind of gauge how long it takes for the vibrations to come back. Like you can, I mean, I don't know if you can, but like I have a lot of experience doing that, so I'm quite good at assessing muscle thickness via sound waves, but yeah, you know, it takes some getting used to. It's an advanced scientific technique. That would be an awesome video, that would be awesome YouTube prank video where you go in a gym dress as a scientist and you actually like ask people if you could touch their bicep with your tongue and you go like, yep, great, really good choice. You know, do you remember, I don't know if this made it across the pond, but there was a kid who was like on TV in the US, God, maybe 15, 20 years ago. It was a good while ago at this point, but it was someone who was born blind and had learned to do echolocation. Like he'd kind of like click and could roughly tell his surroundings from that, sort of like a bat. I've done no follow up on this. I think it was legit. I think it was like Dateline or 2020, some like legitimate news broadcast. It wasn't just on like a conspiracy theory YouTube channel or something, but yeah, like if that's legit, maybe it is possible that humans could be an ultrasound, but I think, yeah, practically most of us not at this time. Okay, on to the last topic for this episode. So, Niedelsor from Reddit says, the overhead press is the one true show of pressing strength and the bench should be relegated to accessory work. I mean, that's just a fact so we can skip it. And on to the Q and A. Just kidding. All right, arguing pro is Greg and arguing against is my law. Greg, the floor is yours. Sure, yeah, so this one is like pretty self evidently true. There's a sport called Strongman, and they have a show called World's Strongest Man. So you would think that the one true show of pressing strength would be included in this competition for it to credibly call itself World's Strongest Man. And guess what? There's an overhead event every year. Sometimes it's a stricter press, sometimes it's for reps, sometimes it's log, sometimes it's axle, but you're always putting something over your head. I think there may have been like one bench pressy type event back in like the 80s, like during the Kazmire era potentially, but it's not a mainstay. And yeah, yeah, so that's piece of evidence number one. Number two, going a level deeper. Who is the greatest strongman of all time? There's only one answer to this question. I'm sure people listening who started paying attention to strength sports within the last five to seven years will be like, oh, it's Brian Shaw. Oh, it's Eddie Hall. Oh, it's Thor. And I would just say you are your children. You weren't, you have no sense of history of the sport. The clear answer is Big Z, Zedruna Sevicus. And there's really no, there's no debate that anyone else should be in that conversation. He's won the most international shows. Like he has 80 international wins. Second place is Marius Puginowski with 43. Between the two most prestigious shows, World's Strongest Man and the Arnold Classic, Big Z has like a total of 15 wins. Second place is Brian Shaw with seven. Like it's Big Z all the way. And what was his best type of event? Overhead. He held, I think he held the log record for a while, though that may have been Mike Bibby. I don't remember that for sure. He definitely held the axle record. And yeah, if Big Z was in a show and there was an overhead event, he was going to win it almost all the time. So not only does the World's Strongest Man compete on the overhead press, but not the bench. Also, the best strongman was particularly dominant on overhead press. And how do most strongman train bench if they do as an accessory lift? Exactly, just like the statement implies. So it's clear, overhead, true show of pressing strength, bench should be relegated to accessory work. And like a slightly more serious argument, I guess. You can't really, like, I do think people get a little tube in out of shape about people taking really wide grips on the bench and a big arch. I think in these situations where that does like dramatically influence how much someone can bench, it's mostly lightweight lifters who are like hyper flexible. I think for middle weights and above, if you try to do that, your arms are still just long enough that you have a decent bench stroke. And even if you bench flat back, maybe it takes some weight off the bar, whatever. Like it's still fairly representative. But there's none of that with the overhead press. Like people can freak out about leaning back or whatnot, but the bar is still starting on your chest.  and you do finish with it all the way overhead. It is like a more standardized range of motion. You can't cut quite as much. And so, yeah, I think it's... I do unironically think that it's a better demonstration of pure pressing strength, and there's also the meme answer about Strongman and Big Z. So that is the pro case. Right. Time to argue. For something I don't believe, or against something I do believe. So, you mentioned bench being easy to cheat and people having grievances about that. Well, what you might not know, or Greg, you could do know, but the listener might not, is that the overhead press was actually removed from Olympic weightlifting as a sport because of how difficult it was to judge technique on it. So people complaining about variance in bench press technique making the lift easier. Just so you know, the overhead press, or rather the clean-and-press, was removed from the sport of Olympic weightlifting because of how difficult it became to judge appropriate technique on the press. And if anything, I actually think it's probably easier to cheat an overhead press than it is to cheat a bench for a lot of people. We've all been there trying to... Oh, I pressed two plates, or what have you. Using a bit of light drive. Is it cheating? Probably. Can you hide it? Probably can. And that's probably what led, in large part, to the clean-and-press being removed from weightlifting games. So that's one argument. Then if you look at strength, what is strength defined as? Strength defined as the quality or state of being physically strong. In my opinion, that kind of refers to the whole body. Like I think, for a lift to represent true strength, it would need to be sufficiently representative of the whole body. You can argue that the overhead press involves your core musculature and your legs to an extent. I think their involvement is relatively minimal. And if you just look at the primary movers of the overhead press versus the bench press, I think the bench press involves a greater total amount of musculature, with the pecs being more heavily involved. Greg is making a face. I believe we have a disagreement. Greg, why don't you jump in? Yeah, my counter argument to that is get good at both, and come back and tell me. Yeah, I mean, technically you are tensing your whole body for a bench press. Yeah, even just upper back and shoulder girdle musculature involved in stabilizing the overhead press. It's no contest. Counterpoint. It's been claimed that lat pulldowns help you bench more. So clearly the back is involved. Do you have an article about that, Greg? I do. And yeah, no. I mean, come on. Neither of us believe this. Oh, the other thing I was going to say is you were noting about judging characteristics. The question doesn't say the strict overhead press. So that encompasses a larger variety of things, all of which start with bar on your chest. Got to get it all the way overhead. All right, then let's talk about the decline bench press, where you can lift substantially more than no bed press, and really how strong your is defined entirely by how much weight is on that bar. So really, which lift truly exemplifies strength, the decline bench press? Slap on as many places as you can and you're strong. I think it's the sharded five board press. Yeah, that's true. That's true. Especially for those that don't know, you show up in a commercial gym with five dudes all weighing above 400 pounds, helping you get in the thing, your bending bars, you're getting severely injured and getting carried out in a stretcher. It's absolute scenes. Nobody is going to doubt that you're a strong man. Or woman. I will say, I do love sharded bench. I've never done it, but just as a spectator sport, like I think multiply lifting looks silly on video. Like when I watch meet clips of new records, I'm like this, it aesthetically looks a little silly. But when you are in the same room as someone doing like a 1200 pound equipped squat or like 1000 pound equipped bench, it is like one, just the size of the weights on the bar compared to the human is just like, holy shit, it's crazy. You can like see even on like the thick power bars, like the really like rapid isolation or oscillations compared to like the amount of weight on the bar and they have to control it and move it even with the addition of equipment. It like it's fucking crazy. And like just it is it is like a life or death situation. Like there is tension in the air that you can cut with a knife. So it is, I do, I do think like a kind of silly sport, but also it is it is one of those things that is like incredibly impressive in person, but not as impressive as surge, readying strict pressing 500 pounds and doing it clean and I'll XA of that dirty cheater going back to it being difficult to judge. Absolutely use some leg drive absolutely unlocked his knees. That should not have counted surge, readying strict press goat for all time. And I will I will take that to my grave. And also Milo Wolf and pack strict pressing 225. Strict. That's very solid. Hell yeah. How about you Greg? What's your best OHP? 275. 275. Yeah, but on PDs clearly. Nice try. Not not anymore. That that that was a while ago, but 125. That's that's crazy. That's solid. Yeah, I, uh, I always wanted to get 315, but I've got AI've got a jank shoulder. Just yeah, it's a long story, but whatever. But that's that's when it made it clear to me that like, ah, this this is enough. This is enough. I said, okay, that's fine. I can I can live with that. Awesome. Pack the suspense is killing me. Who won? That's true. I'll I'll I'll give it to Greg because I love overhead press and by stopped listening when you start talking because I'm so biased for the overhead press. I don't do any benching. It's the great, greatest exercise known to mankind. So Greg Nuggets, ladies and gentlemen, the winner of this, I think spiritually big Z one. We can count this as his 81st major title. We saw big Z in Sheffield, last Sheffield, and yeah, he's still pretty big and Z as well. He's he's such a monster. I do like, I do think it's unfortunate that, um, like he was on his decline right when like Instagram and like visual social media was like really starting to take off. And yeah, I think I I and I mean, also he doesn't give that many interviews. He never really seemed that interested in trying to become like famous or whatever. And I do think it's a bummer because yeah, all of the kids on the internet who have like really, really like hard positions on one of like the not even like modern strongman, like I don't even see that many people talking about like the Stoltman brothers, for instance. I think in part because they're a bit less media savvy than like Thor or Eddie Hall were, but yeah, yeah, they're like not even to be like that much of like an old head because big Z's best year was probably like 2014. And that wasn't that long ago. But yeah, man, he was he was incredible. All right, so I think that does it for this second Stronger by Science Battle Royale episode. I think it went well again. At least I had fun recording it. I hope all of you out there listening did as well. If you did, if you didn't join the Facebook group and or subreddit, let us know. And the next time we do a battle Royale or a Q&A episode, you can you can join in the fund there. So yeah, thanks. Thanks for listening. We'll talk to you again in another Fortnite. And until then, stay big, stay strong, enjoy your overhead pressing, enjoy reading studies on beginners and assuming that they probably generalize fairly well to people with more experience. You know, keep doing your stable exercises for building muscle with the understanding that that encompasses most normal exercises that people would do. And yeah, all of that good stuff. And until then, we'll talk to you soon. All right, bye. you

=== FILE: Does Gaining Muscle Really BOOST Your Metabolism？ [CrqCrlmg9yo].txt ===

 unreasonable. If you look over the Internet, you'll commonly hear the claim that muscle burns way more energy than fat, which is why athletes burn way more calories, even at rest, than regular But it isn't really because of muscle. Let me explain. Your bas spl metabolic rate, or BMR, tells us how much energy your body burns to just keep the lights on. It's the energy used to power the basic functions of your vital organs to accomplish sufficient protein and cell turnover to keep your tissues functioning properly and more. If you didn't leave your bed all day and didn't move a muscle, your basal metabolic rate is the amount of energy you'd still burn in a day. You can view your basal metabolic rate as a simple sum of all the tissues in your body or like a household's expenses. Different members of the family spend different amounts of money. But when you add everyone's expenses up, you get your basal metabolic rate. People commonly claim that muscle is highly metabolic reactive. But is that even true? You may have heard that muscle tissue is three times as metabolic reactive as fat tissue. And that is true. Skeletal muscle tissue has a basal metabolic rate per kilogram of tissue of 13 calories per kilogram. On the other hand, adipose tissue, or fat, has a basal metabolic rate of only 4.5 calories per kilogram. However, both of these tissues are actually relatively metabolically inactive. Here's a table of the basal metabolic rate by organ for an 80 kilogram meal. Do you notice anything? That's right. Both muscle and adipose tissue are some of the most metabolically inactive tissues in the body. Just to give you an idea of how metabolically inactive your muscle is, compared to many organs, the basal metabolic rate of muscle is between round 15 to 30 times lower compared to organs. Most of your BMR is actually determined by your high metabolic rate organs. So then, why do people claim that muscle plays a huge part in metabolism? Because it kind of does. While the BMR of a kilogram of muscle is pretty low, we simply carry more skeletal muscle weight than any other organs, like your liver, brain, or your heart. However, sedentary people with high fat free mass have a lower basal metabolic rate per unit of fat free mass than sedentary people with low fat free mass. This is because the ratio of low metabolic rate tissues, for instance muscle, to high metabolic rate tissues, for instance the brain, increases, which decreases metabolic rate per unit of fat free mass. However, most energy expenditure equations fail to account for this, and instead predict total daily energy expenditure, as linearly increasing with additional fat free mass. Macrofactor doesn't do this. It uses smart calculations to account for the fact that greater fat free mass does not linearly increase energy expenditure. Macrofactor is the smartest diet app on the market. Go to Macrofactor and check it out. Up until now, the discussion has centered around sedentary people of varying fat free masses. However, things look different when you look at athletes. When your muscle grows, some new research suggests something else also seems to happen, something fascinating. Your organs also grow. Or at the very least, athletes appear to consistently have larger, heavier organs than non-athletes. This could mean people born with larger organs tend to end up in sports, or more likely gaining muscle actually increases organ size alongside it. It's too early to tell for sure. However, heart hypertrophy, for example, is well documented, and so is the phenomenon of larger organs in athletes. In a couple of studies from Japan, scientists grouped male and female athletes into three groups based on their fat free mass. Small, medium, and large size. They found that basal metabolic rate per unit of fat free mass was basically the same among athletes of different sizes in both men and women. Why? The same scientists conducted a follow up study to answer that question. What they found was shocking. In athletes with fat free masses ranging from about 57 kilograms to 85 kilograms, muscle, liver, kidney, and heart mass all scaled linearly with total fat free mass. So at all body sizes, each of these tissues had a consistent relative contribution to total BMR. The one exception was the brain, which didn't scale as strongly with total fat free mass. In other words, athletes that carried 50% more fat free mass also had hearts, livers, and kidneys that were around 50% larger. To further reinforce these results, a previous study by Midori Kawan colleagues also found that compared to untrained individuals, sumo wrestlers had much higher basal metabolic rates, but strikingly similar basal metabolic rates per unit of fat free mass. As you'd expect, their organs were also proportionally larger compared to the untrained individuals alongside their higher fat free mass. To summarize, higher fat free masses mean greater metabolisms and basal metabolic rates. Muscle muscle is relatively metabolically inactive compared to other organ tissues. As a result, in sedentary individuals with greater fat free mass, the basal metabolic rate per unit of fat free mass actually decreases. In contrast, in athletes who have more fat free mass, their organs are also larger and potentially have grown alongside their muscle mass, with the exception of the brain, which keeps their relative metabolic rate per unit quite similar. To be clear, the muscle mass gained probably does play a role in the additional energy expenditure in athletes versus sedentary people. However, most of the increase in basal metabolic rate probably stems from increases in organ size, not muscle itself. To close off this video, the team over at MacroFactor also performed a meta-aggression to determine how much faster is metabolism in athletes? How much higher is the basal metabolic rate? When looking at 30 studies in athletes that reported body composition alongside basal metabolic rate, these were the results. The equation derived was compared to the 1991 Cunningham equation, which is also sometimes referred to as the Cash-McCarroll equation, which is considered the gold standard for predicting basal metabolic rate in non-athletes using fat free mass. You'll notice two things here. One at lower fat free masses, such as around 40 kilograms, the predictable basal metabolic rate is very similar, only 2% greater, around 15 to 30 calories higher. However, at higher fat free masses, this difference grows. At 80 kilograms of fat free mass, the difference is around 16%, or around 3 to 400 calories difference in basal metabolic rate. The type of exercise or sport and the competitive level of the athletes didn't seem to matter too much. Athletes just seem to generally carry greater organ weight than sedentary individuals, which increases basal metabolic rate beyond what you'd expect. Athletes have a greater metabolic rate than their sedentary counterparts on account of both increased muscle mass and increased organ mass, but it's probably mostly a result of the organ mass. From now on, if you hear someone say muscle is like a metabolic furnace, you can derisively chuckle, then bask in your intellectual superiority. If you're coaching an athlete or you're an athlete yourself and you want a more accurate estimate of basal metabolic rate, you can use the macrofactor equation instead of a traditional basal metabolic rate calculator that will be less accurate. If you'd like to have a like-minded and educated individual guide your training and nutrition, check out strongbyescience.com slash coaching to apply for coaching by our team of expert coaches. If you'd like to remain up to date with the latest science around training and nutrition, subscribe to our free email newsletter at strongbyescience.com slash newsletter. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: Does Stretching Build Muscle？ (ft. Dr. Eric Helms) [tRPGZ0MMndY].txt ===

 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash but it requires specific criteria be met. So if you were to ask me this question, let's say five years ago, I would probably say no. And the reason being is that we had a tremendous amount of animal data that supported pretty ridiculous hypertrophy in response to pretty extreme stretching protocols, but it was the rare study that observed any hypertrophy in response to stretching in humans, and the vast majority of studies actually finding no change in terms of hypertrophy in response to stretching. But the devil is in the details here because the human research up to a few years back was on relatively short duration, low intensity stretching, while the animal data is on like waiting the wings of quails and chickens for not talking minutes, not even talking hours. We're often talking days or even weeks or in some cases like a month at a time, we're using a stretching apparatus that put the animal in a constant stretch. So this is a little bit of a trigger warning if you're an animal lover, which it is hard for me to read these studies. There's mostly in avian models, so in quails and chickens, but some data in say rabbits and some other actual mammals. Well, yeah. So that data indicates ridiculous increases in hypertrophy. We're talking increases in not only muscle thickness, cross-sectional area, but also fiber number, so observing hyperplasia that are pretty large. Now, all this data was really kind of emphasized and came to light, and what I'm pretty sure is the doctoral work of one, Constantin Warnicke, which is a German researcher and his research group has really looked at this. And the reason why they looked at the animal data, and actually did a meta-analysis looking at the animal stretching models is he was interested in seeing if this applied to humans. And the clear thing was that it required a high intensity and high duration and high frequency of stretching. So some of his earliest work was seeing what level of stretch tolerance is reasonable that people would undergo. And he actually compared two hours of daily stretching continuously to one hour, found at least in the measurements they looked at that was primarily strength for this study, similar outcomes, but a lot fewer people were willing to do two hours. So the research that we're gonna talk about is primarily based upon daily stretching for a full hour at a pretty high perceived intensity. Gotcha. Before we move on into stretch-me-it, hypertrophy and all that entails, what is stretching? And how does it differ from lifting weights? Yeah, that seems like a ridiculous simple question, but I think it's actually a little more complex, specifically because some people are dismissing the idea of any potential for stretching being a useful approach to hypertrophy or potentially complementary because they feel like it's producing the same mechanistic basis of hypertrophy, both are mechanical tension. So what the heck is stretching? The idea is that we're actually trying to increase the distance between the origin and insertion of a given muscle. So we're taking the muscle tendon unit to as close to the end range physiologically that it can get and holding it there. Now, when we look at data on stretching, there's mixed research as to what is causing the very similar outcome that's consistently observed, which is an increase in joint range of motion. Some studies historically on stretching, we're talking like my studies by Beam and Collies, going back to the 90s and the 2000s, will report this as actually just an increase in stretch tolerance. Essentially, people are more comfortable being uncomfortable and can therefore achieve an increase in range of motion. But others are actually observing a change in length in the muscle tendon unit. And we don't have the data in humans to describe what is actually going on at the smallest level. Are we actually seeing an increase in sarcomeres in series? Or is it just that the sarcomeres themselves can achieve a longer length essentially? But there are true morphological adaptations that happen in the more extreme stretching protocols. And then there are also just the ability to reach a longer muscle length in people. And there are probably tendentist adaptations as well, but that's harder to study. So I think it's important to note that lifting is also stretching. And in fact, when we look at the data on lifting, we do see increases in range of motion. If you train with a full range of motion, think about it. You're moving to your functional end range of motion for a given joint, for a given movement, and loading it. So yes, you should expect increases in range of motion from doing heavy resistance training through a full range of motion. But you generally see greater increases in range of motion from purposeful stretching protocols. And in fact, in one study that we'll talk about later, two studies, one in the calves, one in the pecs, where they compare to extreme stretching protocol to resistance training protocol, the data trended or was significantly greater in the stretching group for increasing range of motion. Earlier you mentioned extreme hypertrophy in animal studies. Does stretching build more muscle than lifting? It's tough, because we don't have a lot of resistance training studies in animals. So it could theoretically, if we could do things that we did to animals and to call it ethical, or that people would be willing to do it. But we don't know. What about in humans? In humans, does stretching build more muscle than lifting? To the data we have at this point, the answer would probably be not, and it seems to be far less time efficient. So we have two different studies that directly compare stretching protocols head to head with resistance training. There was one by one of Kean colleagues in the calves where they compared three times per week doing five sets of 15, or I think 10 to 15 reps to failure, but a hypertrophy rep range to failure of calf raises. So it took them about 45 minutes per week to do it. Compared to daily one hour stretching and orthotic device. So basically sitting there with a calf stretching boot that would take your leg into near maximal dorsiflexion, eight out of 10 discomfort on a stretching scale of pain, holding that for an hour per day and adjusting it so you stay at eight for eight weeks. Similar changes in muscle thickness, as well as strength, intriguingly enough, in the calves from doing the stretching boot or doing calf raises. Wolan and colleagues did a different protocol. They had a self-ratcheting stretching device for the pecs. So you'd lie on your back, feet up against the wall, knees bent so you can't arch your lower back, and you have straps around your elbows. You're at like a 90-90 position of external rotation, abduction, and elbow flexion, and you'd have these straps pulled and attached to a load cell. And every time your pecs would relax and you'd see some change, they would self-ratch it and hold you. And the initial point that these participants got in was not eight out of 10, but 10 out of 10. The caveat, though, is instead of doing an hour per day, they did 15 minutes four times per week. So these would be 15 minutes a hell, truly, if you think about what it is to be at the maximal stretch tolerance you can hold, and to every time your body loosened up a little bit to get stuck into an even longer position. So it's kind of like the high-intensity stretching versus the high-volume stretching camps, if you will. But both of them, for different reasons, would be incredibly uncomfortable. I've done the former. I've worn an orthotic boot, stretched my calves for an hour, not seven days per week, six days per week. I took one day off just because I'm just not that hardcore. But I have not done the self-ratcheting 15 minutes of max exertion four times per week. But in both of those studies, it produced similar changes in hypertrophy in the pecs and the calves to doing three times per week training. In this group, they did three sets, I believe, three sets three times per week of chest flies. So I might have the sets wrong, but essentially what we were looking at was half an hour of peck training per week versus 45 minutes of extreme stretching versus seven hours compared to 45 minutes in similar outcomes. So it's tough to know if they maxed out what they could have got from their calves from the stretching protocol or not. But it might be that you can accommodate for having a shorter duration by having a higher intensity of stretch like we observed in the peck, you know, stretching study. What's your own experience then with the calf orthotic device? Did you experience growth using stretching if you can speak to the results? You know, it did. So what we did specifically, it was instead of using a unilateral within participant design because it was a case study of myself and I was unwilling to just stretch one of my calves because I'm a crazy bodybuilder, I wanted to stretch both. We used a baseline period of four weeks long while I was training calves and not stretching to see what my normal trajectory of growth and what my typical error measurement was on ultrasound muscle thickness measurement in my tricep serrate or my overall calf size. And we used that for whether there was a real change. And then I stretched both calves in the orthotic boot, eight out of 10, one hour per calf. So it's two hours per day, six days per week on top of my resistance training for the calves. And then after the 12 weeks of training, we took a week where I did not stretch and then looked at the post-post measurement to see how much that might've been swelling while I maintained a lower calf training protocol. So basically we tried to answer the question of could you take an advanced level bodybuilder who'd been purposely trying to build as much calf muscle as possible, add stretching on top of that and would they get anything out of it? Is it potentially complementary? And I'll say preliminarily, we did see a significant increase in muscle thickness. It also matched my observations that I thought I saw my calves improving during this period. Now, that's all good and fun, but this was not good and fun. In fact, I'd say it was good as far as the outcome, but man, it was extremely painful. What I would experience would be like pins and needles and discomfort and trying to jump out of my body about 20 minutes in and then going, sweet, third of the way there. And the beauty of it that you have to stay out of eight out of 10 discomfort is that while it would get better if you just held the same distance, every time it started to get better, I had to then tighten the boot more. So it stayed this way for 12 weeks. It was incredibly painful. I got a little bit better at being tolerant of the pins and needles, but my calf would go numb and then it would just kind of burn everywhere. But it seemed to work. So yeah, I mean, shout out to all the participants in these studies, because now I know what you experienced. Was this time efficient? Absolutely not. Was it worth it? Maybe. Am I still doing this? No. Now, there was one other interesting finding which I thought was really cool that Warnocky did. They compared men and women. Now, I don't think this is a true sex difference, but more correlated with sex. They observed greater increases in hypertrophy of the calves in men than women, but they also reported higher baseline flexibility in women, which is something that is seen in many other studies. And the idea here is based upon the proposed mechanism that being in a stretch produces higher degrees of tension. If you are more flexible, you may not be able to produce the same level of tension because you already have that flexibility. Now, importantly, the women still did significantly grow from stretching, just not to the same degree as men. So my suspicion is that the more flexible you are, the more you'll get out of a stretching, sorry, the more inflexible you are, the more you will get out of a stretching protocol. And if you can maintain that flexibility while still performing high tension stretching, whether through resistance training or actual stretching, you'll probably maintain the gains. So something that I very intentionally done after that stretching protocol is I do pause at the bottom of calf raises. I make sure I get as long into dorsiflexion as I can. At the end of sets, I pause there and I do occasionally stretch maybe once every two weeks to static hold 10, 15 minutes to try to keep the range of motion gains I had. And I can tell you more obviously than any increase in strength or hypertrophy, my dorsiflexion range increased dramatically from doing this and I still have most of that, maybe 90% of that dorsiflexion increase. So stretching makes more flexible. Unsurprisingly. Who are thought? And true stretch medial hypertrophy can seem to occur in humans. Do you think that's what we're seeing with length and training? I don't. And the reason being is when you look at the actual time courses required to produce hypertrophy, they don't compare. So like if you're doing, say, like if we look at some of the studies, like if you look at the amount of time spent in a truly stretched position, and say Casiano and colleagues, it's a fraction of the time compared to Warnakey that they were able to produce not doing length and bias training in the comparative group. You know? So I think it is probably part of the adaptation that's going on, but I would suspect that the actual stretch stimulus is a minor part of what's going on with say more length and training. And I think that's really interesting. And I think it's another reason why we shouldn't be dismissing stretch mediated hypertrophy as something that is potentially complementary to resistance training. Some of the hot takes on the internet that I don't agree with is one, stretch mediated hypertrophy only produces increases in hypertrophy through sarcomeres and ceres. If we just think about this from a physics perspective, if we were only seeing sarcomeres and ceres increase, we wouldn't see the kind of changes in muscle thickness that we're observing in humans that are comparable to doing resistance training. So that's one. Two, when we look at animal models, huge increases in cross-sectional area, which again, should not be happening if it's just sarcomeres and ceres. Okay? So that's not against that idea, number UNIL. Okay? The second critique that you'll see is, you know what? The whole proposed mechanism of stretch-induced hypertrophy is just mechanical tension. So why would it be any different than hypertrophy training? It would be redundant. We don't need to do it. You get a stretch from hypertrophy training anyway. Now I'll admit, this could be true. This could be true. But to paint the broad brushstroke of mechanical tension is all the same, really is not respecting the complexity of skeletal muscle architecture and the number of ways that mechanical tension can be sensed and the lack of understanding at the molecular level that we have how hypertrophy actually occurs. So I'm aware of at least five mechanocensors that respond to different types of mechanical tension. And we still haven't even necessarily linked each one of those mechanocensors to antibiotic pathways which stimulate hypertrophy, but we think they are. So some of the common ones people talk about and talk about with far too much confidence compared to the data we have are one Titan, right? So this is attaching the myosin actin chain to the ultra structure. And when you're doing an esoteric contraction, it unfolds and there's probably a signaling cascade. Okay? So there's a sense that it would probably be stimulated by a stretch as well as contraction. Another one are what's called costamers or focal adhesions. And these are what help us generate lateral force transmission and also active sensors. And they probably respond more to contraction rather than stretching. But that's the, those are the two that most people know about, but there's others. In fact, I think this is wild and really cool just to demonstrate one of them. The actual nuclei and muscles themselves, nuclear flattening may produce an anabolic response. And when you stretch a muscle, those nuclei are getting flattened as well. But there's also membranes that are changed in response to stretch opening calcium channels that could have a potential impact and more. There are things that are beyond my expertise because I'm not a muscle physiologist. I think there's a couple of different protein complexes I had never heard of until I dug into this. And I'm like, oh, what's that? So we're still just barely uncovering the actual process of mechanotransduction. And there is good reason to believe that mechanotransduction is different when you're doing a long duration, high intensity stretch than simply moving from concentric to eccentric and having some pause at best in the length and position. So I don't think we can say that they're necessarily the exact same stimulus. Another thing that Warnocky proposes in some of their papers, and what I experienced through that pins and needles, is that when you are in that really stretched position, and also you're getting this compensatory contraction from your muscle, there's an occlusion effect. So it may have some overlapping effects with blood flow restriction training. And again, hyperplasia was observed in these animals, which it's very difficult to even set up an experimental model to observe hyperplasia in humans. But generally the thought process is that traditional resistance training in humans is not producing hyperplasia. But if we're seeing robust increases, we're talking 50% increase in the number of muscle fibers and animal models, you would think that maybe something's going on here with stretching. So through all of those various mechanisms, both higher level and at the actual, you know, molecular level, potentially being different, I don't think we can rule out that stretching might be complementary to lifting. But like I said, I'm very open to the idea that they are relatively overlapping and redundant. But I don't think we can say that. I don't think we can say that only untrained individuals will respond to this. I don't think we can say that it's only sarcomeres in series or how do we explain cross-sectional area and muscle thickness changes. And I don't think we should really write it off yet, especially with just a mechanistic rationale, when we barely understand the mechanisms of what's going on. And to answer your original question, it doesn't make sense that having, you know, 45 reps per week in a lengthened position for only maybe 10% of a rep is comparable to seven hours per week of stretching or even the 60 minutes that was observed in the Wallen and colleagues in that extreme stretch position. I think they're fundamentally different and that leaves the question open of what's going on here. So stretching causes hypertrophy? It does. In humans. If it's intense enough, long enough and frequent enough? Should we apply this? Who should apply it? How do we apply it? Tell me the specifics and the practical applications. All right, so if you are a competitive bodybuilder who is crazy, go wild. You know, if you want to actually replicate what I did, if you want to do some of these extreme stretching protocols, I would encourage you to have fun with it. You're gonna struggle to be able to actually apply some of these because you don't have an orthotic device or you don't have the self-ratcheting peck stretching device. But Wallen and colleagues did another recently published study. I don't believe they actually looked at hypertrophy, but they did find strength increases from people being given guidance on their own without necessarily some type of, you know, BDSM torture device of doing extreme stretches that they hold for a similar frequency and duration per week, perceiving it to be the max stretch they can tolerate. They did see increases in strength, even when done from home. So there's potential application here. Now, just because we have this new research on stretching doesn't mean we should forget the other research on stretching that's looking at more at acute performance. We know that if you do sufficient stretching to actually alter muscle tendon unit architecture acutely, it will have an acutely negative impact on strength and power performance in probably the resultant hypertrophy. So the only time I'd say you don't wanna do all this extreme stretching stuff is prior to training, even with maybe a couple hours, because I can tell you this is not just a quick stretch that is observed in some of these older studies that show a negative impact on power. If you're stretching on that day, you probably don't wanna train that day later. I think you need to do either post-workout at night or on your off days. If you're gonna do it at all, okay? That's number one. And then you can try some of these protocols. And I would say just because we got the seven hours per week that Warnock has done, I don't think you should go that hardcore. You probably wanna ramp up into it. I do think there is some unknown level of injury risk or potential, especially when you're also doing resistance training on top of it, because we're really pushing tissue to some pretty extremes here. So I think you should be more cautious than that. I would say maybe start with one to two times per week, 15 to 20 minutes, and maybe build up to the point where you're doing something similar to woolen of four times per week of 15 to 20, maybe 30 minutes. I wouldn't take it further than that in most cases. What I did, I wouldn't recommend. That's for bodybuilders. That's for people who are really trying to turn over every single stone. For everyone else, I think this is a poor return on investment. I think it's a bad proposition. It's not the best use of your time. It's logistically infeasible. It's heavily uncomfortable. It's not fun. And you're not gonna like it like you like lifting. However, there are some tools which can be very useful for when you're, say, traveling, don't have access to a gym or you're in a position, like let's say COVID, for example, where certain muscle groups are very hard to train with what you have access to. There are some things which are really useful when you're, say, traveling. When I'm traveling and I go to an area where I know I don't have access to good gym equipment, I may not have the time to get away, I take BFR wraps with me, and now I will probably do stretching. One of the harder muscle groups to train when you're, say, traveling, you don't have gym access is like your hamstrings. But it's pretty easy to stretch your hamstrings, right? I remember specifically when we were in Belarus and I was coaching Bryce Lewis at the 2017 World Championships, the only gym access I had was the training hall and sneaking in some sessions between other weight classes actually competing, which meant I could sneak into military press, a bench, a row, you know, you put the racks up to like I'm seven feet super heavyweight, you do some chins with your knees bent, you can get a little bit of work in, but I also had a hip injury at the time. So I couldn't do much squats and deadlifts. So instead I just did BFR and bodyweight lunges. But I didn't really have a good answer for how do I train my hamstrings? I didn't want to be like, hey, will you help me do Nordics? But I could have just sat there and done a 15 minute hardcore stretch a couple times per week for my hamstrings, and that would have been pretty effective. Same thing for my calves. So I think this is a great tool when you are gonna be stuck in a hotel room and you want to still get a decent stimulus that week while you're away traveling, or maybe you for some reason can't get to the gym, et cetera, et cetera. And just knowing that this is a tool you can have in your tool belt, I think can be really useful in those instances where you may not have gym access. Once or twice a week, 15 minutes, start easy and go from there at the end of a session at night or in the morning, essentially just far away from a session or nearly after it, correct? Perfect. Quick fire round of rebuttals slash questions. Let's go. Do only begin as benefit. Hard to say. I would suspect that it has much more relevance to how flexible are you? And I think we have enough data that yes, while resistance training does improve range of motion, there's probably more range of motion you could get from stretching based upon head to head comparisons. So I would say probably not, but they might benefit a little bit more than someone who's more experienced. Do all muscle groups benefit? Hard to say. We have data on the pecs and the calves. I think it's very plausible that there could be some muscles which are very difficult to get into a true physiological stretch to produce that mechanical tension, to have them benefit. Right now, I would say we have no reason to think that not all muscles would benefit, but it may be some muscles which are simply infeasible to put into these kind of extreme stretches at the very least, if I want to be super conservative, I know the pecs and the calves respond well. What about interset stretching? You didn't mention interset stretching. Do you think that place role can be used? I think it can be used, but I think there's a little more risk to it. And I think it's not necessary. We do have a fair amount of data indicating that pre-training stretching can have a negative impact on strength and power if it's done to the point where it's actually going to produce high levels of tension in the muscle tendon unit. So you'd have to think the same thing would occur in interset stretching, even though we have data on it. So it is inducing tension stimulus, but to me, it makes sense to not induce attention stimulus when it can harm the rest of the tension stimulus you want within training. So while I'm not opposed to it, I think from a pragmatic perspective, it probably makes more sense to have it at the end of the workout, something like a DC stretch, talking about dog crap training from back in the day. And that also was something that was anecdotally derived, and it was probably ahead of its time, but it made sense logically, like, oh, if I'm in the middle of a bunch of chest sets and I do this massive crazy stretch, I'm gonna have to dump load or I'm gonna be maybe a greater injury risk. But if I do it at the end of the workout, it's just additional tension and maybe a different type of tension. So I think you could do interset stretching and indeed there is a study that might indicate some potential benefit there, but I think there is a non-negligible chance of it simply harming the total stimulus you could have. And I think probably resistance training at this stage, we have to admit, is at least as stimulative, but with a lower level of inefficiency. Final question. Yes, sir. Name a few common stretches for different muscles. You'd recommend, give me three. Sure. So I think a sit and reach hamstring stretch is probably a really good one. I think a straight leg dorsiflexion stretch where you go up to say a wall or you go up to say steps and you do one calf at a time stretching it. That's probably a better one, especially if you have grippy shoes and trying to get into the kind of the downward dog position to stretch your calves, which both people can't stay there for a long time. And then since we've also got data on the pecs, I think a 90 degree angle door stretch where you just go into the door jam of a door and you put your arm at 90 degrees and then you try to turn away and move forward so that you can get a good stretch across your pec. And again, all of these stretches are probably dependent upon not just the technique, but also getting to the point where you're experiencing eight or higher out of 10 stretch discomfort and then holding it for at least 15 minutes. That's hard. So be aware that you may be all excited by watching this video, you go and try it and you're like, oh man, I don't want that smoke. It's okay. Try just five minutes the first time and be build up to it. You will get better at this. You will still hate your life, but it'll be eventually sustainable if you build up to it. Beautiful. Eric, where can people find you? People can find me stretching my calves, stretching my pec, stretching my hamstrings in a hotel room, because I worked past the point that Jim closed every day. No, I'm just kidding. Great place to find me, 3dmusclejourney.com. That's a great one-stop shop where you can pick your level of nerding that you want, right? You can read some of our blog posts. You can go to our YouTube channel and have a little more blended, kind of anecdotal science evidence-based information. Or if you want, like, hey, I just want to read the books about all this stuff. You can go to muscleandstrengthparaments.com, which we have a link to from 3dmusclejourney.com. Or you can take our link to the Mass Research Review, where every month we're putting out an issue covering all the latest data. And I've written probably like seven articles about stretch-mediated hypertrophy, because it's something I'm just nerding out on and very interested in. So that's a great place to go. And also, you probably want to follow me on Instagram at Helms3dmj. Once our case study on me is published, I will absolutely be putting that out on my Instagram, talking about it, probably doing some YouTube work. So that's also a great place where you can find me promoting the fact that I was on other amazing channels like this one as a guest. Highly, highly recommend checking out Mass Research Review, great resource. Also highly recommend liking the video. That's it from the Strava Science Channel, way out. ["Streve of Science"]

=== FILE: Everything you Need to Know About Basal Metabolic Rate (Episode 143) [Kl4UXSUMuuc].txt ===

 and alphabets. Welcome back to the Stronger by Science podcast. I'm your host, Greg Knuckles, and I think after 143 episodes, this is actually my first time hosting solo, so we'll see how that goes. Before we get into the episode for today, I do have a bit of an announcement up top, and that is that the next episode of the podcast, so not this one, but next one, will be our last episode for the foreseeable future, and that may feel like a lot, so I do feel like I owe you a bit of an explanation as to why. Just to rewind a bit, going back to the start of the podcast, the main reason we started the podcast in the first place was to introduce Eric Trexler to the audience back in 2019. The reason for that is that Stronger by Science had always, well, at hand, actually just been me, but I was kind of the, in the public eye type of person for the business. I've always worked with my wife, Lindsay, but yeah, I was the sole public-facing person up until that point, and so I didn't want it to come across like Eric was just a guy who we hired and was working for us in kind of like a subordinate way when we were truly partners. That's the role we brought him in as, and so podcasting is a good way to get people's personalities out there and to build a connection with people, and so we thought that that would be a good way both to introduce him to you guys and also just to communicate and show that we were on equal footing there, so starting a podcast seemed like a logical thing to do, but if I'm just personally being totally honest, I have never particularly enjoyed podcasting. It was just not something I was ever that interested in doing long-term, and the main reason for that is just I have much more of an affinity for writing. I think I'm a much better writer than I am a speaker, and I just like the written medium more. It allows you to take more time to think and choose your words better. For scientific communication, it's easier to cite and link sources, and I also just find writing to be way more helpful for forcing me to think through what I'm saying and to make sure I really understand the topics I'm talking about, because when you're talking, you can jump from A to C and just kind of like bullshit your way through, and as long as you're decent at speaking, it can still sound convincing and come across okay, but in the written word, it's harder to hide like that, and so I find that writing just forces me to be a better and more careful thinker, and so yeah, that's something I've always really liked about it. But yeah, so when we parted ways with Trex, we debated whether we wanted to keep everything rolling along, including the podcast, or if we wanted to shift stronger by science into kind of like a quote-unquote low power mode, so that would include stopping the podcast, posting way less frequently on social media, and just kind of going back to the way things were like pre-grad school, pre-mass, like 2017 and before, but we did make the decision to keep things rolling at that point in large part just out of a sense of obligation, like you guys listen to the podcast, you like the podcast, and so we didn't want to let you down, especially so soon after Trex had left, like that would just feel like a really big shake-up, so we're like, yeah, let's keep doing this thing. So I kept it going alongside Pack and Milo, and they've been excellent co-hosts and partners for the show, but at this point, we're all getting busier, and we're working on growing different companies and just kind of moving in different directions. They're working on their app company, MiloAdapt, and trying to build out their personal brands, and I'm working on MacroFactor, and so we've tried a bunch of things, podcasting, YouTube, articles, newsletters, doing more on Facebook and Instagram, etc. Pretty much everything, but TikTok. I don't want to say, you know, they say never say never, but I feel like I can come pretty close to saying never. That's for the kids, and I do still have a bit of a spark of youth, but not that much. But yeah, so we've tried a bunch of stuff, but for now, we think it's time to pair it back and focus on just the couple of things that we think we can do really, really well, and that feel most authentic to the Stronger by Science brand. And so, yeah, after five years of podcasting, more than 140 episodes, I think over 150 counting fireside chats, and several different co-hosting lineups, I think we've done about all we want to do with the podcast, and I'm now very excited to focus on other projects and things that I personally enjoy a little bit more, and things that I hope will resonate with the majority of the Stronger by Science audience. So we'll tell you more about that in our final episode of the podcast, which will be out in two weeks. And I do just want to say that it has, even though I personally don't have the largest amount of love for the medium of podcasting, one of the things that has kept it going and kept me going so long is that it is truly an honor to have been able to make this podcast for all of you for the last five years. If not as many of you listened and had good feelings about the podcast, we definitely would have kept it going this long. And just you guys being so great has probably bought the podcast like an extra year, year and a half of life, if I'm being totally honest. So it truly has been an honor. I think it's been a good run, and I am truly grateful to everyone who has listened over these past five years. But after the next episode, the podcast will be going on indefinite hiatus. That doesn't mean that there will never be another episode again. I'm sure at some point in the, I don't want to say I'm sure. I assume at some point in the future, there will be some topic that comes up that lends itself to more of a discussion type thing rather than like a big article or whatever. So I don't know, my guy, there's a non zero chance that there might be more podcasts at some point in the future. But in terms of like a regular release schedule, and episodes frequently coming out, that the next episode will be the last one, I think, in kind of the main run of the podcast. But to go out on a high note, the final episode will be an all Q&A episode. So if you've ever had a question that you would like us to answer on the podcast, there has literally never been a better time to ask it. So think about those questions, record a voice clip, 60 seconds or less, and email it to podcast at strongerbyscience.com, and we will answer the questions we like the most. Also, just before getting into the topic of the episode, I do just want to head this off because people online like to gas up and whatnot. Yeah, so I'm hosting this solo solely because, and you'll see this very soon, the topic of this episode, the stuff I prepared for it, really is just like a like me talking type of thing, like when me and Pac and Milo looked over the outline, we're like, yeah, there's not really that much. There aren't that many places where like cross talk and like back and forth would would really make a ton of sense. So, you know, I mentioned up top that, you know, some of the content changes coming at stronger by science are in part due to the fact that I and them are kind of focusing on slightly different things. That is in no way indicative of beef. We're all cool. I understand how that might seem like mentioned that. This is my first time hosting solo. The last time there were there were solo hosted websites or episodes of the podcast that was that was a harbinger of something to come. So like I get all of that context. But to be exceedingly clear, it is just purely the fact that the topic for this episode just wasn't something that it made a ton of sense to have multiple mics on. So yeah, that's it. That's the announcement. Thanks for sticking with us for these last five years and thanks for sticking with me through the announcement. So let's get into the episode. So in this episode, I will be discussing basal metabolic rate or BMR. If you follow the macro factor website as well, a lot of this is going to sound pretty familiar because we recently published a pretty big article series on BMR that will be linked in the show notes if you want to check it out. And I would recommend you do so. What I'll be doing in this episode is giving a bit of an overview of the topics discussed in that article series. But as I mentioned up top, I love the written medium. I think you can get into things in more detail. Link sources better, all of those things. So it's a good series of articles and check it out if this is a topic that interests you. So how this all came about is we were looking back at our on-boarding flow and program recommendations and all of that stuff at macro factor to make sure that they were still aligned with the research. And so one of the things that I was looking into is how we went about doing the initial TDE or total daily energy expenditure calculation in the app. And the way we do that in the way that basically anyone would do that is you start by estimating BMR and then you multiply that by some activity factor to estimate total daily energy expenditure. And so you want the most accurate BMR estimate possible because any error in your BMR estimate is going to be propagated and magnified. Like if you're underestimating by 200 calories and then you select the right activity factor and let's say it's 1.5, then when you multiply, like you have that 200 calorie error and if you multiply the correct value by 1.5, you'd wind up with the correct total daily energy expenditure. If it's 200 calorie error multiplied by 1.5, now your error for predicting total daily energy expenditure is 300 calories. So basically like any error in the BMR estimation stage propagates and is magnified. So we wanted to take a peek back at that and try to make sure we had the most accurate BMR predictions that we could. So I was checking that out, just wanting to review the research to make sure that the formula we were using was still the way to go. And as I want to do, once I start digging into the research on something, I fall down a bit of a rabbit hole and I keep falling and I keep falling and I learn a bunch of cool stuff and something that I thought would take like two days ends up taking like two months and I have a lot of fun in the process and come out the other side hopefully with interesting information that other people will find as interesting as I do. So yeah, that's what we're going to talk about today. I personally learned a lot of cool stuff in the process and I think a fair bit of the stuff I learned is things that I suspect a lot of people aren't aware of. So even though BMR is maybe like slightly outside of the realm of the things that we tend to talk about on this podcast, like not way outside the realm, but if there's like a distribution of things we tend to talk about, this might be like a standard deviation and a half from the norm or something like that. But I do think that this is a good topic for a couple reasons. One is that this is a topic that a lot of people don't think too much about in the first place. They just kind of plug their numbers into a BMR calculator, assume the output is correct and don't think too much about it. So if you fall into that camp, I think you'll learn a lot from this episode. And for the people that do think a little bit about BMR and things that affect it, I think that there are a lot of common misconceptions and incorrect beliefs that people have. So if you fall more into that camp, hopefully, you know, you might learn a little bit less than the first person who doesn't think about this at all. But you know, there might be some things in this episode that challenge some of your current beliefs, and hopefully you learn something fun. So yeah, just up top, terminology. So I mentioned this is an episode about BMR or basal metabolic rate. And that is essentially just how much energy your body burns at rest. And I will note for for pettance out there in the audience, which if that's you, no judgment, I myself tend to be quite pedantic. But I will just acknowledge up top. BMR actually isn't the correct term for most of what we're going to be talking about in this episode, but it's close enough. And so what I mean by that is there are several different terms that describe similar but slightly different concepts, including basal metabolic rate or basal energy expenditure, sleeping metabolic rate or sleeping energy expenditure, and resting metabolic rate or resting energy expenditure. And for the purpose of this episode, I'll be using all three of these terms interchangeably, but mostly BMR. But technically, this episode is mostly about RMR or RE so resting metabolic rate or resting energy expenditure, which is basically the amount of body or the amount of energy your body actually burns at rest most of the time. So, you know, if you if you get off work, and you sit on the couch and just hang out there for five minutes or whatever, the amount of energy you're burning at that point is probably pretty close to your RMR. But it's likely a little bit above your BMR and your SMR or sleeping metabolic rate. Basically, your BMR is the amount of energy you burn first thing in the morning. So, you sleep, you wake up, and people assess how much energy you're burning, and that's your BMR. Your sleeping metabolic rate quite intuitively for the name is how much energy you burn when you sleep. And sleeping metabolic rate is lower than the other two. BMR is in the middle, and then RMR is slightly higher than BMR typically. But the vast, vast majority of the research on the topic does RMR, basically, because the subject burden is so much lower, if you actually want to study it. So, to assess sleeping metabolic rate or BMR, subjects need to sleep in the lab overnight, which is, you know, if you could have a, if you could take a measurement that basically just required people to show up to the lab, sit quietly for 15 minutes, you know, put a mask on for 30 minutes, and then they can go on their merry way, or something that is basically the same measurement, but requires people to sleep in the lab overnight. Most researchers and most subjects are going to say, ah, let's, let's go the RMR route. So, yeah, most, most of the research technically is on RMR. But the reason I'll be using BMR as the term in this episode, and the title of this episode, is that is just the term that most people are most familiar with. And again, outside of like, academics and pedants, most people use all, all of those terms interchangeably anyways. So, just know, most of the time in this episode, when I say BMR, I actually mean RMR, but we're going to say BMR, and we're going to be on the same page about that. And hopefully, that is okay. So, yeah, let's, let's get into the nitty-gritty of it. So, the first thing I want to talk about is determinants of BMR. And, and just, just one note here. Like I mentioned, most of this will be summarizing and giving a bit of color to an article series that was published on the Macro Factor website. That article series will be linked in the show notes, and the studies that I reference in this episode will be referenced in those articles. So, if, if you look down there, and the reference list is a little bit shorter than normal, basically, like, the section of the episode will refer to a particular article, and any source I mentioned will be, will be linked in the articles, if, if you want to check it out more. So, yeah, the first thing I'm going to be talking about here is determinants of BMR. So, if you've ever looked at a BMR prediction equation, you've probably noticed they mostly take one of two forms. One form is, it's predicting BMR from height, weight, age, and sex, or two. It might be predicting BMR based on your fat-free mass. So, if you're familiar with those equations, you've, you've looked at them before, it's natural to assume that those factors are the determinants of your BMR, or you might assume that fat-free mass is the determinant, and things like height, weight, age, and sex aren't actually determinants, but they're useful correlates because they're predictive of fat-free mass, and fat-free mass is the actual determinant. However, those aren't actually the determinants of your BMR. We can do quite a bit better than that. Your BMR is actually determined by the amount of each type of tissue your body has in a much more granular way than just total fat mass and total fat-free mass, and to the BMR of each of those specific tissues, so tissue specific BMRs. And that's an important distinction because most of your BMR is accounted for by actually a very, very small percentage of your total body tissue mass. So, about half of your BMR just comes from your heart, liver, kidneys, and brain. Your heart and kidneys have a tissue specific BMR of about 440 calories per kilogram. Your brain has a tissue specific BMR of about 240 calories per kilogram, and your liver has a tissue specific BMR of about 200 calories per kilogram. Those four organs collectively generally account for around or slightly less than 5% of total body mass, but they typically account for right around or slightly more than 50% of your total BMR. In contrast, muscle has a BMR of about 13 calories per kilogram, and fat adipose tissue has a BMR of only about four and a half calories per kilogram. So, those two tissues typically account for over half of your body mass, but only tend to account for around a quarter of your total BMR. So, the upshot there is that organ mass, and this is something we're going to come back to quite a few times in this episode, organ mass is really, really, really, really important for determining your BMR. That will be a recurring theme in this episode because a surprising amount of BMR-related facts and scientific findings will ultimately be explained by things related to organ mass. So, that's going to be fun. Okay, so moving on. The next BMR-related topic to discuss here is the accuracy of those BMR prediction equations, and there is a very common, I think, tacit misconception. I don't know how frequently people explicitly think about this, but I think most people tacitly believe that BMR prediction equations are really accurate. You pull one up online, you plug in your height, weight, age, and sex, or you plug in your fat free mass, and it spits out a number, and you just kind of assume like, yeah, that's probably about right. That's probably pretty close. I think a lot of people do believe that, do believe it's quite accurate. Just based on the way I see people talk about these things, very, very confidently, someone might be pursuing a pretty aggressive calorie deficit and just be like, oh, well, to lose weight at this rate. I'm going to have to consume fewer calories than my BMR, and I assume that that's a bad thing. Then it's like, well, how do you know? It's like, well, punch my numbers in a calculator. It's less than this number. It's like, well, your actual BMR could actually be quite a bit higher or lower than that, but it's, and then the rejoinder is just like, well, the calculator can't be that wrong. It's like, yeah, well, it could be. Yeah, so that applies to people using online BMR calculators or something I'm seeing more and more frequently. I think this is what people have the most misplaced confidence in, is there's a lot of businesses now where you pay them like 75 bucks and they'll do like a DeXa scan or put you in a BOD pod. And the printout that people get from those places, it's not just telling them their body composition, it also tells them their BMR. And I think just because there's like a machine involved, it feels very high tech and sciency and people are like, ooh, ooh, yeah, the BOD pod measured my BMR and it told me that it is whatever, like some number. But like those things literally use the exact same prediction equations that an online calculator would. I think most of them use the 1991 Cunningham equation or the sometimes erroneously referred to as the Ketch-McCartill equation. All they're doing is they're estimating your body composition and then just punching that number into just a very standard BMR prediction equation and then saying, ah, here's the number. But yeah, I think people take those numbers to be like way, way more accurate than they actually are. And so, yeah, I think a lot of people, a lot of the time tend to think the BMR prediction equations are pretty accurate, but they're not. They can over or underestimate BMR by comfortably three, four hundred calories. So to quantify how accurate a prediction equation is, you can measure or estimate the size and frequency of errors it produces using something called a Bland-Altman plot. And this is primarily an audio medium, so I'm not going to walk people through how to construct a Bland-Altman plot step by step. But basically, you measure the outcome of interest, you prepare or you compare that measurement against the predicted value in this case, and then the x-axis of the chart is the average of the measurement and prediction, and the y-axis for each point, like the y-value for each point is the size and direction of the measurement error. And so, with a Bland-Altman plot, you can calculate the average prediction error. You can calculate whether the prediction error has any bias. So like, does it more reliably under overestimate BMRs for people who have higher or low BMRs? That's a little bit beyond what we're talking about here, because most of the equations don't have a ton of systematic bias like that. But here's the important bit, you can also calculate what's called the limits of agreement. And what the limits of agreement are is basically a range where 95% of the errors should fall. So it's two standard deviations above and below the mean error. And so the limits of agreement, you don't have to be an outlier, like have an outlier high or low BMR for your amount of fat, free mass, or your height, weight, age, and sex in order to fall outside the limits of agreement. Like that's where 95% of value should fall. So however wide those limits of agreement are, if you're in a room with 100 people, you should kind of expect about five of them to fall outside of that range. So again, like we're not talking about one in 10,000 type outliers, just kind of like the normal amount of variability and magnitude of errors that tends to occur. And there's been  there's been quite a lot of research looking at the accuracy and validity of BMR prediction equations, calculating those limits of agreement, showing Bland-Altman plots, and what you tend to see is that for good BMR prediction equations, the typical error, like the average error, is small, as one would hope and expect, usually like less than 50 to 100 calories. For some equations and some populations, like the error can be quite a bit larger, but again, we're talking about good BMR prediction equations. Typical errors is usually pretty small, generally less than 50 calories, but limits of agreement are always fucking wide, quite wide. Most of the time, they're somewhere in the neighborhood of about 800 calories. You can find studies typically, like typically studies where a new BMR prediction equation is being developed, that report smaller limits of agreement than that, and that's basically showing you a best-case scenario where basically however well an equation performs in the population where it's developed, when you generalize it to other populations, it does worse, basically because it is tuned for the testing sample more or less. You can occasionally find papers where new equations are developed with tighter limits of agreement, but in external validation papers where you recruit a group of subjects and you use equations that already exist to see how accurately those predict BMR, what you tend to see is limits of agreement that span a range of about 800 calories. That means that standard deviation there is like 200 calories, typical error is around 250 calories above or below, that's the average, a lot of people less than that, some people above, and then errors in the 400 calorie range are less common but not unheard of. Basically around 5% of people should have errors larger than 400 calories, so yeah, for most people it will be less, for most people it'll be like 200 calories or less, you get a decent ballpark estimate, but yeah, relatively large errors are relatively common, and I just don't think enough people realize that, and again if you're interested in seeing some research and learning more about that, the article discussing it will be in the show notes if you want to dig in further, but this begs the question of why are errors so large sometimes, and the answer is, and if you've been listening to this point and I said something was going to be a recurring theme, you might be yelling out on your walk right now, Greg I know what it is, I know what it is, I've been listening, and if that's the case you're right, organ mass, that is the main reason why relatively large prediction errors are relatively common from BMR prediction equations, so as mentioned before, your high metabolic rate organs, your brain, your liver, your kidneys, and your heart, heart, brain, liver, kidneys, yeah, just making sure I said them all, those account for like half of your BMR, but they're a very, very small percentage of your total body mass, and the thing is the mass of all of those organs, except kind of your brain, like brain size does scale a little bit with height, and a little bit with body mass, but like brain size doesn't vary as much between people as like heart, kidney, and liver mass does, but those other three organs, like they do scale with things like height and weight in total fat-free mass, but it is a surprisingly weak relationship, so there were some studies by researchers named Malina and Demau, you can find that research in the linked article, examining cadavers, where they basically looked at like weight at time of death, and they dissected the corpses, and actually like weighed the organ masses to see like, hey, how well does organ mass associate with height and weight, and things like that, and they found that the strongest association was between body mass and heart mass, but even that had, like that had a decent r-squared value of like 0.66, which is like a, like that's a reasonably strong association, but even with heart mass there's quite a bit of variability, so someone who weighed around 70 kilos might have, like from their dataset might have a heart that's like a little under 200 grams or around 350 grams, so even at the same body weight, even with like the strongest association seen in their dataset, you could have heart mass varying within like nearly a two-fold range for two people with the same body mass, and that was the strongest association that they observed, so liver mass, kidney mass, brain mass, way, way weaker relationship with height and weight than heart mass, and even the relationship between like body weight and heart mass wasn't that strong, so yeah, so just to illustrate, if the mass of your high metabolic rate organs was 30 percent greater or less than normal for your height weight, height weight, age and sex or total amount of fat free mass, your BMR would likely be around 20-25 percent higher or lower than would be predicted, based on those easily observable demographic or anthropometric characteristics, and having 30 percent more or less high metabolic rate organ mass than than average is like very comfortably within the realm of normal, like high metabolic rate organ mass varies quite a bit, and it's associated with but not that strongly associated with things that we can observe and measure much easier, like height and weight or fat free mass, so yeah, that's the main reason that there are frequently like pretty large errors when trying to predict BMR from factors like height weight age sex or fat free mass, what we see in research where the researchers do full body MRI scans to estimate the volume of each organ and then using like known values of organ density to estimate the mass of each organ and then estimate BMR from there, knowing those tissue specific BMRs, in studies where they do that they can predict BMRs like way way more precisely, so instead of a range of like plus or minus 400 calories, it's plus or minus like 100, 150 calories, like they can they can be way way more accurate if you can actually like estimate organ mass quite accurately, so yeah, the variability in high metabolic rate organ mass is the main reason why BMR equations frequently produce fairly large errors, okay, so that's that, BMR equations not as accurate as people tend to think and for topics like this, I do think it's always important to note that when we're talking about variability for some people, BMR prediction equation will perfectly estimate your BMR, that's like if it didn't for some people some of the time, it wouldn't be good for much, so if you've ever gone somewhere and like put on the mask or the tube and done some indirect calorimetry and actually measured your BMR or RMR and it was exactly the same as a value that would come out of a prediction equation, you might be tempted to say well, yeah, I did this and this equation was really accurate for me and if that's the case, good for you, I'm genuinely happy for you, that's a good bit of information to have in your back pocket to know that some BMR prediction equation works really well for you and you're fairly close to the population norms there, that does not say anything about the frequency and magnitude of errors that a lot of people will experience, so to be clear, just because BMR prediction equations can produce large errors, that doesn't mean that they will for you or that they will for everyone, just that the precision of the estimate is quite a bit worse than I think a lot of people suspect. Okay, so moving on to the next topic here, let's talk a little bit about the impact of sex on BMR, so sex as in biological sex, male and female, I feel they need to say that because I was recently a co-author on a paper looking at the the impact of sex on hypertrophy and the comments were exactly what you'd expect them to be and I gotta say that joke funny and original every time. The impact of coitus on getting jacked? No, like you didn't think that shut the fuck up. So yeah, the impact of sex on BMR, so just up top, just to establish things that I think most people are well aware of already, men tend to have higher BMRs than women, but the difference there is primarily due to differences in total body size and total and body composition. So equations that predict to BMR from factors like height, weight, and age and sex, generally find that men have BMRs that are around 150 to 200 calories higher than women at the same height, weight, age, and sex. So you can see that in just kind of the mechanics of the equations themselves. So something like the popular Mifflin St. Giorre equation you predict to BMR thusly, it's 10 times weight in kilograms plus 6.25 times height in centimeters minus 5 times age plus for men plus 5 for women minus 161. So it's the exact same equation until the last term, the constant, and for men you add 5, for women you subtract 161, the coefficients for all of the other terms are exactly the same. So yeah, basically the functional upshot of that is just at the same height and weight and age, it predicts that men will have a BMR that's about 166 calories higher than women. And that's what you see for equations like that that have a specific term for sex or different coefficient or the same coefficients for height, weight, and age and then just like a different constant for sex. You tend to see differences in the 150 to 200 calorie range most of the time, but those differences seem to primarily be driven by differences in body composition. So at the same height and weight, men tend to be a little bit leaner and have a little bit more total fat free mass. And the main reason for that is just differences in essential fat. Just to stay alive, men need to be at least like 3-4% body fat for women, it's like 12-ish. So yeah, at any two people that are like the same visual level of leanness, if you look at a completely shredded male bodybuilder and a completely shredded female bodybuilder, the man's body fat percentage is probably like 9-10% lower than the women's just due to differences in essential fat. And yeah, so that kind of trickles down to differences in body comp at kind of any level of like relative leanness. And that difference in body composition is like pretty much fully explains the differences in BMR when controlling for things like height and weight. So in equations that predict BMR purely from fat free mass, so like the Cunningham equation or the Ketch-McCartel equation or the Mifflin-Saint-Giorre equation that uses fat free mass instead of height, weight, and age, those equations are the same between sexes. So at a particular level of fat free mass, you'd predict that a male and a female would have the same BMR. And yeah, so that's relatively straightforward. When controlling for differences in body mass, we don't tend to see major sex differences in BMRs. But there is a fun kind of upshot of that, bringing organs back in. And that is that women actually have slightly higher BMRs per unit of fat free mass than men do. So just to illustrate the most common equation that you'll see when people use to predict BMR from fat free mass is the 1991 Cunningham equation. Again, often erroneously referred to as the Ketch-McCartel equation. And that equation is BMR equals 21.6 times fat free mass in kilograms plus 370. And so women generally have around 40 to 50 kilograms of fat free mass. Obviously, some have less, some have more, but that's kind of like the range in which most people in the population fall. And men tend to have around 55 to 65 kilograms of fat free mass. Again, some people have more, some people have less, but most people fall into that range. And when you plug values in the middle of those ranges into that equation, so 45 kilos and 60 kilos, you get 1,342 calories for women and 1,666 calories for men. And per kilogram of body mass, that's right around 30 for women and like between 27 and a half and 28 for men. And that's pretty typical in research. So women's BMRs when expressed in calories per kilogram of fat free mass tend to be around 2 to 3 and a half calories per kilo higher than men's. And I was going to say, do you know why that is? But I've already given it away. And that is primarily differences in organ mass. So smaller people and people who have less total fat free mass period generally have a higher proportion of their total fat free mass coming from high metabolic rate organs. So just to illustrate, and this is based on some research by Mueller and colleagues, someone with about 40 kilos of fat free mass, you would expect around 8% of their total fat free mass to come from high metabolic rate organs, again, brain, heart, kidneys and liver. Whereas for someone with 80 kilos of fat free mass, you'd expect around 6% of their total fat free mass to come from those high metabolic rate organs. And since that high metabolic rate tissue is where most of your BMR comes from, just that 2% difference leads to a relatively small but measurable difference in BMR expressed in terms of calories per kilogram of fat free mass. And to be clear, I say that women tend to have higher BMRs in terms of calories per kilogram of fat free mass. But that is just generally true of smaller people versus larger people. So women tend to be a bit smaller, tend to have a bit less fat free mass than men. But you see the same relationship within sex as well. So smaller women tend to have higher BMRs per kilo of fat free mass than larger women, smaller men tend to have higher BMRs per kilo of fat free mass than larger men. And man and woman of the same general size, similar amounts of fat free mass tend to have similar BMRs, period. So yeah, I just thought that was fun. Again, BMR mostly driven by your organs and relative organ mass, so organ like high metabolic rate organ mass relative to total fat free mass tends to decrease as total fat free mass increases. So yeah, that's, that's it impact of sex. Moving on, the next two topics I'm going to go over pretty quickly. That is the impact of age and the impact of weight loss on BMR. The reason I'm not going to talk about these in detail is that I think most people listening to this probably know a decent bit about both of these topics already. In terms of the impact of age, there was a study by Ponzer and colleagues from 2022 that was spread far and wide. I think, I think almost everyone who would be interested in stronger by science content would have come in contact with this study and I'm pretty sure we talked about it on the podcast as well. But if you want to check it out, the the title is daily energy expenditure through the human life course. And that study found that BMR went adjusted for body mass and body composition doesn't really start to decrease rapidly until around 60 years old. Up until that point through most of adulthood, it's fairly stable. So like if it decreases from say your 30s to your mid 50s, that's primarily from like, you know, maybe like losing some muscle mass, like being more sedentary. And so like on an absolute basis, it might decrease. But when adjusting for changes in body mass or body composition, it tends to be like pretty steady through most of adulthood. And then even when correcting for changes in body mass and body composition, you see it start to decline past about age 60. So yeah, like I think every everyone in their mother heard about that study, like it was it was written up in the New York Times, it was not just on social media, like just like every outlet with a health section, I think picked it up. And yeah, there's really not too much to say about it. Other than that, there is more research on the topic and other research on the topic has had similar findings as well. Things are pretty consistent through most of your adult life, but you do start to see relative declines in BMR past about age 60. And the reason I'm not going to talk about the impact of weight loss on BMR a ton is that that topic has a name that I think most listeners of the podcast will be well aware of. And that is it's one component of metabolic adaptation, which is something we've done, I'm sure multiple episodes on. And it's a big topic. So if it's a topic that interests you, go back in the in the archives and look for metabolic adaptation, I'm sure you will find plenty of content on it. And for the people that do listen to every episode, I don't want to bore you with a bunch of content that you're already very familiar with. But the very short version is that when you lose weight, your BMR goes down, part of that decrease is due to just loss in body mass and loss of fat free mass. But part of that decrease is disproportionate to the amount of total tissue you lose. And that that delta is termed metabolic adaptation. So basically, if given the amount of fat free mass you have, you'd be predicted to have a BMR of 1500 calories before weight loss. And let's say your actual BMR is 1500 calories before weight loss. And then you shift into an energy deficit, you start losing weight, you lose some weight, and then based on the amount of weight you've lost and the composition of the tissue you've lost, you'd predict that your BMR might have decreased to 1400 calories. What we see oftentimes during periods of active weight loss is it might actually go to 1300 calories and that disproportionate decrease is termed metabolic adaptation. And that is something that we observe. It is typically to a pretty restrained degree, the extent to which it happens. Like most of the time your BMR during weight loss will be like 5 to 10 percent below what it would be during a period of weight maintenance. And that, you know, that's it's it's not nothing. But like if your BMR would usually be like, I don't know, let's just say 1500 calories. That's a difference of typically works out to around like 100 calories or so, which again, isn't nothing, but that's like the energy in a banana. So you do see a bit of a disproportionate decrease during periods of active weight loss, but it's not huge. And most of that decrease goes away once you finish your diet and start maintaining your weight again. So, so yeah, that's that's the short version of the metabolic adaptation spiel. The one the one note that I did want to make though is that and this is a fact that I don't think people are aware of, but should be very predictable by this point in the episode is that during weight loss, you don't just lose fat, you don't just potentially lose muscle, you also lose organ mass. And there is in fact a bit of a bit of a debate going on in the metabolic adaptation literature about how much like quote unquote true metabolic adaptation occurs. Like most people still think it does occur, but it's a question is like the magnitude, because there have been some studies that have actually done full body MRIs to assess changes in high metabolic rate organ volume. And from that you're estimating mass as well. And like around half of the disproportionate decrease in BMR observed during weight loss seems to be explainable by losses in high metabolic rate organ mass, particularly liver mass and kidney mass to a slightly lesser degree, less so heart mass and brain mass. But yeah, like your liver gets a bit smaller, your kidneys get a bit smaller. And so, you know, in that illustration I gave before, you'd expect your BMR to decrease from 1500 to 1400, it actually decreases to 1300. People go in and take MRIs and say, Oh, no, no, no, based on the total amount of fat free mass they lost, you'd expect it to decrease to 1400. But they actually lost a bit more liver mass and a bit more kidney mass than you would expect during this period of weight loss. So when accounting for that, you'd actually expect their BMR to decrease not to 1400, but to 1350. So the total amount of metabolic adaptation that took place here was in 100 calories, it was actually just 50 calories when accounting for the changes in high metabolic rate organ mass that occurred as well. So yeah, I think that's cool. It appears that around half of the observed metabolic adaptation that occurs, if you think about metabolic adaptation as disproportionate decreases in BMR relative to total fat free mass or total body mass, it seems like around half of that delta isn't true metabolic adaptation. It's actually just due to loss in high metabolic rate organ mass that occurs with weight loss. That seems to be a fair bit of the variance in what many would assume to be metabolic adaptation. And in terms of parsing definitions, if you do or do not want to account for changes in high metabolic rate organ mass when you conceptualize metabolic adaptation, I'm not going to fight you either way. Since most people aren't using whole body MRIs on a regular basis, you have no way of knowing if you lost some liver mass during your most recent cut. So I think it's totally fair to conceptualize metabolic adaptation is like, hey, I didn't lose much muscle, but it does seem like I'm burning quite a bit less energy. That's metabolic adaptation. That seems fair to me. It's just like when the nerds can measure more stuff and adjust for those things they're measuring, it does seem like some of that decrease is due to wall's and organ mass. So yeah, shifting gears. Next topic is weight gain. How does weight gain impact your BMR? And this one's interesting because I don't see that many people talking about it in detail. Most of the time when you hear people discuss changes in energy expenditure during periods of weight gain, it's mostly people who self describe as hard gainers that are just like, oh man, I was maintaining my weight on 3000 calories and I've upped it to like 4000 and I'm not gaining any weight. And yeah, you hear people talk about that. But I don't really see people discussing research on that topic all that frequently. And obviously those anecdotes, they may not be representative or they may not be reflecting changes in BMR. It could be more like non exercise activity, thermogenesis or something else, you know, so I did want to talk about this a little bit because when digging into the research, I did find it quite interesting because it does seem like there is a bit of a mystery here. And so yeah, the question at hand is kind of like, do we observe like reverse metabolic adaptation when people gain weight? And by that, I don't mean people shifting from a cut to bulking and the metabolic adaptation they previously experienced going away when they shift into an energy surplus. I'm talking about like, if someone is at maintenance, and then they start gaining weight, do they observe a disproportionate increase in resting energy expenditure the same way you might observe a disproportionate decrease when losing weight? And the answer to that question seems to be no but. And the but is that for some reason, and I'm not saying this doesn't exist in the research, but I am saying I looked quite a bit and couldn't find it.  it doesn't seem like there's a clear explanation for this, but it does seem like when people overfeed, like when people are in like, inter-in-energy surplus, for like a month or two maybe, their BMR is about five to 10% higher than you would predict, for no well-understood reason. And then past that point, it's more or less what you would predict. So basically, let's say your BMR is 1500 calories and you shift into an energy surplus. Overnight, your BMR might increase to say 1600 calories and stay around 1600 calories before you've even started gaining much of any weight. But then by the time you've gained some weight, where you would predict your BMR would be 1600 calories, it's still kind of around 1600 calories. And then it more or less tracks with body weight from there, where it doesn't disproportionately increase and stay disproportionately elevated as you continue gaining weight. It seems that for whatever reason, there is just like a short-term bump that then just kind of like goes away. And after like a prolonged energy surplus, your BMR is like more or less where it would be relatively speaking as it would be at maintenance. So like if you shifted from a surplus back to maintenance, but you maintained your weight, you wouldn't expect your BMR to then decrease. And so yeah, there was a 2012 study by Harris and colleagues that illustrated this point pretty well. It was an eight-week overfeeding study and basically like week one, subjects BMR's on average were around 1700 calories per day. And they had a little under 55 kilos of fat-free mass. And so their like the average BMR per kilo of fat-free mass was about 31 calories. And then they overfeed for a bit. They are assessing BMR every week. It immediately increases by like 30 calories the first week, but then up to around 100 calories by week four. So pretty quick 100 calorie increase. And during that period of time, the subjects had only put on about a kilo and a half of fat-free mass. So now you do see like a slight elevation in BMR per kilo of fat-free mass. It had gone up a bit, but by week eight, BMR had not continued to increase, but the subjects had gained another like one and a half kilos of fat-free mass or so. And so by that point, their BMR per kilo of fat-free mass was back down to like 31, the same as it was a baseline. So you saw that like initial elevation above baseline, like a disproportionate increase, but then as they continued to gain weight, it just kind of like settled back into what it would normally be with further increases, just scaling with the amount and composition of the weight they gained. So yeah, yeah, there is like a just a pinch of like short term quote unquote reverse metabolic adaptation, but it's not a preserved phenomenon. Like you're not gonna experience that for the entire duration of the time you lose weight, but it does seem like your BMR does get like a short term boost that I don't think there's a clear explanation for yet during the first few weeks of a bulking phase, which it's kind of fun. Next topic is BMR in athletes. And this is actually what we're gonna wrap up on. There are a couple other articles in the series on the website that might interest folks. One is just talking about the variability of human BMRs and the frequency and probability of having a BMR like above or below a particular value. Like honestly, the main reason I wrote it is, it seems like at some point, everyone collectively decided that adult humans can never, like literally never have a BMR under 1200 calories per day. And like, that's not true. Like it happens. And it's like, it's not the most common thing in the world, but it's not like super uncommon. Like for women, it's like one and a half standard deviations below the mean. So like, yeah, most people will have a BMR above that, but a lot of people like globally, probably tens, 200s of millions of adults have BMRs below that. So whatever, I just wanted to talk about that a little bit and address that thing I often see, but to do so in a rigorous way where no one will feel attacked or called out, hopefully. And then the other one is about the impact of PCOS on BMR, which I think that is a really, really good article, if that's a topic that interests you. But I do think that that is a little outside of what we typically talk about on the podcast. And I don't know that getting into that article would make for great audio content because it's very technical. Basically, like here's the TLDR version. There is like a general belief that women with PCOS, and that's Polycystic Overy Syndrome, have way, way lower BMRs than women without PCOS. And in particular, that the combination of PCOS and insulin resistance causes like a precipitous decrease in BMR, like the number you'll often see people call out is that women with PCOS and insulin resistance have BMRs that are 40% below women without PCOS. And that belief seems to be driven by exclusively one study. And that study conceptually isn't the worst study in the world, but it also pretty clearly had measurement errors. Basically, it seems like the device they used to measure BMR in that study was just like a bad device. And so yeah, that whole belief seems to be on like, seems to be due to a measurement error in a single study. And literally all of the rest of the research on the topic finds no impact of PCOS on BMR. So yeah, if that's a topic that interests you or if what I said hits your ears is untrue, check out that article, dig into it. I think it will be a fun romp. But yeah, so those are the last two articles in the series, but we're not going to talk about them in detail on this episode. I said we, I'm used to having a co-host. I don't refer to myself in my free time with the Royal We. I do realize that I'm one person and typically use singular pronouns to refer to myself. Anyway, BMR and athletes, let's talk about it to wrap up. So just for basics to begin with, athletes do tend to have higher BMRs than non-athletes. I think most people are aware of that, but athletes have higher BMRs than non-athletes for reasons other than what I suspect most people believe the reasons are, or at least like the primary reason is different. Seems like most people assume that it's primarily just due to differences in body composition, like the idea that like quote unquote muscle burns more calories than fat, but that actually has a relatively small impact. And if you know the tissue-specific metabolic rates of muscle and fat, that should be relatively intuitive. So remember tissue-specific BMR of muscle is like 13 calories per kilogram. For fat, it's four and a half calories per kilogram. So for every, like if you lose a kilo of fat and gain a kilo of muscle, you'd expect your BMR to go up by like eight and a half calories, which isn't a ton. And even if you experienced a huge change in body comp, like if you gained 10 kilos of muscle mass, which is a lot, like 22 pounds for Americans listening to this, and lost 10 kilos of fat, which again, that's a lot of fat to lose. We're talking about a full 10 kilo either direction recomp, like you're 180 pounds and oh God, I shouldn't put myself on the spot to do this math in my head, so I'm not going to. But yeah, at your current body weight, if you put on like 20 plus pounds of muscle, lose 20 plus pounds of fat, you've experienced a tremendous change in body composition. And for most people listening to this, like most people that are like sub 220 or like sub 100 kilos, at that point, like your body comp will probably be pretty close to what like a high level athletes would be at your body weight. And that would be expected to increase your BMR by like 85 calories, which is a very small difference. But the difference in BMR between athletes and non-athletes that we do observe is much, much larger than that. So that begs the question of why? If it's not primarily due to athletes having more muscle or differences in body comp, which to be clear, that does contribute. It's just not even close to the most important factor. Yeah, if it's not that, why do athletes have higher BMRs than non-athletes? And if you made it to this point in the episode, I bet you can guess what it is. That's right, baby. We're going back to organs. We're talking about organs more. So previously, when talking about sex differences and just generally smaller people having higher BMRs per kilo of fat-free mass than larger people, I mentioned that as total fat-free mass increases, the proportion of fat-free mass accounted for by high metabolic rate organ mass tends to decrease. Like it's around 8% for someone with 40 kilos of fat-free mass and around 6% for someone with 80 kilos of fat-free mass. And that is what we see in the general population. That's not what we see with athletes, though. With athletes, high metabolic rate organ mass more or less stays the same across different levels of body mass. So the only high metabolic rate organ for which that does not apply is the brain, which is good. You don't want your brain getting bigger as you get more jacked. Your skull has a finite amount of volume and your brain's got to stay in there. But yeah, for heart mass, kidney mass, liver mass, those all seem to increase linearly with fat-free mass in athletes, whereas the mass of each of those organs relative to total fat-free mass tends to decrease in non-athletic populations. So basically, if you picked two people off the street and one of them had 50% more total fat-free mass than the other, and again, like I mentioned before, we're not looking at strong R of 0.99 relationships between high metabolic rate organ mass and fat-free mass. To be clear, that still applies. But just if you knew nothing else about them, picked two people off the street, one of them has 50% more fat-free mass than the other. And you said, like, hey, how much more liver mass do you think the bigger guy has than the smaller guy? You might reasonably predict like 25% more liver mass due to that, like, you know, bigger people do have larger high metabolic rate organs than smaller people, but it scales sublinearly with total fat-free mass. For athletes, on the other hand, if you picked two athletes, like, off of a competition pitch or whatever, and one of them had 50% more fat-free mass than the other, you would also expect that person to have 50%, like A-50% larger liver, A-50% larger heart, 50% larger kidneys, like, you see that, like, basically linear scaling with athletes. And so as a result, BMR per unit of fat-free mass doesn't change very much in athletes of, like, it doesn't vary much in athletes of different levels of fat-free mass. Like, it does tend to increase, like, pretty linearly with, like, an intercept very close to zero. So yeah, to quantify that for, for the article for the website, and then for the BMR equation that's now used in the Macro Factor app, I was looking at, I was looking at the research on BMRs and athletes, and I was like, eh, like, as I was digging into it, I was like, we need to use different equations for athletes and non-athletes, like, the difference is just too large. For equations that use, like, height, weight, age, and sex, because athletes have, like, different body comp at the same height and weight as non-athletes. And even when scaling to fat-free mass, like, especially larger athletes, BMR per kilo of fat-free mass, and especially, like, larger athletes is quite a bit higher than non-athletes with similar amounts of fat-free mass. And so I started by just kind of looking at research that had evaluated the accuracy and validity of pre-existing prediction equations, but in the 1980 Cunningham equation does pretty good, the 10-half equation does pretty good. But a lot of them weren't tested in, like, that many samples, but there were a lot of samples and a lot of studies that did report both fat-free mass and BMR and samples of athletes. So I was like, eh, I've already found all of these studies. How much extra work would it be to just extract this data and do a meta regression? So that's what I did. And so yeah, you can check out the article if that interests you. But yeah, if you're interested in, like, a linear equation, like, the final version is allometrically scaled, as is the final version of our BMR equations for general population as well. Long time listeners of the podcast and this might cause a pang of sadness for people who've been listening from the start. This might be the last time you ever hear me sing the praises of allometric scaling on the podcast. But yeah, so they're allometrically scaled, like power law scaling. But yeah, just for linear equations for a point of comparison, the equation for athletes is 28.9 times fat-free mass plus 108 versus the 1991 Cunningham equation, which does pretty well for people in the general population. That equation is 21.6 times fat-free mass plus 370. So the coefficient that you're multiplying fat-free mass by is way bigger in athletes than in the general population. And the intercept is much closer to zero, which basically means that, like, per unit of fat-free mass gained, it's more like a larger increase in BMR in athletes. But since that intercept is closer to zero, that means that BMR per kilo of fat-free mass changes less as fat-free mass increases. Like, that's kind of how you can interpret the differences in those two equations there. And another upshot of that is that the difference in BMR between athletes and non-athletes is smaller for people with less total fat-free mass and larger for people with more total fat-free mass. Just a little thing to note. And the exciting bit of all of this is you might be listening and thinking, like, well, how useful is any of that to me? Could this just be a cross-sectional difference where high-level athletes are just different from non-athletes such that maybe elite athletes can become elite athletes just because they have larger organs than non-athletes. Like, they have larger kidneys that can filter the urea that they generate during exercise faster than everyone else. And they have larger kidneys to metabolize all of the waste products, their muscles, it's not actually waste products, but even to do the core recycle, to recycle, lactate faster than non-athletes. And that's, you know, like, we're not looking at an adaptation to training, we're just looking at cross-sectional differences between athletes and non-athletes. You may be thinking that to yourself. But the exciting bit here is that the like the increase in metabolic rate, the higher metabolic rates in athletes seem to be a training adaptation more so than just a difference between like the athlete and non-athlete population. Like it seems like something where it's not just like athletes are different from us, they have higher BMRs, and there's not much you can do about it. So to support that, for starters, in the studies that like went into my analysis, I split them out by elite versus sub-elite or recreational athletes to see like, okay, are we observing higher BMRs at a given level of fat-free mass in elite athletes than sub-elite or recreational athletes? And we do not. Like there's the same relationship between BMR and fat-free mass in both elite and non-elite athletes. You know, which suggests that it's not just like, oh, you need these organ-related characteristics to become an elite athlete, and that's why the BMR is higher. Even folks like one of the studies was just people who worked out at a particular CrossFit gym, and they had BMRs that fell along the same regression line as like professional rugby players. So it's not like it was only the most elite of the elite that seemed to have these elevations in BMR. Second is there was a 2020 meta-analysis by McKinsey-Schilders and colleagues that analyzed changes in BMR after exercise interventions. And most of the studies feeding into that meta-analysis lasted for around 12 weeks. And during that period of time, the average increase in BMR observed was around 80 calories, which may not sound like much, but that is way more than you would expect BMR to increase, purely just based on changes in body composition over that time span. So if that 80 calorie increase in BMR was to be explained by increases in muscle mass, people would need to gain like six kilos of muscle in 12 weeks. And based on some other research, it seems like the average increase in muscle mass over 12 weeks for people doing full body resistance exercises is like a kilo and a half. So that 80 calorie increase, even in the studies where people were doing resistance training, you can't explain that just by them gaining enough muscle to explain an 80 calorie increase. And an increase of a similar magnitude was also observed in people doing aerobic training. And you're definitely not gaining six kilos of muscle mass in 12 weeks of cardio. So yeah, that also suggests that, we're seeing elevations in BMR that aren't just explainable by changes in body mass in just normal people that start exercising. And finally, there is actually a bit of longitudinal research documenting proportional increases in organ size with training in athletes. So there was a 2013 paper by Meowchi and colleagues titled, Organ Size Increases with Weight Gain in Power Trained Athletes. And basically, this was a study on football players where they looked at muscle mass and also liver, kidney, brain and heart mass in freshman players and seniors or like upperclassmen. And they saw that the upperclassmen had more total fat free mass and also larger organs. And then there was a longitudinal component as well where it's like, hey, these freshmen, they're gonna be trying to get bigger for football. They're gonna be training hard. They're gonna be eating to put on muscle and let's see what happens. And in the course of a year, they put on like 5.2 kilos of total fat free mass and their increase in heart, kidney and liver mass was proportional to that increase in total fat free mass. So like these weren't the exact numbers, but just to illustrate, if total fat free mass increased by 5%, heart mass also increased by 5%, kidney mass also increased by 5%, liver mass also increased by 5%. So there is actually like longitudinal research observing proportional increases in muscle mass with increases in total fat free mass in like athletes lifting weight. So it's not just like, yeah, it's not just like a cross-sectional comparison between athletes and non-athletes. Like when, like we do actually see the changes and increases in organ mass over time as people are training that would lead one to predict like proportional increases in BMR. So yeah, yeah. Athletes have higher BMRs than non-athletes and it mostly seems to be due to organs and most importantly for you, if you're not currently exercising and you start exercising pretty hard, your BMR will probably go up and some of that will be due to the muscle mass you gain and it does seem like some of that will be due to you gaining organ mass in a way that is to be clear, benign or beneficial. So yeah, very cool. When you start working out, your BMR goes up a bit more than you would expect it to just based on how much muscle you gain. So yeah, that's it. That's what I've got for this episode. I just wanna make two quick notes, which is one. If you want to try out the BMR calculator that ended up resulting from all of this leg work I did, you can check that out. If you just Google MacroFactor BMR calculator, I'm sure it'll come up or the link to it will be in the show notes. All of the articles in the BMR series will be linked under it as well and it will talk a bit more about kind of the rationale for the new MacroFactor BMR equations. And second, we are funding some research to improve further on that and do even better to be able to try to estimate and understand BMR as well as we possibly can. So yeah, there is a absolute shitload of BMR research. There was a study from 2013, I believe, by the lead author was Sabunchi. I'm sure I'm mispronouncing that, but that is how it looks. That's how I would think I would say it. Where, I won't bore you with the details, but basically part of the study included doing an accounting of all of the studies that had just tried to make their own new BMR equations. And there were, I think at the time, 248 as of 2013. So that's not every study that has assessed BMR. That's like everyone where the researchers were like, and we're going to try to make a new equation for this population. So there's probably at least 500, 600 studies on the topic. And so that's a ripe body of research to meta-analyze and meta-regress, but it has never been done in a truly thorough and systematic way. I think the reason for that is just that it is a project that is so big that, like I don't think researchers would bother undertaking it without it being funded. Because like, I'm at analysis is not a trivial amount of work, but it's like, it's a fair bit of work if you're meta-analyzing a body of research that has like a dozen studies. And like a lot of that work is just finding the studies and extracting the data. But then if it's like an area of research where the number of relevant studies is like in the hundreds, now you're multiplying the amount of work it takes. Mini-fold. And so, yeah, like no one's gonna do that just to be like, eh, it'll get cited a lot. Like I'm sure it'll be worth it. You're gonna be like, there's gotta be something else I can do with a more reasonable like benefit to work ratio there unless it's funded. And if it's funded, people are like, yeah, okay. Like I can do some funded research. But so yeah, like I think the only reason that it hasn't been meta-analyzed the way it needs to be is just that it is like such an intimidatingly large project. And I assume that there just hasn't ever been adequate funding for it, but I think it is something that should exist and we can fund it. So we are. And so we're working with James Steele to carry out a large project to really help us understand the body of BMR research better.  and hopefully be able to predict and understand BMR more accurately in a variety of different populations. So, be on the lookout that is already underway, and we're hoping to finish it up in about a year or so. But yeah, so that is currently rolling along. So, that's it as far as stuff for this episode goes. So, remember, next episode, all Q&A, this is your best time to ask a question for the podcast. And record those voice clips, 60 seconds or less, and email them to podcastatstrongerbyscience.com. And I will talk to you in another couple of weeks. Alright, be good, see you then.

=== FILE: How To Train Harder (Science Explained) [CTtSYiiFxDo].txt ===

 imortum. Welcome back to the Stronger by Science channel, I am Dr. PAC, and today we're talking about Reps in Reserve, and how you can perfect your ability to gauge repetitions in reserve. It's something that we often see and hear about either in gyms or social media. People making fun of either themselves or other people for overshooting, so supposedly doing sets that are harder than they're intended to be or undershooting, meaning that even though they were supposed to go close to failure, they did not because for some reason they weren't really good at gauging their proximity to failure. But why should I care about accurately predicting repetitions in reserve? I hear you asking. And to that I have a few responses. One and take this with a pinch of salt, being close to failure is important for hypertrophy, so knowing that you are indeed close to failure makes sense. That's not to say that you cannot make gains away from failure or that all your sets need to be too failure and obviously the latter would not require you to actually be good at estimating repetitions in reserve because you would just go to failure. But in general, training hard and from a fatigue standpoint as well, you may want to be at a point where you're leaving a couple of reps in reserve, which should allow you to pretty much maximize hypertrophy while at the same time potentially saving you a bit of the extra fatigue that you'd get from training to failure. Now on the strength side of things, estimating repetitions in reserve can be more flexible because you can be at a variety of reps in reserve and still make great gains assuming that you're using somewhat heavy loads. But still, knowing roughly how many reps you have left in the tank can be a very useful skill for both strength and hypertrophy training because in many of today's programs or whenever you work with a coach, the concept of auto-regulation is heavily utilized. Auto-regulation simply put is just a structured approach for embedding and respect for individual variation within a program as expressed by the good doctor Dr. Eric Helms in his Stronger by Science article, The Science of Auto-Regulation. Essentially auto-regulation allows you to select loads that are appropriate for your level of readiness on any given day. There's going to be weeks where things feel more rough in the gym than other weeks and auto-regulating makes sense and that's where being relatively accurate with your repetitions in reserve can come in handy. So let's look at the current literature on repetitions in reserve. Obviously we're going to do a brief overview. There is an article by myself on the topic if you want a deeper dive. Overall though we have a review published by Halperin et al. very recently which I had the honor of being involved in and that review essentially found that overall regardless of training status people were relatively accurate although imperfect art gauging their repetitions in reserve and they were under predicting by approximately one repetition. Keep in mind that prediction accuracy was better when doing sets below 12 reps and things were not as great going above 12 reps of doing very high repetition sets. Prediction accuracy was not as great but overall and again regardless of training status individuals at least in the design of the studies that were included in that review which I will touch on in a second. They were relatively accurate with their predictions and were just off by approximately one repetition. Now keep in mind that in these studies we're talking about mostly acute designs where individuals are either directly informed that they will have to guess repetitions in reserve or there are some exceptions there are. There is at least one deception study that I know of where participants did not really know that they were actually estimating the repetitions in reserve but we're talking about studies where participants are not being followed for a bunch of time and they are required to consistently guess the repetitions in reserve and then we see whether that has an effect on their long term strength and hypertrophy adaptations but rather we're talking about studies where people are in a lab and they're being asked to estimate the repetitions in reserve while taking a set to failure usually asked a different time points and then seeing what the difference between their prediction and their actual repetitions is and calculating. So the current available literature at least up to the point where the exploratory meta analysis I just mentioned was published there is a few more studies that came after that which I will touch on in a second but up until recently not that things have changed much the literature at least the majority of the literature pointed at both trained and untrained individuals being relatively accurate at gauging their proximity to failure. Keep in mind that obviously we must take into account the design of the studies that were included. So following the Halperin exploratory meta analysis there were at least three more studies that looked at this exact topic in both trained and untrained participants and including exercises like the bench press arguably the only exercise one should do just kidding I don't even a bench press I'm an overhead press enjoyer side note. But these studies overall again sort of confirmed what the Halperin review found participants were somewhat off by one repetition approximately in some cases less than one repetition prediction accuracy improved later in a set so when they were getting closer to failure their prediction was slightly better than when estimating repetitions in reserve earlier in a given set and training experience did not seem to make much of a difference. Interestingly in addition to the evidence on trainees being relatively accurate at predicting their repetitions in reserve regardless of training status there was a study that looked at coaches and whether they were able to predict to accurately gauge the proximity of failure off trainees by using video footage which is pretty much what most online coaches do and overall results were again somewhat similar to the studies that looked at trainees and their prediction accuracy more specifically coaches were more accurate at predicting reps in reserve later again in a given set so when they were watching a set they made prediction at different points and when they made predictions closer to the end of the set they were more accurate and they were again slightly off when making predictions at the 90% off 90% as far as the completion of the set goes at the 90% point they were again off by approximately one repetition so overall trainees are relatively good at predicting their repetitions in reserve slightly off by one rep and that prediction accuracy is increases when those trainees perform below 12 repetitions and interestingly as a bonus coaches are also relatively accurate when making predictions closer to the end of a set versus at the beginning of a set but are also imperfect in their ability to gauge repetitions in reserve and again that study specifically that study that looked at coaches specifically had hundreds of coaches that were certified coaches that took part so what does this all mean for you now overall it's likely that you're not as bad as some may have made you think or you may think at gauging a repetition in reserve you may have thought that you were pretty good so you have been officially science confirmed but you're probably relatively good at predicting your repetitions in reserve on average that's what the data shows on both trained and untrained individuals as far as implementing the findings of the current research in your training i'd say one make sure that you are aware of the fact that you need to be predicting repetitions in reserve during a set and do that towards the end of the set so that your prediction is likely to be more accurate versus starting your set and trying to predict reps at the beginning and sort of going base off of that number and thinking okay this feels like i have five reps in reserve i'll just do another three which should land me at two reps in reserve which is my goal for that set make your predictions closer to the end of that set so that you are likely to be off only by one repetition or even pretty accurate depending obviously on your experience at the same time if you're finding it hard to accurately gauge your proximity to failure opt for sets that are lower in repetitions so 12 and below reps versus going full on 15 to 20 reps for the majority of your sets now staying in the one to 12 rep range will cover all your bases as far as both strength and hypertrophy go and at the same time it may make life a bit easier when you're trying to specifically aim for a specific rir specific reps in reserve target especially when training for hypertrophy or strength and fatigue management is of concern to you so if you want to specifically train for hypertrophy but don't necessarily want to go to failure or very close to failure because that may be more fatiguing than staying a few reps away from failure for some exercises opting for lower rep ranges may be a good idea at the same time it can also help you know that you are indeed at a close proximity to failure because that's also important for hypertrophy and more importantly if you're working with a coach or you're following a specific program that has a specific reps in reserve range or value that you need to shoot for you are more likely to abide by that specific prescription versus just you know being way off whatever the program says these tips aside another thing that you can do in order to actually calibrate your ability of knowing whether you're actually good at predicting repetitions in reserve is to do a few sets to failure at some point here and there in your training obviously in a safe manner i'm not saying load up the squat bar with as much weight as you can and go for an amrap without a spot to see whether you're actually accurate at predicting repetitions in reserve but rather take a few sets here and there to failure while actively predicting repetitions in reserve at different time points during that set and then see if you're actually off by one rep as the research seems to suggest that most people on average are or whether you're bang on as far as your prediction goes or whether you might need to be pushing things a bit more because you're actually off by three reps so overall estimating repetitions in reserve does not seem to be that complex of a topic or something that is very hard for you to master follow the tips that i just mentioned and at the same time feel reassured based on the current evidence that you're probably not as off as you may think that you are when it comes to accurately predicting your repetitions in reserve allow me to also say that hey if you're somebody who just loves training to failure and all your training is too failure you probably don't need to worry much about accurately predicting repetitions in reserve although still it's an easy skill to learn and it's something that you can do especially if you're training to failure because you can literally ask yourself how many reps do i have left and then you're taking the set to failure so you can constantly evaluate your ability to do that or if you're a strength athlete who's working specifically with a percentage based program and that is the way you like to do things obviously following that program is still going to be fine even if you're off on any given day but knowing how close you are to failure can make things much more flexible as far as your training goes it can allow you to use the concept of auto-regulation and in general it can make life as a lifter a bit easier thank you so much for watching make sure to check out the check out make sure to check out the article on the topic if you want a deeper dive and at the same time don't forget to check out the Stronger by Science podcast for proper deep dives in the form of an earlier podcast where myself Milo Wolf and Greg Knuckles go over a bunch of different topics in great detail some at times too much detail check out strongbycines.com slash coaching for an evidence-based coach that can help you get your goals and obviously check strongbycines.com for articles and other cool stuff thank you so much like subscribe i think i said that already but do it again unsubscribe and resubscribe don't unsubscribe that actually is a bit of a risky recommendation just hit the bell icon hit the notification icon leave a comment and thank you so much for watching peace

=== FILE: How To Train The Back (Episode 135) [40WonapUut4].txt ===

 guessing вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам with another great episode today for people watching on YouTube. As you can see, Pac and Milo are in the same spot. Currently in the United States in beautiful New York City, the big Apple, the city that never sleeps, how are you guys liking it there? We are liking it in the sense that we are here on a mission and that mission is furthering science, consuming more fiber than we have ever been able to. And also living the most boring slash manlike lifestyle ever, meant in the best way possible. So we're loving it. Specifically, we're not only advancing science. Specifically, we are not only advancing science through seeing what the human body does with 100 plus grams of fiber per day, using modified tortilla wraps with 30 grams plus fiber per wrap, but also through conducting actual science. Namely, we're conducting the first study on range of motion and length and partials, specifically in trained lifters. And by that, I mean, we had quite a few inquiries for participation. And as far as recruitment went and who ended up in the study, we specifically went for the ones, the participants with the highest training experience. So we asked them how long they've been training for, and we specifically recruited the ones with the most training experience. So we might be looking at a sample with an average training experience of three to five years, maybe even more, depending, we'll see. So seeing whether or not length and partials actually produce more hypertrophy in trained lifters in the context of a pretty well-rounded upper body program with compound pressing, compound pulling, curls, tricep extensions, and so forth. So we're actually in New York for that very purpose, besides all the high fiber stuff. Good deal. Yeah, that's hype. I'm excited to see how it goes. Also, congrats on the recent Partials Past Failure calf raise study. Do you want to briefly recap that for the audience? Sure. Let people know what research you've been up to previously. Sure. I can also recap the lay extension study if you think that would make sense. Oh, yeah, that too. God, there's been so much. There's been so much. We have published two studies with the help of Stephen Larson, who is in fact Norwegian and not Danish as I previously stated on a podcast. With his help and him spearheading Vita Collection, we've conducted two studies on range of motion. The first one was a comparison of leg extensions performed with either a 40 degree hip angle. So with the rectus femoris a bit more lengthened or with a 90 degree hip angle with the rectus femoris a bit more shortened. So essentially seeing how hip angle and therefore rectus femoris stretch impacts hypertrophy from my extensions. And basically we found greater hypertrophy of the rectus femoris from doing leg extensions with your hips a bit more extended versus a bit more flexed and therefore the hip rectus femoris being a bit more shortened. Similarly, we conducted another study in the calves specifically measuring gastrocnemius hypertrophy, looking at a within participant design comparing just doing full range of motion calf raises, wherein the set was ended when participants couldn't get another full rep on the calf raise versus using a condition wherein after participants couldn't get a full rep anymore, they would extend the set just doing partials so they couldn't get up all the way onto their tippy toes anymore. They would just keep going until they either just gave up because going past failure on calf raises does involve a lot of pain or whether they couldn't even move out of that lengthened position anymore. So either volitional failure or momentary failure in the lengthened position. And by doing lengthened partials past failure on a set per set basis, so both conditions did the same number of sets, going past failure with lengthened partials did seem to result in a bit more hypertrophy, nominally around 40% more hypertrophy. So all else being equal, if you take a set past failure on calves, you may see more hypertrophy by doing lengthened partials after failure. I call those lengthened supersets, people have called them a bunch of things, people have been doing those for a while as Greg has outlined in a previous episode. I think he do them on basically every isolation movement. So yeah, why not? First study on the topic and it does seem to help with hypertrophy. Good deal. Good deal. That's very hype and congrats on both of those studies. So today in this episode, we are going to talk about back training. What a segue, I'm a pro. But before we talk about back training, let's get some of the standard plugs up top out of the way. So if you enjoy the show, please like, rate, subscribe, and tell your friends. It really helps us out. If you're interested in hiring a coach that you work with online to help you out with your training and or nutrition, Stronger by Science has an excellent team of coaches that can help you out. You can learn more at StrongerbyScience.com slash coaching. If you'd like to purchase supplements from a source where you don't just have a proprietary blend, you don't know what's in it, like you want to get the actual active ingredients directly. So you're not taking a bunch of underdosed nonsense and you want to get it at a good price. And in fact, you want to get it at an even better price. You can go to the already affordable bulk supplements.com and use code SBSPOT at checkout for an additional 5% off your order. If you want to join our communities and stay fully in the loop with goings on in the Stronger by Science universe, you can join our Facebook group, which is Stronger by Science Community Facebook or our subreddit, which is reddit.com slash r slash Stronger by Science. Check out our newsletter where we send you high quality informative content every couple of weeks, not just spamming you with a bunch of ads and telling you to buy shit. And the newsletter's really been really been popping recently. Pak and Milo have been writing excellent newsletters, if I do say so myself. You can check that out at strongerbyscience.com slash newsletter. And finally, if you have questions that you'd like us to answer on the show, record a voice clip less than 60 seconds and email it to podcast at strongerbyscience.com. So with that all out of the way, we are discussing back training on this episode. And that is, I think specifically upper back training. We're not talking a bunch about how to train your spinal erectors, get the Christmas tree going in the lumbar region, if you get super shredded. That's not the topic of this episode. Mostly lats, traps, rhomboids, upper back training, pulling exercises, etc. etc. So yeah, that's what we're chatting about on this episode. Just out of curiosity, why did you guys select this as a topic? Not that it's a bad topic, but do you have any specific interest in back training these days? I mean, I think like any lifter, growing the back is pretty important, like both for physique. And maybe not so much for the bench press. That's one of the claims I hear thrown out a lot, oh, if you want to bench big weights, you need a big back, train your lats for the bench. It's super important. But I do think most people want to have more muscular backs. And I think that recently on the podcast, we forayed into slightly more obscure or research heavy podcast episodes. And as it turns out, back training is not one of those topics where you can super heavily lean on the research. And I think that's something that not that many people are aware of. That while we have quite a few comparisons of exercises when it comes to like the biceps, the triceps, the quads to an extent or at least different training approaches, as we'll soon find out, there's not a whole lot when it comes to the back. And so I wanted to kind of clarify that for viewers and kind of inform people as to, hey, we don't have a whole lot, but this is how it's go about it. Yeah, I think something that a lot of people aren't that acutely aware of unless they read a lot of research is that when we say there's a fair bit of hypertrophy research, there is. But almost all of it is on biceps, triceps, and quads. And then there's a non-trivial amount on hamstrings, a non-trivial amount on calves, and that's about it. That's about it. I'm really struggling to think of studies that assess trap growth or lat growth or spinal erector growth or, I don't know, just about anything else, delt. Not to interrupt you. Yeah, I mean, we are actually finding a study in the delt. There's like five muscles that get all of the research, maybe like four studies on pet growth or something. But yeah, when it comes to back muscle ature, the research directly assessing it in longitudinal studies is very, very limited. Yeah, no, fully agreed. And I think that is one of the limitations. I think there's a discussion to be had around generalizability of findings from one muscle group to the next. That is a whole different kind of ones, whether or not the findings we have in the biceps or the triceps or the quads, as far as principles like, oh, long muscle training or loadability or what have you, whether or not the findings in those areas generalize to training all muscle groups. But I do think, as we'll discuss in this episode, there is the potential for research to be done in other muscle groups. So for instance, one thing we're planning now with Stephen Larson, who I mentioned earlier, is at least looking into whether or not we could perform a study in the lateral delt, the side delts on hypertrophy, because theoretically, even using ultrasound, for example, the side delt is a relatively superficial muscle. So we could ultrasound it relatively easily. One of the obstacles in doing so is just the identification of anatomical landmarks to locate it precisely and have a valid measurement in that we're truly measuring the lateral delts and not another area of the delt altogether. People have argued that there's many subdivisions of the delt and so forth. But I think the biceps, triceps, calves, quads just tend to be the ones that we can measure most easily as a result of ultrasounds being cheap, cheaper, rather not cheap, they're often still $10,000 to $20,000, but then using them is a lot cheaper than using an MRI. So yeah, that's why those muscles tend to be measured the most often or the most frequently, but we are planning on hopefully slowly changing that where possible. And like you mentioned, not only are they superficial and therefore you can ultrasound them. There are also anatomical landmarks you can use to standardize the measurements. So most quad measurements and studies are taken at 50% of femur length, which yeah, I mean you can you can identify the top and bottom of the femur, just you know, look at that linear distance, take half of it, make a little mark on the quad. And so if you want to make sure you're actually measuring the same point in the muscle today and 12 weeks later, that's easy enough. Whereas, yeah, for the delts, having a way to like standardize it so that you're sure you're scanning the exact same part of the muscle twice in a row. I don't think that's like an impossible hurdle to overcome, but it is it is a non-trivial challenge that isn't present when you're dealing with the muscles on the long bones like biceps, triceps, quads, hamstrings. For sure, I agree. One thing Stian and I have played around with to an extent is using henna paint. So just a semi-permanent mark on the skin that can be reapplied throughout the study. So then you're measuring the exact same site, pre and post intervention, so that at least your measurement location on the body is reliable. Obviously, it doesn't guarantee perfect reliability and all that. But it is one of the sort of tricks that you can use to increase reliability of measurement and assess changes more accurately. I was personally interested in back training because as they say, shows are one from the back and seeing as I'm an aspiring competitive bodybuilder, I wanted to make sure I get the latest info from the best source, aka Milo and Greg. Plus, the back is not a the back musculature. It's not something you see often. So it poses a bit of a philosophical question of whether is it really there at the moment? Like I cannot see it. I cannot see my back at the moment. Is it there? Does it appear when you train in? Yeah, that's maybe the first philosophical question that any of us contended with. Like if you've ever played peekaboo, which I assume all of us did when we were two years old. Yeah, I mean the philosophical notion of object permanence, that's something that's really core to the human condition. So yeah, I like, of course, the Greek person is the one that brings philosophy into it. But yeah, that is an interesting angle for the discussion of back training that would never have occurred to me. Yeah, sure, absolutely. To the philosophy of my science, baby. So let's get into it. Let's see. One of you guys want to talk about the research that does exist on back training? Yeah, and contrary to most podcast episodes we have, I think the science segment will be remarkably short in that we have about two studies to discuss when it comes to back training and how it impacts hypertrophy. And worse yet, neither of these studies actually measure back hypertrophy. So we're just talking about how back training might grow your biceps instead. So first we have a study by Manarino and colleagues from 2021, truly the manliest surname there is, looking at the dumbbell row versus the dumbbell supinated curl. So specifically in 10 men, not a huge sample size, but it wasn't within participant design, which slightly bolsters its power. They compared doing underhand dumbbell rows with one arm to doing supinated dumbbell curls with the other. They performed eight weeks of training, two sessions weekly, four to six sets in each session with their age 12 rep max. So in total, they were doing around 10 weekly sets for their biceps for both arms, either with underhand dumbbell rows or with supinated dumbbell curls. They measured size of the biceps both pre and post, at a couple of sites, if I recall correctly, using ultrasound. And basically when it came to comparing the underhand dumbbell row and the dumbbell supinated curl, hypertrophy of the biceps was superior in the supinated dumbbell curl condition. So it's difficult to make any generalizations or draw too many inferences from a single study, because this is the only study we have comparing rowing exercises to curling exercises for the biceps. But I think as a very tentative takeaway from the findings on bicep hypertrophy, you could say that maybe slash probably rows are not as good for your biceps as curls. And I think that's somewhat intuitive for one reason. I think when you're selecting an exercise to maximize hypertrophy of single muscle, ideally you probably do want that muscle to be as close to the limiting factor as possible. So when you end the set, that muscle is being taken at least relatively close to failure. I'm not sure how much that matters at the very extremes, like if for example, an exercise is taking the biceps to two reps in reserve upon hitting failure as a conceptual tool, or all the way to failure, like the biceps is what gives out. I'm not sure how much of a difference that would make. But at the very least, all else being equal, taking a muscle closer to failure via, for example, an isolation exercise should be better for hypertrophy than taking it further from failure, as would happen more typically during a compound exercise. And at least in this study, based on the findings here, something like a row might be worse for hypertrophy of the biceps than something like a curl, which makes sense. For strength outcomes, the findings were very intuitive, which is to say that strength improvements are specific. The arm that trained bicep curls saw greater gains in bicep curl tenor at max than the arm that trained dumbbell rows. And conversely, the arm that used dumbbell rows gained more strength in the dumbbell row tenor at max compared to the arm that did curls. So strength gains were specific, all that to say. Specifically, in this case, as I mentioned earlier, hypertrophy was measured at three sites. And overall, when they combine those sites, hypertrophy with a biceps was about twice as large when doing curls versus rows. Overall, the findings, as I mentioned, I think just indicate that curls are probably better for bicep hypertrophy compared to rows, and that strength improvements when it comes to curls versus rows are probably specific to the exercise you train. Nothing too groundbreaking, but I think that it is interesting, if nothing else, for people who are trying to count volume. Nowadays, one of the questions you often get for how shall I be counting my weekly sets, is do you count back training as bicep training as well? The answer to that might depend somewhat on whether you're talking about rows or pull downs, as we'll come to in a second. So yeah, those are my takeaways from that study, one of only two studies on back training and overall hypertrophy. What do you guys think? Are those pretty reasonable takeaways? I mean, I missed the days where things were simple, where rows were the main exercise for biceps. All you needed to do was rows, chin-ups, and focus on the compounds, which meant anything you wanted it to mean. Now, we're here geeking out about bicep curls and looking at the figures and charts. I mean, I'm not happy about it, but I have to accept it. Yeah, I think the issue was they didn't do enough rows. So just while I'm being serious, I think your evaluation of the study is great. Yeah, I mean, I don't know what to say. This is a very non-scientific take, but I've done a lot of bicep curls. I've done a lot of rows. And after a set of bicep curls, it feels relatively obvious to me that my biceps worked harder. I try not to be this guy, but there are studies I read that I'm like, did we need a study on this one? And in this case, it's like, yeah, like, kind of no shit, rows aren't the best bicep exercise. But while I'm being while I'm being less serious, let me preface this by saying I might be about to share a little bit of fake news because I haven't looked into this that deeply. But it's just like a little, a little like fun fact slash potentially factoid, which another fun fact, different things. A lot of people use the term factoid to refer to little fun facts, but fact oids are actually fake news that sound like little fun facts. So yeah, this may be a little fun fact, maybe a factoid who knows, and quite frankly, who cares? So the reason I give it this preface is this thing that I'm about to say, I heard from a like I learned from like one of my history teachers, like one of my history professors in college, I went I went to college as a history major for people that don't know that bit of lore about me. And this history professor, at least two other times, I've repeated things that he taught us in class that have turned out to be completely untrue. So yeah, I think I think he just didn't care that much, had tenure and was just like, yeah, if I hear a fun thing and pop history books, I'll just repeat it as if it's a fact. So all of which is to say this may fall into the same category, but allegedly, something that folks used to wonder about was the construction of Viking longboats, because they I see you guys smiling, you guys didn't expect it to go there, right? It was a Greg ADHD masterpiece there. This is relevant to rowing. You'll see why in a second. So yeah, apparently, there used to be a lot of questions and concerns about the construction of Viking longboats, because according to what people knew about boat construction, they didn't seem like they would be particularly seaworthy, not that they would capsize or tip over, but that they were too wide and rested too low in the water. So that they would create way too much a drag to actually do what it was said the Vikings did, which was basically like roll up real quick on the shores, raid a place and then get out before local ships could chase them down or whatever. And so if they're creating that much drag, they shouldn't be fast enough to shock people with how quickly they get to shore and start a raid and be able to escape afterwards. Too much drag shouldn't be fast enough. And they had relatively small sails as well. So most of the power was generated by rowing. And people kind of knew how hard folks could row a boat. And they're like, none of this makes sense. Like what's going on here? How did the Vikings do what they did? And then like, I don't know, maybe like 20 years ago-ish, they found a mass grave of Viking warriors just where like a bunch of them had been buried. And yes, and they they could examine the bones. And so a thing about bones and muscles and whatever, all of that stuff, is the size of tuberosities on of like, well, just traction epiphasies in muscles more generally is somewhat indicative of how strong the muscles were. So your biceps, they insert on your radial tuberosity, like that's, that's just where your biceps attached to your forearm. And the stronger your biceps are, the more linear tension they're putting on the radial tuberosity. And it's pulling and pulling. And the stronger your biceps are, the more your radial tuberosity would have to remodel. And so kind of the bigger that bump is, generally the stronger your biceps were. And apparently, when they found this, this mass grave of Viking warriors, they had some of the biggest radial tuberosities the world had ever seen. And then folks were like, okay, well, never mind, that's that's how the Viking long boats worked. These guys were just so fucking strong, that even though the boats created more drag than was optimal, they just made it work. And if anything, the wide design sitting low in the water did help them maintain stability and not capsize on the choppy North seas. So it was like inefficient design for speed, but efficient design for stability. And they made up for the poor hydrodynamic design by just being strong as fuck. And they got that way from rowing a lot, all of which is to say, if the subjects in the Manorino study, if instead of doing four to six sets of eight to 12 reps for eight for eight weeks, if they would have instead done eight to 10 hours of rowing every day from the time they were eight years old or whatever, they may have gotten really impressive bicep growth from that to the point that it would confuse modern ship builders. Truly a his excitation moment. I think we can discord the study all together in favor of our Viking ancestors just being jacked really like if they had big biceps and all that was row presumably they didn't curl, right? That's one wouldn't think it's such a fun fun fact that you'd hear at certain seminars where you know, barbells and barbell row specifically are presented as the thing I could totally hear a lot of S&C coaches being like, you know what, the Vikings back in the day, blah, blah, blah, and call and also sell like a Viking thick as a Viking back program, you know, that could be a good product, by science.com. It really only works if you're doing like six hours of rows a day. Good. I mean, you know, also, somewhat related to that, the rowers that I have known like the people that did competitive crew, they did all have pretty impressive bicep development. So I don't know. Yeah, I think I think the issue with this study is they should have just made the people do 14 times more rowing volume than curls. And you might say that's not a valid comparison. That's not science. What are you talking about? You need to equate variables between groups. But yeah, of course, three sets of rows isn't going to do that much for your biceps. But if you make a sport out of rowing, yeah, you'll probably get decent bicep development from it. And that's another point in favor of extreme volumes for extreme gains. Look at the Vikings, you know, that's true. That's true. All right, let's let's move on. Cool. So that was study number one on back training. And unfortunately, no back high purchasing measurements. So we still can't tell anything about back training. And as it turns out, that is a trend that continues into the next and last study on back training for hypertrophy. This time they compared the pronated so overhand wide grip pulldown to the shoulder width barbell supinated curl. So interestingly, I think that some people have written about this study saying that the results might not generalize to like wide grip pulldowns being potentially worse for bicep hypertrophy. But it's worth noting that the only study we have comparing pulldowns to curls had participants do pulldowns with a wide grip. And with an overhand grip, which people commonly claim is worse for biceps, like if you really want to train the biceps in the pulldown exercise, you need to adopt an underhand grip to  prolethiziaeaboflexors. In this case, they compared the wide grip overhand pulldown to the shoulder width barbell curl, in 29 men using a between participant design. They measured elbow flexor muscle thickness, and they trained twice a week using three sets of 8-12 reps on each set. This time, in contrast to the findings comparing the underhand dumbbell row and the supinated curl we mentioned earlier, they did actually find pretty similar, almost identical in fact, elbow flexor muscle thickness increases between doing barbell curls and doing overhand wide grip pulldowns. Now, going back into the section earlier with the caveat that we can't make too large of a an inference or generalization based on just one study, to me this kind of suggests that potentially vertical pulling, like pulldowns, pullups, etc., might be slightly better for biceps than horizontal pulling, like rowing. If in an alternate universe, when you're rowing a boat, you had to row vertically, who's to say the Vikings there wouldn't have been more jacked, bigger biceps is what I'm saying. So yeah, if nothing else, I think we might take away from these two studies that pullups and pulldowns might be slightly better bicep builders than rows, but I think that's a tentative takeaway and it still doesn't really tell us anything about how to grow your back, unfortunately. I think if we want to go back to like non-scientific observations of real-world things, for pullup slash pulldowns, I would just toss a gymnast in there. I don't think they do that many curls, they do a ton of pullup-related things, and the ones that do rings especially, dude, their biceps are fucking huge. They have tremendous arm development and yeah, that doesn't necessarily mean that rep for rep pullups and pulldowns are as effective as curls, but I do think it suggests that you can get pretty decent arm development by doing enough pullups or pulldowns. I agree with that, and I think I've always found the claim that underhand grip pulldowns or chin-ups are better than overhand grip pulldowns or chin-ups for bicep growth or for just elbow flexor growth, I guess. A bit odd. Greg, do you think that is true? What is your rationale for that being true and true? There's one citation there. Yeah, I mean, it's one of those things where I, oh, and I think we're going to talk about this in a little bit. The idea of what muscles or regions of muscles the body recruits to do different things. I think a lot of that stuff is overblown. I think that if you're doing elbow flexion stuff, all of the elbow flexors are going to be worked pretty hard for the most part. And so yeah, there's not a ton of direct evidence on it. And in terms of anecdotes, I don't really have many because I can't do underhand grip stuff particularly well. I don't know exactly what it is. I think I just have kind of limited supination range of motion. So as I get close to the top of a rep, it feels like it's putting some very uncomfortable torque on my wrists. So I don't even have that much first-hand anecdotal feeling about this stuff either. So yeah, I don't have a horse in the race, honestly. Just a question though, because I know somebody who had a horse in the race and has answered this question with a definitive answer. When did you last compete at Mr. Universe? And what was your place? Never. Okay, because Mr. Mike Menzer, RIP who did win Mr. Universe, has stated multiple times that the lat pull done with an underhand grip is the best bicep exercise better than curls themselves. So I mean, Vikings, Mike Menzer, scientific evidence, that's the order, the hierarchy of scientific evidence in my head. Strong by science tracks again. What I would say is, I think I can put forth a somewhat hot take. First, I'll discuss what I think is the common rationale for why the underhand pull down or the chin up are viewed as better bicep exercises than the overhand pull down or just regular pull up. I think, and I could be wrong here, so I don't want to strongman the usual stance. But I think it has to do with internal leverage and essentially just the quote unquote, your mechanical matching principle. I am partial, but intended, to the view that Greg has, which is that when a set is taken to failure, I suspect that pretty much all the muscles that contribute at least somewhat to that joint action are going to be taken to failure. Like it's kind of like a all hands on deck sort of situation versus like a, okay, well, we're going to failure, but let's only use the muscle that has good leverage a situation. And so like, I don't think that there's going to be a huge difference in bicep growth on account of differences in internal leverage based on length or what how do you and so I think that overhand, unhand pull downs, the bicep growth or the elbow flexor growth shouldn't differ too much on account of differences in internal leverage. So I don't think they would be that different. If anything, I could turn it around and say, well, the biceps are form supernators or radio ulnar supernators rather. And if you pronate your hands, your lengthening the biceps bit more, which I don't think the difference in length is meaningful enough to amount to anything. But I think as a hot take, they might be better than underhand grip pull downs or pull ups for bicep growth. So yeah, it's a hot take, but I certainly don't think there's a big difference between underhand and overhand. And if anything, I would say overhand might be better. And at least in this study, although it wasn't a comparison of underhand and overhand, overhand grip pull downs, they didn't seem to result in no bicep growth. So it's at least something. Don't you think, sorry, sorry, don't you think reason for the for the underhand grip pull downs and chin ups being better for biceps may also be at least from those that claim it just a bit of oh, intuitively it makes sense because my arm is facing that way. And that's how I flex my bicep. That's that's how I felt why I felt people were like, yep, these are better for your biceps. Because there's no saying that direct scientific evidence to, to like really support that. I could see that being the case. I don't know, I do I do have a bit more anecdotal experience with like underhand grip versus reverse grip curls. And I can say so I feel like, I don't know, I still feel like I get plenty of pump in my biceps doing like overhand grip pull downs with the but I do wonder if people are comparing it to the sensations they get with underhand versus reverse grip curls. Because personally, when I do reverse grip curls, I feel like I feel like my brachio radialis just kind of like gets in the way a bit more and gets enough of a pump fast enough that I can't get like a really good feeling bicep contraction, which does apply for reverse grip curls, but doesn't for pronated like pulling exercises. So I don't know, I do wonder if someone, if people may be kind of like generalizing from those sensations, like, yeah, you really do feel like underhand grip bicep curls are hitting your biceps better. Therefore, underhand grip anything is hitting your biceps better. I don't know, it could be something like that. Yeah, I do wonder to what extent, like, we commonly and by we I mean, the fitness audience, the fitness enthusiasts commonly use how a muscle feels during an exercise as some indication as to the exercise's effectiveness. And I think, I don't know, there's a whole discussion to be had around whether or not that is even a good way to guide training. I think at this point, we are very much dealing with evidence, sorry, absence of evidence, like there is no strong evidentiary basis for saying that, oh, I feel my brachial radialis more in this exercise or my bicep torn this exercise, therefore it's a better exercise for this muscle. So it's just always interesting to me how commonly people use that rationale and how widespread it is, like, people will use it above and beyond the scientific evidence oftentimes in deciding what is a better approach, which has always been a misgiving of mine and how people approach training. So and the irony there with back training is that sometimes with some variations of exercises like rows and barbell rows specifically, that then stops being the case. So how a muscle feels will be used for like pull downs and whether they train your biceps effectively and which whatever machine row variation or pull over or whatever variation is best for lats based on feeling, but then you do have proponents of cheat rows where I don't know if anybody has felt cheat rows on their back. And those are presented as game changing, thickness building exercise for the back. So a bit of a strange one. But yeah, I am with you, my brother, in terms of, you know, just because it feels good doesn't mean it's targeting the muscle the way you wanted. Now, I feel like we need to dig into that because I'm confused. I feel cheat rows in my back way more than strict rows. Like it's not even close. But are your are your cheat rows cheat rows or strict rows with a twist? You know, like have you seen like Kyler Woolham do cheat rows with 405? Yeah, like extremely cheaty. And you feel them on your you get a back pump from cheat rows? Yeah. I so I feel like my back like we're totally in the realm of anecdote now whatever that's that's the episode that the people need though. But I feel like my lats have like a really extreme strength curve where like as as elbow or a shoulder extension increases, like the strength drops off really, really quick. And yeah, yeah, I mean, there's similar like differences in strength curves for other exercises and whatnot, I guess. But yeah, with for me personally with my lats and most mostly for rowing, like it does feel particularly extreme. And so I find that if I do cheat rows and really focus on like trying to resist the eccentric as much as possible, it yeah, it just absolutely lights my shit up. Whereas for if I'm doing like strict rows, I feel like I don't know how to describe it. But I feel like I become unable to do reps before I am particularly fatigued or tired. Yeah, like it feels like my muscles just can't complete a rep anymore, but they haven't really been that stimulated. It's just like, yeah, I'm so weak in deep, deep shoulder extension that it only takes like the tiniest modicum of fatigue before I give out. But then if I drop the loads quite a bit more so that I can do a lot of reps strict, it just feels like, I don't know, it feels the same way almost like I might get a little pump in my lats. But once again, it feels like I fail before I'm really like that fatigued comparing the sensation in my lats when I fail strict rows versus the sensation in my triceps when I fail a set of tricep extensions. But then if I get some good cheating going on and really try to resist the eccentric, yeah, like the sensation I get in my lats at the end of the set then is more normalized to the sorts of sensations I would get in other muscles at the end of a set. But you are controlling the eccentric, which is like the main thing. I can see how you get a nice pump if you lift a ton of weight and then you try to control the weight down. But if you see people doing cheat rows, it's just absolute madness. It's just the yank the bar and then throw it on the floor. It probably would still look uncontrolled though. Especially with the start of the eccentric, I don't think I'm actually slowing the bar down that much, but I'm fucking trying to. Yeah, so I guess it's almost more like accentuated eccentric training in a way. Yeah, as a way to do that, which is interesting because the evidence on that is for hypertrophy, not too compelling, which just points to how little we know about back hypertrophy training. But I think that one other way, like going back to the study I outlined earlier in the episode in the calves doing partial past failure, like I'm not going to make a sweeping generalizations about every muscle ever based on one study at looking at this concept. But I think most back training is quite similar to calf training, where the shortened position like the very top of the rep is most challenging, like what you're describing where you're relatively weak in full shoulder extension, and that makes straight reps feel a bit odd. That same concept of back training being hardest in the shortened position, I think may make the findings of the calf study applicable here, where doing partials after you can't do them before rep could probably increase hypertrophy at least on a set per set basis. And in the absence of any direct evidence on back training, I think you do need to make some degree of inference and generalization from other studies. So it might be warranted to think, okay, let's find a way to make the length and position a bit more emphasized here, which cheat reps are technically one way to do, like you are allowing yourself to lift more load and length and position by making the shortened position a bit easier to achieve, or even not caring about achieving it whatsoever. One thing you brought up Greg that I would want to touch on and I know you have a fair bit to speak on is rows training the lots. And how do we really know that they do? Does it have anything to do with fiber orientation? Is it related to the function? Can we use fiber orientation to really inform our back training? Because we don't have any direct evidence on back hypertrophy. So we're kind of left to either making generalizations or inferences from other studies on non back muscles. Or we can also try and use bow mechanics and anatomy to inform how we should train the back. I guess my question to you would be, what are your thoughts on using fiber orientation to guide back training? Yeah, I think that's about the best you can do. I also think it's possible to kind of like overcook it and like over generalize a bit, maybe get like a little too lost in the sauce on the topic. So for instance, there is a degree to which someone who's like maximally skeptical could say, hey, we don't know if pull ups or pull downs or rows actually grow the lats because we don't have affirmative evidence to support that. And my response to you, if someone were to say that would be, well, technically, you're correct if you don't think we have a way to make any inferences about the world without formal published science. But on the other hand, of course they do, you know, like there's, there is a degree of skepticism that's useful and productive. And there's a degree of skepticism that is divorced from reality, I guess. Where it's like, you know, there is research on this topic. But I'm sure these individuals haven't actually looked it up to see like, hey, does, you know, does putting chicken in a hot pan actually cook it? You know, like, I'm sure there's research on that. I've read the research on that topic. But like, I'm sure it exists. But I'm sure these fucking people don't need research, like they don't personally need to see studies to support every fairly obvious thing they do in their lives, right? So yeah, there's not any like direct research on back growth. But at the same time, hey, we know that the lats are shoulder extensors. We know that pull ups, pull downs, rows are resisted, like shoulder extension exercises. We know that when you do resisted exercises that train the agonists for a particular joint action, that muscle tends to grow. Therefore, yeah, like we have a pretty good idea that those are effective exercises for training the lats. And so yeah, I mean, you can you can make inferences about what joint actions a muscle accomplishes based on fiber orientation. There's also a lot of like modeling research that looks at how much torque various muscles can create at particular joints for particular joint actions. There's also like acute EMG research, just looking at, hey, when you do this joint action, what muscles do we see increases in electrical activity in, you know, there's, there's a lot of various ways one could go about determining what the agonists for a particular joint action are. But a lot of that's fairly obvious, you know, for shoulder extension, it's mostly going to be the lats and the teres major scapular elevation, got some levator, you got a lot of a lot of traps, scapular retraction, mid traps, rhomboids, like, yeah, most, most of the things that one would be curious about in terms of like broadly what muscles are being trained by these back exercises. We know that the extent to which I say I think sometimes this gets like a little bit overcooked is I don't know when so. Like for all of this, we are like everything's an extrapolation, right, like since we don't have direct evidence on back training and like what exercises cause more growth in what muscles, like since that research doesn't exist, we are generalizing and making extrapolations from mechanistic stuff. But I do, I do think that there's value, I guess, in being somewhat epistemically conservative about how much you do that, where it's like you want to know, where like when you don't have like established facts, you kind of have to like tentatively and conservatively make inferences that are like one step removed, and then once you start trying to confidently make like inferences and extrapolations that are like two or three steps removed, I think you can start to get yourself in trouble and wind up being like way too confident about stuff where you probably shouldn't have like that much confidence about things that are like one or two degrees even more basic. Yeah, I feel like I'm rambling a bit because I don't really know how to like intro this concept all that well. But one thing that I see, so like in the absence of direct direct research on back training, I see a lot of instances of people trying to make like really confident inferences or predictions about like specific variations of back exercises that are going to be like way, way more effective at targeting a particular muscle or a particular region of a muscle based on fiber orientation or based on the principle of neuro mechanical matching and oftentimes like using those two things together. And so neuro mechanical matching is and I'll link a review paper in the show notes, but it's basically the idea that your nervous system tends to recruit the muscles that can meet the torque requirements of a particular joint action in the most bio energetically efficient way. And so fibers most closely oriented to match the line of pull for an exercise should have a mechanical advantage. Therefore, they should be the ones that are preferentially recruited and used for that joint action. And so there is quite a bit of evidence for that concept in a general sense. There's plenty of evidence on just regional muscle activation as a real phenomenon. And for neuro mechanical matching in particular, there's a reasonable there's a reasonable bit of evidence. But a lot of the most direct evidence comes from studies on inspiratory muscles. So this was like first, first observed and researched in a breathing context. So like, when and why might someone primarily breathe with their diaphragm versus their inner costals versus their scalenes, etc. So that's where most of the direct research on this phenomenon is. And the muscle, like the muscle groups group that has gotten the next most attention is the calves. Because the bio energetics of walking are a like, well understood, but also like non trivial problem in like the the biomechanics research. A lot of the biomechanical principles we know about come from like walking and gate studies, just because we do a shitload of it. And that's, yeah, that's just what bio mechanists have been studying for a long time. Like if if you read biomechanics journals, like, I may be exaggerating, but I feel like a third of the studies are about walking in some way shape or form, like it's a very well understood phenomenon. And so if there's a new principle that you're investigating, in this case, neuro mechanical matching, yeah, yeah, makes sense to look at it in a walking context. And so, yeah, like the the specific calf muscles that have the most leverage to accomplish plantar flexion at various points in the stride do seem to be the ones that are most recruited. So yeah, neuro neuro mechanical matching, it's it's a real thing. The issue is that I think it's, I think there is a tendency to over generalize from that phenomenon in a specific resistance training context, because most of the research does come from walking and breathing. And I don't know about you guys, but when I breathe, I'm not assessing the RPE of my diaphragm. I'm not like, Oh, that was a tough one. I got two breaths left. You know what I mean? It's an extremely submaximal thing. Same thing with walking. Like I'm a big guy. And sometimes I walk uphill. Sometimes I exert myself a fair bit relative to how much one could exert themselves when walking. I've also done calf raises with heavy weights to failure. And I can tell you, my calves are not being stressed nearly as much walking as doing heavy calf raises to failure, not even close, like walking is is a submaximal thing for your calves. And so that's relevant because there was, I think there, I think at this point, there has been one study investigating neuro mechanical matching in the context of like actually difficult exercise, and not even that difficult, but just like a difficult ish where it's like, Hey, instead of looking at things that are extremely submaximal, like breathing or walking, let's just ramp up the intensity a little bit and see the extent to which neuro mechanical matching still applies. So there was there was a study in the calves where they, they looked at lateral gastroc, medial gastroc and soleus recruitment as plantar flexion torque increased from 10% to 70% of MVIC. And at really, really low levels of recruitment, you saw the soleus doing the most work. You saw the medial gastroc doing the middle amount and the lateral gastroc doing the least. But then as the intensity of the contractions ramped up, and again, not even to like an MVIC, but just like 70% of MVIC, you saw, you saw the activation of all three muscles begin to converge. So even though the soleus was the most neuro mechanically efficient one to create the necessary torque at low levels of torque requirements, as requirements increased, just the other calf muscles needed to be recruited and used more. And so, yeah, I think, I think neuro mechanical matching is less, is like relevant in the most basic global sense to like resistance training stuff. So like, for instance, I don't like your, your nervous system is going to recruit the right muscles to do things, you know, like if, if you're trying to do elbow flexion, your nervous system is not going to be like, Oh, well, let's recruit the quads just in case, you know what I mean? Like, like, there is just the principle that like, it is a bit of a fuzzy concept because it's hard to disambiguate it from just like, Hey, I'm doing elbow flexion, my nervous system is recruiting the elbow flexors, like it's, it's trying to take it one step further than that and say, Hey, it's going to recruit specific elbow flexors more than others and or specific regions of specific muscles more than others based on like fiber orientation. But it's, it is just kind of like an extension of that like very, very basic principle that like, yeah, the nervous system is going to recruit the muscles that accomplish the joint actions necessary. But yeah, like we, we see that as the level of effort increases, the muscles that need to be recruited and  recruited a lot. It just kind of converges on everything that it can accomplish the necessary joint actions, needing to be more active and needing to do more stuff. There's also been kind of like indirect evidence for that general idea in the context of like multi-joint exercises and what muscles are being recruited to accomplish particular joint actions. So there was a study by Kroll and Golis on the bench press back in like 2017, looking at pec and front delt and tricep activation, or, well, EMG, EMG amplitudes, not exactly activation, whatever, similar enough. As loads increased from I think 70% to 100% of one RM in the bench press. And what you saw was that it did seem like the nervous system favored pec recruitment. Like pec recruitment at 100% MVC wasn't that much higher than 70%, but as loads increased, muscles that maybe did have like a little bit less mechanical advantage for doing all of the things one needs to do in the bench press, so like the front delts and the triceps, recruitment of those muscles did increase as load increased, which is similar to what we saw with the calves in the specific neuro-mechanical matching study that I just talked about. We see a similar thing with muscles in the squat as well. Like quad EMG with one RM loads, isn't that much higher than quad EMG with like 70% one RM loads, but as loads continue increasing, or also as you get closer to failure, I forget the researcher, but there was a study on built usage in the squat back in the day, I think from like the mid-90s that was looking at quad and hamstring EMG as people approached failure in a squat. And yeah, I mean, it kind of seems like the quads from like rep one in a set with like 70% one RM are doing about all they can do really. And then as loads increase further, or as you get closer to failure, the body's just recruiting the hip flex, or the hip extensors more and more and more to kind of like make up for it so you can continue completing reps. I have some general thoughts about that and just kind of like quad hypertrophy studies more broadly, but that's another discussion for another day. All of which is to say, I really think the idea of neuro-mechanical matching becomes less and less relevant if you're actually training hard. If you are doing a single rep and like 40% of one RM for some exercise, and you wanna know, hey, what muscle or what region of a muscle is contributing most to that first submaximal rep, then yeah, go crazy with neuro-mechanical matching. Like make whatever inferences you want, and there's a decent chance you'll be right in making those predictions. But if you're actually training heavy, training hard, pushing sets closer to failure, your nervous system is recruiting more and more and more of the musculature that can accomplish the necessary joint actions. And I think that makes a shitload of sense intuitively because like a basic biological principle that I don't think we think about that much in a resistance training context. Because we tend to be thinking with an abundance mindset. We're training hard, we're trying to get big, we're eating plenty, we're eating a lot of protein, we're trying to get fucking jacked. That's how we tend to be oriented, but a lot of biology is oriented around how can I not starve to death? Because that is still the biggest issue for most organisms on this planet, and that was the biggest issue for humans for a long fucking time until like the mid 50s for industrialized countries, and still for a lot of people in a lot of countries today. It's a really good thing that your biology is really tuned towards not starving. That's a big thing. And so the idea of neuro-mechanical matching essentially has that in mind where it's like you need to do something easy. You don't need to create that much plant reflection torque, but you need to create some as you're walking along and you're walking 15,000 steps a day. You're a hunter-gatherer, you're trying to find honey, you're trying to find edible berries. You're walking a lot, and you have these three different calf muscles that can all create plant reflection torque, but one of them has slightly better leverage than the other two. And so if the nervous system can lean on that one a little bit more than the other two, that might save 30 calories a day, which might be critical for not starving to death. Same thing with breathing, you know? You take a lot of breaths in a day, and if one of your inspiratory muscles has slightly better leverage than the others in particular postures, yeah, lean on that one. That's gonna save some energy. Like it's an energy-saving thing. Like if you can accomplish something more efficiently, you save some energy, your biology fucking loves that shit. Like that's a lot of things are tuned to conserve energy. But guess what you're not doing when you're taking a set of binge press to failure, or rows to failure, or pull downs to failure, or pull ups to failure, or shrugs to failure. You're not fucking conserving energy. Like the challenge that your biology is facing is fundamentally different. It's not, it is much less, how can I most efficiently accomplish this relatively easy joint action, and more the challenge is just, I need to create as much torque for this joint action at this joint as possible. And what resources do I have at my disposal to be able to do that? And if there are multiple muscles and multiple regions of muscles that can all contribute to that joint action, during the first rep that's not maximal yet, it may not even be particularly hard, it's gonna say, yeah, let's do some neuro-mechanical matching. Let's really focus on the muscles and the regions of muscles that are the most, like bio energetically efficient to use here. But then as that challenge continues increasing, it's gonna recruit more and more shit because it needs to to accomplish the challenge, which is no longer conserving energy, it's just getting it done, like being able to create as much torque as you need. All of which is to say, yeah, neuro-mechanical matching is a real thing, and I think if you're training hard, it becomes less and less relevant beyond just the very most basic considerations of, yeah, like if a muscle does have, like can technically contribute to a particular joint action, but has like way worse leverage or has like some other unfavorable characteristics. Like for instance, thinking about like the rectus femoris in the squat, yeah, like the nervous system isn't gonna rely on it all that much because you're also trying to extend your hips, rectus femoris is a hip flexor, it's gonna be deprioritized for that reason, you know, like so there's some other stuff like that in play. But yeah, for the most part, yeah, the harder you train, the less relevant neuro-mechanical matching is. Yeah, I think that's, oh, the other thing I wanted to mention as well is even to the extent that it is relevant, it's also challenging, I think, to make confident and broad generalizations about like, yeah, just confident and broad generalizations, I don't need to say more than that. Because for different individuals, the muscles that are prioritized, even for relatively low, like low torque activities, like when neuro-mechanical matching is more relevant, the muscles that are recruited and prioritized early do also differ considerably between individuals. So in the CAF study I mentioned, and another one that we can link in the show notes, looking at the hamstrings and like the specific muscles or specific heads of muscles that are recruited in different exercises, like compared to others within single individuals, there's quite a bit of variation there as well. So like in the CAF study I mentioned, they found that with like the lowest intensity contractions, the soleus tended to be prioritized, but between individuals there was quite a bit of variation. Like some people were leaning on the medial gastroc a little more, I think one or two people were even leaning on the lateral gastroc a little bit more, even with the low intensity contractions. And so yeah, like you could look at that and say, yeah, in general, based on the principle of neuro-mechanical matching, yeah, for low intensity stuff, body seems to use the soleus a little bit more. But you still couldn't even like confidently state that is a generalizable thing that would apply to everyone who would be receiving that information. For some people it may be one of the heads of the gastroc. The hamstring study that will be linked in the show notes was looking at stiff leg deadlifts and Nordic curls. So like an e-flection based hamstring exercise versus a hip extension based hamstring exercise. And yeah, they found that for those two different like types of hamstring exercises, the specific muscles being recruited, like the long head of the biceps femoris versus the semi-membranosis versus semi-tendinosis. Those three muscles have like slightly different leverages and are slightly more or less efficient for hip extension versus an e-flection based hamstring exercises. And they did see on average, you had a particular pattern of muscle activation with the stiff leg deadlift. You had a slightly different pattern of activation for the Nordic curls. But within individuals, like it was all, it was all jumbled up. Like the one that used the semi-tendinosis more for most people, for like four or five folks, the biceps femoris was recruited more heavily with submaximal contractions and vice versa. Like so yeah, even to the extent that neuro-mechanical matching is like a true and valid and relevant principle, the specific muscles and the specific regions of muscles that are preferentially recruited and prioritized, also still differ between individuals. So yeah, even to the extent that it's true, it's hard to make like that confident of generalizable statements about what's going to be prioritized for all of the people like listening to pieces of advice. So yeah, yeah, TLDR, it's a cool principle to be aware of that matters less as you train harder. Yeah, I think it's really interesting to hear how many sources, well, think about how many sources of inter-individual variation there could be in your mechanical matching as well. Like even just thinking through it a little bit, if two individuals have differently sized, let's say, brachialis muscles, all else being equal, there might be differences in your mechanical matching as well, even in submaximal tasks. Similarly, insertion sites matter and we don't exactly know how differences in tenant attachment, et cetera, could impact your mechanical matching. Like there are so many variables that could play into it, even assuming it does play a role, but it does make it very difficult to inherently draw sweeping generalizations for a given exercise for all individuals, as you mentioned. So it doesn't surprise me that there are going to be differences between individuals in what muscles get recruited at what level essentially. The sources of variability are quite large and relatively unknowable at this point, short of just dissecting yourself and then somehow reviving yourself. Similarly, I think one thing that sprung to mind when you were talking about your mechanical matching and how it may or may not be worth considering in your training and evidence for or against it with lifting, one thing relatively obviously is that we don't have any evidence, like any super direct evidence to date, looking at your mechanical matching and somewhat refuting or somewhat confirming whether or not it matters for hypertrophy, like beyond the very broad level of, oh, if a muscle can't contribute to this joint action, it's not going to be hypertrophy meaningfully. Beyond that, we don't have any direct evidence that I'm super aware of, that is very directly designed to address that question, right? But one thing that comes to mind is, do you think that the evidence in favor of exercise variation for inducing more homogenous hypertrophy in a muscle is at all evidence in favor of new mechanical matching? Like for example, for context for a listener, we have a meta-analysis systematic review by Cassiano and colleagues from a couple of years ago looking at the idea of exercise variation for inducing more homogenous hypertrophy. So whenever you train, if you're only doing a single exercise, we do have evidence of regional hypertrophy occurring, so certain parts of a muscle growing more than others, which could imply to an extent that different areas of a given muscle, let's say your biceps, are more active during certain tasks than others, which could have to do with differences in activation in different muscles or different regions of a muscle during different exercises, which could be seen as new mechanical matching. Now, because there is evidence of this happening, some could construe this as evidence in favor of new mechanical matching for hypertrophy. So I'm curious to hear whether or not you think that constitutes any reasonable evidence in favor of new mechanical matching being a consideration for hypertrophy? Yeah, I mean, I do think that... Like I do think that it is a... Like I think that it's like a relevant thing, but the... Just like how many eggs you should put in that basket is maybe not the highest. So let's see, an example that comes to mind, man, I should have this right on the tip of my tongue, but the study that... A lot of people, myself included, cite, I think most frequently, to support the idea of exercise variation for making sure you get well-rounded development in all parts of a muscle. Was that one for maybe like 2012 or 2014, looking at all squats versus an exercise variation group that I think was doing a quarter of their stuff from squats, maybe some leg press, maybe some lunges and deadlifts, I believe. Similar overall quad growth, but more evenly distributed growth in all heads of the quads than just doing squats. I think that's one of those things where if you looked at those exercises, I don't think you'd have a strong a priori reason to say, oh yeah, just doing squats, that's definitely not going to adequately prioritize the vastus intermedius, but yeah, if you add some deadlifts into the mix, that's really gonna make sure, due to something about the mechanics of the deadlift, is going to make sure the vastus intermedius gets targeted and utilized. You know what I mean? I think you would just look at all of those exercises and be like, yeah, you're doing some knee extension and all of them, I'm sure they train the quads just fine. And yeah, you know what I mean? So I do think that they're, I think that it's useful and relevant in the broadest sense of, hey, we do have, like we do know and understand that different exercises can recruit and maybe preferentially target particular regions of a muscle. I don't think that there's, like I don't think we can have that much confidence in the exact specifics of that. And so in the broadest sense, you can say, hey, to make sure that you're really maximally using and growing as much muscle mass as you can, do a variety of exercises because some of them may target slightly different regions and yeah, go for it. You know what I mean? There's a difference between that and very confidently saying no. Like you really need to fucking add lunges into your quad training routine because you're gonna get 3% less vastus intermedius growth if you just do squats. You know what I mean? There is a difference between those two things. And I don't wanna overstate my skepticism, I guess. It's like as the challenge in an exercise ramps up, the amount of musculature recruited does as well, which does make neuro-mechanical matching less and less relevant as the challenge in an exercise increases. But there is still a difference between muscles that are really maximally or near maximally recruited and utilized from the start of a set like pecs in the bench press or like quads in the squat. And muscles that you see a ramp up in recruitment as a set goes on. So with the squat studies I mentioned, you did see an increase in hamstring EMG as either loads increased or as sets got closer to failure. But you also don't tend to observe that much hamstring hypertrophy from squat training. So more and more hamstring did need to be used, but it also doesn't seem like the hamstrings wind up being used enough to get like a super robust training stimulus and that may be relevant in certain exercises for some things, you know what I mean? So it could be that for, I don't know, like for the LATs for instance, since we're talking about back training here, like your LAT fibers with like closer to a horizontal orientation would have like a more direct line of pull and better like leverage for rowing type exercises and the ones that originate closer to the ilium and are more vertical. Theoretically they would be like more effective for like row or like pull ups or pull down type exercises. And so like there's no direct evidence on this, but like, you know, I find it very plausible that if you were doing a set of pull ups, those kind of more vertically oriented fibers would be recruited the most and, you know, might experience the most stimulus, the most growth from pull ups or pull downs. And then as the set gets closer and closer to failure, kind of the fibers in your LATs being worked, it just kind of gradually creeps up the muscle until near failure. You do still produce shoulder extension from the more horizontally oriented ones that like originate on the thoracic vertebra. But it could be that recruitment of those ramps up late enough in a set that they're still contributing quite a bit for the last rep or two, but they're not getting like the strongest stimulus, you know what I mean? And so yeah, like, you know, but it wouldn't be the case that like only the most vertically oriented fibers are getting a robust stimulus. Like it's less of a binary thing and more of just like the stimulus spreading as things get harder, but muscles that are kind of like the most distant from what was optimal at the start of a set may still end up getting recruited, but like not that, like not stimulated that hard by the end of a set, but there will wind up being more musculature that is stimulated well than one would like predict based on what's most efficient at the start of a set. Yeah, I agree. And I think that as little as we know about your mechanical matching and what the direct implications for hypertrophy then are as a result, I think that just keeping in mind what the joint functions are for different muscles and making sure they're covering a variety of them within your program is a decent cover all from a practical perspective because even if there are differences in your mechanical matching, say if you're only doing the underhand that pull down, if you're then throwing in some overhead in that pull downs, maybe some pullovers, maybe some other rowing exercises as well. The minor differences in how differences in activation might cause differences in hypertrophy in your lats, for example, in just the underhand pull down will then in a likelihood be washed away if you add in one or two or three more back exercises total. And I think especially for a set of relatively diverse muscle groups as are present in the back musculature, just adding in in total like two or three exercises for the back at least across your training week, I think will largely circumvent any just theoretical concerns at this point about how your mechanical matching could impact back girls. I think that it's at this point, it's much more of a semi founded theoretical concern than it is anything that we need to be overly concerned about when it comes to back exercise selection. Or at least that's my view. I think the reason why it's been spoken about so much online is in large part just we don't have an indirect evidence. So I think it has led to a lot of theory crafting around, ooh, if we consider fiber orientation, this exercise might be best. But I think that's probably misguided to an extent given that there are other principles of exercise selection we do have that have a fair bit more direct evidence behind them versus your mechanical matching directly impacting hypergeophia time, especially as it's taking closer to failure as we've mentioned quite a few times. So yeah, I think it's something that can be put in the basket of may or may not be important, but not something we need to consider overly heavily at this stage in the research sort of thing. Yeah, I agree. I agree. I do think that in the absence of strong, robust direct evidence, there is just kind of like a tendency, there's a tendency of people to want to like argue about shit. And when you're dealing with a topic where there's really no good reason for anyone to be like super confident about anything, it kind of gives people a bit more license to, just to kind of like cook a little bit harder where it's just like no one has a trump card, no one has a, we have this study on this specific thing that found this and it's good because it was in this population, good design, strong controls, blah, blah, blah, whatever. Like when you don't have that and you really want to stake a position on these are the best back exercises. Yeah, like you kind of, you gotta do, you gotta do a bit more work to try to justify a level of confidence in things that no one really has that good of a reason to be that confident about in the first place. And I think that it, yeah, I don't know. I think that it then ends up leading to people diving into PubMed, trying to find stuff that seems like it could be useful and relevant for being able to stake strong positions on topics like this. And personally, here was, so, I don't know if you guys know this, but I'm basically not on social media anymore. I like, I'll check the stronger by science groups and the macro factor groups. And that's about it. Like if I scroll a feed the first time I see something that annoys me, I'm just like, yeah, that's enough for the day and I sign off. So I don't, yeah, I don't follow the chatter that closely at all anymore. And the thing that broke me, honestly, and like maybe I shouldn't admit this, but like who cares? Yeah, if people get mad about this, I'm not gonna see it anyways, because I'm not on that shit. But there was, there was like a multi-month fight about whether the lads wrap around the rib cage. People going back and forth about that as it related to like exercise selection, like, do they wrap around the rib cage? Does that mean that like some particular like row variations gonna stimulate the lads more and all of that? And like, when I first saw it, I was like, oh, this is interesting. Let's look at a post or two, check people's sources. Cause like, yeah, maybe there'll be some interesting points raised. And if nothing else, I can get some fun citations out of it to like learn a little bit more about back anatomy or whatever. And then as I kept seeing shit about it the next day and the next day and a couple of weeks later and then it gets brought up like a month later, I was like, no, just no, Jesus fucking Christ. Like, you know, it became obvious that there was no, yeah, that there was no, A, that there was no like conclusive proof that could like carry the day and convince all parties and be even like, even to the extent that one could establish that the lads did or did not wrap around the rib cage. You're still then like two steps removed from being able to say that like some particular exercise definitely causes more lat growth or not. Cause there's no fucking direct evidence on that in the first place. And just like the more and more that that shit kept popping up on my timeline, the more and more I just thought I should log off. Like I need to, this is, this is rotting my brain. And so yeah, it was a combination of factors, but that was one of the most salient. And so now, yeah, I don't, I'm just like not on social media anymore. And so yeah, if people are still talking about this shit, I don't know. And also I don't care. Yeah, I fully understand. And I think when it comes to excess selection and a large amount of,  вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам the idea that you can use science to inform what you do in the gym. Sick. Hell yeah. While that is true to an extent, like you're not going to do exactly the program being used in some of these studies, or you probably shouldn't. That doesn't mean that you can't glean insights into generalizable principles that will then inform your training, and that you can then combine different principles and that can very easily form the basis of your program. But there has been the argument made that, ah, what happens in the science doesn't actually inform your training, you couldn't write a program that is actually based on science at all. And that's, that's a bit black and white. I think that's very uncharitable. But I do think that a lot of exercise selection and a lot of decision making in the gym is kind of tantamount to gambling, or like educated betting sort of thing, where you do have generalizable principles that seem to hold true most of the time in most circumstances across the studies we have at least. So then you use those principles and you make an educated guess, and you think this is more likely to work than not. And you do that. And I think with back training specifically, that is kind of what you have to do. And when you get to the stage, or on social media, you're arguing about whether or not an assumption holds true, that is still about two to ten assumptions away from having any relevancy to actual hypertrophy outcomes. Yeah, that is when your gambling may have gone one step too far, and you are just essentially engaging in softestry at that point. And that's fun, but not really relevant to training necessarily. Yeah, I, dude, I think the world would be so much better if, and I totally understand that I'm sounding like, sounding like my parents at this point, like, oh, I don't, I don't, they teach kids the important and relevant stuff in school. But instead of saying, ah, they need to teach people how to do their taxes, I'm going to argue that people should learn something that's even less useful and relevant to their day-to-day lives, but will help inform their thinking and decision-making throughout their lives. I think, I think people in school should take a course on philosophy of science and inference. Because, yeah, like, I don't know, there's, I, just like, just the idea that like you would completely issue things we can glean from the scientific process because you wouldn't apply training protocols used in research studies one-to-one in the real world is, I'm that's a hell of a take. I mean, like, there, there is a bit of like reasoning that needs to be done, like, is, is something so unrepresentative of how people train in the real world that maybe it does limit the generalizability. Like, that is, you do see protocols like that from time to time. It's like, okay, well, that's, that's something to consider. But, yeah, I mean, I don't know, like, the, like, I mentioned like food science before. It's like, if you've seen like a food science lab, it doesn't, it doesn't look fucking identical to your kitchen. But if someone figures out like, hey, this is something that like increases my art browning, like, it doesn't matter that they're using like research equipment and like every fucking sensor in the world in order to do it. And it doesn't look like the gas range in your house. Like, shit still works. Like, it generalizes, you know what I mean? And yeah, some things generalize, some things don't. And yeah, like, that's, that's wild. Like, so, so many things you use in day to day life come from like research that was done in like a contrived sense. Like the fucking everyone uses GPS and like the base, the basic research that was originally conducted in order to like establish that that was like a thing. I don't know, looks different from like satellites up in the sky that are beaming position data down to your phone. But it's like, yeah, you're going to use GPS, you know what I mean? Yeah, I agree fully. It's something I've struggled with both in the applied setting and in the research where I think in the applied setting, at a certain level, it's almost fashionable for coaches to resort to it depends on systems where they cannot ever give a an answer that is true on average or likely to be true on average. They always just have to resort to independentism and contextualism, where I don't know if it's just become a norm or whether it's indicative of a lack of expertise or what have you, but I have seen many, many coaches always just resort to a default answer of it depends. And much in the same way as it pains me to see people view generalizability of inferences in a black and white fashion and often be overly cautious in the research setting of having any confidence in generalizing stuff. It pains me to see coaches just resort to Oh, I see that some experienced coaches say it depends as an answer to most questions they get asked. That must mean that that is what expertise is. When in reality, you can still have confidence in there being average effects. You can also express that with caution, but saying it depends isn't really informative. Just the same way as saying that research never applies or generalizes or has ramifications for your training. It's also not informative. It's also unreasonable. So I don't know. I think sometimes as an evidence based fitness crowd, we get lost in some of this stuff. Yeah, I think that's true. I think with the it depends thing. I do think that there's a little bit of monkey see monkey do. And I, I do often think that that is a nice little dodge for I don't know. Um, because if you like I am, I am notorious for slipping a bunch of it depends is into a lot of the things that I say. And if I, if I do just give like a flat, it depends sometimes sometimes it's because I don't know and I don't want people to know I don't know, but rarely most of the time when I say it depends, it's because I'm being a dismissive little prick because someone asked me a question and I, the, the actual like it depends answer would be like, ah, here's like the average effect, but there's like several things that could modulate it and like here's why and here's just like a branching tree. And I think about it for a second. I'm like, oh, god damn, I don't have 30 minutes to type an answer to this question. So yeah, it depends. Try it out, see what happens. And I do think a lot of people that have expertise, it, a lot of answers start with it depends and then it's a long answer. It's like, yeah, it depends on these five different things. And you know, here's, here's a branching path of, of logic that depending on which of these things apply to you, we do still wind up with some sort of like tangible actionable advice at the end. But then I think a lot of people who want to fake expertise, see that the answer starts with it depends and they're like, oh, baby, yeah, let's, let's use this. Yeah, yeah, I don't know. But I apologize to anyone listening if you, if you've asked me a question and I responded with something that was just like, yeah, it depends whatever, just try something out. I was, I probably had a lot of questions in my box and I was just being a dismissive little prick and I, I apologize for that. Yeah, that's totally understandable. I think that what I've seen happen, maybe kind of bringing those two points together is that people say it depends and then bring up a list of variables that they have no evidence for the answer depending on. So if they'll say, oh, it depends on your overall program, this and this and this. And oftentimes when you actually dig into it, I don't know that it depends on that. I don't know that we have evidence for it depending on those things, at the very least. Is it possible? Yeah. Or are you potentially just listing other variables in an attempt at making it seem complex and making yourself seem expertly? Maybe. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. Another thing I'll say though, to kind of shift, shift responsibility a little bit, I do think a lot of times, a lot of times when I give a flat, it depends answer. What I actually mean is you didn't provide me with nearly enough information or context. And I don't feel like having an extended back and forth with you in order to extract the information and context I need to give you a confident answer. So yeah, I could either type for 30 minutes to explain everything it depends on and you can figure out which one of these roads applies to you. Or I could ask you a series of questions. And since I check social media once a day, I can wind up getting an answer to you 10 days from now, which neither of us want to do. Or I can just be a little dismissive and say, it depends. I do think a lot of that could be circumvented by people putting a little bit more effort and context into questions they ask in the first place. That makes it way easier to narrow shit down. Instead of like, brother, if someone asks me like, hey, should I do bench press or dumbbell press? And that is the extent of the question. You're getting either an it depends or do whichever you like more. That's going to be my answer to that question because like, yeah, like if you don't even tell me what your fucking goal is or a little bit about your experience with the two exercises or goddamn anything else, if you just say which one of these do I do, you're getting a dismissive response because like, you're being lazy and you're being lazy, I'm being lazy. Like you put a little work into making sure I have enough information to answer the question. I'll give you a good answer. You know what I mean? I think that there's an element of that as well. Yeah, I agree. I think the degree to which your answer is informed and helpful depends on how informed and helpful the question is. So like if someone asked me that question, I would just be like, I think on average, this one is better. Do that. Yes. You know, that's the best you can do at that point. Shifting gears a little bit and going back into what the episode is actually about, as opposed to finessing the listener into a philosophy of science episode, related to Dirty. Why don't we have more direct evidence in the back musculature? Like, obviously, we have studies in the biceps, triceps, quads and calves, and that's for a relatively simple reason. It's just that those muscles are, one, the quads tend to apply to a lot of athletic tasks. So like this quad, for example, is one of the most commonly researched exercises. And if a study seeks to lean insights into morphological adaptations or hypertrophy outcomes or what have you, the quads tend to be measured quite, quite consistently. In addition, the quads, calves, biceps, triceps, even the pec to a slight extent, are relatively easy to ultrasound and with ultrasound being one of the most commonly available and cheapest ways of assessing changes in muscle size, that is what is typically done. The issue with ultrasound in the back is that it's quite tricky. So the back has a lot of different muscles, which as Greg outlined earlier, they have a lot of different functions. They, some of them were superficial, some of them are deeper, since ultrasound is predicated on the depth of the muscle as well. If the muscle is a bit deeper, it can be difficult to get a clear image and therefore outline its aponeurosis, the interfaces and what have you, and clearly measure the thickness of the muscle that we're trying to measure. So ultrasounding the back musculature, to my knowledge, I haven't seen any studies do it, like in humans at least. But Greg, I, as I understand it, you have seen some studies that have used MRI to assess the back muscles. So I want to get your opinion on, could we use MRI to assess increases in muscle hypertrophy of the back musculature? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I, there will be a couple studies about this linked in the show notes. This wasn't something that I had looked into prior to you tagging me in the outline saying, have you seen studies using MRI on this? And I hand it when you asked, but I was, I was pretty sure that there had been studies that had assessed back muscle size in vivo. And so I was like, yeah, I can, I can dive into the old PubMed machine and see what's going on here. And yeah, so you can use MRI, several studies have. There, there's even been research evaluating the reliability of measurements of various back muscles using MRI and the reliability is pretty good. Low, low percent CV values. Yeah, it seems like you can, you can measure back muscle pretty well. I do think it would probably depend on the region of the muscle you're talking about. So with the LATs, for instance, I think you could probably reliably measure them a bit, a bit higher up. But I think the further down you go, once you start getting into muscles that originate or insert in the thoracolumbar fascia, I think things would start to get pretty sketchy pretty quick, because there's a lot of shit going on in there. Like very thin sheets of muscle interspersed with relatively thin sheets of fascia, like it's, and it becomes a mess. But I do think that for like, a lot of the meat of the LATs, you could assess it pretty well. Traps, I see absolutely no reason that would be an issue. Yeah, rhomboids, they're deep, might be challenging with ultrasound, MRI should be fine. So yeah, yeah, it can be, it can be assessed. I think, at least in the outline, one of, one of the questions here was, why is there not more research on back musculature? I'll just tee myself up for that one. So why is there not? Since you can seemingly measure it with MRI relatively well. I think that there are a few things in play. One is, like you mentioned, Milo, ultrasound is a lot more accessible. And it is more challenging to use ultrasound for superficial muscles, like for the traps, for the LATs. I think you should be able to use it just fine. Like for LATs, like we've mentioned already, there is research assessing pec hypertrophy. And I think you would probably standardize LAT ultrasound measurements the exact same way you would standardize pec, like just, you know, count the ribs, just make sure you take the measurement at the same rib each time. I really can't think of a reason that that wouldn't work just fine. But yeah, some other back musculature, it's deep, difficult to standardize. But I think, I think that there are a few other factors in play. So one is just simply, why study something hard when you can study something easy? It is easy to take an ultrasound scan of the biceps or quads. You don't need to deal with logistical hurdles related to scheduling time with an MRI. Yeah, it's just easier to do. And there's more stuff to draw upon. Like I said, I really can't think of a reason that you couldn't just ultrasound the last the exact same way you do the pecs, count the ribs, do it at the same rib each time. But since people don't do that, before you could do a hypertrophy study, you would first need to do a reliability study, because it has previously been established that you can reliably assess pec size with ultrasound. So you can just say, Hey, we're doing this thing, other researchers have done it, here's a citation, it's reliable, badabing, badabum, good to go. Before you introduce a new measurement, you should validate that you can you can make valid and reliable measurements. So you'd probably still need to schedule time with an MRI and say, Hey, we used this as the criterion measure, we took a bunch of ultrasounds, we did a reliability study. So yeah, basically, you would need, you would need to do a study before you could do the study you wanted to do just to make sure your measurement was good. And so yeah, like why, why do something that's, why do that when you could just do another study on the quads, you know what I mean? So yeah, that's the first thing, why do something hard when there's plenty of things that are still fucking hard, but quite a bit easier that you could do instead. The second is why do something expensive when you can do something cheap? Your lab probably has an ultrasound already, you probably don't have an MRI in your lab, you would need to pay in all likelihood to schedule time with an MRI. A lot of schools, there's no MRI on campus, you would need to like pay to access an MRI at a local hospital. And even for schools that do have MRIs on campus, like if it's, it has like a medical research wing of the school. Oftentimes, even like between departments, you still have to like pay the other people at the school for time with the MRI. So yeah, there generally is not that much funding in hypertrophy research, like money's already pretty tight. So yeah, why do something expensive when you can do something cheaper? That is a factor. Another factor, even if money wasn't a concern, why take slow measurements when you can take fast measurements? Pre and post assessments, especially if you're doing a lot of stuff, taking a lot of measurements, can be annoying to schedule. They tend to be the longest visits that you're going to have with research subjects. They can present a burden if someone has like a tough schedule, lives far from the lab, or would need to come in on weekends for like longer visits. And so if you would need to use an MRI, even if you had funding for it, just takes longer to get an MRI than it does to do an ultrasound scan. So why do something slower when you can do something faster instead? And like I mentioned, a lot of this has to do with funding. So yeah, both in terms of like if you needed access to an MRI and also just like is anyone going to pay for research on the back in particular? So a lot of like hypertrophy research and healthy young adults, like a lot of that you're just kind of like scraping together any funding you can get. But you know, there are a lot of things that do get funded because they relate to like disease states in particular populations, like you're not trying to get like a $2,000 grant from a supplement company to do the bicep study you want to do. You're getting a tens or hundreds of $1,000 grant from the NIH to do something that's related to oftentimes like osteoporosis or osteopenia research, sometimes like gait or balance conditions or like stroke rehab or whatever. Like there's, yeah, there's a lot of things where there is big money sloshing around. And I'll tell you what, it's not fucking trap growth or lat growth. Like as cool as I think it is, I, most people with the money to write big checks, aka governments and sometimes medical organizations, they're mostly interested in like resistance training interventions if they're funding resistance training stuff. They're mostly interested in things that are, that have like a big effect on activities of daily living. And the biggest thing for activities of daily living is just like, are you ambulatory or not? Like can you get around on your own? Can you walk upstairs? Can you stand up from the toilet? Can you safely bathe yourself? A lot of that stuff is lower body, you know, you're interested in the hip musculature, you're interested in the calves, you're really interested in the quads because there's like a lot of quad atrophy with aging. Sometimes interested in grip for that reason, because you know, we have opposable thumbs, primates, very cool, got to be able to hold on to stuff. I really can't think of that many instances where like weak lats inhibit your ability to carry out activities of daily living. So yeah, I mean, there's, there's a lot of big money sloshing around to study, to study back hypertrophy or back strength. And lastly, there's just like difficulties and potential confounders downstream of a lack of basic science. So for instance, there's a lot of research looking at hypertrophy of the quads and biceps. And there is also research looking at the ability of people to voluntarily activate their quads and biceps. And we know that in relatively healthy people, they don't struggle to activate, recruit, utilize that musculature. Outside of certain disease states, you can, you can tap into basically all of your motor units to create torque. So if you're interested in whether two different exercises or two different variations on an exercise cause like different amounts of quad growth, you can safely say that, hey, it's due to like these different characteristics between the exercises, whatever. You don't necessarily have to say, well, you know, this could be due to something related to the intervention, or it could just be that people can't activate their quads. You know what I mean? Like that's not, that's not a method of inquiry you need to, or like a line of inquiry you need to really contend with. Whereas a lot of like basic science research like that hasn't been done for back musculature. So in the absence of that, any study you did do, you would have to inherently make more tentative inferences. You know, you could say, hey, due to some characteristic of the exercises used, this, you know, this lat exercise was better than that one or whatever. But, you know, it very well could be that instead of people, instead of like percent VA for the lats being like 95% plus like it is for the quads, it very well could be that it's 70%. And it very well could be that just due to small sample sizes and quirks of randomization, you just had one group of people that just really couldn't recruit their lats all that well. And the exercise they did was perfectly effective, but it looks like it wasn't because voluntary activation is poor. Like I don't think that that is a thing. Like I don't, like I think people can activate and utilize their lats just fine. But I couldn't point to a study to verify that. So, yeah, until that research is done, literally any research you did, you would have to be like, you'd have to be way less confident in the sorts of inferences you could draw. And I think that that also just presents some friction. Like people, people want confidence in the results of their studies and you can have quite, you can quite frankly just have more confidence in studies on the quads or the biceps than you could in studies on the traps or lats or whatever. Because we know more about like the neuromuscular function of the biceps and triceps and quads than we do about the lats. So, yeah, I think that that's like a relatively low, like low on the list of reasons why people aren't doing this research. But I wouldn't be surprised if that contributes as well. But I do think, I think a lot of it is just like time and money and just kind of like why bother, you know, like like you guys can attest to this. Doing a training study is a hell of a lot of work. And we already know a lot about these other muscles. And like if you're put, if you're going to take like the time and effort to do a training study, you want it to be on something that like, you feel pretty good about like, like this shit's going to work and like be publishable. Like you don't want to, you don't want to sail into the unknown and just like wind up with something like not publishable due to question mark, question mark, question mark. Like maybe you can't take good measurements. Maybe as you're doing your study, the first study looking at voluntary activation of the lats comes out and guess what? It's 60% in healthy young people. So, oh fuck, you didn't get that data on your subjects. And so now that like questions, whatever inferences you can make from the from the study you just did, like, yeah, like, what, just why fucking do that when you know you can do when you can investigate similar questions on muscles, we know more about. So yeah, I think I think those are some of the biggest things contributing. Yeah. And those were all the the issues we we had to consider now before running the parcels versus full ROM study. Because ideally, it would have been cool to look at the back. But one ultrasound may have not been that reliable, especially with participants having to be marked at specifically the same place, and so on and so forth, plus MRI, assuming we had like hundreds of thousands in funding to be able to pay an external, I don't know, hospital or whatever for us to do the MRI. As you mentioned, we would then have to figure out how in New York City, we would have to get each participant to get the MRI, and so on and so forth. So, biceps and triceps, it is. Oh, yeah, I mean, another another thing as well, like you you saying that just made me remember this. If you don't, even yeah, even if money's not an issue, if there's not like an MRI at your school that like different people can just schedule time with, there aren't that many fucking MRI machines out there. And in most medical systems, there's like a multi month wait time to schedule an MRI for like a serious medical condition that needs an MRI. So there's also a question of just like, is this efficient and quite frankly, like ethically justifiable use of like critical medical infrastructure? You know, how many people are going to die because I want to because like it takes too long to diagnose something that they needed an MRI for because I scheduled 40 people to get a flat MRI for a hypertrophy study. You know, like don't do it. They're very well new games kind of like second order unintended effect related like body counts of your study. So you don't want that blood on your hands. Yeah, no, I think that all those are valid obstacles to studying the LATs and the incentives also seem to be stacked in favor of measuring other muscles. Like you mentioned, in other like performance, oftentimes we care more about the quads or the hamstrings than we do about the back muscles culture necessarily. And so both as far as obstacles in the way of measuring the LATs, like even with ultrasound and I  as I mentioned, identifying the landmarks anatomically to get reliable sites of measurement. That is relatively straightforward, the way you described it. The one caveat I would give to that, just from experience, is I do think most people store a fair bit more subcutaneous adipose tissue in where you'd measure the LATs versus where you'd measure, for example, even the PECs. And if they have several centimeters of subcutaneous adipose tissue, where they have their LATs, they can make visibility a whole lot less effective, clear, and then measuring the LATs becomes a lot more challenging. Like, certainly with subcutaneous adipose tissue being larger in some participants than others, even for the calves, it can be relatively difficult to measure the gastroc, even for the triceps. And those are probably smaller muscles and thickness than the LATs, and probably carry less fat compared to where you carry fat on the LATs. So visibility can be a real concern there as well. So all those reasons why we don't have studies in the LATs. Let's talk about some practical stuff. I think that as far as actually training the back musculature goes, there's kind of some quick and dirty guidelines I use for classifying different functions of different parts of the back. You can certainly get more granular than this, but I'm not sure it would meaningfully improve your programming or your subsequent results. So for my purposes, I typically categorize the functions of the back into kind of like three muscle groups or three types of functions I need to worry about. So I kind of classify the LATs and the teres major together as they tend to share many functions, the sort of upper back, mid back together, so the lower trap, mid trap, the wrong boys and so forth, and then the erector spinay, which are kind of separate. I'm not sure we even necessarily want to talk about them at length, pun intended. And then finally, the upper traps and the levator scapulae. I think those are kind of like the four muscle groups I would consider, and they each have slightly different functions. So for the LATs and teres major, I typically think of their functions as being shoulder extension, like any sort of polar or motion, and shoulder adduction. So if you think about a full range of motion lateral raise, you think about the eccentric phase of that movement, that would be shoulder adduction. So essentially to train them, I typically think those two functions, to train LATs and teres major, so that could be a cable pullover, a dumbo pullover. Most pull downs will train those relatively well through shoulder extension or shoulder adduction. We'll go into exercise selection more specifically later, but just kind of being aware of those functions when considering exercise selection is a good thing, just so that then you can pick at least one exercise targeting one of those functions in your program, just so you have a reasonably well-rounded program in targeting most of the muscles in all likelihood. Then when it comes to the lower traps, mid traps, and rhomboids, their main functions seem to be scapular adduction, so essentially like bringing your shoulder blades closer together, and scapular depression, so kind of bringing them down. And so oftentimes, those functions would be accomplished during most rowing exercises. Then we have the erector spin a muscle, which is what a lot of people refer to as a lower back muscle. I'm not sure many people necessarily think of the quadratus lumborum. I think that's the name. I don't know how you pronounce it, because I've never heard anyone say it, because that's how rarely it's spoken of outside of therapeutic contexts. Yeah, you got it. As someone with a janky QL, it is quadratus lumborum, and you nailed it. Thank you. I appreciate that. But most people think of the lower back muscle, which is the erector spin a, which contrary to popular belief, there are three different sub-muscles in that muscle group, and some of them run quite far up the spine, and so they can actually make, I think, an appreciable difference to the appearance of your back. So having a more developed erector spin a muscle can make your back look a bit bigger overall, even sort of like your mid and upper back, depending on the section you're hypertrophy-ing meaningfully. But the main functions of that muscle are going to be lateral flexion of the spine, like dumbbell side bends. The individual Greg was previously referring to, who was doing a lot of side bends in the gym, and had the most developed obliques in the world, may also have had very developed erector spin a muscles, because that is one of the functions of the erector spin a. And then secondly, that they're also responsible for spinal extension. So whenever you're thinking of keeping your back straighter, for example, during a deadlift or a squat, it is your erector spin a being involved heavily and keeping your back more extended, which makes it all the more interesting when people refer to squats and deadlifts, meaningfully targeting, like, building your six pack, because your rectus abdominis muscle is responsible for the opposite of that function. So if anything activating that muscle would make the job of the erector spin a more challenging. So just to fun aside, but meaningfully, like practically, I think that hip hinging, so RDLs, deadlifts, and even squatting movements where you have a meaningful amount of load on your back and you're trying to keep your spine extended, they will provide a decent amount of stimulus for your erector spin a. You can include some isolation work or you can try and purposely extend and flex your spine during rows, for example, but those would be the kind of ways you would want to train your erector spin a. And finally, we have the upper traps and the later scapulae, which are broadly responsible for scapular elevation. So shrugs, essentially. So I think those are the kind of four muscle groups I would consider when considering your back training and just having at least one exercise that reasonably targets those, each one if you want to have relatively well rounded programming and hypertrophy of the back musculature. In general, as I mentioned earlier with the regional hypertrophy systematic review by Cassiano and colleagues, I do think having at least two to three back exercises in your program every week is reasonable and trying to hit those main categories of like one movement that's predominantly targeting shoulder extension and adduction, the target of the lats and terrace major. One movement that's primarily targeting scapular adduction and depression, like some sort of row variation for your lower trap, mid traps, rhomboids. Some sort of shrug variation being beneficial for your upper traps and ovators scapulae. Those are probably good ideas. Obviously, not everyone cares about their upper traps. Not everyone cares about maximally hypertrophy in their erector spinay, but just being aware of the functions that they are responsible for can allow you to train them should you desire to actually train them. So yeah, I think those are kind of like the broad takeaways I would give on exercise selection. There are additional considerations for what makes an exercise good for the back. I think that, probably speaking, they're the same that make any exercise decent for hypertrophy. There's a ton of granularity here. Like we mentioned, we don't have direct comparisons of different back exercises, so we have to rely on generalized principles from other muscle groups to inform this. I think that as Mr. Langton-Partial himself, you can make a decent case that the back training and the back specifically could benefit from the length and partials or emphasizing the length and position somehow, just because the most back exercises you can think of, whether you're talking about row variations, pull downs, or pull ups, tend to be most challenging in the shortened position. And so relatively speaking, you are missing out on some challenge and loading in that length and position. If you were to do some partials after you hit failure and do those in the length and position, that would be one way of doing it. Or you could just use length and partials. Or like Greg was doing with cheating the weight up a little bit, that is another way to emphasize the length and position, because you're making the shortened position easier and getting more load in the length and position ultimately. So yeah, I would say those are the main things to consider exercise selection wise. Obviously, the same things, like the same basics, like, oh, make sure the exercise is sufficiently loadable that you can actually get close to failure. But I would hope that the listeners of the Stronger Science podcast would be aware of those things that you pretty much learned on day one in the gym already. Yeah, I agree with all of that. Wow. I love how the philosophy of science section of the podcast was not contentious, but certainly a lot to be said about it. Meanwhile, as far as actually training in the gym, it's like, yeah, just do some of everything and, you know, you're good. Yeah, I think the basic takeaway is all of the things you think you already know about back training, guess what? It's right. Yeah, the exercises that target your lats that you think target your lats, guess what they do? Yeah, that's all I'll take right there. From a more practical perspective, and just as a coach, there are a few guidelines I like to follow when it comes to programming. One is like any muscle, if you're trying to maximize hypertrophy, it probably makes sense to do most of your training in a relatively heavy rep range just to make sure you're training pretty close to failure. There is some research by our own lab suggesting that when you go much past around 12, 15 reps, your accuracy and gauging how many reps you are away from failure might tend to decrease. So you're most accurate, engaging how close to failure you are when going relatively heavy, like maybe below 12 reps or so. So practically, I'd say do most of your training between five or 12 reps. But then, including a variety of rep ranges across the week, probably a good thing, maybe going all the way up to 20 reps or 30 reps on occasion, maybe even higher if you wanted to. Then another practical consideration is, as I mentioned, I think two to four exercises or so as a sort of like rough ballpark, maybe even a minimum for back training, depending on whether or not you include the erector spin a and upper trap exercises as well, is a reasonable guideline. What I would do, just to sort of like cover any additional bases just in case it makes a meaningful difference would be to try and have a variety of both direction of pulling, so some vertical pulling like pull ups or pull downs and some horizontal pulling like any sort of rowing variation across the week. And additionally, if you want to go the extra mile, I tend to think of it as also like, maybe day one has some overhand pulling day two has some underhand pulling and day three has some neutral grip pulling, just varying the grips being used might provide some additional variation. So, how many different muscles are present in the back and how their functions vary, that might meaningfully increase variation and increase hypertrophy and sort of maximize homogeneity of hypertrophy because regional hypertrophy is a documented phenomenon from training. But equally, in my experience, most people do have a slight preference for one grip over another. Like for example, for me personally as a lifter, most of my lifting career, neutral grip rowing and pull downs have just felt the best like they don't seem to bother my elbows or my joints all that much. I feel my lats the most. And so if there is one grip that you prefer over another, I think it's fine to bias it most of the time. I see it as similar to rep ranges where if you really enjoy somewhat higher up training, you can probably do most of your training that rep range. And as long as you have some variety in there, I can't really make the argument that you're necessarily missing on on growth. And the same thing goes, I think for neutral grip versus overhand grip versus underhand grip. So yeah, and the final thing I'll say is, typically, I think a somewhat narrow grip on most back exercises, like as opposed to taking a super wide grip will probably increase the degree of stretch being experienced, which might be a good thing for hypertrophy. I suspect I don't fully know. So yeah, that's basically my rough guideline on how to train the back. Use the same rough volumes as you probably use for most other body parts. In my personal experience, they can handle a bit more volume than most muscle groups can. So you can experiment with that and they can be trained slightly more frequently than most other muscle groups. But that's just my personal experience. There's a chance that is true or not true. Yeah, do you agree with that? Am I treating my back all wrong? No, I think that all sounds good. I'll add another little bit of just kind of like anecdotal bullshit, I guess. I am personally a huge fan of unilateral back training. I think that, so the concept of like the bilateral deficit, the idea that like you can recruit muscles on one side of your body better than both sides of your body simultaneously, is an idea that has become like somewhat controversial in recent years. Most of that stuff comes from Quad Studies and this is not an episode about Quad training, so I won't regale people with all of those stories. But yeah, just to say, it's like slightly controversial, but whatever. If it exists though, I do suspect that it contributes more for back muscles than maybe some other muscle groups. Just because like at least in my experience, people have, to use a bro term, slightly worse like a mind muscle connection with their back muscles than they do, say their quads or biceps or whatever. And so I find that even as someone who's been training for a long time, I feel like I can engage and feel my back muscles working better if I do unilateral stuff. So like one arm rows, that's a classic. I think everyone does them, but the one kind of a typical exercise that I really ride for when it comes to back training, I fucking love one arm pull downs. I think they're great. And in Milo, I think if you haven't done them, I think you would like them as well because you can get a way deeper stretch in your lats with one arm pull downs than you can bilateral. Like you can reach all the way up obviously, but also kind of like over to the side, you can even do them standing with like one foot, like your opposite side foot on the seat of the pull down machine. So you're kind of like hinged and you're leaning towards, like you're leaning away from the arm that you're using. So you're getting like some spinal lateral flexion in the mix as well to like even get a slightly deeper latch stretch in there. And my God, I love those. Like though I think that's my favorite lat exercise and if I haven't done much lat training in a while or even if I've been doing some lat training, but I just haven't done those in a while and I come back to them. I say this in a good way. Like listeners who don't have like as much of a masochistic streak might hear this and say, why do you do that? That sounds bad. But no, trust me, it's a hurt so good type of thing. The first time I do them in a while, like I feel like I've had like a lat tendon rupture. Like it feels dangerous. Like how painfully sore my lats get close to their insertion. And I love it. Just based purely on like both the sensation I get during a workout and the agony that I'm in for the next day or two. It feels like they're stimulating my lats more than anything else. So yeah, single arm pull downs. I love them. Love, love, love. Awesome. Yeah, I will. I've tried similar variations out in the past. For me, it's just come down to do I really want to twice the number of sets for some reason for the back? I don't for legs. I don't mind for the back. I do. So, but yeah, that sounds like a way to stretch out the lats even more than during traditional training. So I can't, I can't fault that. All right, back. Anything to add? You covered me fully. Wow. Very good. We've been both specializing in lat pull down on the lat pull down lately. And it's a shame that the strength standards universally are judged by usually SBD and not even a strict press because I am confident that we can beat a lot of people on the lat pull down on a specific machine, the matrix machine, more specifically. But yeah, Milo covered me fully like as far as practical takeaways for clients go. And yeah, overall, I do not think that training your back is rocket science. As long as you've selected two to three exercises that pretty much cover everything that Milo mentioned, I very much doubt that you're not going to see really solid back development. I think that wraps up all of the points we wanted to hit. So now we can move into some audience Q&A. Greg, would you like to see us off? Absolutely. So Joseph Robbins from Facebook asks, do you need to do both a vertical and horizontal pull for complete back development? I do not think we should answer questions by people that have that are not able to strict press as much as I am and can only push press more than I am. But joking aside, that's an inside joke between myself and Joseph, because he is an excellent push presser. So I hope you appreciated the shout out, Joseph. I'd say yes, based on exactly what we just talked about. Now, obviously, you can hear New York in the background. They're coming to arrest me for this hot take. But there's no hot take. So yes, would you, let's say you did chin ups only your whole life, would your back not look muscular? Probably it would probably look fine and you'd probably get away with some solid back development. But if you're trying to maximize muscular development of the back, doing both some vertical and horizontal pulling, this is probably your best bet for complete development. Yeah, I think I agree with Pack Fully. I think you might get more than half, maybe not more than half. That put a rough number on it. You might get around half the development for your back. Just hey, you're doing 50% of the variation you need to do. I do think that the muscles that are involved in specifically like the mid trap, lower trap, rhomboids, their functions do differ relatively substantially from just lats and terrace major. And I think those muscles will be missing out on a fair bit of stimulus. So yeah, unfortunately, I don't think you can get away with just doing one of them. You probably do need to do both of them. But I don't think asking for someone to do two exercises per week is too large of an ask for someone trying to maximize hypertrophy. I agree with that. One of my more lukewarm takes is that I don't know that like a lat rowing does much for you if you're also doing vertical pulling. Like the lat exercises where you're pulling the implement like towards your stomach to primarily work your lats instead of more towards your chest to more work, I guess, maybe like the upper fibers of your lats, but also your mid traps, rhomboids, stuff like that. Rear delts as well. I kind of think that a lat row is, it's training basically the same stuff that like a pull down is I don't think it's training your like horizontal pulling musculature as well as like a row to your chest would. And I don't think it's training your lats as well as a pull down does. There's still certainly a good exercise. Like I'm not telling people to not do it. If you're doing four or five or six slat exercises in a week, it's a perfectly good one to to consider and have in your program. But I think if you're if you're narrowing it down to two, yeah, I think pull up or pull down and like a more horizontal row where your elbows are further out and you're pulling the thing closer to your chest rather than your stomach. I think that's the way to go to kind of maximize what you're hitting with two exercises. Yeah, I think that's a lukewarm take indeed. I think it's two reasons the most be considered hot. Sick. All right. Shane Duquette asks, people argue that pullovers aren't really a lat exercise, rather they're largely a Terry's major exercise. Lats are just a stabilizer that wouldn't be worked hard enough to get a stimulus. I guess that's not a question. That's a statement, but I suppose he wants our take on it. Yeah, so I have previously stated that I think the pullover is a very good lat exercise and that is a contentious topic nowadays on the socials. I think it essentially comes down to how much stock you put into your mechanical matching and how much stock you put into the longer muscling research. And based on what we discussed in the episode, I do think that if you're taking a set of bummed up pullovers or brought up pullovers or will have you close to failure, the lats will be taken close to failure, no matter what the difference in internal leverage is, or at least within reasonable constraints. And specifically when you consider that the dumma pullover does likely stretch out the dumma pullover or any pullover really, in this case, in the question, does stretch out the lat quite meaningfully. I think it's going to be a very effective lat exercise. That is my stance. No one can tell you for sure. Again, it's a sort of question that is predicated on assumption after assumption after assumption. So it is essentially just educated gambling. And my educated gamble is that I think that it's a good exercise. Anything to add? It's the only lat exercise that gets me sore. And as we know, soreness equals muscle growth. And that's why basketball yesterday was a muscle building activity because we're both very sore from it today. But in all seriousness, no echoing my low. We cannot tell for sure. I feel my lats a lot. My lats hurt a lot after. And I say for certain it's the best in the world. No. Do I believe that my lats are not doing anything there? Equally no. Yeah. And just to finish it all for mind, I think that when we do this educated gambling bands, we have to consider the strength of each piece of evidence we're using. I think that the evidence in favor of neuromechanical matching, playing a large role for hypertrophy is relatively preliminary and or weak. Or is I think the evidence for a relatively generalizable principle of lower muscle length training being better for hypertrophy is by comparison relatively strong. And so that's ultimately what I weigh more heavily in my weighing up of the evidence. So that's kind of where I fall. I have a middle ground take, which is that I kind of feel like it's a distinction without a difference. Like not entirely, obviously the lats and teres major are two separate muscles. But I think when people are interested in lat training, like oftentimes they won't just like wide barn door lats that fucking block out the sun when they do a rear lat spread. And when I think back to like a lot of the best backs in bodybuilding history, when people say, oh, damn, that person had like crazy wide lats. A lot of times like they, well, they did, but they also had like really developed teres major. And I think that people often don't like really go out of their way to target it. So I think even if it's the case that it's predominantly working your teres major, I mean, a lot of people listening to this podcast, I'm sure it could tell the difference between the two. But I bet more than half of the people even listening to the stronger by science podcast don't fully know the difference. And if you just looked at someone who had just a really great like bodybuilding, highly competitive back with like good lat development and great teres major development, I bet more than half of the people listening to this episode would be like, damn, that person has crazy lat development, super wide, whatever. So I think like, let's let's just assume it's not a good lat exercise. Still a good exercise. And I suspect I suspect most people if they even if it's a great teres major exercise and a bad lat exercise, they would look at the effects it has on their physique and say, damn, this was a really good lat exercise. So there, there is a large element to which I kind of think that like, even if it's not a good lat lat exercise, like who cares, you know. Yeah, I concur fully in thinking that most people couldn't even tell the difference between teres major and lat hypertrophy, especially outside the context of the bodybuilding stage where people are at essential levels of body fat. And even then, wouldn't be surprised if people still weren't able to tell the difference. So I agree. And I think, I don't know, it's one of those ongoing debates on the socials that I, I think is. What was the law you mentioned again, or the heuristic regarding the proportion or the relationship between the importance of a debate and the intensity of it? Was it Sears law? I think so, yes. No, that might have been the headline one, wasn't it? No, that's, that's better edges law. You got it. Yes, Sears law. Where essentially the importance of an argument is inversely proportion, the importance, yeah, is inversely proportional to the intensity with which it goes on. So, yeah, moving on, we have a couple questions from Christian strand. I think we can only cover the second one. Cool. Yeah, so he asks, are deadlifting movements suitable for back hypertrophy training, especially the erectors? Yes. So in some circles and some, I mean, bodybuilding and natural bodybuilding circles, the, and I guess traditionally the deadlift is often sometimes presented as a back exercise, sometimes as a leg exercise. And there's this notion that, you know, you can really tell which bodybuilder has been deadlifting based on their back development on stage. Now, I do think that having some sort of hip hinge makes sense for erector development. But the idea that a bodybuilder's back and keep in mind, a bodybuilder usually performs multiple rowing and pulling just multiple back exercises. The idea that the deadlift is primarily a back exercise. I do not think is true. However, the deadlift as a form of a hip hinge exercise can be a way to develop your erectors and that I guess can add to the thickness of the back or how impressive it looks from behind. But yeah, that's about it. Not really a back exercise, if you ask me. Yeah, before Greg is going to give what seems to be a hot take based on the smirk he has displayed. I don't know. I think deadlifts for back are quite overrated. That is my contention. The way most people deadlift, I just don't think that they're going to be trained particularly close to failure or just in a particularly good way. Like the same way you would establish whether you think an exercise is good for hypertrophy. I think that a lift fails on many of those counts for the back. Especially for lats, teres major, rhomboids, etc. I just don't think it's going to be a very effective exercise. For the erectors, I don't really know. I suspect it's probably at least decent. But I would say you're almost certainly better off with an isolation exercise because it's relatively unclear. We can't epistemically make out whether the erector muscles are being trained particularly close to failure. It's just hard to tell. Is a lifter rounding his back during a deadlift a cause of weakness in the erector?  naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n rhomboids, then like, rose to your chest, I think, yeah, probably so, you know, like, it's a general purpose thing, and there are specific purpose things that target the same muscles, probably do it better, allow you to safely train those muscles closer to failure, et cetera, et cetera, But I do also think that, I don't know, like the maximalist take that like, oh, it's like a bad back exercise because you're not taking most of these muscles close to failure, training them through a full range of motion, blah, blah, blah, whatever. Like I will admit that I don't have like firm citations for any of this, but like no one has firm citations for fucking any of this shit because there's no research on back growth. I think that deadlifts are like a pretty good back exercise. And I think that if you train them the way that athletes that deadlift competitively would train deadlifts or just like pulling in general, like like hip hinge pulling, whatever. I think that you get pretty good back development from it. I do think I do think the thing that suffers is lat width. Like I don't think you're going to get as really sick lat spread from deadlifts. But I have spent my entire training career around power lifters. I was going to say many of whom, but I'll upgrade that to most of whom, most of whom don't do accessories. We don't, we don't really like accessories for the most part. We want to go in, lift heavy shit and then go home. Like there are absolutely power lifters that do plenty of accessories. A lot of us don't. So yeah, spent my entire training training career around power lifters, quite a few strong men who mostly train events and maybe toss in some like front squats or bench press for like general preparation. But again, oftentimes don't do much accessory work. You don't see that many pull ups. You don't see that many rows, whatever. And weight lifters who really fucking hate accessories even more than the power lifters and strong men. Like you're going to see a lot of clean pulls. You're going to see a lot of snatch pulls. I mean, like the sport is snatching clean and jerk and accessory lifts are like snatch pulls, clean pulls. Like you might, yeah, like occasionally you'll see someone do like some lunges because they do a split jerk and they don't want to be like super imbalanced. But yeah, you don't see that many accessories there either often. Some countries do a lot of accessories. Like you see Chinese weight lifters do a lot of accessories. Yeah, most of the weight lifters I have trained around not a ton of accessory work, not a ton of direct back training. Athletes in all three of those sports, tremendous lat, like tremendous back development. Again, you don't see like crazy lat width, but like fucking thick traps, like upper back thickness, like the type of thing you'd get from like rows to your chest, extremely on point, really developed directors. Like I have just seen far too many people who've gotten extremely impressive back development with very few rows and very few pull downs, just basically only doing deadlifts. And I'm like, eh, you know, could they have maybe achieved the same level of development with less time and less effort by choosing some other exercises instead? Yeah, I'd say definitely maybe and potentially even probably. Like I'm very sympathetic to that. But I also think that if someone says, hey, I want really great back development and I don't like doing rows, I really think you can just do a shitload of deadlifts and pull downs and be in pretty good shape. I think that's a decent take. And I don't want to make it sound like that lifts to nothing for your back, like putting aside your rectors even. But I do suspect like it's almost like we flip positions here where you're more of an empiricist in the absence of any formal empirical evidence and I'm more of a rationalist. But I do think the case against deadlifts theoretically for back is relatively strong. And I do suspect like you might be just dealing with a fair amount of solid worship bias, like the people that you're around or probably quite a bit more jacked in the average weight lifter, like personally, I've known quite a few weight lifters and powerlifters that skip their accessories altogether and their back isn't very jacked. Like, and obviously I could also be dealing with so I should buy us. But I think it's it can be difficult to disentangle that whole causality situation. Because like, I know people who don't really with weights are relatively jacked. You know, so yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, when when I walk into a powerlifting gym or like when I walk into a gym and I'm just looking around like, yeah, who else here is powerlifter? Like who are my people here? I will say the things that do jump out to me most are overdeveloped quads, overdeveloped pecs and overdeveloped traps. Like I do. I do unironically think that deadlifts are like quite solid for trap development. But like when I think of when I think of powerlifter physique, even if someone is not like super muscular and well developed to begin with, I do like slightly better upper back development than most of the rest of their physique is still something that like jumps out to me is like a core part of a powerlifter physique. Fair enough. I think that's a fair take. We must not discount though the presence of accessories to school. Yeah. Like many powerlifters are not that great at doing their their accessories, but still plus, but potentially their strength training background, you know, doing a few years of your five by fives and your whatever generic programs. So your five, three ones that all include some form of like chin ups and rows. And yeah, I don't know. With weight lifters, I like O'Milo. Like I've seen some because I've trained at Olympic weightlifting gyms in Greece. And sure, like obviously, if you look at a guy, some of those people on the beach and you see their back, you can definitely tell that they're doing something that they're working out. And I think really developed directors can make a back look, you know, much more trained than if they're not really well developed. But I don't know, man. Um, aside from some phenoms, like if you look at, for example, Joe Sullivan, who has recently, I don't know, gotten into bodybuilding or something, and he's, he's a beast when it comes to like squat and deadlift strength when his back looks jacked. But nowhere near a bodybuilder who may even be naughty and is, I don't know. But again, I'm getting into specific comparisons. Overall, I think deadlift's great. But if you're like, okay, I want my back to get bigger. Focusing on the deadlift, I think is not the way to go. If that makes sense. I think that's where we're coming from. Yeah. I mean, I, I said multiple times that I do think that like rep by rep and set by set, there are probably better options, but I do think I think, I think things have come full circle to the point that people, uh, probably underestimate deadlifts as a back developer. Very much. I think that's pretty reasonable. So it depends. Sure. Cool. Next question. Uh, yeah. Okay. So Randy B. 718 on Reddit, uh, asks a lot of strength programs, including SBS seem to recommend one back exercise, uh, for back work every day. How optimal or suboptimal is this for hypertrophy? Mr. Gray, I guess I can answer this just in the context of like why it's in the stronger by science programs like that. Please do. Um, and that's the back exercises. Unlike exercises for a lot of other muscle groups, um, can be limited by like grip strength and hand fatigue. And this is, this is anecdotal, but like if I'm going to do, you know, two vertical pulls and two horizontal pulls in a week, if I do them all in a single session, um, sometimes even if I'm using straps, like by the last exercise, I just feel like I'm not fucking doing anything because my hands are fucking tired. Um, whereas if I just do like really, really hit it hard for one back exercise a day or like sometimes two, if I'm really like focusing on my back training, I'm like, okay, like I can get it in and things are good. So yeah, I, I practically am a fan of spreading out back work just purely due to hand fatigue. Um, you don't want that to be a limiter. You do one back exercise a day. I also think it's good. I also think it's reasonably good for grip development because like you're getting a little bit of like, you know, secondary grip work in, in virtually all of your training sessions. Um, and just, uh, the research on frequency tends to indicate that, um, higher frequencies have a mostly neutral to maybe slightly positive impact on. Muscular development. So, um, just, just in general, as with any other muscle group, I don't think you're missing out on anything by spreading your volume out a little bit more and you may, you may be getting something positive out of that. So yeah, I, I with, with any muscle group, I think it's, I think it's, uh, neutral to positive to train it every training day and just kind of like doing the full body thing. But I think that that's like especially true for back training just because yeah, like your, your ability to train your pecs isn't going to be limited. If you're doing three peck exercises in a workout, you're not going to be like, damn, on this third one, I really feel like I'm not using my pecs well because my hands are tired, you know what I mean? But like, that kind of can be the case with back training. So with back training, even more than training for other muscle groups, I just think it's practically beneficial to spread it out through the week. Um, yeah, just, just so hand fatigue doesn't limit your ability to train the muscles you're trying to train. Wow. Besides hand fatigue, that is exactly the answer I would have given them as well as to why it might be beneficial. Um, yeah, I think that's pretty reasonable. Hand fatigue may be top of mind for me because I have very small hands. Yeah. I have experienced the only time I've ever really experienced my forearms being an issue. When training my back was when training with Kiriaka's Grizzly. When he made me do like a 30 rep drop set with like my first set being five reps and still using straps. The only thing I felt was an indescribable form pump. My, my back felt unaffected. And so I think that, uh, yeah, for most people, it may not be so much of a concern, but for some people, it can definitely be. Okay. Um, mouth words. I think I know who this is. Um, he asks, uh, cheaty rose, good idea or the greatest idea? Uh, is this, is this whole thing? I think that is yes. Okay. Uh, okay. So cheaty rose, good idea or the greatest idea. I recall some discussion recently around length and partials and how cutting the top rom in pullups or rows still hits the length and position. But when I think of body English, I think more about hip extension to make the length and position easier out of the bottom. Is it all just a self fulfilling prophecy so we can do back work every day because the lats are big, they can take it when they're actually cutting out the hardest, most beneficial portion of the range of motion to do so, or is it truly exposing the lats and back to more work by circumventing the limitations of the biceps or something? Uh, or maybe cheaty rose are better for strength and hypertrophy on account of horking around bigger weights. All right. That is a multifaceted question. I'll try to answer. I do think cheaty rose first up are probably better for strength and hypertrophy, but specifically when strength is defined as deadlift strength, probably, because they are then more akin to deadlifts than straight rows are. And so it becomes more specific to deadlifts and specificity is important. But then when it comes to wire cheaty rose beneficial, I'm not sure they're beneficial for growth necessarily. Um, I think the benefit in terms of the length and position could just as well be achieved by doing partials instead and cutting out that whole position entirely. You would still be able to use more load on account of missing out on the most challenging position in the lift. And therefore you'd be challenging that length and position a bit more. And I think you'd be missing out on the additional fatigue that comes with involving your hip extensors and involving your lower back a bit more as well. Or what have you. So I'm generally in favor of keeping rows stricter. And I don't think they're necessarily more beneficial by involving more body English for strength. As I said, I think they're probably more beneficial if you're cheating. But then I think are your rows really where you want to increase specificity? Could you not just do strict rows and do more deadlift work potentially? That's a different discussion altogether, but I think for hypertrophy, I wouldn't necessarily recommend it. Um, and I think she arose if they are to be beneficial for hypertrophy of the back would be beneficial predominantly through allowing you to handle more load and length and position. I think even if you're cheating, provide your lifting the load of maximum intent, you'll still be using your back to its fullest and the length and position just with more load. And you'd be making the shortened position relatively easier to achieve by getting more momentum into it and essentially hoisting the weight up, so to speak. So yeah, that's my take. I wouldn't really recommend cheating rows for hypertrophy necessarily back. Exactly the same take with the, the added benefit of, I don't know. I don't see much, much of a benefit for cheating rows. We besides having fun and lifting heavy stuff for the fun of it. I don't, I don't get what more you'd get from a controlled row where you're more likely to control the eccentric because you can handle the load. You can focus on getting that stretch and it just doesn't become a sort of like, okay, let's survive this set and just move the weight up and down until an arbitrary number of repetitions has been hit. Like I've seen power lifters talk about cheat rows as a, as an accessory to the deadlift and okay, sure, whatever, but like, why not just do some hip hinge variation as an accessory to the deadlift. The few videos that I've seen of like world class power lifters swearing that it was the cheat rows that helped their deadlift have left me unsatisfied with the explanation as to why that, that's true. Plus obviously the all of the confounders with the main one being them still deadlifting. So overall, you know, if you like cheat rows and you have a lot of fun, well, doing them and you're in the gym and your workouts are 10 times better and you still do your pull downs and your, whatever, chest supported machine rows, sure, do them. You're not going to lose muscle mass. You're still going to make some gains for sure. But if you're trying, if you want to maximize herbergary fee and you are, you want that an exercise or a row variation that is effective at doing that, then cheat rows are probably not your best bet. Yeah, I'm on record within this episode saying that I like cheat rows. Um, I do feel my lats more in them than, uh, like strict rows targeting the lats, but I am also on record in this episode saying that I think that like pullups and pull downs are a better lat exercise than like lat rows are. Um, and those two things coexist. If I'm, if I am to do rows for my lats, I do, I do like cheat rows. I think, I think that there's an art to them. I think that like a cheat row done well and a cheat row done poorly look visually identical and it's just kind of, the only person that knows the truth is the person doing them. But yeah, like if, if you're still pulling with maximum intent, like before, like before, like the, the hip hinging contributes to getting the weight up, you're essentially doing like a maximum intensity partial at the bottom of the, or like a maximum intensity, like isometric at the bottom of the lift. And even if the weight does still come down fast on the eccentric, you're still resisting it as hard as you can. Like it should still be a pretty good stimulus. Um, but I do also think it can be easy to get lazy and basically you're, you're just doing like partial RDLs and you happen to be holding onto the bar and it touches your belly. Um, and yeah, those two things can look very similar. And I think as you fatigue in a set, it's easy for like a good cheat rows to become bad lazy cheat rows. And in general, I do still think that for lat development, you're better off with pull ups or pull downs. And I really don't see much utility for like cheat rows to your chest. Like when people are doing them, they're mostly doing like the lat version of rows rather than kind of the upper back, like mid-trap rhomboid upper lat version of rows, I guess. Um, so yeah, I think, I think they're fun. I think they can be effective, but I think that I think that if you're trying to maximize efficiency, like you're trying to get the most possible per set out of your time training, I think that there are better options for the muscles that you would be training. Um, but I also just think if you like doing them and if you are actually like exerting maximum effort with your lats and like not just using hip hinging to move it. Uh, yeah, I think that there are more effective exercises, but I think it still can be effective. And, um, if you enjoy it and if your time in the gym isn't like super limited, yeah, go for it. Why not? Like have some fun. Have some fun. Um, another thing that I'll just say as it relates to like efficiency more broadly is I do think that I do think that a lot can be said about like the joys of training and doing things that you like doing and, uh, how things matter less if you just have time in the day to spend more time in the gym. Because for instance, like I can say that I don't think cheat rows are like the most efficient exercise in the world in terms of like how much you're stimulating the muscles on a set by set basis. But that only fucking matters. I think if you only have like 30, 30, 45 minutes to train, if you're someone who is a gym rat, you'll love the gym. You go four or five days a week, spend an hour and a half, two hours there. You have plenty of time in your training week to do exercises that aren't like as efficient on a set by set basis. And you just love doing, you know, like, um, if, if like 10 sets of lat work in your, in your workout is enough to like get as much stimulation for your lats as they can get in a workout or whatever. And you're doing 15 sets of lat work in a workout. Who fucking cares if like three of those sets aren't the most efficient? Like, yeah, past a certain point, you're, you're maybe training more than you like strictly need to just cause, just cause you love it, you know? And, um, yeah. So if, if you have 90 minutes per week total to train and you're trying to make the most of that time, I'd say, yeah, do something other than cheat rows. Um, but if you just really like doing them and, or you have plenty of time in your week to do other exercises, yeah, go for it. Why not have fun? That's, that's my take. Beautiful. We started this podcast out being strong by science and now it's strong by art. How to perfect your row, the cheat row specifically. Art or by science. I mean, my, my like most emotionally felt training takes are mostly like just have fun, I guess. I don't know. Like I do. I, I really and truly think. Yeah, whatever. Now we're back to philosophy by science. I think that I think though that, um, a lot of, a lot of like training content online is developed and delivered as if everyone in the gym is trying to be a world champion powerlifter or a world champion bodybuilder or a world champion athlete in some sport or another. Um, or if they're not there at least training with the same sort of orientation as those people where, you know, given, given your amount of time to train, um, any effort that is not used as efficiently and effectively as possible is wasted time. Like if, if within a year you could gain three pounds of muscle and you in fact only gain two pounds of muscle, that's a tragedy, you know, because like that last pound is really fucking critical because you're, you're absolutely trying to maximize everything. And like I just don't think many people are on that goddamn wavelength. Um, I think most people are trying to make gains like they're, they have some physicals they're working towards. They want to get stronger. But like most, most people who train consistently, like someone who's been in the gym for more than a couple of years and it has dawned on them. They're never going to be a world champion in anything or maybe they never even wanted to in the first place, but they're still going week after week, month after month, year after year. They are mostly training because they love it. And like there are still some results that they want to get, but if they, if they could enjoy their training 50% more or get 10% better results, they, they might tell themselves, yeah, like I'm going to do the thing for 10% more results, but a lot of their behaviors are geared towards, no, I'm going to do the thing I like 50% more, more. Cause like, yeah, once you're in it for a while and the gains slow way the fuck down, which they do for everyone, you stick, you stick with it because you like it. And yeah, I don't know. It's something that does frustrate me a little bit is how, um, is how centralizing ideas of like effectiveness and efficiency are, which are really only like the number one most salient and almost like solely important thing only for people who have like the most aggressive, like highest level competitive aspirations and in doing so things that people enjoy doing are kind of like put down and shit on. And it's like, Hey, you're doing this thing that's not like, like, like why, like why would you do cheat rows? Like it's just an ego lift. You're wasting your time. There's like better things. And it's like, yeah, you know why people do ego lifts because they're fucking fun. And, yeah, maybe they're not the most effective exercise in the world, but guess what? I've been training for a long ass time and if things went really well for me, maybe I'm going to put on a pound of muscle this year. And guess what? I don't give like, I'm not going to be a fucking bodybuilder. So like, if I gain a pound of muscle this year or like, honestly, zero pounds of muscle this year, I don't care. I just enjoy lifting weights and working out. And so like, yeah, yeah, if, if I just like doing something, I'm going to do it. And I really feel like that's how most people who train for a while are, you know, like they just like an exercise or they're just like trying a new thing. And I think that it's, I think that it is like relatively toxic for, um, for, yeah, just notions of enjoyment to be completely eschewed, um, and, and things to be put down because they're not like theoretically the most efficient and effective way to train. Because efficiency and effectiveness are, I think important concerns for everyone, but I honestly don't think they're the main concern for most people. And, um, yeah, like it's, uh, yeah, just, just, just like notions that like, if you're not training like a robot that's trying to like completely maximize everything all the time that you're doing something wrong. Like I don't think that that's like a helpful orientation, I guess. Yeah. And like for the record, our training is my mind, I did more than my mind, I was, but my laws as well is very heavily focused around the stuff we enjoy. The issue I think with ego lifting is the ego response to the criticism of, oh, you're doing this for ego lifting. And then instead of saying, yeah, that's why I'm doing it because I love it. And it's fun to do whatever, the zercher shrugs from boxes and whatever, cheat rows or even cheat curls or whatever. It's that people try to justify the ego lifting by forcing some mechanism or explaining that, oh, no, you know, this targets this a bit more. And then when you see also bodybuilders do that, then, and powered mechanisms and rationales for why this form is better than the other, it just creates this, this weird environment where from both sides, from one, the optimal bros and then the non-optimal bros, the idea of lifting for fun is not okay. It's not considered. Yeah. Because the, the, the ego bro, instead of saying, yeah, man, cool, bro. I'm a recreational lifter. Yeah. I'm here lifting weights. I'm bettering my health and I'm still getting a ton of benefits. I don't care about that theoretical 0.3 centimeter muscle gain that I could get. You know, many people get a bit of a knee jerk response, give a bit of a knee jerk response that includes some reason why they're doing it because they feel guilty about having fun. So we're here to break that stigma stronger by science. Yeah. I, I do, I do think some of that is like a kind of understandable defensive response though, cause like people, people come at them. Ah, almost like in an accusatory way, like by doing something that honestly looks quite fun, but maybe isn't optimal, you're doing something wrong. You know. Yeah. Whereas like if, if that, if that energy wasn't attached to it and someone just asked them neutrally like, Hey, why are you doing this thing? They might say like, Oh, well trains my lats. Also, I think it's fun. Um, you know, I think, I think that some of that is like people matching the energy that people come at them with. And if the, if the whole kind of like, if the social rules of the soup you're swimming in are.  like, yeah, if you're not doing things that are, like, optimal and maximal, you're doing something wrong, then you almost feel like you need to justify things on those terms, even if that's not why you're doing those things in the first place. Yeah, I agree. I think when you're questioning the non-optimal brog, which is having fun on – with a presupposition of everything one does needs to be done to maximize utility and progress, then the way you communicate that to the person treating their lift, for example, can come off as quite aggressive, or like you're questioning why they're even doing it and why they're not acting in line with your own reasons for lifting. And I think, like, seeing someone else treat can almost come off to you if you're lifting with the purpose of maximizing gains, for example, as like transgressive, like, oh, why is this person not acting in service of the same ideals as I am? And then it can cause you to question yourself and why you're lifting in the first place and, wait, I could live for fun too? And then that kind of gives you a bit of a pause and reflection, hopefully. But yeah, next episode, How to Have Fun. That's the title. Honestly, man. Where it's at. Training these days is super fun. No structure, freestyle, overhead press six times a week. We're in the gym an hour, hour and a half. Peace. Like, I think especially for recreational lifters who've been lifting for a while, lifting for fun is the promised land. And that's how you can lift. Yeah, keep at it. Because there comes a point where, cool, realistically speaking, maybe I could gain an appreciable amount of muscle mass on my calves because I have never trained them directly. But at this stage, you know, even with the most optimized of programs, we're not looking at an insane level of muscle gain, if any at all, for some muscle groups. So yeah, big proponents of lifting for fun. Don't let that, don't let our hatred for the cheat row, the track, the track from that. It's not the cheat row itself. It's the, you know, people trying to force the cheat rows and optimal exercise. It should be acceptable to say it's a fun exercise. Do it. It's cool. Yeah, truly the duality of man to hate the cheat row for scientific reasons and to envy the cheat row for the human condition, you know. Absolutely. Absolutely. So I think, I think that wraps it up for this episode. Cool. I think so. Do you guys have any, any closing thoughts before we sign off? Not really. I think that's it. Cool. All right. Well, thanks everyone for listening to another episode of the Stronger by Science podcast. We will be back in a couple of weeks and during the intervening fortnight. Be good. Hope you enjoy yourself. Do whatever kind of back training you feel like doing, whether that be pullovers for lat development, whether that be cheat rows, whether that be, you know, a good standard pull down and row to your chest. It's all valid. Some of it may be more effective than others, but guess what? All back training is good back training. Big backs are sick. So we're, we're wishing you love and light and big backs for the next two weeks and we will be back then. Talk to you soon. Bye.

=== FILE: How to Bench Press (Using Science) [UXu-DIG4t2Y].txt ===

 geralhyngortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, roungortum, them get a spotter. Has your gym bro deserve it do and there are no safeties. Generally keep at least one lap in the tank and practice bailing out of the bench safely. If you do fail you have two options. First the roll of shame. Simply touch the bar to your chest and gently roll it down, sit up and you've achieved the roll of shame. Second the side bail. For this technique do not add clips to the bar. Instead if you find yourself in trouble let the weights slide off the bar sideways under control to unload the bar belt. Finally if you train a commercial gym another option is to pause the bar on your chest and get someone's attention. Great now that you know how not to die let's talk about equipment. We need to make sure the equipment is ready so we can bench press effectively. Ensure the bench is grippy enough that your shoulders won't slide. If you tend to get sweaty and the bench is slick you can try wearing a t-shirt especially a grippy one like this one. Additionally to make the bench grippier you can add a yoga mat. On top of the bench four wrap a couple of resistance bands around the length of the bench. Next set the j-hooks to the proper height. For many benching out of a rack will be better than using the typical commercial gym bench. The height at which the j-hooks should be set will depend on the length of your arms and grip width. But generally we want to set them so they only need to extend your elbows a couple of inches to un-rack the bar. This will minimize fatigue from un-racking allowing you to lift more weight when you actually start lifting. If you set the hooks too low you'll simply create fatigue and lose scapular positioning. Speaking of scapular positioning let's set up our shoulder blades to bench press effectively. Retracting our scapula allows us to reduce the range of motion slightly making the lift a bit easier. A simple cue to think of is pinching a pencil between your shoulder blades. Besides retraction you can either elevate or depress your scapula. This is mostly personal preference. Play around until you find something comfortable and strong. Anecdotally people prefer touching lower on their chest tend to prefer scapular depression whereas people with a higher touch point tend to prefer just retraction or retraction with slight scapular elevation. Now that you've set up your upper back let's talk about getting tight and setting up your arch. There are two approaches for arching in the bench. In the first technique you first set up your shoulders then your legs. Use the rack or bench to hold onto and create tightness in your upper back. The bar should be over your face somewhere between your forehead and mouth. I like it directly above my eyes. Setting yourself up correctly will allow you to unrack the bar easily without hitting the bar against the rack during the set. Once you've set up your shoulders keep holding the rack or bench and use your legs to push your hips towards your shoulders. Use the cue chest to the sky as you do so to maximize your arch. Arching works by getting your chest higher, minimizing the range of motion on the bench press. This is especially important since most people fail the bench around the mid-range, a few inches off the chest. If we can arch to make this position stronger we should be able to bench more. The second way we can arch is the opposite sequence. Set your hips first then push your shoulders towards your hips. Start with the bar roughly over your throat. In that position, lock your hips in place by driving your feet through the floor and push back against the uprights with your hands to push your shoulders towards your hips. Drive your chest to the sky. The bar should be over your face now. Which of these two techniques should you use? Try both. I personally find the second nicer but it comes down to personal preference. Next we'll tweak your foot position. A good starting place is to set your feet out to the side as far as possible directly underneath your knees. This should feel like a strong and comfortable position. It will make it easy to get a good arch, feel like you can drive your feet through the floor with power and still allow your whole foot to remain planted on the ground. If you find your heels tend to lift, consider weightlifting shoes, particularly if your power lifting federation requires your whole foot touch the floor. Two alternative foot placements exist. The first is to set your feet just slightly in front of your knees and to the side. This is the most comfortable position but tends to result in your feet slipping. It also doesn't allow for quite as much of an arch. With that said, it can allow some lifters to use more leg drive. So give it a shot. Finally, if you would like to prioritize maximizing your arch over maximizing leg drive and your federation allows it, you can try setting your feet as far back as possible. I only recommend this if you have great flexibility, enjoy this technique, find an arch more useful than leg drive and your competitive power of the footer whose federation allows it. Next, let's talk about grip width. Did you know that nearly all top competitive power lifters use as wide a grip as their federation will allow them to? There are some exceptions but around 1.5 to 2 times shoulder width is the strongest and most comfortable grip width for most people. If this grip width currently feels weaker, keep at it. If you're coming from a close grip bench to a wider grip bench, it can often take a few months to adjust fully. What about wrist position? Adopt the ball dog grip. The bar should rest in the lowest part of your palm, directly above the base of your thumb to the bottom of your hand. This will minimize the momentum on the wrist which can help if you're experiencing difficulties gripping the bar or some wrist discomfort. It can help to think of punching the sky. You wouldn't punch someone with your wrist's cock back. Now that we've locked in our legs, upper back, arch and grip, we can finally unwrap the bar. First, if you have a spotter, use the countdown system. Go 3, 2, 1, then use your combined powers of friendship to unwrap the bar. Ask them to lift an inch or two, then smoothly bring the bar directly above your shoulders and let go. A bad spotter can mess up your tightness and position big time, so make sure you instruct them well. If you don't have a spotter, you'll need to set up a bit farther back on the bench. To facilitate unwrapping, I like to bring my hips up briefly while I unwrap. Additionally, I like to flare my elbows a little bit as I unwrap before tucking them again before lifting. Some lifters find it helpful to think of using their lats. Before you start the lift, make sure you tighten all moving parts. Push your feet into the ground, make sure your hips are touching the bench, bring your chest to the sky, retract your scapula and squeeze the bar. Now we're finally ready to lower the bar. Elite benchers tend to take around two to three seconds to lower the bar. This can help ensure you don't miscrew the lift or end up at a position. The most common cue is to help during this phase or to bend the bar or rip the bar in half, both of which remind lifters to maintain good back positioning. If your arch tends to collapse as you lower the bar, a good cue I personally like is chest to the sky. Once you've lowered the bar, touch it fairly low on your chest, somewhere between the lip align and the bottom of your sternum. As a heuristic, the closer you grip, the lower you should touch and vice versa. An easy way to practice this is to apply chalk to the bar and wear a black t-shirt. After the set, you should see a solid line of chalk on your shirt. Power lifters need to pause the bar on their chest. There are two styles of pausing. The first, more common type of pause is the soft pause. As you lower the bar, have your chest reach the bar, not the bar reach the chest. Let the bar rest very lightly for a second, maintain tension, then drive it back up. For most people, this is the type of pause you should use. The second type of pause is the sink pause. This one is a bit less common and hard to pull off, but is typically used by heavier lifters and lifters who use a closer grip. This technique is a double arch sword. On the one hand, it can mean troubling competitions, since you need to hold the bar steady during the pause before the judge will let you press the bar back up. It can also increase the chances that you might get caught for heaving if you get a fast press call. Sinking the bar makes this tougher. Additionally, since you're letting the bar sink, you're increasing the range of motion slightly. On the other hand, it can let a lifter use greater leg drive and increase strength off the chest by extending your spine as you press the bar off the chest. Now it's time for the hard part, actually lifting the weights. Drive your feet through the floor as if you're trying to push your whole body back on the bench. This is called light drive. As you start pressing the bar, flare your elbows out to bring the bar back over your shoulders. This J-shaped bar path is commonly used by elite lifters. By bringing the bar back over the shoulders as quickly as possible, you're reducing the moment arms that you're fighting against, increasing your efficiency on the bench. This is arguably the most important part of the bench press. Much in the same way, you can overhead press more than you can front raise due to a simple concept called moment arms. Pressing the bar back then up will allow you to bench more. The longer the distance between a joint axis and the line of force, the greater the torque your muscle will need to produce to overcome it. Adapting to this bar path can take a few weeks or months, but it will very likely make you stronger. There's one more thing to pay attention to, intent. On each rep, lift the weight with as much force and power as possible. Previous studies have consistently shown greater gains when moving through a lifting phase explosively, as hard as you can possibly do. One study found twice the bench press gains when doing this versus pressing the bar intentionally slower. As promised, here's a cheat sheet of each aspect of great bench press technique and what to do, alongside an effective cue. Now, I anticipate you have questions. Since we put out the full 100 page how to bench press article, you've asked many questions. First, how should you address weaknesses in the bench? There are three places lifters commonly fail the bench. The most common and normal place to fail the bench is the mid-range, anywhere from a few inches off the chest to nearing lockout. This is the hardest part of the movement. Broadly speaking, there are two things to focus on if this is where you fail. One good bar path. Keep focusing and honing the J bar path, especially for beginners or intermediate lifters. You may have a tendency to press the bar up off the chest versus back, making the lift less efficient, which catches up with you in the mid-range. Second, you probably just need to get bigger and stronger overall. This is primarily true for more advanced lifters who have their bar path down already. Specifically, grow your pecs and triceps by a different pressing variations. We have many videos on building muscle on the channel, so I won't go in depth here. Go check some of those out. Next, we have lockout. Failing at lock out is relatively rare, but it does happen. Typically, it's down to two things, elbow position and or general triceps and pec strength. Near the top of the rep, you should have internally rotated the shoulders to make the lift easier on your triceps. Your elbows should be facing away from each other, not towards your hips. Alternatively, experiment with using a bit less scapular depression. Depressing your scapula shortens your pectoralis major, reducing how much force it can produce. Reducing scapular depression can put your pecs in a stronger position, allowing you to grind through the lockout more efficiently. If this looks good, you likely just need to get stronger overall, particularly in your triceps and to a lesser extent your chest. Finally, the least likely failing point is on or right off your chest. If you fail off the chest, it probably has to do with front delt strength. Because of the moment arms involved, this is by far the hardest part of the lift for your front delts. Grow and strengthen your front delts. Alternatively, you might just be touching your too low on your torso, increasing the strain on your front delts. Growing your front delts via incline pressing or other front delt focused movements, growing your pecs and triceps more generally and touching a bit higher on the chest are all valid ways to remedy this sticking point. Another common question revolves around the new IPF bench press depth rule. The bottom of your elbows needs to reach the same level or lower than the top of your shoulders for a bench attempt to be successful. How do we achieve this? Well, if you're someone who struggles to achieve this, there are a couple of options. First, simply decrease your arch. Second, touching a bit higher on your chest and flaring your elbows a bit more on the descent. Finally, adopting a closer grip can also help. Experiment with these three changes to tweak your technique until you find what's strongest while allowing you to reach that. Finally, you may be interested in what the best bench press technique for muscle growth is. A review paper by the good doctor Packett Strong by Science identified a few key characteristics of good technique for muscle building from the literature. First, we want to train a muscle in the stretched position. So reduce the amount of arching involved and potentially adopt a narrow grip. Second, we want to reasonably control the eccentric and explosive concentric, which jives well with our recommendations for strength. Finally, we want the target muscle to be the limiting factor and reduce the involvement of non-torget muscles. If you're going mostly for pec and tricep growth, touch the bar somewhat higher on your chest. For front deltoid tricep growth, touch the bar somewhat lower on your chest. If, instead, you'd like to consult a coach on your training, go to strongbyciences.com slash coaching, or to receive bi-weekly pre-email updates on the latest research, go to strongbyciences.com slash newsletter. Strong by Science. Until next time.

=== FILE: How to Grow More Muscle In Less Time (Science Explained) [Aaq4xk50AtQ].txt ===

 even if you're short on time you can still grow muscles. And now that's ready to bring you back to your unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown a couple of one hour sessions or even just a 4-30 minute sessions. No matter. If you're constrained on time, here's what to do. First up, a couple of considerations. One, if you are limited on time and only have an hour or two to train a week, there's a good chance you won't be maximizing your possible progress. However, you can still make really robust gains. And secondly, if you're constrained on time, that means that fatigue and recovery overall become much less of a bottleneck to how you should train and how much you can train. Ultimately, you'll just be limited more so by how much time you can spend in the gym, in your home gym, or what have you training than by how much can recover between sessions. And so we'll be shifting our emphasis in terms of training strategies from whatever is most effective in terms of minimizing fatigue and how much growth we get more so to maximizing how much growth we can get in a limited amount of time without further ado, here's tip number one with even this few as around five sets a week per muscle, you can still see muscle growth. For instance, a metanautosis from 2017 by Sheldon Felden colleagues found that even doing one to five sets led to some muscle growth. Importantly, this metanautosis did include both untrained and trained participants. So to be on the safe side, if you've been training for a while, doing at least five sets per week per muscle is a good ballpark to aim for. To add on to that, a metanautosis by BuzzFlying colleagues still found appreciable hypertrophy even when doing lower volumes of below 12 sets per week per muscle. And keep in mind, volumes counted both directly and indirectly. So a set of bench press would count towards both the chest, the triceps, and the front belts. And so reaching say between five to 12 sets per week per muscle is really not that difficult. My second tip, if you don't have much time to train is to train to failure or potentially even beyond failure. A meta regression by Robinson and colleagues found that as a set was taken closer and closer to failure, all the way to true failure, we see more hypertrophy occurring. And so if you're only in the gym for say an hour to a week, you can likely afford to take each one of those sets to true failure and make that set count. While there is going to be more fatigue from going closer to failure, if you're only training an hour to a week, you probably don't need to worry about this. And importantly, there is very preliminary evidence of going past failure potentially being beneficial for hypertrophy. First, we had evidence by Coleman and colleagues that doing drop sets is similarly effective at inducing hypertrophy that doing traditional straight sets in a drop set when you reach failure, you're dropping the load as a means to train past failure conceptually. And so at the very least, it seems to be reasonably effective. And secondly, the first study on training past failure that I'm aware of, I was just involved in this hasn't been published yet. So take it with a grain of salt. But here's what we found we compared just doing full reps on the calf raise to doing full reps, and then extending the set past failure, doing partial reps when you could no longer get a full range of motion rep, and you had reached quote unquote failure and using a within participant design where one leg was being trained with just a four inch of motion ending the set at four range of motion failure, versus the other leg being trained as it is described, the light that trained past failure saw 50% more hypertrophy of the gastrocnemius. So there is some preliminary evidence that great past failure might be worth a try if you're aiming to maximize your time in the gym. Tip number three is to use multi joint or compound movements as the big foundation of your training, at least one methanaxis on single versus multi joint training has found similar hypertrophy from the two. And so since multi joint exercises train multiple muscle groups at once, most of your training if you're pressed for time should be multi joint movements that train a lot of muscles at once. For example, if you opt to train with a full body approach a couple of times a week, including a hip hinge, a squat pattern, some sort of pressing exercise and some sort of pulling exercise within your workout is going to take you a long way towards growing your whole body. My fourth tip is to use a minimalist warm up routine. Ultimately, only relatively hard sets close to failure really grow the most muscle possible. And so if you're spending 20 minutes of a one hour session just warming up, there's a good chance you could be growing more muscle by cutting down on your own time, keep your one up quite specific and minimize the amount of warming up done per exercise to just zero to three sets of the actual exercise. Unless you've been prescribed some sort of static stretching by a physiotherapist for an ongoing injury, generally, I would also avoid static stretching a quick dynamic one up like doing the movement itself for a few sets or just doing some arm swings or what have you is going to be the most efficient approach as you'll accomplish most of the goals of a good warm up without taking too much time. Tip number five is to consider special techniques like antagonistic paired supersets, my reps or drop sets. Specifically, we have a few acute studies looking at the idea of super setting two antagonistic movements like a bench press in a row, or tricep push down and curl, generally finding that super setting these two exercises with no muscular overlap in terms of what's being trained doesn't impair performance. And so you can effectively get twice the amount of work in in the same amount of time. Importantly, this general concept can work with any two movements that don't tie you out too much overall, something like a squat wouldn't be ideal, and that don't really have any major muscle or overlap. For example, while a dumbbell side raise and a calf raise aren't antagonistic movement patterns, they are sufficiently distinct that you can probably superset them to good effect. Similarly, when it comes to drop sets, we have an analysis by Coleman and colleagues finding similar hypertrophy from a drop set approach, traditional set approaches, but cutting down on training time by about 50 to 70%. Tip number six is to consider your use of exercises carefully, certain exercises are more time efficient than others. Specifically, dumbbell exercises and stateloid machines are generally more time efficient than the barbell based exercises or plate loaded machines. And oftentimes, these exercises will have less setup required. Always consider setup of the exercise as a factor contributing to how long it takes to perform it. And finally, prioritized bilateral movements over unilateral movements. This is a minor factor, but for most people doing movements that train both sides of your body at the same time will save a little bit of time. Tip number seven, based on my experience, try to manage fatigue throughout the session. A good way to do this in my experience is to interspersed exercises that are quite fatiguing overall that get you out of breath, like squats, with less fatiguing exercises like isolation movements. If you do a squat and then a deadlift and then an RDL and then a leg press back to back, you might find you need to rest for a little bit longer between sets, because you have so much fatigue built up from previous exercises. Whereas if you spread these fatiguing exercises out a little bit more, I found it can cut down session duration tip number eight, minimize rest times. Specifically for hypertrophy, you probably won rest times about one to two minutes. A preprinted meta analysis that I was recently involved on found that while resting for less than one minute between sets did reduce hypertrophy. The best muscle growth was actually seen with one to two minutes of rest between sets. So as a general heuristic resting for one to two minutes between sets is a good approach. We're on the higher end of that range. If you're training lower body with more compound movements and for higher reps, and the lower end of that range, you train your upper body with lower reps and with more single joint movements, you can still see great gains even with resting for less than one minute, but you may need to do more additional sets to make up for a loss in stimulus tip number nine, opting for lower repetition sets of say five to eight reps, what generally one take less long before on a precept basis, you're just doing a few reps, and two cause less fatigue to recover from between sets. Most people can do a set of five on squats and be ready to go again within a few minutes. We're doing a set of 20 on squats, for example, will take you longer to recover from. However, this is a bit of a double edge sword as working up to this heavier weight that is needed to make a set of five effective will take longer than walking up to a weight that you can use for 20 reps. So play around and find whether one approach works better for you. Tip number 10, right before you leave the gym, do another set. For example, what I do when I'm really busy is to get all of my stuff ready to leave the gym as I'm resting during my last few sets. And then right before I need to leave the gym because I need to be somewhere at work or have you in the studio recording a video for you. I do my last set. And this doesn't seem like much, but doing one last set for you to leave the gym, then over and over again, can be beneficial. And in fact, you can take this up another notch by doing something quite tiresome, but also stimulating at the very end of your session, when fatigue isn't really a concern anymore, since you won't be training again for another 24, 48, 72 hours. So for example, doing a drop set right as you're about to leave the gym, having all your stuff ready can allow you to cram in a bit more stimulus into your already constrained time. And that wraps it up. Psych, that is what you thought. But it's trial by science, we're committed to providing you with even more value for your buck. In fact, for just $3,000 instead of $350,000, as per usual, you can get a bonus tip right about now on a serious note, bonus tip, especially in busy gyms, be flexible about exercise order. If you're training at rush hour around five PM, for example, you might find that the equipment needed to do your first exercise isn't always available immediately. And if you only have half an hour or an hour to train, and you spend 15 minutes waiting for that fast exercise, there's a good chance you're not going to be able to complete your session within your allotted time. And for hypertrophy specifically, exercise order doesn't really seem to matter all that much. And that's not by new listening colleagues found no effect of exercise order on hypertrophy. And so if you need to do some machine chest press first before squatting, even though you wanted to start with squats, it is not the end of the world. And it may allow you to get more work into your sessions when the gym is busy. That is the video absolute masterclass on how to train when you're busy and still make gains. I've been using these tips myself within the gym. And it's been super helpful. If you enjoyed this video, please comment, like, subscribe, let us know what other topics you want to see us cover from a scientific perspective. If you'd like more information like this, consider checking out the newsletter below and getting some free programs as part of that deal. Conversely, if you'd like an expert to coach you, consider checking out strongholdscience.com slash coaching for someone to handle your training, your nutrition, or even just to have a consultation with make sure you hit the bell below so you get notified whenever we release a new video. And finally, had a fantastic day from the whole team at strongholdscience. Peace.

=== FILE: How to Grow Muscle (ft. Dr. Brad Schoenfeld) [XSG4KWjhg3E].txt ===

 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere So, what are the mechanisms of hypertrophy? Before we begin looking at specifics, I want to ask you a very general question, which is, what is muscle growth? It's an increase in size of the muscle tissue and it's scientifically called hypertrophy. And how do muscles grow? So, that gets a little more complex. So, when you say how, generally speaking, it's the addition of sarcomeres to the muscle and to the fiber. There's two ways that can take place, or two primary ways that can take place. From a sarcomere addition, you can have either in parallel, which is similar to adding sarcomeres like sardines in a can next to each other, or you can have sarcomeres in series, which is like adding links in a chain. The primary way that, and this is very well documented, that muscles grow is through parallel hypertrophy. So, kind of like adding sardines in a can. Sarcomeres in series is a little more unknown. Certainly, we do know that sarcomeres can be added in series with certain protocols, like certain stretching protocols. Do you have shown that casting, some like rodents or even humans, they've shown where you cast them in a certain length in a short position and you can add sarcomeres. But that is not resistance training. And the research and resistance training is quite unclear as to whether that actually does occur. We have somewhat more evidence that you can get in lengthening, in a fast go lengthening. And that does seem to occur to a limited extent. Generally, the research has shown early on, this is a suggestion that occurs in the first few weeks of training, potentially by also doing some like eccentric protocols may predispose some lengthening. But it generally seems less of a factor, much less than getting sarcomeres in parallel and the extent to which it contributes to hypertrophy still remains, I think, questionable. Okay, so we just touched on longitudinal hypertrophy potentially and radial hypertrophy. Before we go into the stimuli of the night, initiate these processes. What about hyperplasia in the sort of deeper lifting sphere? Is it often your talk of muscle hyperplasia or essentially the addition of new muscle fibers? Is that something that happens in humans? To what extent does it happen? Are there any ways to train for it? Give the ability. So it's been documented pretty well in animal models, particularly bird models. So there's been the seminal studies by Antonio and Ganyet where they taped up a bird's wing into a stretch for many days. They attached a little weights to them, progressive overload, they attached a series of heavier and heavier weights. And that did show substantial hypertrophy, substantial hyperplasia. There's also been some preliminary evidence in steroid users. So there was a fairly recent study that looked at power lifters and they took natural power lifters versus special supplemented power lifters. And did seem to show that there was some evidence of hyperplasia. So the working model is that muscles can grow to a certain point, but beyond a certain point, the functionality, the spacing within, there's different theories about that, but the spacing within the fibers becomes difficult to carry out functional tasks. And when it reaches this critical threshold, it will split up and become more fibers so that each smaller fiber becomes more functional and has greater total hypertrophy. The general consensus at this point though is that in non-special supplemented individuals doing resistance, traditional resistance training, that it does not have much, if any, effect on muscle growth. Are there any ways in humans to make hyperplasia occur more readily, like for example stretching interventions versus lifting? Is there anything we can do? Hyperplasia? Yes. Well, that's never really, if you're asking me, is there any evidence, empirical evidence? No. We can speculate, I mean, the way that you would do that, conceivable way would be to take special supplements. But through traditional training calls, I would doubt it again, if the model shows that the reason that you get hyperplasia is because muscles are growing so extensively that they become non-functional, if you can find a strategy that can make muscles grow that much, I wouldn't know about. Sure. What do we know about the stimuli for actual hypertrophy? Like what tends to initiate the hypertrophy response? So there's multiple hypothetical mechanisms, but I think it's very clear now that the primary mechanism for muscle growth is mechanical tension, mechanical stress. Now, it's important to remember that people generally think of mechanical tension as just heavy loads and trying to do them contractions, but lengthening. So there's first of all, there's obviously eccentric and concentric actions, which can have different tension effects, but importantly as well, there's active tension and there's passive tension. So your work is getting into the passive tension a lot. So when you're training, let's say in a lengthened partial, there can be significant passive tension depending on the muscle and how the exa is being implemented. Both forms of tension, there's some really interesting evidence, both acutely looking at enzymatic, so I don't know how deep you want to get into it, but mechanical tension is carried out to what is called mechanical transduction, where the mechanical forces are transferred into chemical signals. They're transduced and that's why it's called mechanical transduction. And these chemical signals go through an enzymatic cascade that ultimately leads to transcription, protein transcription, and then translation, and that is how muscles are developed. So the enzymatic cascade, this transduction of mechanical forces can be carried out both through, there's evidence of this where the signaling cascade is equally produced through both passive and active forces. So it leads to the at least speculation that there can be synergistic effects and which is by the way been somewhat shown in the literature when you look at the with the marshals and other similar types of studies that have looked at where passive tension has been combined with mechanical tension. So bottom line is that that is the primary mechanism now. There are, hypothetically still can be others. I know there are some influencers in the field who are very dogmatic that this is clear and there's no way you can ever say that as someone who's a student of the literature. We don't have good evidence. It's very difficult for us to study mechanisms to try and tease out what's happening between one mechanism and another because when you alter one mechanism, invariably you tend to alter other mechanisms. But metabolic stress has been hypothesized to be a potential mechanism. I think the evidence is very mixed on that. If you're asking my opinion, I think on the spectrum of strong to weak or weak to strong, I'd say it's weak, but we certainly cannot rule it out. And by the way, there are, so we've only have some evidence like lactate's been studied and we have some evidence that we wrote all review paper on this. Some evidence shows it may be a stimuli. Other evidence shows it might not be a stimuli. And there's limitations to the evidence that we have and how they're carried out. So like one study injected lactate into the blood of humans. Well, generally speaking, we're looking at lactate that's localized to muscle tissue, not that's in the blood. And is that really the same or are you getting a similar effect? Can you really extrapolate that evidence? But muscle damage is another topic. We have quite good at it. It's pretty compelling evidence that muscle damage does upregulate satellite cells and satellite cell activity. And there is very compelling evidence that satellite cells are heavily involved in the hypertrophic response to training. Now that doesn't mean that there's a synergistic effect though. So there could be. We don't know. But does the satellite cell activation that's upregulated through muscle damage complement that the satellite cells that are upregulated through traditional training? Because it's certainly both contraction and muscle damage both have effects on satellite cells. These are things that just are not well documented. And look, there are things like the pulp. Does the pulp cause muscle growth and have a mechanistic effect? Well, we do know in vitro when you hydrate a cell, there is profound increases in muscle protein synthesis and a decrease in protein breakdown, which is basically a hypertrophy homerun. You Brits don't know about baseball, but the audience probably knows. Now, does that necessarily translate into what the pump does? So again, you can't necessarily extrapolate these things. So my point here, hopefully I'm making the case that there's just a lot of uncertainty as to other potential mechanisms. I think there's pretty good evidence that there are other things can cause an adiabolicous. Plus, I think the more compelling question is, is it synergistic with the mechanical tension? And that to me is where it gets much more hazy and I don't have good confidence, but I certainly also don't dismiss the possibility. And like I said, I think anyone who does is either doesn't know or just wants to make an inference on social media. Traditionally, it was common to hear that the muscles are being torn and then rebuilt again. How is our understanding of that changed over time? Well, there is remodeling, but I don't necessarily think they're rebuilt to a higher extent. So yeah, you have to rebuild. Muscle has to be rebuilt. I think the theory was more to the extent that to get and this was taught to me when I was younger. That to strengthen that basically when you break down the muscle, the body wants to then repair it to a greater extent than before it was broken down. That's not been documented, certainly in the literature. It's a hypothesis that needs to be tested and I would be skeptical. But here's something I'd say. I think there is no question that if you get too much damage, if muscle damage is a positive influencer, it would be at moderate, modest to moderate levels because if you have a lot of muscle damage, if you're walking out of the gym, you can't walk or certainly if you can't walk the next day, even more importantly, because generally it's not going to manifest that quickly where it happens right after the workout. But let's say the next day you're walking around like Frankenstein, you're not going to be able to train. And if you're not training, you're not getting. So I think the important thing to remember if there is a benefit to muscle damage, people that take the muscle damage concept and say, yeah, I got a training for damage, I'm going to really trash my body. And yeah, and then they're not able to train for the next week or whatever. It's kind of counterproductive. So one common thing people use in training is soreness. I think sometimes the assumption is made that delayed onset muscle soreness or DOMS tightly relates to muscle damage. What do you see the link between the two as being? Do you think we can truly use soreness as a predictor of muscle damage? How would you even use soreness in your own training? So it is generally a marker of muscle damage. So it is correlated, but it's not a perfect correlation. There's some evidence that soreness has more to do with the extracellular matrix. And by the way, this is, again, I don't know how deep you want to get here, but the extracellular matrix also, the damage does not necessarily have to be just to the sarcogeumas themselves. You could get damage to the even sarcolema as well as the extracellular matrix, which sits above the sarcolema, basically the salmembrane. There is really good evidence, and it's emerging, that the extracellular matrix is very involved in the process. And there's some speculation that damage to the extracellular matrix may cause the extracellular matrix to communicate more with the cells themselves. These are all things that, again, we're just in the preliminary stages of understanding. And I think five, ten years from now, we might have greater clarity right now. We can just say that it's very equivocal as to whether there is benefits. And to your point about soreness, while it is a general gauge, I think it would get, if you have too much soreness, that's going to generally impede you from carrying out good work out, and that would be a negative. Can you use it? It generally does indicate a novel response. So I think on a very general level that some soreness is potentially a positive, but I don't think that if you don't experience soreness, it's necessarily a negative, because, I mean, it's very clear you can be gaining and not being sore. Is there any good evidence for any sort of marker to indicate that somebody has had an effective hypertrophy workout? Is there anything that we can look at and be like, yep, that's a check? I mean, on a general level, if you are increasing a performance marker, either the number of reps or the amount of weight, I think that can serve as a good general indicator that your workout was productive, because you're inducing a progressive overload over time, but that's not going to hide every work out. You're not going to be improving, so again, if you're asking is there a per workout marker, no, not that I could think of. Really, the markers are going to be more general over time. Early, you made the distinction between sort of a plasma hypertrophy and myofibrillar hypertrophy. Could you briefly define the difference and how that might impact how we should train? Do we have one training type that has been more consistently shown to cause more of one than the other or what have you? So this is another topic of great controversy. Just briefly, sarcoplasmic high-perch B is an increase in the sarcoplasmic fraction. So it's the area surrounding the contractile elements. And briefly, the myofibrillar component is when you're increasing the contractile element size. Generally speaking, there's going to be a three to one ratio of sarcoplasm or sarcoplasmic volume. So fluid surrounding the proteins in the muscle. But proteins do not necessarily just have to be the contractile elements. There's other proteins, including enzymes and other proteins, T-tubules. And the theory is that there is a sarcoplasmic high-perch B is that there's going to be a disproportionate increase in the non-contractile elements. So you would get conceivably like T-tubule growth, other enzymatic growth, etc., other proteins within the fibers that would attract more fluid. Because again, the muscle wants to maintain that ratio. And thus you would get non-functional high-perch B because you would be getting greater fluid. You would be getting greater muscle size without getting more sarcomere additions that are going to be involved in strength and functional capacity. The question is, A number one does it occur? And that is still somewhat equivocal, but there is some evidence that does. And the next question is, how might you train for that? Well, there is some evidence that higher rep, so higher repititional volume may be involved in that process. So I'm working on my colleague Cody Hoan, give Cody a shout out. The lab of Dr. Mike Roberts, terrific lab, did show a study where that did indeed occur. But again, it was one study and they showed that basically they did a heavy load versus a lighter load study and did show that basically the contractile, both of them produced, I want to emphasize, it wasn't like you just got sarcomlasmic high-perch B. The higher repetition group did also see my fibro lap-perch B. But they also got the sarcomlasmic high-perch B where if you're a bodybuilder, that could be quite important. On the other hand, if you were like a wrestler or someone who was to make weight or power left, or you need to make weight for a competition, that would actually be a negative because it's conceivably not contributing much to your strength and would be giving you extra weight. Now, again, an isolated study, I think that needs a lot more replication before we can have a compelling evidence that that would be considered compelling evidence that it does occur. So another distinction that's often made is between type 1 fibro growth and type 2 fibro growth or slower twitch fibres and faster twitch fibres. What does the evidence say about fibre type specific hypertrophy and the mechanisms or the types of training that might stimulate one versus the other? To me, this is one of the more interesting topics. I've had interest in this for pretty much since I started training because if it's possible, if you can actually target type 1 fibres with one type of training and target type 2 fibres with a different type of training, then you can have greater... it would be synergistic and you get greater home muscle hypertrophy. So training throughout a spectrum of rep ranges can give you very similar home muscle growth. And this is really compelling evidence on this, that anywhere between five reps up to 30 plus reps can give you very similar home muscle growth. The question is now that there would be a logical basis by which your type 1 fibres are more endurance oriented. So conceivably, if you do light load training where you're keeping the fibres under load for longer periods, that would stress the type 1 fibres to a greater extent. And doing heavy load training, maybe you need to reach a certain threshold. You can see the way that may target your type 2 fibres to a greater extent. Now, I will say this, you will... certainly you don't just get type 1. It's not like light loads just give you type 1 and heavy loads just give you type 2. Very good evidence that you get type 1 and type 2, but I'd percheve throughout both. There is some evidence with light load and heavy load training that there are differential effects on fibrohypertrophy where that does indeed occur. There's several other studies that refute that. So a very equivocal results that I think is weak. There is some evidence in blood flow restriction training in particular, which shows preferential type 1 hypertrophy. And that is somewhat more strong than the light load training without blood flow restriction. So could that be due to certain ischemic effects? We don't know. Or perhaps pulling a blood to a greater extent, not clear. But there's also evidence. So there's more, I think, evidence of blood flow restriction, but that's not compelling either. But we have... I would say that we don't have evidence that I would consider strong. If anything, it's weak to moderate. So what I would say is that even though we don't have evidence to that effect, or strong evidence to that effect, I think there's enough evidence to say that it's not going to hurt you to do both. If your goal is maximal hypertrophy. So to have some light load training and some heavy load training involved. So let's say 5 to 10 reps on one end and maybe 15 to 25 reps on the other end. So you're training throughout that spectral load and range. Could that be synergistic? It's possible. Awesome. Sure. You mentioned ischemia and earlier also metabolic stress. Where does muscular hypoxia come into play? Is there any evidence on that and how it relates to hypertrophy? So, interesting. There's so much... such equivocal findings in these studies. There was a study some years ago that they casted the legs of humans. And they just did blood flow restriction. So without any type of contraction. And what they found was that the... so they did blood flow restriction on one leg and the other leg just was a control. And what they found was that the cuffed leg, 5 minutes a day, showed less atrophy in the extensors. And in the flexors actually showed slight... not much, but slight... I had hypertrophy. Whereas there was more atrophy, basically the control leg showed atrophy and more so than the control. However, so that was really interesting. But a few months ago, a study came out that replicated the protocol to some extent and showed nothing. So, again, very questionable. Trying again, as I mentioned, to tie these mechanisms comes very difficult. And I think we just were really to me at the preliminary stage of understanding factors other than mechanical tension. And how they may be involved and if so, to what extent? In terms... so I want to take a step back and ask about contraction types or muscle actions more specifically. How much do we really know about the inclusion of both an eccentric and concentric muscle action versus an isometric action as far as muscle hypertrophy goes? So I'll tackle the isometrics first because that's a very difficult topic to study. Because how do you equate volume with an isometrics? And it also, by the way, is more difficult to achieve. How are you reaching fatigue or equating the level of effort that's involved? But most importantly, how are you equating volume of an isometric whole? So where you can do that more, you talk of repetitions. You can equate repetition volume. So I'd leave that to the side for now. Now, certainly, we know that isometrics can promote hypertrophy, whether they are effective as eccentric and concentric is still very much uncharted territory. When it comes to eccentric and concentric, there is evidence that the enzymatic cascade, so the interest of the signaling, is different between eccentric and concentric, which will lead you to speculate that combining them may add synergistic effects. There also is some evidence that, shout out to Marty Franke, a colleague of mine, who's done some of the work in this area, that there may be differential effects longitudinally, regional hypertrophy in the muscle, whereby you get more distal hypertrophy in eccentrics and some more middle hypertrophy. You know, this was just in the vastus lateralis, like we're in other muscles, if that factors in. But again, not just a lot of evidence. So I think, at least in my opinion at this point, it's a matter of using both, as most people do, they train throughout a concentric-e eccentric combined fashion. Might there be a benefit to including some specialized eccentric overload training? I think there is. So there is some evidence particularly. Flywheel training seems to show benefits. Hypertrophic benefits may potentially additive, so that that could be a strategy to overload the muscle and achieve hypertrophy. But again, I wish I had more concrete evidence to present to you and opinions. But again, it's so important to recognize, and I just want to reiterate that evidence exists only continuum. And when we look at the literature, not many topics, applied topics, that I can confidently say we have very compelling evidence. I think one thing that I think we just as dispensational is the repetitions that over a wide spectrum of loader ranges, contrary to the way we used to think we needed heavy loads to maximize hypertrophy, the evidence in my opinion is very compelling. That you can achieve very similar home muscle growth over a very wide spectrum, but many of the other topics, particularly mechanisms just because of the difficulty in studying them, we just don't have great evidence. To tie all this up, we've discussed the mechanisms, whether or not we have strong evidence for them playing a role or not. How does all this apply to training? Like, do your training recommendations change as a result? What are your training recommendations in mind of all of this research? Yeah, so conceivably, yes. The more we know about the mechanisms, the more we can target what works and what doesn't. To the point that I mentioned earlier, I think one of the things that certainly the implication from mechanical tension implies is that including passive tension exercises that have a passive element to it would be very important. Actually, you've had some very important research recently that does show that. So for instance, leaning back when you're doing a leg extension, so instead of sitting at a 90-degree angle, going down like a 40-degree angle, could it be that even a greater angle may prove it more possible, but basically you get more passive tension in the rec fem, and that has been shown to lead to greater growth. It's been shown from a hamstring standpoint that you want to do seated hamstring curls rather than lying hamstring curls. Again, if you're looking to maximize, get every ounce of muscle that you can out of the exercise, and why not if you have the opportunity? Even maybe leaning somewhat forward in the seated leg curl, where you get even more passive tension involved. So these are where the more we can understand the mechanisms, the more they can help us. I do think that based on the lack of non-evidence, if you want to go down that route like metabolic stress, I think getting the pump can be, it's not going to hurt, and conceivably there may be a benefit. So why not focus at least a portion of your training, maybe a small portion, on some pump training can be effective. Having some eccentric overload, I mentioned earlier, could that be because you get some greater muscle damage? Again, you don't want to get too much muscle damage, that is a negative, but maybe the application of some eccentric overload, and I would also say that novelty is something that brings about some degree of muscle damage, that changing around, I'm a proponent of keeping a general, keeping your more complex exercises in a general rotation, but then using your single joint exercises less complex movements to rotate. I could do a leg extension today and do it again in six months and do a perfect leg extension. If I do a squat today and don't do another squat for six months, I'm going to do a pretty shitty squat. So these are things that novelty might bring about some mild to moderate soreness, which would be somewhat indicative of some actual muscle damage. Again, I don't think it's going to hurt, could that, in his satellite cell response, are there other factors involved in the muscle damage response that may be effective as a hypertrophic stimuli? That's additive, we don't know, but if it's not, everything in training certainly is cost benefit, in my opinion. So if your cost is minimal and your benefit is potential, why not implement it? Just on the back of that.  people, especially those who train recreationally and those who like diving into the science behind hypertrophy and behind lifting, often, at least in my opinion, fall in a trap where they focus too much on understanding the mechanism behind certain adaptation versus focusing more on the outcomes that we observe in the research. Do you, what's your opinion on this? So, it's really a separate, so here's what I'd say. I think the mechanisms give us good insight into what we can study. But yeah, if you're the average person, you just want to look at the research on variables, trying to get into the mechanism, figuring it out yourself. Now, we haven't studied everything, so I think as long as you understand the research on the variables, then you could say, you know what, I think it's lacking if you have the ability to do that. Now, unfortunately, most people that are not scientists lack the ability to really understand, to appreciate these things to the extent that you need to. But if you can, I think you can then say, hey, look, we have this research on repetitions, on loading. But hey, maybe based on what we know, that there could be, we see different atrocellular pathways that are upregulated, maybe we're going to do this I think that's where you could potentially use that. But yeah, to your point, I think going based on the variables that we have, the research on the variables that we have would be your first line of defense. Thank you so much. This was both insightful for, I assume, the viewers, but also for the two of us. Shout out to my two colleagues and visiting scholars at the Applied Wossel du Domit Lab. Total respect. Thank you. Lots of cool stuff coming from our lab here in New York City. Anything you want to let the viewers know before we say goodbye? Loss of power. That's it. Don't forget to like, subscribe, and we'll see you next time. Peace.

=== FILE: How to Order Exercises Within Your Workout (Science Explained) [hOVtRzwe2gA].txt ===

 ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus how much strength you gain and so forth. Well, as you train, you get fatigued. And so whatever you train first within a session will be the highest quality work you do. Then as you do set after set and exercise after exercise, you build up fatigue. But ultimately, some fatigue may not necessarily be that detrimental. For instance, you can still get an effective session in for muscle growth, even if you're not perfectly recovered from the last session. And so what about exercise order? Do we really see better muscle growth and better strength gains when we train something first? And well, that's exactly what a meta analysis by newness and colleagues try to look at. They looked at the impact of different exercise orders on both strength gains and on hypertrophy. For strength specifically, whatever you train first saw the greatest improvements with effect sizes ranging from about 0.3 to 0.6. These effect sizes will be categorized as small to moderate. Importantly, the authors also looked at specificity or essentially the idea that whatever you train first does seem to get the greatest improvements and performance. And that seemed to be correct. And this kind of makes sense. As far as how much strength you gain, we know that lifting heavy is pretty important. For instance, a meta regression paper by Swinton and colleagues looking at just shy of 300 studies found the heavier you go for strength, the better. And so if you're starting your session with leg press and then some leg extensions, and then you're squatting, if you're trying to improve your squat max, then by the time you get that exercise, you might only be able to lift 70 or 80% of your max, which from the perspective of just gaining strength is going to be suboptimal compared to be able to lift more. So for strength, it likely makes sense to start your session with whatever is most important to you in terms of getting stronger. Importantly, higher rep walk and going close to the failure, both seem to cause a bit more acute fatigue in terms of how you can perform afterwards compared to staying a bit further from failure and going lower in reps. And so as a general heuristic for strength, starting with your heavy walk in the session and starting with your more submaximal walk may allow you to maintain performance a little bit better across the session, allowing you to hit heavier loads and potentially get a better stimulus for gaining strength. And so the practice of many paloatres of starting the session with their squat bench deadlift does likely make sense. Importantly, though, what kind of exercise you do probably matters as well. If you're doing calf raises first in your session, hashtag team calves, then you probably won't see a meaningful impact on performance of your squat bench or the lift thereafter. However, if you go the eight hour or walkout route and then decide to bench afterwards, yeah, don't expect revenge performance to be at its best. However, when it came to hypertrophy, this method analysis, they did not find any effect of exercise order on hypertrophy by and large. So is that the end of the story? Is this metanosis? All we have. Fortunately, no, we have two more studies since then that have also investigated the impact of exercise order on hypertrophy and strength. And I think they're both pretty important. First, we have a 2020 study by Barton Dowell and colleagues that looked at a few different research questions. They look at differences in hypertrophy stemming from the bench press exercise versus the school crusher exercise in the triceps and pectoralis major muscles. However, for the context of our discussion on exercise order, they also compared the impact of starting with the bench, followed by the school crusher, we're starting by the school crusher, followed by the bench. They measured both one or max on the school crusher and on the bench. And they measured hypertrophy of each individual tricep head alongside the pectoralis major. So they measured the strength of strength. In terms of strength, things were relatively similar. No matter whether you story with school crusher followed by the bench or the bench followed by the school crusher. In terms of bench press strength gains, things were very similar. In terms of school crusher strength, there was actually a slight benefit in terms of how strength was gained to starting with the bench press. So if anything, it seems like it's neutral to positive effects in favor of starting with the compound movement followed by the isolation movement as bench bench press strength gains weren't really all that different, but school pressure outcomes were in favor of the bench press first group. In terms of hypertrophy of the triceps and pecs, things were also relatively similar. However, when it came to the pecs, the medial head of the triceps and the lateral head of the triceps, differences leaned in favor of the bench press first group. So once again, although differences were minimal if there were any, they were in favor of the group that started with bench press first followed by the school pressure. Once again, lending credibility to the idea that starting with compound work may be beneficial. And for the pecs specifically, this does make some sense. If exercise order were to impact hypertrophy, then whatever you train first would have the biggest effect, right? And since the bench press trains the pecs, whereas the school pressure doesn't, training the bench first should result in more peck hypertrophy. And that was kind of what we've seen here. Although once again, the magnitude of difference was relatively small, suggesting that if exercise order does matter for hypertrophy, it's certainly not the most influential variable compared to say volume or how close to failure you train. The second study that's been published since this metanautosis by newness and colleagues is a study by Kuna and colleagues. This study featured a 63 week duration where they had a preconditioning phase to make sure all participants were at the same starting point, a 12 week training phase, then a detraining phase and then participants were crossed over into the opposite condition of the first 12 week training phase. Let me elaborate on what that means. There were four conditions in this study. In all four conditions, participants performed the same training, performing training for both their upper body and their lower body. The only difference between these four conditions was what the order of the exercises performed was. The conditions were grouped into two pairs, condition one and two, and condition three and four. They were then crossed assigned to condition two in the second training phase and vice versa. And this applied to both pairs. Condition one trained their upper body first in each session followed by the lower body and specifically started each of these with multi joint movements followed by single joint movements. So in this case, they will perform the multi joint movements for their upper body first, followed by the single joint movements for the upper body, followed by the multi joint movements for the lower body, followed by the single joint movements for the lower body. So compounds first, they will perform the chest press, then the seated row, then the isolation movements, the tricep pushdown and the preacher curl, then the compound lower body movements, the horizontal leg press, then the isolation movements for the lower body, the lie extension, lying leg curl and seated calf raise. In condition two, they also started with upper body work, but instead started with isolation movements. Conditions three and four were the same thing, either starting with multi joint movements or single joint movements, but starting their sessions with lower body work followed by the upper body work. And so essentially within this one study, using a crossover design, we had two research questions being answered. First, the starting your session with multi joint movements or single joint movements make more sense. And second, in the context of a full body session, the starting your session with lower body movements or the upper body movements first makes sense. All in all, they were performing 24 sets per session three times a week for 12 weeks. So a pretty robust training intervention, something you would also do in real life. They measured 100 max of a few different movements performed during the training intervention. And to keep it brief, the exercise order didn't really matter for either hypertrophy scene or for strength gain scene. Regardless of exercise order, the authors noted that there were increases in muscle mass and strength. And as far as health outcomes went, let me quote the authors. Exercise order did not seem to influence the magnitude of resistance training effects on health parameters in trained older women contradicting our hypotheses. And whether or not participants started with upper body work followed by lower body work or vice versa also didn't seem to influence strength or hypertrophy meaningfully differences between the conditions in terms of hypertrophy and strength gains observed were generally the ballpark of zero to 0.15 or what we would deem trivial in terms of effect size. So in terms of hypertrophy, these results are in line with what we noted earlier from the meta analysis by Nunes and colleagues, no real differences based on the order of exercises on hypertrophy. However, when it came to strength, these results do clash with previous research with the meta analysis by Nunes and colleagues finding better strength gains with whatever is trained first. Likewise, with the Bernadale study, importantly, the authors speculated that this might have to do with the sex of the participants. In this case, they were older untrained women. Since women generally seem to recover a little bit better from resistance training, it might be the case that exercise order doesn't matter quite as much for women as for men. As since women can recover a little bit better overall, they're able to recover from whatever exercise they perform first, having less of an impact on subsequent exercises. And so the combination of these two studies with the meta analysis by Nunes and colleagues is all of the most recent evidence I was able to find on exercise order and how it seems to influence hypertrophy and strength. Based on this research and my coaching experience, let me give you a few practical takeaways on how to order exercises within your session. Start with compounds first. No, not that kind of compound. Although it would certainly boost your muscle mass. That's all I'm talking about. Generally, I would recommend starting with multi joint or compound movements first. Since compound movements train the most amount of overall muscle mass and thus have the biggest impact on your world physique. And since most people care more about strength and compound movements than isolation movements and whatever you train first gets a bigger strength improvement, training compound movements first does seem to make sense. And specifically in the Bernadale study, for example, they observed better overall strength gains even in the isolation movement when training the compound movement first. And so as a general heuristic, I would probably train multi joint movements first. Secondly, and this is more of a practical concern for my coaching and lifting experience is to group similar exercises together. For instance, if you had a dumbbell rope, a dumbbell press and a dumbbell curl in the same session, sequencing them consecutively makes sense. You're already in the dumbbell area and you already have a bench at hand. Why not save time and just do them one after the other? Especially sequencing exercises in this fashion and maybe even selecting exercises that have similar equipment requirements will save time as a third heuristic, especially for strength, do whatever exercise or muscle group you care about the most first. This is unlikely to be a huge factor for hypertrophy as we discussed, but for strength specifically, if you care about getting stronger in exercise, training it first within the session or earlier the session is a good call. That's when you're freshest and when you'll be able to lift the most weight, hopefully contributing to greater strength gains. Especially for strength and not so much for hypertrophy, you want to pick an exercise order that maximizes performance across the session and keeps you operating at a relatively high level for strength specifically and for power lifters. There's two approaches, one in the offseason or a little bit further away from the meat. I would recommend ordering exercises in a way that allows you to lift the most weight on the squat bench deadlift and close variations of the main lifts. Since how much you lift does seem to influence how much strength you gain, it makes sense to do it. And then as you get closer and closer to a meat, there may be a point where you want to practice doing the squat bench and deadlift in that order in the same session, getting some practice doing it that way might just be helpful on midday. Play around with exercise order, especially for hypertrophy where it doesn't seem to matter nearly as much and find what you enjoy most. I find that certain exercise orders gas me out way more than others. And so what I like doing, for example, is starting my session with my calf and ab lock if you decide to do it hashtag team calves so that I don't skip it. And because doing calves and abs first almost never impacts my performance on subsequent lower body training and the final takeaway point exercise order seems to matter more for strength based walk than for hypertrophy. And so if you're training for hypertrophy, don't stress too much about exercise order. If you're in a busy gym, just do things in a different order based on whatever equipment is available. And the final final takeaway I know you thought I was done. I wasn't done is if you do any sort of power based walk or plyometric stuff, jumping, sprinting, etc. you will likely want to that first in the session or as early as possible within the session. That is the video broke down all the research on exercise order that I was able to find on this topic on how to maximize your size and strength gains. We hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, please do like the video, comment and subscribe. Hit the bell as well to get notified whenever a new video comes out. We're committed to bringing you high quality information on this channel, the home for the thinking lifter. If you'd like an expert coach to handle your training or nutrition or to have a consultation with check out strongbyescience.com slash coaching. If there's any other videos or topics you want to see us cover, leave a comment down below letting us know what you want to see. In the meantime, have a fantastic day and we'll see you next time. Peace. Jesus Christ, I didn't check the results of the brand out of study strength wise. Let me quickly check that out. Please let me open the PDF. It's free. Beautiful. Shout out to open access papers. Honestly, life changing.

=== FILE: How to Powerbuild (Episode 136) [7e-vnVTnS8A].txt ===

! Wait a second, this isn't muscle and feels, but rather, it's a stronger by science podcast, with the muscle and feels hosts, just the two of us, Alexa, play, just the two of us, there's no Alexa here, Fatso, so unfortunately, no music here, anyways, just the two of us for this episode, I am Dr. Pack, this is- I am Dr. Milo. Where are you Milo? I'm sitting right across you, as the viewers can probably tell by the fact that there is a heavy echo. Is there though? Or is there not? But more broadly speaking, we are currently in New York, in Harlem actually, doing a study with Brad Schoenfeld, but unfortunately, our dear co-host has decided to take a vacation, very unbecoming of a strong by science podcast host, no grind set, vacations overrated, it's 2020 for bonus series note, we wish them all the best, but all this means that we'll be just the two of us for a couple of episodes, we'll be touching on a couple of hot topics, meaning power building and a secret second topic that will only reveal to listeners when we actually discuss it. For sure, while some of us are out here grinding, others are enjoying their time away in Italy, we wish them the best. But that said, aside from being here for the full range of motion versus partial or long muscle and study, we are officially a month or so in the United States, we'll be leaving for a couple of weeks and then we'll be back to see that study off. Keep in mind that we will keep you updated with a detailed podcast episode and I'm pretty sure a lot of other material and content and so on and so forth on the study. However, we are here to talk about power building, but before we do that, I need to carry the torch this time and give you the infamous plugs. So bear with me, this is the second time that I've ever done this, so I'll try to do it as naturally as Greg Knuckles does it, but obviously, you know, the guy is an absolute legend, so big shoes to fill. If you're enjoying the show, please like, rate, subscribe and tell your friends. It really helps us out. I messed up the accent there a bit, but hey, you understood what I said. If you're interested in hiring a virtual coach to help you with your training and or nutrition, Strong Over Science has a team of excellent coaches that can help you. We've recently added a couple of new coaches to the team. There's been some general updates behind the scenes and in general, if you want to get premium one on one coaching, find out more about Strong Over Science coaching at strongerbyscience.com slash coaching. If you also want to purchase supplements from a reliable source and you want to support the podcast at the same time, buy from bulksupplements.com using the code SBS pod for a 5% discount or meet Milo around your house and he'll give you those supplements that you asked for so you can look like him. In terms of this is applying no supplements included and Milo is not going to meet you at your house. Don't sue us. Obviously, joining the Facebook group and subreddit of the Strongerbyscience.com universe will allow you to interact with fellow minded, not like minded fellows, folks and obviously keep up with everything that is going on. Both communities are actually quite active, both the Facebook one and the Reddit one. When I mean active, I don't mean us just posting there. Just tons of people interacting on a daily basis, fitness threads, some misc threads as well, but a lot of cool content behind the scenes going on in our communities. Obviously, check out the newsletter so we send you high quality informative content, no spamming with a bunch of ads, sign up at strongoverscience.com slash newsletter. A lot of cool upcoming newsletters coming out. Written by myself, Milo Wolf and obviously the odd guest newsletter as well, but they are jam packed with information. Hey, I'm getting it now. If you have any questions that you want us to answer on this podcast, aside from replying to the respective Q&A that we post on the Facebook and Reddit communities, you can also send us a voice So I voice memo at podcast at strongerbyscience.com. That is it as far as the plugs go. How did I do fellow co-host Milo? I could be biased, but I think he did marvelously well. I think people are still sleeping on the Strongly By Science newsletter. That's strongbyscience.com slash newsletter. If only because we take the latest research, sometimes we're aware of studies that haven't even been published yet. So we can get the breakdown exclusive for you on the stronglybyscience.com slash newsletter out to you as soon as possible. So I think that if you want to stay up to date with the research and you want to do so for free, strongbyscience.com slash newsletter is a great place to get your information, get it early, and get it broken down at an easy to consume level. But otherwise, I think you crushed it. Thank you. And we are barely selling anything outside of the coaching, of the coaching plug. Like the rest is legitimately free information. So feel free to sign up. Now that we've sold our souls and we've sold you on, we've sold you things that cannot be sold because they are not being sold or whatever. Let's start talking about power building. But let's define this weird term in my opinion. Everybody in our echo chamber knows. Is there an actual definition for power building, Dr. Milovalov? Yeah. I think power building is a term that kind of started coming around in like the early 2010s. Like when I think power building, I think back to Omo-Riso, for example, where I think that is around the era when he was still active, or IPO-Moisov. When he was still active is when the term power building started gaining a bit of traction. Just the idea that you didn't have to solely train for aesthetics or for hypertrophy, or you didn't have to solely train to increase your squat bench and net lift. And that your strength goals could be a little bit more varied as well than just maximizing your one rep max on the squat bench and net lift. Obviously, the idea had been around for quite a while before with back in the day, things like circus lifts or just people training more broadly and not competing. But I think with the emergence of social media around bodybuilding and power lifting and those niches becoming more and more distinct, maybe, there was kind of the idea that you had to either train for hypertrophy or for power lifting to a greater extent than before. Like back in the day on YouTube, for example, if you were more inclined to train for hypertrophy, you would follow people like Matt August or Chris Lavado or back in the day Mike Chan, Jeff Seyd, etc. You had kind of these characters. But then you also had the more power lifting centric characters like Johnny Candido back in the day. And I think that people were quick to assume that because the training styles weren't that similar, you couldn't do both at once. So then eventually that led to people emphasizing the idea of power building a bit more, which is the idea that you can train to increase both your squat bench, deadlift, or max and any other lifts you want to get stronger at. But simultaneously, see pretty solid improvements in size. Now, since then, as one infamous video titled Power Building is an abomination, as pointed out, there has been some controversy around whether or not power building is truly something that people should be doing, whether or not it can truly be done and get a good amount of hypertrophy and strength at the same time. But equally, I think the goal of getting more jacked and getting stronger simultaneously, even in the absence of any competitive endeavors, like you don't necessarily want to compete in bodybuilding or in powerlifting, is a remarkably common one. Like for sure, you have people who just care about size or strength. But I think many people, at least temporarily or seasonally, in different phases of their life, maybe for a few months out of the year, care more about strength. And then maybe they lose the interest in strength for a few months, and they go back to pure hypertrophy training, or what have you. But I think most people do have some degree of both hypertrophy and strength interest in their training. So this podcast episode, I think, will just be aimed at breaking down the positives and negatives of power building, giving you practical ways to implement power building, and hopefully leave you with more understanding as to how to actually power build, should you desire to do so. The one thing I wanted to add is, if you're somebody coming from the outside and you're like, okay, power building, I've heard this thing, it probably builds a lot of power. Similarly, to powerlifting, it has nothing to do with power. And it's just a combination of the words, powerlifting and bodybuilding. And I like the way you went about it, because I was thinking exactly the same as far as the back in the day stuff goes. Back in the day was when powerlifting was somewhat booming, or at least the strength training was booming, and it was the time where it was super cool to say, just focus on the basic lifts, get strong on the compounds, and you'll gain all the muscle in the world. And I think it was that era that gave birth to the idea that you need to sort of combine powerlifting and bodybuilding to get the best of both worlds. Now, do you have any, are there any examples of common power building approaches that come to mind from that era, that really, that maybe you try yourself, any programs? I mean, not to plug the strong by science universe any more than we already have, but I was actually running the first original version of the strong by science program when I was around like 1617, which involved a few sets on the main lifts on the squat bench that lift overhead press with an amrap at the end, followed by essentially a lot of accessory work, like of five to 12 reps in the most part, which was also it had a few elements, right? On the one hand, it had the relatively heavy lift at the sore of the session, followed by mostly how perforary work, alongside an element of linear periodization where you would start off really light, you would start off with sets of 12 reps on the main compound lifts, which if you heard on the strong by science program, that is a painful session. But then it would gradually over the weeks become heavier and heavier, culminating after around 20 weeks in testing one or max. And throughout that period, you've effectively power built quote unquote, because you've spent most of your time training in the hypertrophy rep ranges on hypertrophy exercises. But you've also done some heavier strength work and you're ultimately still chasing bigger strength numbers on the squat bench that lift overhead press. So that was one of my first introductions to power building. It's interesting as well in the concept of power building, because I think recently, especially in, for example, French power lifting, like in the French power lifting scene specifically in the IPF, there's been an increased shift towards more specificity. So I think quite a few top French power lifters are now known for almost exclusively doing squat bench deadlift when training for power lifting. So there can be hyper specificity when it comes to purely chasing strength, which I think can contribute to the idea that you can't both get stronger and gain muscle at the same time very effectively, because you see these approaches that are hyper specific when it comes to maximizing your power lifting total. And so I think that the strong by science program, go check it out. It's essentially free. It's about I think $10 minimum. But I think that's a very good entry point. If you're not sure what to do power building wise, it will give you a very good entry point into the world of power building without having to think too much about the specifics. But that was also my first entry point into power building. But what about you pack? When did you start your power building journey? Yeah, it must have been somewhere around the same time as you. But I remember being super wowed by fat PHA, PHA T the routine by Lenard was fat like, I think fat stood for an I got it power hypertrophy adaptive training. And it was supposed to be some, some form of combination of both like, you know, power, like for some reason, people adopted the term power, and then use it for strength in our echo chamber when they had a perfectly nice term strength, which doesn't mean something else. So I remember seeing that and seeing that Oh, you know, you get to combine the big lifts that have these magical properties. And I'm not sure Elaine claimed anything, anything insane about like hormones and stuff. But back in the day, like the barbell squad and the barbell bench press were supposed to be much better than any sort of bodybuilding alternative. And I think that was one of the main reasons that power building became a big thing. Because SBD was also seen as somewhat non negotiable. But again, I think it was mainly the idea that you that here's the best way to combine everything. However, let's just just for, for clarity sake, say that the idea behind power building is that you're working on maximal strength specifically and usually in the big three or maybe big five alongside typical, you know, bodybuilding related goals. So alongside maximizing hypertrophy, because strength as well is something that I don't know, some people have slightly different definitions of what strength means and what it means to be to be strong. So yeah, that's my that's my own experience. As far as direct literature, looking at power building and defining the concept. I know you've prepared an extensive list of references. Would you mind just reading one by one all the power building specific studies that we have? Oh, you like power building, name every single power building study out there. Which is to say, there are none. On a serious note, I think there are plenty of studies that find both an increase in one or max and an increase in muscle size at the same time. So it's not as though you need to be perfectly specific to either goal to observe an improvement in both. That is an important distinction. And certainly, I think strength and hypertrophy as to two fitness characteristics you can train for share many underlying physiological adaptations. So one of the positives we'll get into of power building is that it does place an emphasis on getting more muscular over time, which for strength long term, certainly there are obviously technique technical aspects to each lift. There are your muscle adaptations, architectural adaptations, like the way your fibers are laid out potentially. But one of the most influential things any given individual can do to get stronger in the long term is to simply gain more muscle. All else being equal, a bigger muscle is going to be a stronger one. And power building potentially more so than most piloting approaches does put more than emphasis on getting bigger. Maybe even to a greater extent than is necessary for purely maximizing strength, like for instance, you might opt to grow your biceps, even though they are not necessarily conducive to a bigger bench press or deadlift or squat, or you might opt to do back training a few times a week, even though they don't directly back training doesn't directly improve your squat bench or deadlift. So there is more of an emphasis on the long term pursuit of an increase in muscle mass, which long term will lead to an increase in strength. And that is one of the positives of power building. But as far as direct literature goes, we don't really have any, like when it comes to making the claim, for example, that a power building approach will for sure be better or worse for hypertrophy than a pure hypertrophy focused approach, for example, while we can make educated guesses, for instance, saying that super low repsets aren't ideal for hypertrophy, and therefore including these will take away from maximizing hypertrophy, it is mostly just an educated guess. It falls under the making educated guess from generalized principles, sort of category, versus we have direct empirical evidence to base this decision making off of. With that being said, I think there are a few studies, for example, that have compared super low rep training, like just doing singles, for example, to doing sets of 10, or we had a study by Corvallo and colleagues actually from a few years ago, that compared doing just pure hypertrophy training, compared to doing a strength phase first for a few weeks, and then doing hypertrophy training for the remainder of the study. So there are a few studies like that out there, but there are few in far and between, and they basically allow us to say a few things. One training for hypertrophy and strength doesn't look the exact same. However, you can gain a good amount of muscle size, even by training for strength, and you can get a good amount of strength, even by training for muscle size. There are a few key differences in how one would train for size versus strength. Specifically, one of those differences lies in the repetition range. We do have evidence generally suggesting that doing fewer than about five reps per set is going to lead to less muscle growth on a pro set basis, compared to doing sets of five or more reps. So for instance, we have a study by Brad Schoenfeld and colleagues from a few years ago, comparing doing seven sets of three, to doing three sets of 10 in resistance-trained men, finding that doing seven sets of three to a reasonably similar proximity to failure leads to the same hypertrophy as doing three sets of 10. With a kicker being, doing seven sets of three takes about two and a half times the time, or at least it did in this study. So it's at the very least a far less time-efficient way to train for hypertrophy. You get the same hypertrophy doing less than half the sets, provided you just do over five reps essentially. And similarly, we have studies looking at sets of two to four, also finding sligh-less hypertrophy generally. And so one of the key differences between training for strength, at least defined as one rep max in the squat bench deadlift, and training for hypertrophy is going to be the rep range. So you have to make some concessions in either direction there. Either you go a little bit heavier and go lower in reps, sacrificing some potential hypertrophy, or you go a little bit lighter and go higher in reps, but you're sacrificing some short-term improvement in strength. That's one of the trade-offs that you have to make. Another thing that we know from the research relatively well, and again, this falls under the category of generalized principles that we've gleaned through conducting different studies, is the principle specificity, which is to say that for strength, we want to train movement patterns that are quite similar to what we're trying to get stronger in. So for instance, we have a study by Plotkin and colleagues where they either performed just a squat or just a hip thrust. And as you'd expect, squat strength increased more in the group that adjusted squats, and hip thrust strength increased more in the group that just did hip thrusts. So strength is specific. This is just one example. We have many different studies looking at this general concept, but the strength gains accrued during training are specific to the exercise being trained. And so if you wanted to get better at the squat, for example, and that is one of your goals, you would need to include more squat type variations that might be beneficial for hypertrophy. Because for hypertrophy, you probably want a slightly less specific exercise selection. In fact, we have a systematic review by Brandao in Colton, actually not Cassiano and colleagues looking at exercise variation and hypertrophy. And that was conducted a couple of years ago, finding that some degree of variation in exercise selection is beneficial for more homogenous hypertrophy. So you don't just want one exercise or one movement pattern in your training program to maximize overall hypertrophy. And so if you're also training for strength and strength requires you to be more specific and include more squat type movements, for example, that might come at the cost of overall hypertrophy. So that's kind of a push and pull here. On the one hand, you're being pulled in the direction of greater specificity and mostly including similar movement patterns for strength, and you're being pulled in the direction of greater exercise variation when it comes to hypertrophy. There's certainly a degree of exercise variation, which is excessive. So if you're doing say more than about three or four exercises for a given muscle in a given week, and you're constantly changing exercises week to week, that might be a negative for even hypertrophy. But for strength, you might often want to stick with two or three maximum exercises for a given movement pattern, and all of them pretty closely resembling your competition squat, for example. It could be the competition squat, a high bar squat and like a competition low bar pause squat. All of those are very similar as far as hypertrophy are concerned. And to maximize hypertrophy, you would need greater variation. So as far as exercise selection and exercise variation, there is another trade off to be aware of here with power building, where you have to kind of decide, all right, do I want to lean in favor of maximizing strength gains here at the expense of hypertrophy? Or do I want to lean in favor of maximizing hypertrophy at the expense of strength? Another trade off might be in relation to relative intensity or proximity to failure, where generally, the research does seem to suggest that the closer a set is taken to failure, the more hypertrophy it will cause. So for hypertrophy, you at least want to take your sets reasonably close to failure most of the time. And I would say on average, taking most of your sets within about two reps of failure is pretty reasonable. And there's a case to be made for taking some sets even to all that failure. For strength, however, the opposite is almost true, where there doesn't seem to be a consistent relationship between going closer to failure and seeing greater strength gains. The main thing that seems to mediate strength gains is how heavy the load on the bars. So if you're training full nerve max, for example, as per a meta regression by Swinton and colleagues of several hundreds of studies, the heavier you go in terms of percentage of your max, the more of a strength improvement you'll tend to see. Whereas for hypertrophy, it is more so about proximity to failure. So for strength, you typically want to stay a bit more submaximal because there is no additional benefit to going closer to failure, but it will cause more fatigue. Whereas for hypertrophy, you'd want to go a bit closer to failure. So yet again, you kind of have a conflict in how you would train for one versus the other, creating a necessary compromise. And again, it's up to you to what extent you decide to compromise in favor of strength or in favor of hypertrophy. Similarly, the load, as I mentioned earlier, does matter quite a bit more for strength than hypertrophy. So while it's better for hypertrophy to train with at least five reps per set, and you can go all the way up to 30 or 50 reps per set for hypertrophy, as long as you go close to failure, for strength, the heavier you go, generally the better. Now keep in mind, I'm talking about maximizing your one repetition maximum here. If you were training for a five rep max, for example, you would most mostly want your training to revolve around five rep max load training. So you'd go a little bit lighter. But when it comes to purely maximizing strength, the heavier you can go, the better. However, yet again, there seems to be a potential benefit of including different rep ranges and different intensities for hypertrophy. So although we don't have a formal meta analysis on the topic yet, Zach Robinson of data driven strength has performed an in-house meta analysis on studies that compared using a single rep range versus multiple rep range in a given training program and measuring hypertrophy. And although it's not a huge effect, it's potentially a relatively trivial to small effect, there does seem to be a potential benefit to including different rep ranges for muscle building, as opposed to just sticking to one. And again, to come back to strength, you would want most of your training to be quite heavy if you were to maximize strength improvements. So if you're purely going for maximum strength throughout your whole lifting career, most of your training should probably take place in the one to six or maybe one to eight rep range, like sets of five to six for hypertrophy when you're most focused on building muscle size, all the way to sets of one to three when you're closer to your competition or to maxing out. So that doesn't really align with the idea of getting a variety of rep ranges in. Although it's a relatively small benefit, yet again, there is a compromise to be had between strength and hypertrophy. I think those are the main ones I can think of off the top of my head with one exception actually, which is volume. So with volume yet again, and there is a meta analysis that is about to be published on a topic too, that kind of reaffirms much of what we already thought. But yet again, with volume and strength and volume and hypertrophy, there is a concession or compromise to be made. For strength, you don't need to train with particularly high volumes to maximize strength gains. So for most lifts, somewhere in the ballpark of eight to 15 weekly sets, including variations, will probably be sufficient to roughly maximize your gains and that lift. However, normally there's a wider range depending on circumstance, depending on lift, etc. However, for hypertrophy, we now have, first of all, the consensus is that between 10 to 20 sets is sufficient to see robust hypertrophy. However, we now have a string of recent studies around eight studies total now, looking at higher volumes, so above 20 sets per week per muscle, compared to more moderate volumes of 10 to 20 sets per week per muscle. Broadly finding that there might be a benefit in terms of muscle growth to going even above 20 sets per week per muscle. Of these eight studies, four have found a benefit of going with higher volumes in excess of 20 sets per week per muscle and four have found minimal differences between sort of more moderate volumes and those higher volumes in excess of 20 sets per week per muscle. But overall, there does seem to be a potential benefit of going quite high in volume and certainly higher than you would for strength. Putting all that together, there is yet again a disparity in how you would best train for strength and how you would best train for hypertrophy. That doesn't mean there's never a place for higher volume training for strength. For example, if you're really far out from the meat or you're really far out from caring about maxing out, you could experiment with slightly higher volumes of say 15 to 25 sets per given muscle for those main movers like the quads, the glutes, the chest, the triceps, etc. But more broadly speaking, you probably want to train with higher volumes for hypertrophy than you want for strength. And yet again, you have to come to a compromise. Do you care more about strength or do you care more about hypertrophy? If you opt to go the direction of hypertrophy and going with higher volumes, there is another concession to be made, which is that those higher volumes will probably fatigue you a little bit more than sticking with lower volumes. And so day to day, you won't be quite as strong, you won't be able to look quite as heavy, which will probably make your training a bit less effective for power lifting or for strength as well, since the load on the bar is quite important as far as maximizing strength improvements. So as far as all of these things go, you kind of have to make your own decisions, right? Do you mostly rely on heavy low rep work that is pretty specific with relatively lower volumes, more submaximal? Or do you mostly rely on hypertrophy style work with higher volumes closer to failure and more diverse movement pattern selection? The decision is ultimately done to you. And towards the end of this episode, we'll try and give some practical recommendations as to how we implement this stuff to kind of get the best of both worlds. But I would say those are the opportunity costs or the tradeoffs to be aware of as far as what the research says. So a silly criticism that has often been or is still mentioned around power building and combining pure strength and hypertrophy training is that may lead to certain muscular imbalances, at least from a visual standpoint, or that for the majority of people, it will not allow them to develop an quote unquote aesthetic physique. And going for both goals at the same time is actually something that can be deleterious to your body image, at least as it pertains to the echo chambers standards in regards to what is aesthetic and what is not. Do you have any thoughts on that? Yeah, I think they  this comes back to the infamous spider physique claim. Look, ultimately, you should be training for the reasons that got you into training. If you want to look a certain way, prioritize that in your training. Like, I have many coaching clients that come to me and say, I really want to grow my arms or my chest or my glutes or what have you. If that's the case, we can put more of an emphasis on that. I think you can still see great gains in most of your muscles, if not all of your muscles, even while power building. That is an important thing. And it mostly comes down to your priorities as far as your own physique goes. I think we've both previously spoken to not really liking the booty builder programs or the sort of like excessively siloing the lifter into one category programs. I think the same can apply here. I think the claim that power building would categorically give you a certain kind of physique assumes that all power builders train these that same way, have the same genetics for something. It's essentially drawing a broad generalization that isn't really warranted. But I think that certainly if you take a more strength-centric approach to power building, there will typically be a few muscles that grow a bit less than others. So if you're really focused on maximizing the squat bench deadlift, and yeah, you still stick in some hypertrophy work, you can get to a point where you're back specifically, your calves, your arms, your shoulders, end up slightly underdeveloped. But I think that's just a matter of creating awareness. One common mistake I see with power building is not, well, sandbagging your accessory work. So I think people, that is one thing we'll get into is common mistakes with power building. But I think one common mistake that isn't relatively easy fix is to take your accessory work for hypertrophy seriously, or essentially just as seriously as your strength work. Obviously that's assuming that you care about hypertrophy to the same extent as you do strength. But I think that if you are aware that you want to improve your physique alongside your strength goals, treat your hypertrophy work with intent. It shouldn't just be something that you stick on to the end of your session and blast through because you've already done the quote unquote hard work that took up a lot of your mental bandwidth. It should be something that you quote unquote attack with intent. You execute another buzzwords that are often used in the industry. But on a serious note, I think that thinking about your hypertrophy work as just as important as your strength work can really help. And thinking about the fact that if you're focusing on the squat bench deadlift, you're already getting training in for a few of the muscle groups in your body. The glutes, the quads, the adductors, the hamstrings to an extent, the pecs, the triceps, the front outs to an extent, those muscle groups are already being trained to decent extent. So if you wanted to balance it out, you would likely need to include a fair amount of back work, bicep work, shoulder work, hamstring work, calf work. It's not as though you can just get away with doing back once a week, you know? But I do think that the general criticism of if you power build, you'll have this sort of physique and that's what no one wants. We're lies on a number of assumptions about what people actually want to look like and how they actually train like and what their genetics are like and assuming that the five people you've seen power build or representative of the whole population, I think it's just the number of assumptions based into it where, hey, if you look at yourself and you don't like the way your physique looks, that is a perfectly valid way to change up your training. But making a categorical statement about a whole population to me is a bit fallacious. But anyways, Pac, what about you? Do you have a spider physique? Not really. I do have a big chest though, bless my genetics for that. However, yeah, I wanted to touch on this ridiculous idea where you have, I think, survivorship bias, a lot of biases in general and just people, oh, remembering the one super strong power lifter that was used as an example and usually people that have certain anthropometric characteristics that highlight the spider physique even more that are then used or were used at least in articles or as sort of examples and videos warning people about the dangers of power building and the infamous spider physique. But in reality, if we look at lifting traditionally and if we start talking mainly about observations like the entirety or the entirety, a good amount of the old school bodybuilders that often get praised for their super aesthetic physiques, they were doing plenty of strength work on top of their usual bodybuilding stuff. Sure, they weren't calling it power building, but the idea was, hey, we're lifting heavy iron, we're doing a bunch of stuff, we're training for quite some time and nobody seemed to really be suffering by this sort of side effect. At the same time, building muscle takes a lot of time. So the idea that, oh, you engaged in more SPD focus training for six months that one time, you are now looking like an absolute abomination, dead lift specialist. I think that's also a fear mongering. And I'm not entirely convinced that if you were to even, let's say, twist the power building, anyways, do let's say 70% strength and then 30% hypertrophy, I very much doubt that the majority of people would end up looking anything but jacked. Sure, if you were to clone them and then have them do the opposite and have them focus mostly on hypertrophy training, you would probably be able to see some differences in terms of how they look, but assuming that they're not sandbagging or all their hypertrophy work, I don't think anybody would look in a way that is not perceived as jacked by the majority of individuals. So I do think it's a bit of a strong one and a bit of a fear monger to say that power building in general or combining both approaches is going to lead to some weird physique or will have you look strange. As far as my own personal experience goes, yeah, I was always blessed with a big torso and big legs. So I have a spider physique now that I think about it. Oh my God, okay, stop the podcast. The guys will see you later. I have some correction, correcting to do by the stuff we said at the beginning, peace. But yeah, that was my experience. Yeah, I can fully agree with that. And I think people are quick to make broad generalizations about power builders based on a few examples they see. But hey, if you want to talk about power builders, let's talk about the goat, Ronnie Coleman, a time Mr. Olympia. He was doing his triples and singles sometimes on squat and deadlift. And hey, he got pretty jacked, you feel me? So hey, every power builder is super jacked. You heard it here first. Just do your singles and triples and squats and deadlifts. No more worry about anything else. Something, something hormones. But yeah, on a serious note, I think power building does also present certain advantages. And this is something that back in the day on YouTube, there was a lot more focus on, I think, when power building was the hot thing, right? I think that people were quicker to mention the positives of including some strength work or some of that quote unquote mindset from strength based training into hypertrophy training vice versa to an extent. So one of the benefits I can think of, for instance, is that for many newer lifters, power building or power lifting rather, comes with the ethos of progressive overload, where adding weights to the barbie to week, tracking progression, ensuring you're training sufficiently hard because you're actively adding loads to the barbie to week or month to month or what have you, that comes as part and parcel of the culture because you're tracking numbers very closely. And that is something that is also beneficial for hypertrophy training, but that is sometimes not as focused on by hypertrophy trainings, where because you have a greater variation in exercise selection, because you're not constrained by specificity quite as much, it can become very easy to not care about the numbers anymore. And in some extreme examples, just focus on the pump. I think that trying to increase your numbers over time and keeping an eye on progressive overload, one, if nothing else, as far as lifter psychology goes, I think it gives you many wins every week. It's like, oh, I got a little bit stronger this week, nice. It feeds into your competence and the self-determination theory. It improves your self-efficacy, makes you feel a bit more confident with regards to your mastery and grasp of lifting. And so I think that a slightly increased focus on progressive overload, or at least trying to progressively overload week to week, is one of the positive aspects of what strength-based training can bring to someone who's mostly trained for hypertrophy. However, that can obviously be taken the wrong way, wherein a power builder will only focus on their numbers on the big three, and then disregard any numbers on anything else and put no effort into it. But I do think that that is one of the benefits of power building, that anyone transitioning from a pure bodybuilding style training approach to more of a power building style approach will typically benefit from. So I think that's one of the main benefits and certainly something I noticed going from more of a power building approach to a hypertrophy style approach is just consistently looking at last week's numbers, that notebook style approach. I think that's potentially that was brought from power lifting or strength sports, more so to hypertrophy training through power building style approaches. Like as much as I don't agree with everything, the British bodybuilding scene is done over the years. One thing it has done is note booking or essentially just keeping track of numbers week to week and even going somewhat heavier sometimes of like three reps on RDLs or one half U. And I think there is some value in that and at the very least, it keeps you training sufficiently hard to maximize hypertrophy and places the focus in the right places. So that's one of the benefits of power building. I think another one that is somewhat more obvious, but as we spoke about earlier, maybe people overlook is that placing a greater focus on developing the prime movers, like the glutes, the adductors and the quads will make you stronger in the long term. Like sure, and we have a whole article on this on Strong by Science, sure there will be people smaller than you that can lift more than you, right? Like just looking at how jacked someone is, doesn't tell you everything about how strongly they will be, but within the same individual, if nothing else about you changes, let's say you've reached maturity, your body proportions aren't changing anymore, you're the same height, et cetera, the biggest way you can get stronger over time is to get bigger, right? And I think that power building as far as what hypertrophy training brings to strength-based lifting, that is one of the main things it can bring to your training. Are there any other positives that you can think of? So I wanted to say nice on bringing up the ethos, the mentality transfer from strength training to hypertrophy training, because I think that's one of the main, so I'm just gonna echo you, but add a bit of my own thoughts as well. The idea that, okay, every week we're adding weight to the bar, I think that that was one of the main reasons a lot of people found strength training interesting and found it stimulating, especially at beginning stages of one's lifting career where you can add more weight more frequently, and sometimes that was also combined with some form of crazy calorie surplus, but it is one of the reasons why I would recommend power building to a lot of not necessarily pure beginners, but people early in their lifting careers. I think having that combination of, I think having that sort of more number centric approach where you're like aware that, okay, this another week, I gotta add weight to the bar, not that you wouldn't do that with a hypertrophy sort of program, but in the context of strength training, it can be a bit more straightforward, a bit more fun, and unfortunately, and that's something that obviously you can work away from in the lifting world when you become a lifter and lifting becomes part of your identity, so do strength standards to a certain extent. Now that's not for everyone, but it's rare that you're gonna hear people talk about your lateral raise PR or your machine chest press PR. So having the big three in there may, and this is completely anecdotal, may help some lifters with feeling more like lifters and feeling like they can relate to other people and discuss their PRs and their strength. Aside from the other positives that you mentioned, I don't think there's anything much bigger, so I don't know, I guess community and belonging, but you hit the nail on the head. I think actually community and belonging is another one that gets downplayed. I think that they're, unless you're competing in natural bodybuilding or you're particularly friendly and close to your local gym community, or you have many friends who are into lifting more broadly, I think that focusing on strength can often be a great way to socialize, and this is more of an anecdotal thing, but whenever I focused on strength for a few months and I was squatting or deadlifting, like say four, five, six, whatever plates, that often initiates many more conversations, and I think that lifters who train for strength tend to be a bit more sociable on average in the gym, and so if you're, it's not uncommon for someone who's been training for hypertrophy for a while to join, say, a powerlifting team at a college or university, what have you, or to just train for strength in the gym and kind of find a mini-community within their own gym who trains for strength and make the gym into more of a sociable place, so a slightly increased sense of community in the gym can be another positive power building where you can kind of dip your toes into both worlds of, okay, I'm training for hypertrophy and I'm just part of the general gym community, but also be part of that strength-based community that is present in at least quite a few gyms around the world. Another, not positive of power building, but something that makes power building more effective for hypertrophy than you might expect, is that depending on how you pick your accessory lifts, and we'll go into practicals in a little bit, but depending on how you pick your accessory lifts, you can get a decent variation in excess selection, just as part of power building is an approach. So let's say for example, instead of picking the competition squat and the paused competition squat as your two-squat variations, you decide, all right, let me do the competition squat and the hack squat as my two exercises. Yes, you're sacrificing a little bit in terms of specificity by picking the hack squat over the pause competition squat, but this is allowing you to relatively effortlessly get a greater variation in excess selection and to maximize hypertrophy. To go back to the whole trade-offs conversation, I think one potential trade-off that is emerging from the research now, and this isn't something that is as clear cut as some of the other trade-offs, is lengthened training. So it all comes back to this. This is your classic muscle and feels podcast episode where we inevitably resort to talking about lengthened partials again. But there is a distinction between how to train for strength and how to train for hypertrophy in this regard. When it comes to strength, once again, the findings from my very own metanoss, some range of motion actually, found that training in the specific range of motion of your outcome at those joint angles is going to result in greater improvements in performance compared to training in different joint angles. To put it in simpler terms, if you're trying to maximize your powerlifting squat to parallel depth, but you're training with a four-ranger motion squat, you will likely see less of an improvement in your powerlifting squat than if you just consistently squatted to parallel depth. Basically, train in the range of motion that you're competing in or trying to get stronger in. There is some research suggesting that combining different ranges of motion, so having some of your training as four-ranger motion training and some of your training as partial range of motion training could lead to better overall strength gains. That would lend credibility to the idea that powerlifting can do some highly specific competition squat-style training, for example, alongside some partial range of motion training like some half squats or some pin squats or what have you. But in general, you want to be specific with your range of motion when it comes to strength. When it comes to hypertrophy, on the other hand, there's more and more research seemingly suggesting that length in training is important for hypertrophy. And in fact, there's even some research now suggesting that length in partials, so not even doing a four-ranger motion, could lead to more hypertrophy than doing a four-ranger motion. The evidence isn't 100% beyond a shadow without yet, but the evidence does seem to be leaning that way. And so if I were to coach someone for pure hypertrophy, I would have them include quite a few length in partials and an exercise selection that is more centered around length in training, that places more tension in the stretch position, that places the target muscle in a more stretch position, whereas for powerlifting or for strength in general, I would keep the range of motion much more specific. So again, you kind of have a pole in two directions and you have to pick which one you end up going more in. I think you can combine it to an extent where, especially if you're not concerned with maximizing your strength, you could do all of your main lifts with powerlifting or strength-style range of motion, so squatting to parallel depth, deadlifting the regular way, benching with an arch as you would in powerlifting, if that's your preference. But then for your accessories, you could include some more lengthened, biased exercises. So that could be, for example, doing some flatback, no arch benching, or it could even be doing some astragrass squatting, or that sort of thing. And that could provide you with some of the benefits for hypertrophy whilst influencing variation. Or you could go even further, and since I mentioned combining some powerful range of motion training with some partial range of motion training for greater overall strength gains earlier, you could combine your specific work of powerlifting, squatting, benching with an arched back with some lengthened partial training. For example, like doing some lengthened partials on the bench press, or doing some lengthened partials on the squat, or on the leg press, or what have you. And that could possibly, it's untested as of yet, but could possibly be a good option for those who want good hypertrophy, while still potentially gaining that benefit of being pretty specific, and including both a full range of motion and a partial range of motion in your training for better overall strength gains. But I think as far as positives of powerbuilding go, that kind of wraps us up pretty well. And I think we've discussed a lot of the negatives of powerbuilding, which mostly come down to opportunity cost. What I want to open up as a conversation now with you, Paak, is just discussing how much of the potential gains are we missing out on. Like, do you think by powerbuilding, we're getting like 50% of maximum hypertrophy and 50% of maximum strength gains? Or do we think we're actually missing out on less than that or more than that? How do you see the trade off there if you had to give rough percentages or ballpark figures? Yeah. Unless we're talking about the powerbuilding caricature where it's like, okay, I'm in the gym for four hours, three and a half of them are me doing four sets of squats and three sets of bench press at one to five repetitions. So if we're not talking about that caricature and we're talking about powerbuilding, the traditional way most people have done it and with some consideration around, hey, let's balance both strength hypertrophy training. I think, because obviously we've got to give some ranges because not every approach will be the same and it will depend on people. But I think you're not going to be looking at less than 70% of potential gains for either domain by depending on how you arrange things. But if you were to play your card thread, quote unquote, as we will suggest in a second in terms of what's the best way to approach powerbuilding, I think you could be making 80 to 90% of potential hypertrophy games and somewhere around 80 to 90% of strength gains as well. Like if you play your cards, right, I don't see why you're going to be missing out on much or for some people, it won't even be meaningful gains for some others that care about maximizing everything in theory, yeah, they're probably missing out on a bit, but overall, I think you can get the best of both worlds by powerbuilding the right way. What do you think? I think it's pretty solid take. The way I see it, I think that you can get a really good amount of both, but the more you choose to spec in one, the more you tend to sacrifice in the other. So for instance, I think that you can probably get about 80% of the potential overall physique development alongside around 80% of the overall strength development. However, if you want to get say 95% or plus percent of the total potential strength development, you would probably be looking at like 60% of the overall physique development. The reason I say that is because I do think those compromises we mentioned earlier in excess selection, repetition ranges, intensity, approximate failure, range of motion, volume, et cetera, do cause some friction, and so you couldn't just get 100% of both. And I think as you chase those last few percentage points in either capacity, whether it's physique or strength, that is where you're going to have to make the most concessions to keep getting that additional potential gain, right? So if you're trying to get say 95% of the strength gains, you might be talking about like a 60% of your potential physique development, or if you're trying to get 100% of your potential strength gains, we might be talking closer like 50% of your total physique gains, right? Because there's going to have to be some concessions in your other pursuits. But I think that for most people, the good news is that you can probably get around like 80% of each at the same time. And the difference between making 80% of your potential gains and 100% of your potential gains, I think is small enough that for most people, they'll be pretty happy with that, especially if they're inclined to want both improvements in the strength and size. They can see those with relatively modest trade-offs. So yeah, I think overall the power building pill is a positive one, especially if you're at least someone interested in both strength and size. But it also all depends on how you apply it. And I do think there are some mistakes that are often made when trying to apply this stuff and we can go through some of those. The one thing I want to highlight is that obviously, you have to take the percentage that we just mentioned and the potential trade-offs as far as hypertrophy and strength gains go for power building and further adjust for the time that you're going to be spending power building. So we're talking about 80% of potential gains that use that as a rough figure, at least for hypertrophy, but that's usually in the context of what? Six months, a year, a couple of years of strictly power building for the love of it. So in terms of actual muscle growth, potential loss, we're not talking about a ton of gains. Obviously, if you're a beginner, maybe the magnitude there is greater, but we often speak about potential gains and what's best and people often operate as if that's what they will be doing for the rest of their lives or as if, oh, okay, I power-build it for a year. And like now you can switch to pure hypertrophy training and make back some of the gains you didn't make. Like it's really not that deep and you're not, it's not like you're giving up gains that you can't make in the future or that the gains that you're giving up aren't that big of a deal. Yeah, I would tend to agree and I think there's different ways of implementing it, but some of the research around resensitization, although it is in its very early stages, could even suggest that if, say, you spend three months of the year focusing on strength, if you opt to follow that sort of purization model where you spend ex-proportion of the year focusing on hypertrophy and then you switch focus to a strength-based approach, I think that some of the research around resensitization to training and potentially to higher volume training as you would perform for hypertrophy, suggests that you may not actually miss out on all that much. I'm not sure I'd necessarily recommend compartmentalizing it and making it more of a block-purization approach, wherein you train for pure hypertrophy, say in mind months and then for pure strength to say three months. I think nowadays for most coaching applications, for enjoyment and also for efficacy based on some of the research around strength at least, I think a daily undulating purization as much as it doesn't mean anything really, it's just a very broad and broad term is what I would probably do and I think that's what you've experimented with over the past few years actually on your deadlift and your overhead press. So let's go into how you're currently implementing power building because you've been implementing power building to a much greater extent than I have. And then once we've discussed a few approaches to power building, we can kind of give some common mistakes that we see lifters performing as well. In case you were unaware, we are in New York City as you can tell by the, I don't know, the aircraft landing, the military aircraft landing outside our window and sirens, I'm not sure why an aircraft would have a siren. So I have been personally training mostly for hypertrophy but still have some strength specific goals, namely overhead press, one-hour rem strength and deadlift one-hour rem strength. And given my exposure to the minimum dose research for strength primarily and more specifically, the way we went about testing that in power lifters, I, what I've done is I've taken highly specific strength training principles, I'm sorry, highly specific strength training and essentially thrown it on top of a pure hypertrophy program. So when looking at the current literature on minimum effective training dose for one repetition maximum strength training, we see that three to six very specific sets, so heavy sets and the one to three, one to five rep range are seem to be enough to lead to meaningful strength gains. So essentially what I have done is I've thrown a single and some back offsets over my bodybuilding style training and that's literally being it. That allows me to sort of use those movements as a bit of a warm up for some sessions in the sense that I'll go in, I'll warm up on the overhead press, do my single, do my couple of back offsets and then I'm ready to do my hypertrophy push session. Same goes with the deadlift usually as the first exercise on a pull day. But the one thing that I want to highlight is that with such low volumes of strength training and some, I'll say avoidance of the nocebo that you need to be warming up for 30 minutes for a deadlift and that you need to do a bunch, like you need to rest a bunch between each warm up, you've seen me get those sets in what, less than 15, 20 minutes, especially when we're talking about like two to three sets. And mind you, I'm not some elite deadlifter, but my deadlift is in the mid-ish, 600. So warming up for a heavy single, if you really want to, and after getting used to it, it can be pretty time efficient. All that to say that I personally, I am a big fan, at least for those that have mostly hypertrophy goals in mind, because if you are somewhat more strength,  and things like that. And doing a bit more volume for your strength movements, and specifically again in the 1-5 reprints, makes sense. But for those that want to make solid, one repetition maximum strength gains, but want to primarily focus on getting maximally jacked, or at least being close to maximally jacked, throwing a few singles and back-off sets, and those could be as low as three sets per lift per week, but somewhere in the three to six sets per lift per week range. I think that that's a great way to combine both approaches. You're not adding a ton of extra time on top of your workouts, and the amount of strength gains that you're probably getting out of those few sets are worth the extra bit of time. Additionally, allow me to note that if you're doing very specific strength training on top of your hypertrophy training, and you're doing that for quite a bit, and you're used to doing a bunch of volume afterwards for the musculature that is also involved in those lifts, all it will take for you to actually peak and test your strength is to just take it easy a bit on the bodybuilding slash hypertrophy work for a week or so, do some heavy specific lifting, take a couple of days off, like rest completely, and then obviously terms of condition apply, but I think it's likely that you're going to be in pretty much peak strength. So that sort of approach allows you to stay in peak strength and maintain peak strength without really doing much. Yeah, I would tend to concur with all that. I'll give an alternative approach to powerlifting that I've used in the past, which is a lot more hypertrophy centric. Before I do, I wanted to add one thing to your peaking and tapering approach, which is like the casual lifters peaking and tapering approach, which is in general, the research started to suggest that doing a priming session like 24 to 48 hours before you max out might be a good idea. So on any lift, as Pac mentioned, take a few days off and then go into the gym max out and one or two days before you max out, ideally the day before, do a few singles at like 50 percent of your max. It should be really easy. Try and lift it as explosively as possible. This can be a great tool as well for those who are actually competing in powerlifting, but aren't taking it that seriously if using the approach that Pac mentioned, because it can allow you to practice the commands on a day before and just have some practice with the lifts before you actually go into your meet. But doing a priming session on those lifts, just single reps, maybe three sets on each lift at around 50 percent of your max is an approach that I think has some merit based on research where we generally see a slight improvement in strength by doing that. As far as other palpating approaches go, I think it ultimately comes down to what dual priorities are, like how much do you care about how much of your strength, and then identifying where that means you should fall and your training should fall on the specificity continuum. You can view your training as being perfectly specific to strength, wherein your exercise selection is highly specific to the competition lifts or whatever you're training for, your repetition ranges are highly specific, your range of motion is highly specific, your volume is pretty low to maximize strength or relatively low, and I think that where you fall on a specificity continuum should be dictated by how much you care about strength versus size. You can afford to be less specific if you care mostly about size and less about strength, but you'll have to be more specific in the exercises you select, the repetition ranges you train in, staying more sub-max in one terms of RP, etc., if you care more about strength. For me, when I was power building maybe a year or a year and a half ago, because I wanted to see my squat bench and net lift go up, what that meant for me was doing sets of five at a relatively sub-maximal RP of RP 7 or so, a couple reps in a tank at least, on the main lifts a couple times a week. So I would do sets of five on competition net lifts, sets of five on the high bar squat for lower squat, and sets of five on the bench press or close grip bench press, like maybe twice a week for a few sets each time. And that's enough to give you some reasonable strength gains, but because it is still in that effective hypertrophy range of five reps or more, and it's relatively close to failure and it's not the best exercise ever for building muscle, but it's at least reasonable, that to trade off in terms of hypertrophy, I would say might have been on the order of a few percentage points, maybe five percentage points, while still giving me a notable increase in how much strength I was gaining on the squat bench net lift. So that can be a really low impact way of incorporating some strength work into your program. And that's where something like the often maligned starting strength program, or even like what's called starting lifts or whatever it is, the other one's strong lifts, strong lifts 5x5. Those are kind of reasonable, because the hypertrophy range is five reps to maybe like 30 or 50. So even though you're going relatively heavy and still seeing some strength improvements with sets of five, you'll still be building most, if not all of the muscle you could, at least in terms of rep range. So it can be a really good sort of rep target around five reps to both see most of the potential hypertrophy gains, but still get some appreciable improvement in your top end strength, quote unquote. So that's one way of incorporating it that would be very hypertrophy focused. And the rest of the program would just be purely hypertrophy centric, making all of the choices that lean in favor of maximizing muscle size. So that's the way I would previously go about power building. I think that the top single approach can be highly hemificient. And if you view your training in terms of specificity or average specificity on that continuum, you're essentially being highly specific for a few sets a week, shifting the average specificity of your training by a little bit, but giving you practice at the actual test, which is testing on a max. So I think that can be a really good way if you care a bit more about strength than that, whereas the five reps on the main lifts a couple times a week can be a good way to do it if you're a bit less focused on strength and you mostly care about maximizing hypertrophy. So I think those are two pretty good ways of incorporating it. Do we want to talk about common mistakes now? So the first common mistake I'd say one power building is over committing to the strength stuff, but approaching the strength work as if you are a power lifter and essentially not being aware of time and rest periods in between sets, warmups and essentially doing a power lifting focus training and then expecting to do bodybuilding on top of that. I think being more intentional with the strength training part of power building is something that can make power building more effective overall because it can allow you to be more time efficient and also have more energy for the actual building part of power building. So I do see a lot of people who think, okay, this is power lifting and bodybuilding combined. Therefore, I will do power lifting treated completely like power lifting with no exceptions and then do bodybuilding on top of that, which that then leads to in my opinion, an insanely favorable sort of setup. Additionally, we also have, which I really alluded to, the issue with very lengthy warmups as it pertains to the big three. That's a mistake that I see and like a common sort of not red flag, but I don't know what you'd call it, but a common mistake by power lifters in general, where warmups have become sort of like a low routine before they're lifting, which okay, I get if you are a world champion power lifter and you have this sort of ritual before your training that allows you to get in the mood, but the idea that you need to be spending 35 minutes warming up for the warmup itself and doing a bunch of mobility drills and foam rolling and prehab, reshmihab, corrective exercises. Sure, we can be reductions and say if it makes you feel better, do it, but in the context of power building, simply let's say you're also focusing on the squat on top of your usual, the barbell squat on top of your usual high-perch free training, keep the warmup very specific to that lift, warmup just on that lift without the extra mumble jumble, be present for those few sets. You don't need to rush through them, but at the same time, there's no need to be resting five to six minutes between super light warmup sets on a squat, do a few sets with a barb, then slowly add weight to reach your top set, but don't, as we say in the UK, take the piss with your rest periods and the overall warmup in general, because again, you're trying to combine two training styles at the same time, spending 20 minutes, which in some cases can make for an actual hypertrophy workout, spending that time warming up doesn't make much sense. Yeah, and that reminds me of another trade-off that we forgot to mention, which is in rest times for hypertrophy, it seems like even just resting for one to two minutes between sets is going to be close to optimal or even optimal for maximizing the hypertrophy response on average. That's based on the most recent meta-analysis by singling colleagues that we were involved in that's been pre-printed as of like two months ago, maybe, but when it comes to strength resting for a little bit longer probably makes sense when it comes to maximizing a little on the bar, maximizing the intensity, which seems to be one of the main variables involved in maximizing the strength response. So that's another consideration and I think that alongside the excessive warming up that a lot of powerlifters tend to do, or a lot of strength-based lifters, the increase in average rest time does lead to a pretty practical bottleneck for power building, which is just time overall. Maximizing the hypertrophy response in trained lifters, especially, I think is more often than not constrained by time rather than recovery. Most lifters can recover from more training volume and closer to failure than they realize. So as I mentioned earlier in the episode, we have around eight studies looking at very high volume training of 20 or more sets per week per muscle, still generally finding neutral to positive effects of doing more volume. Equally, in the literature at least, there are next to no documented instances, as was noted in a review paper by Belling colleagues in 2020, of overtraining syndrome. That's not to say you can't overtrain, but it is to say that at least within single muscle groups, you can do pretty high volumes and benefit and you're relatively unlikely to overtrain because if you were to overtrain, we would see that you wouldn't grow more muscle in these studies. So I think that most people are more so constrained in maximizing their muscle growth by just how much time they have to train. And if they're now taking long rest time between sets and they're warming up for longer, they might be severely limiting how much volume they're doing in the given session. So I think limiting how much time you spend warming up to maybe around, for most people, like 10 minutes, 15 minutes to get to a relatively heavy single is pretty reasonable. Even 10, 15 minutes is a long time when you consider that for hypertrophy, you probably could have done five hard sets of compounds at that time. Like that is a meaningful amount of additional volume you could have done instead. So there is a non-negligible trade-off there, but I would say that the real mistake is one, just taking too much time in the warm-up. Two, not considering rest times properly. And three, I think that you need to be aware of the additional time cost that comes with power building if you approach it the wrong way. And that is where the trade-off can often occur. I think that if you're being cognizant of putting in sufficient effort and intensity and quote unquote intent on your accessory walk, that's not so much an issue anymore when it comes to hypertrophy in the power building style approach, but the time component is the more tricky one. And honestly, I think that for many lifters who are constrained by time, that is where the real trade-off of power building comes in. It's just that if you're not willing to extend your sessions a little bit, or if you're not willing to be quite cognizant of your warm-up time, you'll typically be curtailing your volume by quite a bit, which can impact hypertrophy negatively. So I think that is a common mistake. And that's why, you know, even though you don't see a huge trade-off in power building and how much muscle growth you see, that is why for most trainees who come to me and say, hey, I want a power build, I don't necessarily jump the gun and say, yep, let's do it. There's going to be no trade-off. Because for me, trainees, they are still constrained by how much time they have to train. So I think that's one common trade-off that you have to make when you're power building. All right. Is there anything else you wanted to add on the topic of power building before we move on to some Q&A? Just training to failure on more sets for some of your hypertrophy work may be a good way to ensure that you're not sandbagging things. Would you agree with that? In the context of power building, taking an extra few sets to actual failure, to absolute failure, is probably a good idea and is not going to hurt your gains? I think there's a few things you can do. One is definitely take more sets to failure on accessory work. The issue there is that it'll create some additional fatigue. So it is a bit of a double-edged sword. But other techniques to make training more time efficient, like for example, antagonistic paired supersets, which we just published in the study on courtesy of Burke et al. 2024. Supersetting movements with no muscular overlap, like a bicep curl and a tricep pushdown, or a pull down in a bench press, or a light extension and a leg curl. That can be a great way to increase time efficiency, which especially in the case of power building, where you might be limited on how much time you have for hypertrophy work, can be a great option. But I would say on average, training a bit closer to failure is probably a good idea, at least as far as your accessory work goes, since you're being a bit more submaximal on your main lifts and making a bit more time efficient. In addition to other time-saving strategies, like antagonistic paired supersets, potentially drop sets, or what have you. So I would agree. We've covered most things power building, but we have a bunch of awesome questions, which I will move to my other screen so I can see because I am somewhat blind. Well, Pac, if you're blind, put your glasses on. I hear you, viewer and listener, who could sense that I'm not wearing my glasses, and I will do just that. So I'll start us off with a question from the Facebook group, which I urge all of you to join, by Chuck Michael Michael, Michael, it's M-I-K-E-L, so I'll say, Michael, just for the fun of it, do strength athletes need to do hypertrophy work, especially given recent negative studies. I am not aware of the negative studies that are being referred to here. Are you, Dr. Malawu? I am not whatsoever. I'll give my two cents. I think that hypertrophy work in the broad sense of the word or the term, probably yes. I think that some sets of like five to eight reps, maybe even five to six, further away, farther away from a competition is a good idea. In the long term, for a given individual, all else being equal, increasing the size of those prime movers specifically for the squat, the quads, the glutes, the adductors for the deadlift, the glutes, the adductors, the hamstrings, quads to an extent, and even the lower back potentially. And for the bench press, the pecs, the triceps and the front delts, increasing the size of those is going to be quite important in the long term, as far as maximizing your performance of the powerlifter. But the key there is to not think of just increasing their size, but to remain relatively specific. So, mostly perform close variations of the main lifts. There is still a requirement for specificity to be there. And if you start doing sets of 20 on bench or sets of push-ups only or what have you, that is not going to be as effective as if you stay relatively specific, even in the offseason. And I think in general, the principle specificity does service quite well. But when it comes to a, and I might get some flak for this, but a relatively unskilled test of strength, like most of the powerlifts tend to be, increasing muscle size is pretty important. And so I'd say in the offseason, do sets of five to six, which I would categorize as hypertrophy work for strength athletes. And then as you move closer and closer to competition, start tapering away from those and closer to heavier lifts and so forth. As far as the, and I know there's some questions down the line about this, as far as other muscle groups, I don't think you necessarily need to do any hypertrophy work. Pac, anything to add there? Yeah. So fully agree with you on the way you expressed your take that, yeah, probably a good idea. And from the limited data that we have, trying to look, looking at like strength changes over time and specifically in powerlifters, there does seem to be some form of relationship between body weight and strength, which could indicate, you know, more muscle mass is good for strength changes over time. But I'd say, look, if you're going to spend the time doing it, doing, doing the hypertrophy work, in order for that hypertrophy work to be effective, you need to be relatively close to failure. And just because it's bodybuilding slash hypertrophy work, just feeling the muscle group that you're training, feeling the burn or getting a bit of a pump is not, does not constitute you training close failure. That's the one thing that I've observed. And it may be just my observation is that power lifters are sometimes really good at, you know, gauging proximity to failure when it comes to the big three, but then sort of sunbagging their hypertrophy work. So if you're going to do it, which we recommend that you do some form of hypertrophy work, everything that you said, make sure that it is at a legit zero to let's say three RIR. Other than that, no, that's, that's my, my addition there. So next question would be from Tom Warner on Facebook. And he asks, does growing non prime movers help with power lifting performance? Do bigger lats, traps and biceps help in any way? Now, as far as direct literature answering that question, I don't know, we don't have any. And as far as indirect literature, okay, Milo has left the building. But I'm here by myself. Okay, guys, listen to Milo is keeping me a non joke. But as far as building a rationale for doing more lat trap and bicep work, I would be, I'd find it difficult to say that you, it makes sense to do a lot of that. Sure, some dedicated lat work and I include some dedicated lat work for the majority of the power lifters that I train is not a bad idea in the sense that doing, you know, a few chin ups and a few, few lat pull downs grab one for me, please as well, Dr. Milo Wolf, who is getting ready to top us up in terms of caffeine, taking us to good 600 milligrams each. But yeah, doing some direct lat work that will also obviously involve some work for your biceps, and maybe even doing some direct trap work or just doing some back work in the form of rows and stuff. I don't think it's a bad idea because the trade of there is a bit of extra time spent, and potentially some benefit if you're looking to absolutely maximize power lifting performance, but doing a bunch of lat work, a bunch of trap work and a bunch of bicep work, no. So just recently I removed all bicep or all direct bicep work from a power lifter that I'm working with because he had some elbow issues. And although we had it, we had some direct bicep work in there for vanity sake. And because, you know, it's not going to take much aside from time in terms of like overall fatigue, just doing chin ups and some, some a bit of chest supported rowing or even non chest supported rowing, that should give you enough, sort of enough of a stimulus to tell yourself that, okay, if there's much to be gained from having strong biceps or more muscular biceps, I'm making some gains on them. So I'm probably covered. But yeah, I wouldn't, I wouldn't run a lat trap and bicep specialization cycle, or like a side delt specialization cycle for no reason. All right, I think I mostly concur. And I'm going to put out my hottest take, although I haven't done any temperature checks around this recently. I remember this being quite a contentious take back in the day. I just don't see why training your lats, biceps, traps, whatever else to question, answer, asked that isn't the prime mover would help out of the performance. I think not my expertise, not a medical doctor, not a physiotherapist. So take this with a huge grain of salt. Don't take this too seriously at all. But from what I understand, the research around imbalances of strength doesn't necessarily generalize well to strength athletes who are pretty strong overall. And so the idea that you need to train your back musculature for every set of pushing musculature, for example, you do, this seems to be a little bit updated as far as injury prevention goes. And then as far as actually directly assisting with palatine performance, none of those muscle groups can meaningfully help move the load in the squat bench or deadlift. Like the biceps flexes the elbow, which is the opposite of what you're trying to accomplish during the bench press. So if they were to get meaningfully activated during the bench press, and contribute towards say shoulder flexion, they would also make the role of the triceps more difficult. Similarly, the lats cannot get a deadlift from off the floor to lockout. So I just see that all these muscles have pretty limited applicability during the squat bench and deadlift, which made the claims back in the day by certain individuals that for a big bench, you really need to train your lats, bro, even more questionable, because the roles of the lats are largely the opposite of what you're trying to accomplish. And I get that having a big back looks cool. And it makes you feel like you have a bigger shelf to press off of. But as far as actually moving the weight in the bench, I don't think it does anything. So yeah, I think your efforts would be much better spent training the prime movers. And I hope this isn't a hot take anymore, because it shouldn't be. But that is my take. And I largely agree with Paco on this one. Yeah. And if you then if you look closely into the some of the people that make those claims and then look at the back training that they're prescribing for bench press, even that back training is not really intense enough. Sometimes it's like band work on top of some some some relatively light rowing and some prehab and then throw in a few few buzzwords around shoulder health and so on and so forth. But I never got that. Plus if you're doing a few chin ups, a few rows, I was in a few sets of chin ups, a few sets of rows or whatever, some back work in your sort of offseason parlix in work, it's likely that you are covered. And especially if you're a parlix, you're likely a relatively strong individual in general. And you're hitting minimum effective dose as far as hypertrophy goes for your back. So no, training your back even more. I don't think that that will that makes any sense. And that would be a cool study at some point. I don't think we will see it anytime soon. But you know, strict powerlifting training zero sort of non prime mover accessory work versus a ton and seeing who's going to get stronger and bigger. So I asked you the next one, how do you want to do this? Sure, I was going to finish off this question just by saying that I think anecdotally, having some power of just do some lat trap bicep calf side dot whatever you want to call it training as part of the routine can keep them a little bit more engaged, like for some people, they enjoy having some training in there. In that case, sure, but that largely falls under the umbrella of context and things that I that I almost think aren't worth mentioning usually, like when talking about training decision, because context always applies. So it's almost not worthy of mention, I would say, like it's kind of like saying, Oh, yeah, but you might want to do higher reps if you prefer doing it. It's like, yeah, but you could also prefer doing lower reps. So it's an argument in favor of both sides. So essentially negates itself, I would say. But I think that if power of the enjoys doing it by all means, please go ahead and do it if it keeps you more engaged in the process. Shall I hit us with the next question? Let's do it. Jason Gross on Facebook asks, what is the best way to implement power building for someone over 50 years old in terms of volume and frequency? Let's hit that one first since there are three separate questions. Cool. So I don't want to hit us with the dependisms now, but let's operate on the assumption that over 50, maybe you're able to handle a bit less volume and frequency, I guess, a bit less volume. I'll just use that assumption. I don't I don't think that overall volume recommendations would change that that much in terms of strength and hypertrophy. Obviously, toggling, obviously focusing more on strength if strength is your main thing, then if that's your goal, then focus more on strength. The same goes for hypertrophy. But overall, I'd say starting potentially what 10 to 20% of general volume recommendations for either or either domains would be a good starting point and adjusting from there. So but I don't know, it's a bit of a loaded question in terms of telling you the best way. So I'd say starting a bit slower, actually starting a bit slower in terms of overall volume and how you combine things, see how that feels for a few weeks, and then adjusting from there. So either adding more strength work or more hypertrophy work, depending on what you want to primarily focus on, that would be one of the main sort of considerations that take if looking specifically to guide somebody over 50. Aside from that, I don't think there's any actual response we can give to what is the best way to implement power building for somebody over 50 besides that. I'd say actually, sorry, one thing is you could also consider focusing on training non-spd related lifts for strength and seeing if maybe there's an alternative variation there that feels better, like a box squad or like a safety bar squad or whatever. I tried my best to reach as far as I could with my response here without saying it depends. So what do you think? I largely agree. I think that on average, older lifters will have slightly worse recovery, starting around that age. So potentially reduce volume slightly, at least experiment and see whether or not that results in better performance day to day. But beyond that, there's not any other categoricals I would say. So nothing else to really change necessarily on account of age, I would say. Certainly there's things outside of training that I'd recommend like potentially a slightly higher protein intake, mostly a bit higher in eat especially, that is unrelated to power building. As far as the next question goes, Jason asks, how many days off for recovery of joints tissue, assuming good conditioning and free of injury? Pak, lead us off. All right. So again, I wouldn't change things much or have like a recommendation that is specific to people over 50. It's not like we have a ton of direct literature in this context because he has also said assuming good conditioning and free of injury. So assuming good conditioning and the fact that you've been lifting  15 weights, I assume, for over a decade at that point, a normal split where you are essentially arranging exercises based on preferences and time availability would do fine. I'd probably say, hey, maybe don't try doing something like squatting every day or, I don't know, small or super high frequency strength training where you're doing a ton of very specific training back to back to back. Usual recovery timelines probably apply here. Depending on what you're used to, I'd say, training three to five times per week and having two to three days off every week and potentially organizing your program in a way where you're, let's say, doing lower body as your first day, then you're doing upper body and then maybe taking a break and then repeating or just arranging your routine in a way that makes sense in your essentially giving about 24 hours for each, unnecessarily muscle, but for each strength lift, giving it a day in between. What do you think? I'm trying to give a very specific answer, but I feel like that's not really possible here and what I said at the beginning pretty much covers it that don't think of it any differently than if you were 25 and just arranging your routine. Yeah, I largely agree. I would say the concept of rest days as being necessary is predicated on certain assumptions. So for instance, you're assuming that each training day will be of a certain volume, typically in a certain proximity to failure, but the idea that you need rest days isn't necessarily true. So for example, if you were to take the same amount of sets and given week at the same relative intensity, but you're doing them in three days versus seven days, I'm not sure that the lack of a rest day would cause an issue necessarily. And in fact, I think, again, not medical advice whatsoever, but a few years ago, around seven years ago now, I remember because this before I went to college, so there's both signs. Strong by science had a survey around how loved is training styles and asking them how many injuries they had and stuff. And very few variables were meaningfully associated with higher injury rates. So for instance, the frequency of squatting or benching or deadlifting, from what I remember, wasn't associated with prevalence of injury. So I wouldn't worry too much about categorically taking more rest days if you're older. I would say just manage overall training load in accordance with your recovery. If your performance is pretty good week to week and you feel pretty good, there is no need to necessarily modify things. Finally I think any specific recommendations would be entirely anecdotal here because we don't have the research to specifically tell you, all right, if you're under 52 days of rest, if you're over 53 days of rest, if you're over 70, four days of rest, you know, like we just don't have that research. So let's say just approach it like you would if you were 20 or 30 or 40 or 50 or 60 or 70. So that is my general take. All right. Next question we have is by Thomas Markov from Reddit. He asks, isn't power building just doing the big three and the six to 12 rep range with some extra accessory work? What programming strategies make for a more thoughtful power building program than just doing a power building program with higher rep schemes and more arm lock? I mean, we covered all of this in the episode thus far, but just to summarize, we don't have a set definition for power building. So it's the idea of combining both specific strength training and high purge fee training. So no, it's not just doing the big three in the six to 12 rep range with some extra accessory work. You can have many different forms depending on who you ask, but I just refer to the previous sort of parts of the episode where we went over what we think is the best way to power build. So obviously keep in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that a lot of the things that we see in our community and in our echo chamber, I've said echo chamber way too much on this episode. You know, there's no set definition for what power building is and it's not something that we've clearly, clearly tried to fully understand and whatever, whatever, whatever. Same goes with things like deloads that were just recently defined. So just refer to the previous parts of the episode and that should cover you. All right, I will add on one thing that I forgot to mention earlier. And that is that in the same vein as certain muscles don't really get trained well from the main power lifts, like the back musculature, biceps, calves, side delts will have you. There are certain exercises you should probably include on top of a pure power lifting approach that would make power building more than just doing the big three and six to 12 rep range. So basically, let's start from the ground up. For the hamstrings, some sort of leg curl is a good addition because the biceps femoris is short head doesn't get trained well during compound movements in all likelihood. Then some sort of knee extension isolation movement is a good idea for the rectus femoris because you don't necessarily get much rectus femoris stimulus from things like squatting. It kind of goes without saying, but some sort of calf raise exercise ideally with your knees extended is a good idea for calf hypertrophy because you wouldn't get much of that with just the power lifts. Similarly, some sort of hip abduction and adduction work in your training, maybe once a week can be pretty helpful for overall hypertrophy. It's certainly not top of the priority list, but I think if you're willing to go for the higher hanging fruits on that tree, you can include that as well and you wouldn't get that work from just compound movements. Some things like direct ab work wherein you're actively flexing your spine is probably a good idea as an inclusion at least once a week in your program. If you wanted to, you could include some direct forearm work because you don't in the big three get any major direct forearm work. I think deadlifts do count for something, but I think if you want to optimize growth or at least increase it substantially, doing some wrist curls once a week would go a long way. We have a whole already gone form training. You can check out on strongwessons.com, but just including some wrist flexion work once a week goes a long way. Some sort of tricep isolation exercise, ideally with your arm overhead is a good idea just because that would stretch out the long-term triceps, allow it to actually contribute meaningfully to elbow extension. Because it's biarticular, it probably doesn't get the best stimulus during a compound movement like the bench press, so some isolation movement makes sense. The same goes for biceps just because the big three don't really train the biceps a lot well. Having some sort of incline pressing exercise in your program probably makes sense because your upper chest probably doesn't get the best stimulus during something like a flat bench press. The only study we have comparing the incline bench press and the flat bench press showed superior upper chest growth from the incline bench press. And then back training, relatively obvious, but do some rows, do some pull downs. We have a whole podcast episode on the topic that we previously published. I think that's our most recent episode, so go check that out. And yeah, I think that power building is a bit more than just doing the three main lifts in the six-quad work range because otherwise you would miss out on most of the growth of all the muscles I just mentioned. So I just look out for that in an effective power building program. You certainly don't need to include everything I just mentioned. Like you don't need to train your calves. You don't need to do hip abduction, adduction exercises. But if you're looking to be quite holistic and complete in your targeting of all the muscle groups, I think that's a pretty good list to go off of as far as exercise selection goes. Anything else to unpack? No, that was that was put on. And yeah, we actually should have mentioned that earlier. Paper coming out on that as well recently accepted on regional hypertrophy from the lab. And specifically on what you said, rec fem growing more from leg extensions versus leg press and straight leg calf raises much better than with your knee bent. So yeah, that's a consideration as well in the context of power building that makes sense. So exercise selection is important for hypertrophy specifically. I'll ask the next question by Jonathan Studd from Facebook. So if you don't compete, would you be better off doing deficit, deadlifts and paused as to grasp low bar squats instead of traditional deadlifts and parallel depth low bar squats? I can hit us off. You can hit us off as well. I'll go ahead. I would say yes in a likelihood. I'm not going to say it depends because I've been known to hate that answer. I would say yes on average because you're getting more of a stretch on the glutes, add afters and quads in the deficit deadlift. And you're getting more of a stretch on the glutes, outers and quads on the astragras low bar squat compared to just the parallel depth low bar squat. We have a few studies comparing more shallow depths to deeper depths on the squat, for example, generally finding better growth, especially of the hip extensors like the glutes and outers from squatting deeper. I think generally the concept of longer muscle length training is better for hypertrophy has been validated relatively widely. So I would recommend switching to those. I think that in general, if you just like the idea of strength overall, but aren't tied to the idea of the squat bench and deadlift as performed in the power lifting sense, including exercises that take you into a deeper stretch position and focus on strength in those, will still make you plenty strong on those partial range of motion or those more partial range of motion. But it will probably provide you with a better muscle growth stimulus. So I'd recommend switching to those pack anything to add on that front. Awesome. I will read the last question, which comes from two snares and symbol from Reddit asking for someone who is interested in maximizing hypertrophy while still building squat bench and deadlift strength. What are your thoughts on low fatigue training for the big three, i.e. one to three sets of one to three reps with three to five reps in the tank versus the minimum effective dose method of doing one single at around or P nine. Well, first of all, we'll see you in court. And second of all, we'll see you outside. Now, third of all, I think that might be more effective than the minimum effective dose method, which is not a method of doing sort of heavier, lower, heavier and higher RP, lower RIR singles and back ups. Now, obviously, we don't have much data on this. And the bit of data that we have is from our studies on minimum effective dose training for power lifters specifically, but based on the totality of current available evidence, if you were to compare three sets of sets of one to three reps, so still pretty heavy weight, weight at a three to five RIR versus one single at 0.5 to one RIR, I would bet quite a bit of money on the former winning. Now, that doesn't mean that you cannot combine both approaches into one, which is what we recommended earlier, where you are essentially lifting a heavy weight for one repetition to be as specific as possible, because you're only doing so much volume for your SPD related work and having, I think there's some merit to being a bit closer to failure for in the context of very low volume training, because you are, you know, you don't have such a frequent exposure to that lift and you get a bit more sort of grind specific training from it in the sense that, you know, being one to two reps in reserve will require a different focus than being at five RIR, let's say, but then you can follow with two to three back offsets at a very low RPE and you can get the best of both worlds. Now, do we know for sure that one approach or the combination of both is better than the other? No, but I think that that's a good way to combine it. If for any reason staying in the zero to point point five to two RIR range makes it more difficult for you to be efficient with time and requires you to hype yourself up and so on and so forth, then I think it's totally fine to keep things at three to five RIR. I don't think you're going to miss out on a ton of gains. So you are pretty flexible here. I would just urge you to not rely on just doing one single. Sure, we had some people in our studies do just one single twice a week for the squads, three times per week for the bends and once for the deadlift, but those were likely to not see meaningful strength gains. They made strength gains and they had, I think, like a 30% chance to making gains that were regarded as meaningful, but the group that did just a couple of back offsets after that had like a 99% chance of seeing gains that were beyond what's considered meaningful. So add your, your back offsets, do your top single. And yeah, as the great Greek philosopher trainer and politician NS once said, top, top single, couple of triples call it a day. Yeah, I largely agree. As the creator of the minimum dose method just pointed out, I think in this example specifically, one to three sets of one to three reps at three to five reps in reserve versus just one single but heavy, I would strongly suspect the one to three sets to win out. For one, I think you're going sufficiently heavy with one to three sets of one to three reps or P six or so to get most of the strength benefit. Like you're going pretty heavy still there. You're going to like 80, 90% of your max typically. For two, going closer to failure is not necessarily better. It does allow you to go slightly heavier, but going to failure inherently doesn't make a set better for strength. So if anything, I would prioritize lower RP walk over super high RP walk, at least as far as maximizing strength outcomes in the, in the overall program, not necessarily maximizing per sets the most. And so let's say multiple sets of few reps at somewhat more, some maximal RPs is a better way to go generally. I think that being more submaximum is better on average, being heavier is better on average, and multiple sets is going to be better than just one set. I think that keeping the number of sets relatively low overall still makes sense, especially if you're trying to keep strength as a small part of your program. The, those response relationship between number of sets and strength seems to be considerably foreign quote, it seems to cap out considerably earlier than for hypertrophy. So one behind the scenes analysis that we're aware of shows that the benefits may cap out as early as around 10 sets per week per lift. So just doing a few sets once or twice a week might get you much of the way there as far as strength gains go. So as the, the creator of the minimum dose method pointed out, I do think the former would be slightly better, but also pointing out that the minimum effective dose method doesn't exist. All right. I think that about rounds us out. Pac, would you go to the outro? Sure. Thank you for listening to yet another stronger by science podcast. I know many of you are like, wait a second, did my Spotify app or my Apple podcast app just malfunctioned? Did we just skip an hour and a half of the usual expected time for these podcasts? So we have barely, we haven't even made it to two hours when we're left on our own devices. We're out here slacking, but in all seriousness, thank you so much for listening. Let us know if you like the slightly shorter duration. Obviously we try to keep it as detailed as possible. And don't forget to check out our YouTube channel, stronger by science, youtube.com slash stronger by science, I guess just YouTube stronger by science. A lot of content, a lot of short, shorter form content comes out there and we have some exciting stuff with some exciting guests that we are looking forward to sharing with you very soon. Check out stronger by science.com for new articles for coaching and obviously don't forget to sign up to the newsletter and all the other plugs that we said at the beginning. So from us over here at stronger by science in New York, we bid you adieu and we'll see you next time. Peace. Peace.

=== FILE: Is Bulking Necessary for Muscle Gain？ (Episode 138) [VRz4m7wO4RM].txt ===

! And we have another great episode for you guys today. We're going to be talking about bulking. And before we do, I just want to ask you guys, how did you guys have fun, the last couple episodes while I was away? I think it feels camouflaged as stronger by science. But in all seriousness, no, we had a lot of fun. The episodes turned out well. No offense to you, not because of your absence, but rather because of the chemistry between the two of us. But overall, they seem to be well received. And yeah, it was a blast. Glad to hear it. Glad to hear it. Yeah, I checked the YouTube comments, checked the podcast email, and seems like very, very positive reception. So I'm glad that went well, but not at all surprised because you guys are great. So yeah, let's go ahead and hop into the episode. But before we do, just have some quick plugs here at the top. If you're enjoying the show, please like, rate, subscribe, and tell your friends. It really helps us out. If you're interested in hiring an online coach to help you with your training and or nutrition goals, Stronger by Science has an excellent team of coaches that can help you out. You can learn more at strongerbyscience.com. If you want to get some supplements and you don't want to deal with all of those opaque proprietary blends, you want to actually know what you're getting, get it at a good price, and in fact, get it at an even better price. You can go over to balksupplements.com and use code SBSPOD at checkout for a 5% discount. If you want to stay up to date with all of the goings on in the Stronger by Science extended universe, join our Facebook group and or subreddit that is reddit.com slash r slash Stronger by Science or Stronger by Science community on Facebook. Check out our newsletter where we send you high quality informative content every couple of weeks, not just spamming you with a bunch of ads and bullshit you don't care about. The most recent newsletter on supersets I thought was really good, also very well received. So yeah, if you want all of the exclusive heat, head over to StrongerbyScience.com slash newsletter. And if you have questions for the podcast, you can email them to podcast at StrongerbyScience.com and to increase the probability that we address your question versus others. We will address text based questions sometimes, but we prefer audio clips because this is a podcast, it's an audio medium. So record a voice note on your phone, try to keep it under a minute and email it to podcast at StrongerbyScience.com. And if we like it and we're doing an episode on a relevant topic or just a Q&A episode, we will try to answer your question. Alright, so let's get into it. We're talking about bulking. Take us away. For sure. I think it's, before we start, I think it's fair, not fair, it's wise to very, very, very quickly share our personal experiences with bulking. Just so we tell the audience, look, we've done this. We've gained a lot of body weight in the past in an attempt to maximize muscle growth. We are certified bulkers here. I'll go first and say, hey, the best bulk, not the best, but the most aggressive bulk I did was the first year of college where I think I gained about like 40 pounds in three, three to four months. Because back then we thought that, hey, you got to get big. You got to eat big to get big. So that's my bulking experience. So I've done, I've done, I would say, two pretty big bulks. One intentional, both of them were intentional, one more well-advised than the other, I would say. So I initially competed in the 181 weight class, 82.5 kilos for non-Americans listening. So I was, I was a fairly little guy. And I was interested in competing in the first Raw Unity Meet, which I don't think they're still going anymore. But when Raw Lifting was first starting to come into its own, I realized I'm very much dating myself with this because it is the biggest game in town now and has been for quite a while. But this was, I believe 2007. Raw Lifting was just starting to become a bit of a movement and there were no like big Raw Federations. There was just like a kind of second tier Raw Division in most Federations. And so there was the idea of like, hey, let's have a Raw Unity Meet where the best Raw Lifters from all of these different Federations can come together for a big meet. It'll be cool. And it was. But yeah, so I was like, I had been a 181 and I kind of saw who was signing up in all of the weight classes, like to try to get in and like what the qualifying totals were. And I saw that the 181s were absolutely stacked and I saw that the 198s were absolutely stacked and I saw that there weren't that many people registering for the 220s or again, 100 kilos for non-Americans listening to this. And I thought I could hit the qualifying total. So I said, fuck it, I'm going to go for it. So I had been walking around at like 183 and just doing a small cut to 181. And I balked from 183 to like 206 in like three months. And honestly, that went spectacularly well. Like I was 16, 17 at the time. So I already had a couple years of pretty serious training under my belt. But, you know, I still had youth on my side and plenty of potential still in the tank. So yeah, yeah, that went really well. And I do not regret that one. The second big bulk I went on, I had been competing in the 100 kilo class for a while. Like that was a weight that I was quite comfortable with. But the gym that I was training and coaching at, we were going to the IPA North Carolina state championships and taking a team. And we wanted to fill out as many weight classes as possible. Just to like, there was there was a 0% chance we weren't going to win like the team competition for the meat. But we just kind of wanted to just wanted to be dicks and run up the score. So we were like, yeah, let's let's try to fill out every weight class we can and and have people podium in as many weight classes as possible. And me and the gym owner were both 220s. And so, you know, you give the nod to seniority. So I bumped up to 242 for that meat. And like at that time I was walking around at like 223, 224. So I could have just not done anything and just been a really light 242 and it would have been fine. But, you know, you got weight classes and you tend to be able to gain more strength if you're in an energy surplus. And so I said, fuck it, if I'm a 242, I'm a 242. So I, I bulked from, yeah, like 223 to like, to I didn't have to cut for that meat. I think I think I came in at like 238 without like cutting or water manipulating or anything. But I, I put on like a solid 15 pounds in the span of like two months leading up to the meat because it was kind of like touch and go whether whether the gym owner was going to compete or not. So once, once I got the nod that like, yes, I am a 242. Yeah, I put on like 15 pounds in two months. And I do think it helped me perform a little bit better on the platform. But also that was around the time I was finishing up college and my lifestyle changed quite a bit. Wasn't nearly as active anymore. And it ended up being a big pain in the ass to try to lose some of that weight and get back down. So, yeah, I think it was net productive for that one meat. But I, in hindsight, probably shouldn't have done that. What about you, Dr. Wolf? My bulking stories are far less heroic than the good Mr. Knuckles' or even yours pack. I never did that silly of a bulk. Like I, the craziest I got was bulking from around 200 pounds to like 250 over the course of like a year, which like 50 pounds of weight gained. That's a lot. That's about a pound a week. So that's around 2% of bulking weight per month, which is on the upper end of things, as we'll discuss. But certainly no two month, 40 pound gain bulks like the good Dr. Pack described earlier. But yeah, in general, over my lifting career, I have gained around, I don't know, maybe 120 pounds from lowest to highest. So a sizable amount of weight. I will say actually, more recently, during my one month spent in New York City for a study back in the fall, I did gain around, I didn't weigh myself once because I was too lazy to bring a scale. And then a month, I think I gained around 12 pounds or something. America's baby, hell yeah. I was eating AdLibitim and I was being cheap, you know, so. That's what freedom does to you. Yeah, that's true. The food was just so good. America is so advanced that the food was so good that I couldn't help but over it. So, you know, I think I don't think anyone is is talking about goldfish theory enough in reference to the obesity crisis. Like, you know, people people try to talk about all of these things why Americans are fatter than Europeans. Is it that we eat more? Maybe who knows? Is it that we don't have as much walkable infrastructure and are less active? Ah, who knows? Seems like a stretch, wild idea. But if you take a goldfish and put it in a little bowl, it doesn't get very big. But if you put it in a bigger bowl, it gets much bigger. And if you've ever driven through the Great Plains, we have a lot of space in America. And I wonder if human biology is like goldfish biology and we're just trying to expand to fill all of that empty space. Who knows? For anyone who can't pick up on sarcasm, that is not at all serious. I don't think human physiology and goldfish physiology are the same. I do think the amount we eat and the amount we don't move are much larger contributors, but who knows? Inquiring minds should look into it. On that note, just to counter Dr. Wolff's bulk shaming, we have the first study that we're going to be looking at today by Rosanek et al. from 2002. What a segue. Putting Dr. Wolff's approach to shame and I'm about to tell you why. Because these people took 19 untrained individuals that were either assigned to a control group where they maintained a regular diet or a high calorie supplement group where they essentially consumed an additional 2,000 calories per day through a high calorie supplement that if I'm not mistaken was mostly carbs. Now, they also followed an eight week resistance training program and they measured body composition using hydrostatic weighing and assessed strength via a plethora of one RM tests. I said plethora specifically for Milo because she loves when I use that word, but they essentially tested strength on the bench and squat. Now, in contrast to Dr. Wolff's very conservative approach, the group that was consuming an extra 2,000 calories a day and was likely on a very heavy surplus, gained fat free mass and body weight obviously, but they did not gain any additional fat mass. So they essentially made the straight up gains from the YOLO bulk that they went on, whereas the control group simultaneously gained fat free mass and lost a bit of fat mass. Now, who's laughing now Milo? You took it easy while Greg and I ate in insane surpluses and the literature is here to support it. But in all seriousness, how is this possible? We see that these individuals consumed a very heavy surplus and while resistance training essentially managed to allocate those calories mostly to muscle building. The caveat here is that they were untrained individuals that were very sensitive to muscle growth and to the stimulus presented by resistance training. And in that case, it is actually possible to take advantage of greater surpluses and actually make gains because even the control group made gains. So they gained muscle and lost fat simultaneously. But I'm curious to hear what Mr. Greg Knuckles has to say about this study because I am sure you have some at least one fun fact that I've missed out on. Not really. I did just want to fact check one thing. There were two supplement groups. One just, it was just carbs and the other was carbs and protein. And that difference didn't really seem to matter. Both of the supplement groups, it was an extra 2000 calories per day and both of them just gained mostly muscle, very little fat, very good results. The one thing that I would add about this study, I think, is that the just in terms of like terminology is the intention of the researchers was to put them in a very large surplus. They told them to maintain their current dietary habits and consume this 2000 calorie supplement. But if anyone listening to this has experience with weight gainers, like weight gainer shakes, I'm sure you know this firsthand. They really fuck your appetite for the rest of the day. Like if you have a, I used to drink a mass gainer shake that was like 900 calories per serving and I didn't want to eat much the rest of the day. I still did because you got a sacrifice to win, etc., etc. But yeah, 2000 calorie shake, that's a lot. And when you actually look at the weight changes in the study, if memory serves, the two supplement groups gained like two, two and a half kilos of fat free mass and basically no fat. And so the energy density of fat free mass is like 800 calories per pound, give or take, like 800, 850. So they ended up actually not being in that large of surpluses. So either the really high calorie supplement they took, they decreased other food intake to kind of offset that. You know, just having less appetite throughout the day or their energy expenditure increased a lot because they were training hard and started consuming more. But either way, they didn't actually, if you look at the results, they didn't actually end up being in a net 2000 calorie per day surplus. I strongly suspect even in untrained subjects, like an actual 2000 calorie per day surplus is going to be fucking wild. You're going to gain a lot of muscle. You're going to gain also a lot of fat in the process. So yeah, it still ended up being a pretty large surplus. But when I hear people talk about this study, they often say like, oh yeah, like a 2000 calorie per day surplus is good for untrained lifters. You can't take that away from the study. The researchers intended to put them in that large of a surplus, but dietary adherence and training studies is often considerably less than perfect. And when you look at the actual body comp results, it's pretty clear that the actual surplus they were in was still pretty large, but quite a bit smaller than that. Yeah, and I think that illustrates a trend with the bulking research wherein while researchers often aim to have participants gain a certain amount of weight to compare the effect of the different surpluses, oftentimes things end up being a lot more moderate than desired and the groups end up looking a lot more similar than desired as well. That's even the case for a study by Homes and colleagues we'll talk about later. But yeah, personally to me, these results aren't too surprising. Like if someone came to me and never lifted weights before and over eight weeks they gained three kilograms. I wouldn't be shocked to see that that was largely muscle mass and little to none fat mass. So yeah, good news for the beginners. You can make great gains and eat in a large surplus and probably not see any appreciable fat gain. Hooray, absolutely. So what if someone isn't a beginner? What if there may be an elite athlete on one of Norway's national teams? Well, I'm glad you asked that because there is a study by Garth et al from 2013 where they did take 39 elite athletes from various sports, rowing, kayaking, soccer, we call it football now in this podcast, volleyball and some others. And they were essentially randomized into two groups. One group that received nutritional counseling and was specifically given meal plans designed for them to gain roughly 0.7% of body weight per week. And the other group essentially was told to eat ad lividum. And they had an 8-12 week intervention that was aimed at weight gain. And both groups continued whatever they were doing for their sports. So they did their usual sports specific training, but they also included an additional four strength training sessions per week. If we look at the diet plans that were provided for the group that received counseling, they essentially were on a high protein diet where they ate roughly around 1.42 grams of protein per kilo body weight and about 5 to 7 grams per kilo body weight of carbs. And the rest essentially came for fat. And what they did is they assessed the body composition via DEXA. And after the intervention was done, the group that received counseling and was specifically provided with a plan that put them in a surplus, they increased their energy intake significantly. So they ended up consuming roughly around 3.5 thousand calories versus roughly 3,000 calories in the ad lividum group. And they also ended up consuming, obviously, as a consequence, more protein, carbs and fats. Surprisingly though, their body weight increased more than the group that was eating ad lividum, with their fat mass also increasing more than the group was eating ad lividum. However, when we look at the lean body mass increases in both groups, even though it increased in both groups, there were no significant differences between them. So the group that was eating, that was following the advice, the counseling, the group that was provided a meal plan gained roughly 1.7 percent as far as lean body mass goes, where the ad lividum group gaining around 1.2 percent. But we see that the Yolobolk approach in highly trained individuals may not actually met more muscle growth. And this was one of the first studies to hint at there. As far as strength goes, they did not really see any difference there as well. And the group that gained more body weight saw a decrease in 40-meter sprint performance with no changes observed in the ad lividum group. And people, I think, assume that the bulking research is much more solid than it really is. I assume that people think that there's studies and studies on different surpluses and different populations. But up until recently, we only had a few studies, including one of them being this one, to actually hang on to and decide whether a large surplus could also be beneficial for trained individuals. But this study hints at a potential no given the much greater fat gain in the group that was in a heavy surplus versus the other group. Yeah, yeah, no, I agree with that. And an important point you made there is we really don't have that much research on this for a couple reasons. One is any study with nutritional controls, like attempts at nutritional controls, is going to be tough. And yeah, so a lot of training studies, a common complaint you'll hear about them is like, oh, well, they didn't control the subjects diets. And that's much easier said than done. And even a lot of studies that say that they control subjects diets don't actually, like they give them dietary advice, ask people to track their nutrition, and then on the back end just look to see like, yeah, was it similar enough to actually control things? It generally needs to be impatient. And if it's not impatient, you still need to have people come into the lab multiple times per day to prepare and feed them food in the lab, which obviously makes studies dramatically more expensive. But oftentimes the closest thing that the closest you'll come to actual nutrition controls are studies like this where you're dealing with like elite level athletes where, you know, maybe they're living and training at a national training facility where they would have people on site to, in some cases, provide the meals in other cases, you know, like be able to provide food according to like some meal plan that would be easy for researchers to like monitor and track quite accurately. So, yeah, it's hard to have like actual controlled nutrition research. This is about as good as you can do oftentimes in free living situations. And because of that, there really isn't that much research on bulking. And until, God, what, like two or three years ago, maybe these were the two studies we had looking at different surpluses. You had one that was a supplement study in untrained subjects, and you had this one study on like really elite athletes and really nothing in between. And now we have like three more studies, but we're still dealing with a pretty small body of research. So that was that was something I wanted to call out. The other thing just worth noting, just kind of like piggybacking off something you said, Packer, I guess the tone with which you said something. You sounded like a little surprised that the nutrition counseling group ate way like quite a bit more than the ad libitum group, because I think, and maybe I just like misheard your tone of voice, but just going off of what like I interpreted by how you presented that. I think like a frame of reference a lot of people have in mind is that if people eat ad libitum, they just kind of naturally gravitate to an energy surplus, and it takes nutrition counseling to get people to eat less. But that very, very frequently is not the case in like an elite athletics context. Like, you know, I'm not talking like elite power lifters and bodybuilders here. I'm talking like real athletes, like people that might represent their country in the Olympics. That's like a decent heuristic, but you know, maybe not in the case of like dressage or something. But, you know, when I say like real sports, I think people know what I'm talking about things like soccer or volleyball or ice hockey or whatever. So in a sporting context when you're dealing with really high level athletes that are training two, three, four hours a day, very intensely lifting and oftentimes like a lot of cardio as well. It is often difficult to get people to eat enough to just maintain their body weight. Like if you talk to sports dietitians, they'll readily tell you that that's one of the biggest struggles they have with a lot of their athletes. Now, if it's like American football players, they might have like some lineman on the team or it's just like, yeah, this person is coming into camp like 40 pounds overweight. Like they tend to eat too much. But like with most positions, it's like, no, we need these guys to gain weight. We need these guys to eat enough to like maintain their weight, maintain their performance, hopefully try to build some muscle in the offseason. And that's fucking hard. So it wasn't surprising to me that kind of that normal assumption people have was flipped in the study where it did require the nutrition counseling group to get people in a pretty large surplus. And in the ad libitum group, the just kind of normal level of intake that people gravitated towards was was a bit lower. Yeah, that is my personal bias there. Leave me at my own devices and tell me to eat as I like. I'll see you in a couple of days at plus 50 pounds. Join a rugby team and see how that goes. Dude, uh, no, no, we don't have time for story time. But yeah, just just from working with like a like young American football players like high schoolers who are quite talented but needed to gain, you know, 1520 pounds to get to the size that they would need to be to be tantalizing enough to college scouts. It was a fucking struggle. Like, and that's also like slightly different because they were young. But yeah, it's, it's, um, it's hard. It's hard to get athletes and a lot of sports to eat enough because if you're muscular and young and exercising a lot. And I mean, there is in a lot of sports, there is a advantage to kind of be.  amlodipine, n-atrally-lean, just because in most sports, they'd have a speed or power component. Fat mass is additional mass you're moving around the field that isn't necessarily aiding in performance. So it tends to be beneficial to be lean, but it's also not beneficial to be cutting all the time. So a lot of elite athletes are naturally lean people who have a higher than average ability to gain muscle. I don't think that's surprising for most people to hear, but they do tend to be... People that complain about being hard-gainers, it's kind of like that, but also when you do get the menacer+, they gain a lot of muscle, but they tend to naturally gravitate towards being leaner and smaller. I'm speaking with a broad brush there, but I think that general phenotype is more overrepresented and high-level athletes than the general population. And yeah, with those folks, if you can get them in a surplus, good things happen, but it's hard to get them in a surplus because they tend to not have that big of appetites. Yeah. A couple of my takeaways from the study. I mean, in general, I think when you're interpreting this body of research on bulking, it's instructive to look more at rates of weight gain over the course of the study and the purported surplus. And that's where I want to give a shout-out to MacroFactor, because actually we've been using MacroFactor in a few of our studies to at least assess the dietary intake and habits of the participants to see whether or not at least the baseline and after the study, if there were any differences between groups that could have contributed to differences in hypertrophy observed or what have you, or at least serve as a way to account for dietary differences between groups. So there are ways to somewhat monitor that, and MacroFactor has been helpful in that. But I think in general, when you're looking at this body of research, it's helpful to look more so at the rates of body weight gained versus the surplus they are aiming for. So in this case, we're kind of comparing in the study, gaining around half a percent to one percent of body weight per month to about one to one and a half-ish percent of body weight per month. So a more very modest rate of weight gain to a more moderate to fast rate of weight gain. And from what I've seen on social media for this study by Gorth, there's kind of two interpretations. The first one is to say, well, the faster bulk group actually gained around one and a half times much lean body mass. They gained, I think around 1.8 pounds versus 1.2 pounds of lean body mass in the slower bulk group. And hey, and people who have been training for a while, 50 percent more growth sounds like a good deal to me. And yeah, they gained more fat mass, but cutting fat is way easier than gaining muscle in trained lifters. And therefore that extra 50 percent of muscle gained is meaningful, and we can just spend an extra few weeks cutting and that can add up over the long run. Therefore interpretation two of the study is, well, statistically speaking, they were pretty similar in terms of how much lean body mass they gained, but the slower bulk group, the ad lividum group, did gain like something like five or six times less fat. But in reality, the absolute difference was actually pretty small in how much fat they gained. So I think both interpretations of the study are slightly misleading. To me, this study, I know some people will claim this is like a big win for more modest rates of weight gain. I kind of think it's a wash because, yeah, lean body mass gains were slightly larger in the more aggressive bulk group, but I also think that lean body mass specifically can be swayed pretty easily by calorie intake and carbohydrate intake specifically. So when you're measuring lean body mass, glycogen weight and associated water weight can be swaying the measurements pretty easily, even after a couple of days, I would say. And two, I think the trade off in additional lean body mass gained versus additional fat mass gained in the long run here would largely wash each other out. If you gain weight faster, you might gain a little bit more muscle in this case, but you're also going to have to spend more time cutting. If you gain weight more slowly, you get a bit less muscle, but you also have to spend less time cutting. And so in the long run, I think within this range that we're observing within the study of comparing like half a percent to one percent of body weight gain per month versus like more like one to two, it seems like mostly a wash to me at least as a coach. But it's interesting to see on social media the different interpretations of this study specifically. Yeah, I agree. It is a bit of a Rorschach test. I do, I mean, when you're dealing with different levels of energy intake, whether that be like smaller versus larger surpluses, surplus versus maintenance, maintenance versus deficit, whatever. It is it is worth like keeping some things in mind when the proxy for hypertrophy you're looking at is lean body mass. Because like I suspect that some of the difference, maybe all of it honestly, but at least some of the difference is at least attributable to differences in food intake. Whether that be higher levels of glycogen and associated water content or simply just like food mass in the digestive tract, which scans as lean body mass on a dexa. So yeah, when when you're eating more, there's just more undigested stuff in your guts at all times. And yeah, that's that's something people don't talk about all that much. Like when when people shift from like a surplus to a deficit and they lose a lot of weight very quickly, you'll often hear people chalk all of that up to glycogen content like you're in a deficit now, your glycogen is lower, water weight goes with that. But also like the mass of stuff in your intestinal tract is is a non trivial factor there. In fact, oh, I'm blanking on the author's name, but the first water cutting study that was done back in maybe like 2017, 2018 or so, Read Real, I think was was the lead author on that one. The weight cutting approach they used was like for the first month or so, they just had everyone on a low residue diet, which was, you know, I think it was a small deficit as well. But basically just like taking as much fiber as you can out of the diet in order to have stuff that would like go through the intestinal tract faster. And like just just that reduced body weight by like, I think somewhere in the neighborhood of like 1% or so, which, you know, we're dealing with percentages, but in real terms for most people that's like pound and a half, two pounds, give or take. And so yeah, like when you're dealing with like different size surpluses, a bound of stuff in the gut could make a difference or it could not, you know, like I said, it is a bit of a rorschach test. But yeah, there are things to keep in mind when interpreting small, non-significant differences in lean body mass gained in a context of different size energy surpluses than just glycogen content. But I do, since the size of the surpluses were different, I would not claim that that fully makes the like 0.6% difference in lean mass gains completely illusory. But I do think that if that nominal difference would tend to overstate or understate the magnitude of the real difference, I think just the difference in surplus would tend to mean that it would, if anything, tend to overstate it. And the actual difference in gains in muscle were smaller than the like nominal differences in gains in lean mass. Yeah, I fully agree. And it's unfortunate that we don't have more studies that take direct measurements of muscle hypertrophy. Like oftentimes we end up looking at lean body mass, which as you mentioned, will directionally be favoring higher rates of weight gain, like glycogen and just higher food weight in general. But yeah, let's move on to cover some of the rest of literature on bulking. Speaking of direct measurements of muscle mass, the transition experts this time. We have a study by Helm Sedal. This was a recently published study that gained a lot of traction for the right reasons called effect of small and large energy surpluses on strength muscle and skin fold thickness in resistance-trained individuals, a parallel groups design. And what they did here is they took 21 trained individuals that we had a minimum of one year of resistance training experience and they randomized them to essentially one of three groups, either maintenance where they were supposed to maintain their weight and eat at maintenance and moderate surplus, so a 5% surplus and a high surplus where they were supposed to eat at 15% over maintenance. They followed a supervised resistance training program three days per week for eight weeks and they looked at strength for the squat and the bench, but also took muscle thickness measurements and skin fold assessments to look at changes in hypertrophy, but also to assess modified changes. The nice thing in the study that I appreciated as Greg mentioned, controlling, so running these sort of interventions and controlling nutrition can be quite challenging, but they actually did monitor the participants intake and adjusted it every week, much like you do with an online coach to an extent. And what we saw, so I'm not going to get into a ton of the details in regards to the training program, but they did a full body resistance training program with a bunch of exercises including the squat and the bench that was assessed and they looked at the biceps, triceps and quads in terms of assessing muscle thickness pre and post and measured skin fold thickness at eight sites. Now the interesting thing with this study if you look at the body weight data of the participants is that the group that was supposed to be in the 5% surplus ended up somewhat overeating and so essentially we have a comparison here of a group of eight, of a bunch of people that ate at 15% surplus making this a study where bulking versus maintaining was compared. Now the group that maintained saw similar gains in muscle thickness as the groups that were gaining weight with a slight exception for the biceps where there was a bit more gain for the group that was actually overeating. Overall this study painted a picture where being on maintenance calories may allow you to make similar muscle gains as being on a surplus as the group that did gain weight gained more fat as well and essentially changes in body mass were a very strong predictor of changes in skin fold thickness but they were not a strong predictor for change in muscles thickness or strength gains because the groups also made similar strength gains. Now I'm not sure how much we want to touch on the way the authors actually performed their analysis because it's pretty interesting. Greg do you want to touch on that at all? Wasn't it just regression? Yeah but the reason they changed their data analysis that's what I was hinting at. They're original because people ended up gravitating towards pretty similar rates of weight gain or at least like they didn't wind up being between group differences. Yeah exactly. Yeah I think some of that honestly was probably just down to sample size. I do suspect that if you had and that's not a criticism of the researchers but I do suspect if you had groups of like 100 subjects and you told 100 people to be at main ends, 100 people to be in a 5% surplus, 100 people to be in a 15% surplus. I do still think there would be heavy overlap in terms of the individual rates of weight change in those groups but I suspect you would wind up, I think you could have adequate dietary control for there to be like mean group differences in rates of weight gain but yeah with 7 people per group. Yeah you're going to need like maniacal levels of dietary adherence for there to be group differences there. But yeah it does just underlie the point that yeah it's tough to get people into the precise magnitude of surplus or deficit that you would like them to be in. Sometimes just because people aren't going to eat exactly as much as you tell them to and sometimes because it can be hard to calculate or estimate exactly the amount that they would need to eat to achieve the size surplus that you want them to be in. So when you're estimating energy requirements, ideally someone has been tracking for a while already like they've been tracking their nutrition, tracking their weight and you can just from there kind of like solve the energy balance equation to fairly accurately estimate their maintenance calories and then you know bump it up or down from there corresponding to the desired rate of weight change you want. Again a little plug, macro factor does that for you, it's very cool but you can also do that by hand and that is something that researchers do when that's available to them. But often times you just kind of have someone's basic demographic and anthropometric information plug it into like a TDE formula and you know a number pops out and then you bump that down you know X percent, up or down X percent to try to get to a particular rate of weight gain or weight loss and I think something that is underappreciated is just how much potential for error there is in those formulas. So like the way they work is you estimate your BMR and then you multiply that by some activity factor to estimate total daily energy expenditure and then you have a value that you are assuming is maintenance and you can bump it up or down from there to try to get into a surplus or deficit of a particular magnitude. I will note I don't remember like for sure that that's what they did in this study but I suspect they did something similar to that at least for the initial recommendations. But yeah, so something that I think is underappreciated is that like the typical error of BMR formulas is like around 200 calories per day and they have like or the standard deviation for error in BMR formulas is like 200 calories per day, give or take. So that means like just within two standard deviations of the mean you could be over underestimating BMR by like up to 400 calories and errors of like 200 calories are really, really common. And from there, assuming you select the right activity multiplier, which is another thing entirely because they're like kind of vague and not super well defined. Let's say you select the right activity multiplier for literally everyone to the extent that the BMR calculation was an over underestimate, you're magnifying that with the multiplier you add on top of it. So the like error of that initial TDE calculation will inherently have more error than the error in the initial BMR calculation. And so yeah, then if you want someone in a really small surplus like a 5% surplus from there, good luck. Because at that point you're dealing with a surplus of like, you know, maybe a couple hundred calories and your initial TDE estimate might be off by like, like 500 calories or something. So yeah, for one person, you take that number bump it up by 200, they're still in a deficit. For other people, you take that number bump it up by 200 and you're putting them in a pretty big surplus. And yeah, then with like ongoing monitoring, like monitoring what they're eating, monitoring their weight of weight change, you can kind of correct those errors over time. But just generating those initial numbers is like there is always going to be error. And I think considerably more than people expect. And so then when you're dealing with relatively small groups and a relatively short term study, I don't think it should be much of a surprise that a fair number of people aren't going to end up gaining weight at the rate you would like them to. Like even if dietary adherence is perfect, your recommendations just from the start are going to be much less than perfect for a hefty percentage of your subjects. Which if this was like a one year long training study, you could wash that out. Like you know, people are gaining or losing weight faster or slower than you want for like the first month or two, but then you're monitoring weight change and you're like, oh, we overestimated for these people underestimated for these we can adjust. But yeah, with small groups and a short term study, it's the most predictable thing in the world that you wouldn't wind up with rates of weight gain that actually differed by all that much. Yeah. And just to expand on those findings, I think this study ended up being essentially a comparison of maintenance to a modest or moderate surplus. Which I think those sort of comparisons end up being relatively frequent in the bulking data. But in this case, the one important thing to note is that even just being in maintenance that result in substantial hypertrophy and strength gains in a relatively well-trained population. And if you zoom out and look at the literature overall, as in a meta regression by Murphy and colleagues, if I recall correctly, you do see that people can gain muscle even with whether they're trained or not, that you can recomp. You can gain muscle and lose fat at the same time. And this is one of those studies that was actually conducted in a relatively well-trained population and that still found appreciable gains in muscle size and in strength at maintenance. Which I just thought was worth noting because that's maybe not so much in our evidence-based fitness niche, but just in general, still a clean up looks around is that recomping is really suboptimal or that you can't really gain much muscle while maintaining. I think that is a lot more of a dial than it is a yes or no. You can gain muscle maintenance. You can even gain muscle in a slight deficit. But it's essentially going to continue from less likely to gain muscle to more likely to gain muscle from a harsh deficit to being in a larger surplus. So yeah, just one interesting finding. I did think it was interesting that hypertrophy and strength gains were pretty similar between maintenance and the surplus here. But again, being in a surplus isn't going to hurt from what I can see in this study and previous studies. Interestingly, this wasn't the only study that used a regression approach if I'm mistaken. And I think the next study we'll cover is also looking at a regression approach to look at the effects of bulking on hypertrophy. Nice attempt and a transition there, Dr. Wolff. I wanted to also touch that an important asterisk for the Helms et al. study is that if I'm not mistaken, their data collection was affected by the pandemic that was ongoing at the moment, thus the somewhat smaller sample size than anticipated. And to plug the SBS YouTube channel, there is a video with the lead author himself touching on this study and the topic in general coming out soon. So make sure you subscribe. Yep, you got that right. It's an ad by us in the middle of the podcast. So if we look at some of the literature that has tried to essentially plot how muscle gain and weight gain go together, if we look at a paper that is usually focused on for when talking about energy deficit and how calorie deficits impact lean gains and strength, we see that overall eating in the deficit after a specific point and the authors have identified the point being at around a 500 calorie deficit. Past that point gains in muscle mass actually losses in muscle mass are observed. But when if we look more closely as Milo briefly mentioned, we see that the closer you are to maintenance and then the closer you are inside a surplus, the better that is for muscle growth. And that's something that previous analysis have also looked at. So there's a Bayesian regression by Smith et al. from 2021 called predicting adaptations to resistance training plus overfeeding using a Bayesian regression, a preliminary investigation essentially also supporting the idea that if you're gaining approximately 0.55% of your body weight per week, you are essentially gaining mostly fat free mass. However, we must be somewhat cautious when interpreting this data. The reason I think it's wise to mention it in the context of this episode is that as Milo said, although we do have some evidence showing that muscle gain is possible at maintenance calories, the overall state of the literature does support that a slight surplus is probably a good idea if you want to maximize gains, something that has been touched on with papers that have actually looked at why is an energy surplus required. And there's a classic paper by Slater et al. essentially looking directly at that question whether an energy surplus is required to build muscle, which concludes that I think roughly and Greg, correct me if I'm wrong, roughly around 300 to 300 calories over once maintenance, obviously with some limitations there as far as the absolute number is probably best in order to maximize muscle gain at least when trying to understand muscle gain mechanistically. Overall, because a lot of people took the Helm et al. study and ran with the idea that all you need to do for muscle gain and to maximize muscle gain is maintenance, the overall state of the literature does support that it's probably wise to be in a slight surplus if you actually want to maximize muscle gain. Yeah, so one take I will give regarding the Smith paper specifically is because they ran a regression analysis, especially with smaller sample sizes, regressions can be somewhat deceiving. I think if you're not somewhat in the know, in the sense that they can, I think, give people an unduly confident estimate of a relationship. So in this case, for example, if you look at their plot of how much body weight was gained versus how much of that body weight gain was fat free mass, you actually see that when you're gaining around 2% of body weight per month, which is a pretty aggressive weight of weight gain, all of that weight gain would be considered a fat free mass. And this was in resistance train meals. So I think for some people, this paper serves as a rationale to say, hey, we can gain weight superfast and we should just be getting muscle mass, baby. But in reality, I think one, the sample size here doesn't necessarily lend itself to an inference that sweeping. And two, just like we mentioned earlier about more aggressive weights of weight gain, typically favoring, you know, typically favoring an interpretation that is positive for dreamer walking or just very aggressive rates of weight gain due to potentially inflated readings of fat free mass gains, whether it's why food weight or carbohydrate weight or what have you. This study, I suspect, detected the same where I very much doubt that people gaining 2% of body weight per month in an advanced population can expect to gain only fat free mass. I think this study is overestimating that likelihood. Oh, yeah. I just think this study is certainly quote unquote biased as far as the results go towards favoring more aggressive rates of weight gain. Yeah, that's my hunch. I'm very open to being proven wrong. Greg, do you disagree with my anti-tumor book propaganda? No, yeah, I agree with what you're saying. Another thing that I wanted to just point out about the study is like one of the things that will jump out if someone clicks on the link and reads the abstract is the subjects were described as resistance-trained males. And that's a broad category, you know, people that have... So the recruitment characteristics for this study in the Helms paper, I think, were the same. It was people that had at least six months of continuous resistance training experience. You see that, you assume they're going to be pretty similar populations. But then when you look at the changes that occur in those studies other than the fat free mass outcomes, I think strength is a pretty good indicator of how well trained your study population actually is. And if memory serves in the Helms study, it was like 12 weeks and strength in most of the major lifts increased by like 8 to 11 percent, give or take, which, you know, if you're gaining strength even in the neighborhood of like 1 percent per week, I'd still say like you're a pretty intermediate-ish lifter. Like that's not a super advanced population. Like it was a pretty well-trained sample relative to the literature, but not like crazy advanced. Like if I could expect to put, you know, 30, 40, 50 percent on a lift in the span of a year, I'd be like, yeah, you got plenty of room to run there. But in the Smith study, it was a six-week study. And I think their main lift, if memory serves, like I hadn't read this paper in a bit, but if memory serves, their main strength test was a leg press, and people were putting like over 20 percent on their leg press in the span of six weeks. So people are gaining strength at like 3 percent per week. Eh, they have some training experience. Sure, like I don't think the researchers were relying about their recruitment criteria, but this was a not that much above untrained sample, I would say. Like if we're being charitable, we can say extremely early intermediate. So much like the Rosenek paper that we discussed.  in those populations. So I actually buy that the subjects in the Smith study were gaining on average basically all fat-free mass when they were bulking at a rate of 0.55% per week. I can buy that, but I also think that's primarily because this was a not very well-trained-at-all sample. And I say that based on the strength outcomes reported in the study. Pretty big gains in leg-press strength in a very short period of time. Yeah, and just to wrap up the discussion on the hypertrophy observed here, as I mentioned earlier, based on the regression analysis, they ran on how much of the increase in body weight was just fat-free mass. Around 2% of body weight gained per month, it was based on this analysis, all fat-free mass. So you can gain 2% of body weight per month and just gain muscle. Now one that does kind of fail the SNF test, where for me, for example, weighing around 220, that would mean that in the next 12 months, I could gain around 50 pounds and have that all be fat-free mass, which just looking at advanced bodybuilders, that's not really happening. So I do think training status here does play a role. But additionally, in this study specifically, they also looked at a couple of muscle thicknesses, elbow flexors specifically, and the extensors. So essentially, biocytes, brachialis, et cetera, and quads. And if you look at the elbow flexor muscle thickness changes as it co-varies with body mass gain or body weight gain, you see that actually with higher rates of body weight in this study, you see less of an improvement as you gain more weight. So that doesn't really track with how fat-free mass changed. So I would say if anything, I would be just a bit skeptical of the relationship between fat-free mass gained and body weight gained in this study, and I wouldn't take these results verbatim and apply them through your training and gain 2% of body weight every single month as an advanced trainee. I would earn much more on the side of caution and maybe gain around 1% of body weight per month or closer to that sort of figure. But yeah, I think this study, I do think you make a good point about extrapolation because if you apply this to a very different population, so advanced lifters, and if you extrapolate timescale, so if you say, hey, over the next, I'm gonna bulk for 10 months, what's it gonna look like? Yeah, I don't think the results would apply one to one. But given the population they used in this study and very crucially the fact that it was a six-week study, do I, does that pass the SNF test? For me it does, but I think even in this population, if they ran it out to four, five, six months, I think by the end of that, if you're gaining it 2% per month, the amount of fat you gain probably would have started trending up also just as this training status increases, you're putting 20% on your leg press in the first six weeks, I don't think that rate of progress is gonna keep up over the long term. But yeah, for people without a ton of training experience, going into an intensive training program and a relatively short-term, relatively large surplus, yeah, I think in that context, this makes sense to me, but once you extrapolate too far outside that context, you would wind up with some pretty erroneous assumptions. For sure, no, I agree. I think in general, given that we only have the rate of four somewhat direct studies on bulking, and a lot of them aren't on particularly trained populations, if anything, I would consider the populations pretty closely and make careful extrapolations from this data, specifically from this study. Yeah, I wouldn't advocate for gaining 2% of body weight as a resistance-trained male, quote unquote, just because I think if you've been training for more than a few years, that might be a pretty aggressive rate of weight gain. It might lead to the infamous dreamer-bulk situation. No, I agree. I think when I look at these studies, what I see is in the two studies where the people were either untrained or didn't have that much training experience, Smith and Rosenek, you do tend to see pretty good, pretty favorable results with quite fast rates of weight gain. And so I think like, yeah, if someone's relatively untrained or like, yeah, maybe you've been fucking around in the gym for a while, but you're about to start taking your training seriously for the first time. I do think it's quite plausible that for your first couple of months of training, if you really want to hammer it with big surpluses, you might gain a little fat, but I think a much larger percentage of the weight you gain will be fat-free mass than you might expect. Like that, in that period when you're primed for rapid growth and some energy into the system to facilitate rapid growth, good things happen. I will also note that in both that study and the Rosenek study, the in the Rosenek study, the control group and in the Smith study, the subjects gaining weight at a slower rate, but still gaining weight actually experience net recomp in an energy surplus or at least at net rates of weight gain, meaning the number on the scale was going up, but they were simultaneously gaining muscle and losing fat and gaining muscle faster than they were losing fat. So if you're a relatively new lifter and you don't want to hammer the big surpluses, good things still happen. You'll still gain quite a bit of muscle and probably lose some fat in the process. And I think to on net to gain predominantly fat during that very early training period, you'd probably need to go for a crazy cuckoo banana land surplus, but anywhere between maintenance and a pretty big surplus, good things happen. With more well-trained lifters, so in the Helm study and especially the Garth study, you tend to see the ratio of fat gain versus muscle gain to start tipping very hard in the direction of fat gain at much slower rates of weight gain. So I think in the Garth study, the nutrition counseling group was gaining weight at like 0.35% per week or something. There was like 0.17 in the ad libitum group. And so those are both relatively slow rates of weight gain and you saw fairly similar hypertrophy results in those two groups and like five times as much fat gain at like the 0.35-ish percent body weight per week gain. So it does appear that in more well-trained lifters, larger surpluses may offer a slight benefit for hypertrophy, even though I suspect that's the case, although it is relatively equivocal in the literature, like not super clear yet. Surpluses do seem to be better than maintenance, but I don't think you could make a super strong evidentiary case that large surpluses net more muscle growth than small surpluses in well-trained populations. But even if they do, the difference probably isn't that big, but you do start seeing rates of fat gain go up at considerably slower rates of weight gain and therefore smaller energy surpluses. So as training status increases, the magnitude of surpluses you should be in probably needs to go down as well. We're about to get to listener Q&A, but there is just one more thing that I wanted to touch on before we did. If you're interested in reading some stronger by science content that is tangentially related to this topic as well, two articles will be linked in the show notes. One of them is called Should You Bulk or Should You Cut Before You Bulk? How Body Fat Levels Affect Your P Ratio? And that ended up being like four parts and like a big back and forth with some other fitness folks about the topic. But basically as part of that article, we did a subject level meta-analysis of all of the studies we could find that reported baseline body fat percentage and changes in fat and fat-free mass with longitudinal training interventions. And what we found pretty unsurprisingly is that the probability of recombing increases as body fat percentage increases. So essentially like the lean folks tended to gain pretty similar amounts of fat and muscle in these studies and I'll note these studies weren't diet controlled. Whereas the people with more body fat tended to gain about as much muscle or about as much fat-free mass as the leaner folks while also losing fat in the process. So what was observed was a higher probability of recombing as body fat percentage went up. Perhaps suggesting that people with more body fat maybe don't need to be in as large of deficits to maximize hypertrophy. Or perhaps maximizing that ad libitum feeding conditions, they're more likely to lose fat and gain muscle in the process. But maybe they'd gain even more muscle if they also like increased energy intake. But essentially we've talked about the influence of training status on probability of recombing. But we have evidence that body fat levels influence that as well where you are more likely to recomb if your baseline body fat percentage is higher. Another thing that is related to this is we've mostly talked about we've mostly talked about hypertrophy outcomes to this point, but just to briefly touch on strength as well. I wrote an article a while back called does muscle growth increase your potential for strength gains that will be linked in the show notes. And the first part of that article is analyzing a paper that came out a while back. But the end of the article, if this interests you, I did an analysis of the open powerlifting dataset looking at strength changes based on differing rates of weight gain between consecutive meats in all of the lifters that were in there that had competed a sufficient number of times. And what you see is like a pretty compelling linear relationship where gaining weight tended to be predictive of increasing your total on the platform and gaining more weight was predictive of increasing your total more. And losing weight and losing more weight was predictive of your total decreasing. So that's also probably suggestive of muscle growth occurring in the process with more muscle growth occurring at greater rates and greater total amounts of weight gain and vice versa for weight loss. But one of the other interesting things is that even though total strength, like just your powerlifting total scaled with how much weight was gained or lost, IPF points and like Wilkes points or like measures of relative performance were unrelated to weight gain or loss between meats. And I wouldn't necessarily draw any causal inferences from that. It could just be that powerlifters aren't the best at predicting whether their bulkier cutting will make them more competitive. But yeah, yeah, so it does appear that yeah, bulking will help you put more pounds on the bar and that is probably reflective in this population of building more muscle as well. But it isn't always a one-way ticket towards your relative performance and competitiveness and strength sports increasing as well. You know, it can in some contexts and may not in others. So that article will also be linked in the show notes. And it is time for some viewer Q&A. All right, so Charlotte Lake on Facebook asks, how much does bulking optimize hypertrophy over and above maintenance? I'll cancel for this one. I think there are kind of two dominant narratives within the evidence-based fitness space. As we discussed throughout the episode, the three or four direct studies we have on this topic and just in general, any study where you have people lifting weights and not necessarily observing a change in body weight over the course of the study, do suggest at least in relatively untrained populations, you can definitely build muscle without gaining weight. Now, the direct research we have on bulking versus maintaining, for example, a study by Helms and colleagues, we mentioned earlier, by Smith and colleagues, and even on a broader level, the meta regression by Murphy and colleagues, do all suggest that being in a surplus will increase hypertrophy, at least to some extent, compared to being in maintenance. One of the narratives in the space right now is that being in a surplus might become more important as you grow more advanced, but essentially, you need to line up your docs slightly better, the more advanced you get to even see any appreciable hypertrophy anymore. So essentially, the details may not matter as much to a beginner gaining muscle, as it does to a more advanced training gaining muscle. I don't know that I can confidently back that claim right now. My suspicion is that a variety of training related factors, environment related factors, like for example, for training, volume and proximity to failure, and for environment, things like being in a surplus, consuming sufficient protein, et cetera, essentially just shift how much muscle you gain up or down, but not necessarily that an absence of a surplus will categorically make it impossible for more advanced training to gain muscle. I think the influence of a surplus versus being in maintenance or even a slight deficit on hypertrophy is appreciable. I don't think it's going to be nearly as important as training, for example, or at least, major differences in training. Like I think that, for example, let's say, doubling your volume from five sets a week to 10 sets a week might play a larger role for hypertrophy than the difference between being in maintenance versus a very slight surplus. But I do think it plays an appreciable role and that if you're aiming to maximize hypertrophy, you should be in a surplus. But I think you get diminishing returns on the surplus, such that even being in say, like a one to two on a calorie surplus will probably give you most of the benefit of being in a surplus as an advanced trainee and you don't necessarily need to do in bulk. So I think considering context and viewing a surplus as one of the variables, not necessarily the main one, but certainly something that can help is where I would kind of rank it. It's difficult to give hard and fast numbers besides saying that you can gain muscle without being in a surplus, but being in at least a bit of a surplus does tend to help. So that's the very lukewarm, wishy-washy, yet evidence-based answer I can give. Unfortunately, not much more I can say there. I have a weird hypothesis about this. And I'm just floating this for the first time here as a trial balloon and you guys can tell me if it sounds dumb or not. But I actually suspect that surplus versus deficit is not the defining characteristic. I think that whether or not you're preserving versus losing body fat is the more important characteristic. Like there are a lot of like biochemical regulatory factors that are influenced by fat loss where like your body doesn't wanna starve and when you go into a def, like when you lose body fat, which tends to occur with an energy deficit, but if you're also gaining lean mass pretty quickly, well, you would probably still be in a deficit, but like the number on the scale might be going up due to the differences in energy density between fat and lean mass, et cetera, et cetera, kind of like the control group in the Rosenex study, like they gained 1.4 kilos of lean mass, lost I think like 0.8 kilos of fat mass and due to the difference in energy density, they were probably still in a net deficit, even though on average they gained weight. But regardless, gains and losses in body fat do tend to be reflective of being in a deficit or not, but I think that like, I think that like looking at some of the refeeding research, like the ratio of like fat to muscle gain after people have lost quite a bit of fat, you tend to see like preferential fat regaining versus muscle growth in that scenario, and you tend to see like biochemical and hormonal changes when fat mass is lost that make it harder to build muscle. And so I kind of suspect that I think that that, I think that that like, I think losing body fat pumps the brakes on a lot of like factors that will influence hypertrophy, whereas a lot of those same things, if you are at kind of like normal body fat levels, like you're not currently in a fat reduced state, you don't tend to see those things like regulate in the opposite direction as people are gaining massive amounts of body fat or like gaining body fat pretty quickly. So I kind of suspect that if you are at least preserving fat mass, that is the biggest factor because you're not kind of like feeding into pathways that are going to like pump the brakes on muscle growth, but I don't know that being in a large enough surplus to gain fat mass would necessarily improve things further I think that practically you, I think practically it's mostly just kind of a better safe than sorry type of calculus where like, so like just to expand on that a bit more, like in the in the Rosenek and Smith papers, you saw like really fast rates of muscle growth or at least like fat free mass accretion without gains in body fat, but one thing that was lacking in those studies were like really, really big surpluses where people were actually gaining quite a lot of fat in the process to see if that would allow like even faster accretion of fat free mass. I am like a little bit skeptical about that. I don't know. I think like if you're eating enough to preserve fat mass, you might be doing enough. And it's like the preservation of fat mass that matters more maybe than strictly whether you're in a surplus or deficit per se, even though those two things tend to be related. But like I was saying, I think that oftentimes it just comes down to like better safe than sorry type logic where if you want to make sure you're at least preserving fat mass, you know, it's easier to gain fat mass than just like perfectly teeter along that tight rope of like, am I just preserving it or am I slightly decreasing it? You know, so I think that practically being in a purposeful surplus and purposefully gaining weight helps you make sure you're at least preserving fat mass. Yeah, I don't know. Did that make any sense? Let me know in a sense. The one question that would pose back to you is, do you think it's more on a on slash off switch basis or do you think it's definitely more of a sort of dimmer or dial situation where, you know, if you're mostly preserving fat mass, that's what matters versus like you're a hundred calories below maintenance, muscle growth is really being hampered now. I suspect it's like pseudo logarithmic. Where like the, so if deficits are, you know, on your x-axis going to the left and surpluses are on your x-axis going to the right and your y-axis is propensity for hypertrophy, I think that in quadrant one, negative on the x, positive on the y, I think that at small surpluses, that's when, or small deficits, that's when you're in the positive, but like relatively rapid changing slope portion of that logarithmic curve. I think as you're getting into larger deficits, I think that's kind of when you're in that strong, well, moving from left to right positive slope of the logarithmic curve, but as you move further left, accelerating rates of negative effect part of the logarithmic curve, where like larger and larger deficits lead to like worse and worse muscle growth outcomes in a pretty rapid, pretty rapid fashion. And then kind of the y-intercept where, you know, you're crossing the zero line of net fat stasis, I think that's where that logarithmic curve is like really starting to flatten out, where if you start to gaining fat, maybe there's some stuff that like works slightly better and helps you gain slightly more muscle, but you're already to the point of diminishing returns or like very rapidly approaching it at that point. Yeah, that makes sense to me. Do you think that somewhat conforms with the Murphy matter regression, or do you think that just something that hasn't been picked up on, because we're not looking at super large deficits typically? I think it conforms with the start of the Murphy matter regression, but I mean, it was only looking at deficits, you know, I think you would need to extend it to also add surpluses into the mix. Sure, makes sense. Yeah, cool, next question. All right, okay. Red Sui, I don't know how to pronounce that, but on Reddit asks, since January 2023, I've been running long box averaging around one kilo per month, sometimes a bit more, sometimes less, circa two to 300 calorie surplus. I still find I put on disproportionately more fat than I'd like to, however, I find it easy to lose the majority of the excess fat in a quick eight week cut. Would it be advisable to go on longer, but smaller surplus box, e.g. around 0.5 kilos per month, or the other way around, higher surplus, trying to put on more muscle, or trying to put on more absolute muscle, and then just cutting the fat away? My mind says the former, but the heart calls out to the latter. Now, what do you guys think? When it comes to, like, if we were to assume that losing fat is indeed that easy for that individual, and there is no situation where they wouldn't be able to lose fat efficiently in the future, I think that both approaches obviously can work, but from a practical standpoint, and that's something we've touched on in the podcast before, I'd recommend the more conservative approach where there's less fat gain alongside potential muscle gain, because sure, things do seem somewhat manageable now with his weight gain and then fat loss, but I don't think that it's worth gaining a bunch of excess fat, no matter how confident you are in losing that fat, because life can happen, there's other things that can impact your ability to lose fat effectively, and if you end up committing to an aggressive bulk and gain 25 pounds of excess fat, which you then have to lose, you're then having to spend time being in a deficit that is at the very best, not negatively impacting your muscle growth because that person seems to be a trained individual. So I know that your heart says the latter, mine does too, and on paper, I don't think you would gain less muscle mass even if you gained more fat, and in some cases you could be gaining tiny bit more, a bit faster, but overall, because muscle growth is a slow process and it requires you to be there consistently training over time, I would always, not always, but like most of the time, offer the more conservative approach and then have less body fat to cut afterwards. You can use this episode to sort of give you that reassurance that it's likely that you're maximizing gains, even if you're in a slight surplus. So yeah, I'm not a huge fan of gaining a bunch of fat with the thought being, oh, I'll just lose it later, because then in the end, you may end up in a situation where you've bulked for X amount of months and then you've needed to cut for Y amount of months where you could have in theory been bulking for much longer having been on a smaller surplus, which based on the current literature would probably have you gain more muscle mass simply because you'll be gaining for a longer period of time, because it's not like, oh, if you gain more aggressively, you'll just gain the muscle faster than if you gain more conservatively. If that was the case, then I could hear the argument that, okay, look, I'm gonna go on a yaw, the bulk now, I'm gonna gain as much weight as I can without impacting my health negatively. So I gain all that muscle quickly and then I'll just cut. But in this case, you're gonna be gaining at a similar rate and then having to cut and then do that again is just much messier than it could be. Yeah, I just, I largely agree with what Paak said. I think the degree to which you gain fat slash muscle in a bulk is unfortunately mostly mediated by factors out of your control. Like I think obviously if you train better, your propensity to gain muscle will improve. And if you manage your stress better, your propensity to gain muscle will improve. Same with your sleep and all that. But I think matching what is happening is better than trying to force a certain rate of weight gain and expect it to all be muscle. So as Paak said, I would probably or more so on the side of half a kilogram to a kilogram a month, see how you respond, and that should hopefully facilitate longer bulks and overall a more pleasant journey while still maximizing hypertrophy. I think going from like half a kilogram to a kilogram a month of weight gain to two or more, especially if you're already observing a lot of fat gain, probably isn't advisable. But yeah, that's my take, Greg, feel free to contradict me. Oh no, I agree wholeheartedly. I think essentially just the greater the percentage of time you can spend in neutral to positive energy balance, the better off you'll be.  and alfalfilipine. I think you even see that practically when you look at natural bodybuilders. I think that the idea that you need to constantly be bulking or cutting, I think it's poorly considered and examined where that comes from. It mostly comes from untested bodybuilders who have a competitive season and an offseason every year and they're doing some stuff that maybe makes it a little bit easier to gain muscle than it would be for everyone else. They're getting super lean and then they have six months or whatever to try to put on some more muscle and then strip all the fat off again and get ready for their next competitive season. Yeah, that's kind of what you got to do if you're competing every year and it's facilitated by chemical assistance. Most of the best natural bodybuilders will have a competitive season once every three to five years where when they cut, they get lean and they do two, three, four shows. Then when that competitive season is over, they get back to a comfortable level of body fat for them. Bulking hard, they're not gaining 100 pounds of body weight and their body weight significantly going up month over month for three to five years in a row. They're getting back to a comfortable body fat level and then staying effectively at maintenance or maybe in a very small surplus and just cruising there for years. Then when they think they've made enough improvement to their physique, they cut and do another competitive season. So yeah, I think that for whatever reason, a lot of people feel the need to either be bulking relatively fast. Even 0.5 kilos per month, that's relatively fast. If you're putting on, actually, what is that in pounds? Yeah, that's a pound a month. Actually that's not that fast. That's pretty chill. But it depends how big the cuts are. Honestly, I would say at the end of a cut, if you're at a lower body fat level than you feel comfortable at, I would say get back to a comfortable body fat level fairly quickly. Once you decide, hey, I've been lean, this was fun, now it's not fun anymore, I want to start building again. This is a recommendation I got from Eric Helms. The more I look into the literature on this, the more it makes sense. Don't binge and go crazy. If you're leaner than is comfortable for your physiology, get back to a comfortable level relatively quickly. From there, you're in a place where you can effectively build muscle again. If you're bulking pretty fast, you're just minimizing the time that you can spend in that state of neutral to positive energy balance before you'll feel the need to cut again. I think get to that comfortable level and then stay around maintenance or into a very small surplus. I think that if you're bulking fast enough that you're feeling the need to regularly cut every year or multiple times per year, that suggests to me that you're probably bulking too fast and you're not spending a long enough period of time in neutral to positive energy balance to really maximize your growth, especially if you're relatively well trained. Makes sense. The last monster cake asks, assuming A, protein intake remains evenly distributed and high enough across the week and B, weight is going up at the appropriate rate. To what extent will having a big surplus on the weekends and a big, i.e. more than recommended deficits during the week going to negatively impact a bulk? So I think this is a case where we can hypothesize, but I don't think we have any direct evidence to give you a concrete response and be like, yep, this is what's going to happen. In my opinion, unless there is a very strong rationale for going about it this way, I would recommend that you do have, at least on maintenance calories during the week where you're at and you're also training and then potentially eating a bit more on the weekend. I assume that listener is asking because that works for their schedule or because they like to eat out on the weekend or something along those lines. I don't think that being in a deficit during the week and a big surplus during the weekend would kill your gains. The YouTube video title would be for that sort of topic. I don't know, if you're committing to a bulk already and you want to maximize muscle gain, again, unless there is a really, really solid rationale for going about it this way, I would not risk potentially having a deficit negatively impact training sessions or even risk the potential of missing out on some gains if you're already committed to gaining weight. Obviously, doing that for a week here or a week there where you know that, oh, I have this big wedding or this big event coming up on the weekend and I'm going to be eating a lot and I don't want to gain excess fat, I think it's fine. I don't think you're going to be missing out on it in time, but as a default or as your main approach to your mass gaining phase, I wouldn't necessarily recommend it more from a better, safe, than sorry sort of perspective. I think that we have any direct evidence to really tell us that, oh, it would be catastrophic or it would not be catastrophic. Yeah, I agree with that wholeheartedly. Don't have a study, I can cite my vibes or that it's a bad idea. Vibe check, passed. Yeah, a minute if I pack said, I think it's more so about the average energy balance over the week than like any given day. Like I think if you fall into a deficit for one day out of the week on average, probably not going to be the end of the world as far as you gains go, but it would be preferable to be in a consistent energy surplus. Yeah. All right, last question here from ZacAttack1996. Mainments after a bulk versus going directly into a deficit. Is there any reason to do one over the other? Assuming adherence is there in both cases. So, I'll speak as a coach, not having any direct references to support some of this. I'm coming at this with the notion that most people do somewhat struggle to maintain weight loss after losing weight, which that tends to be the case. I think that having a maintenance phase after a weight loss phase can be helpful in terms of for some people at least consolidating dietary habits and physical activity habits. Like for some people, especially if it was a shorter cut, some of the habits they may have started to build up during a weight loss phase might be difficult to consolidate and use in the long term if they then go back into a weight gain phase. So for example, improving your daily step count from say 4,000 a day to 8,000 a day during your weight loss phase is a means to increase energy expenditure. That might be easier to make stick as a habit if you then spend some time in maintenance with a daily step count of say still 8,000 versus going back into a surplus and allowing your steps to drop as a means again to a surplus. Similarly, some of the diet habits you might have incorporated during your weight loss phase such as picking more satiating foods with higher fiber, lower energy density or what have you. I think that if you go from a relatively short weight loss phase straight into a calorie surplus wherein you're actually intentionally trying to pick higher energy density foods, lower fiber foods that can make otherwise health promoting habits harder to stick to long term. And so sometimes for people who are prone to regaining weight quickly after a diet phase, I think a maintenance phase can be a good tool. I wouldn't go as far as to say that everyone who's lost weight should go through a maintenance phase for at least a few weeks or for a certain proportion of the time spent losing weight after weight loss phase. But I do think that for at least some clients and for some individuals it can be a good thing to do. I think generally the more you find it difficult historically to maintain weight loss, the more you find it difficult historically to lose weight. The more quote unquote unhealthy your overall habits tend to be, like for example if historically for most of your life you've been quite sedentary and your dietary choices have been relatively quote unquote poor, I think that that's where maintenance phases typically become more helpful after a weight loss phase. But then on the other hand you have successful bodybuilders or people who've been leading a quote unquote healthy and weight management conducive lifestyle for a long time. For those people a maintenance phase might be completely superfluous. So I think it depends on the person and I think there's certain things you can look out for to inform whether or not a maintenance phase is the right fit for you after a weight loss phase. Pac, any thoughts? No, wholeheartedly agree there. And yeah, there's a lot of talk, well there's been a lot of talk about like doing a maintenance phase to hold on to the newly acquired gains and which I don't think holds much ground there. Also as a coach and that may depend on the individual and there is something to be said about behavior here as well. Going into a deficit directly after a bulk totally fine, however for some individuals as you somewhat touched on as well, learning how to be on maintenance is a skill that is essentially the name of the game after a while. There will be and I think Greg you touched on this as well. There comes a point where knowing how to maintain your weight and being able to do so without having to really be on top of everything because obviously life will come in the way. There is something to be said about that. However, I wouldn't necessarily say that you have to wait and maintain again as the listener said. There is no particular reason to just maintain and then cut besides just giving yourself a break. Other than that, I don't see physiologically anything wrong with just going straight into a deficit. But traditionally, I'm not a huge fan of the idea that oh okay, the new tissue and that's how it's expressed sometimes. You've acquired this new tissue and now you have to essentially let the gains settle whatever that means. If you go into an insane deficit directly, then that might undo some of the gaining you've done but I assume the listener doesn't mean that. Yeah, I agree with both of you. Although I think looking at your face Milo, you've realized that now. The question was about maintenance after a bulk versus maintenance after deficit. But I don't think it hurts to approach this from both angles. I think you both absolutely crushed it. Just to add a little bit more onto what Pac is saying, there is this relatively common idea that after a bulk you should spend some time at maintenance to quote unquote solidify the gains that you've made because if you go directly into a deficit, you're going to lose more of that hard earned muscle tissue that you gained near the end of your bulk or whatever. I will note there's no research to support that at all. There's not that much research on bulking period and I can't think of any research on subsequent bulk and then cut phases manipulating a maintenance window in between those two. Maybe it exists, if not I haven't come across it. Any takes on the matter are purely speculative and no one should be that confident about anything. But I will say that I suspect the perception that spending time at maintenance helps you quote unquote solidify the gains is driven by one of two things or maybe both of them. One is just that if you're in a bulk, your body weight is elevated and your muscles look really good because your body weight is elevated both due to full glycogen replenishment and as discussed previously just more food in the intestinal tract. If you go directly into a deficit, you're doing a 180 on both of those things. Your muscle glycogen will deplete, your muscles will look flatter and you'll also just very quickly have way less contents in your digestive tract. Number on the scale goes down very quickly, muscles start looking a lot flatter very quickly and you look at those two things in tandem and you're like oh shit. And your performance might go down quite a bit. I find that the bulk versus maintenance thing, I do find that just recovery from training is way easier in a surplus than it maintenance at least for me who knows other people's results may vary. Also your recovery from training may drastically change. You're going from one end of the spectrum to the other very quickly leads to pretty big changes might leave you feeling very fatigued and depleted quite quickly. You perceive that as losing muscle whereas if you have a maintenance phase in between even if it doesn't do a goddamn thing for helping you solidify your gains, when you shift from a bulk to maintenance some of those things I just described will occur but it will be much more subtle. So your muscle glycogen levels may drop a little bit but your muscles will still look pretty full like you're not going to perceive that you've lost muscle there. Your performance is still going to be pretty good. You'll still have a fair bit of food in your digestive tract. You might drop a couple pounds on the scale but it won't be anything drastic. And then if you shift into a deficit a month later, you're basically completing the other half of that process. Your muscle glycogen levels drop a little bit more. The food in your digestive tract drops a little bit more. Your performance and recovery may decrease a little bit but you're kind of already at the midpoint there. So you're winding up in the same place regardless but by doing it in two steps neither of which feel particularly dramatic versus one step that feels very dramatic, now you perceive it as helping you solidify your gains versus not. So I think it could just fully be an illusion. Second, if you're spending like two, three months at maintenance like we've discussed on this episode so far, being in neutral energy balance may be a little worse than being in a surplus for building muscle but not that much worse for well-trained people who aren't like already in a weight and fat reduced state. But you can still build muscle at maintenance and do so fairly effectively. And so I wouldn't be surprised if some of the perception that spending some time in maintenance helps you solidify your gains is just that spending time in maintenance helps you make more gains. And yeah, so there's nothing like magic about taking that phase to help you solidify what you did in a surplus. It's just, oh, like you're still, like you're not in a weight reduced state and you're still in neutral energy balance. Like that's a place to still gain more muscle. And I kind of think that if you don't feel the strongest urge to go ahead and cut, you can just stay there for a long time and keep building muscle and it'll be good. But yeah, so I think part of it is an illusion kind of doing the glycogen replenishment in two steps rather than one. And so neither of them feels as dramatic. And to the extent that it's not a losery, it's probably just that spending time at maintenance just does help you build more muscle, not necessarily like quote unquote solidifying the gains you made during your bulk. Yeah, that's my general take on it. But again, there's no direct research on the topic. So yeah, who knows? But yeah, I think it's mostly just perceptual and still being able to build muscle at maintenance. I think it's a fair analysis just to defend my owner from earlier after being exposed for mishearing that pack. I think the same thing as I mentioned regarding weight loss maintenance after a weight loss phase kind of applied to weight gain if you're someone who struggles to gain weight. So like, you know, if after a year of bulking, you finally managed to put on 10 pounds of weight, but it was a real struggle, you could spend some time at maintenance as a means to try and maintain some of those habits that you've established and kind of gently transition from the thing you find harder to the thing that comes a bit too naturally to you. But yeah, my mistake, I think that wraps us up nicely. It's all good. And that's a very understandable mistake to make because the flip side of the question is is definitely the one that gets asked more frequently, I think. All right. Any closing thoughts? Trust the bulk and take it easy. Slown steady wins the race. Absolutely. All right, everyone, thanks for listening to another episode of the Stronger by Science podcast. Happy bulking out there. And we will talk to you again in a couple of weeks. Peace.

=== FILE: Is Bulking REALLY Dead？ (ft. Dr Eric Helms) [otPlxsASGKw].txt ===

 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere BULKING! BULKING! BULKING! And whether it's dead. Now I'll preface this by saying traditionally bodybuilders and even strength athletes to a certain extent at least used to do phases of bulking, sometimes more aggressive than others and you'd hear a lot of you know bodybuilders and hats and not supporting the idea that you need to gain massive or at least significant amounts of body weight during a period of a few months in order to actually maximize muscle gain and the potential for muscle gain but when we look at the current literature and you're somebody who's looked at the literature both from an overview perspective with a classic paper that you are a co-author on called is an energy surplus required to maximize muscle building or something of that? Very close. Very close right? But also you recently published a study in which you were the first author that looked specifically at different surpluses for muscle gain and whether more aggressive surpluses make sense or not but before we get into that what is your take on just the concept of bulking and cutting in general for somebody who wants to maximize muscular potential? Does that even hold any ground? Could we just gain muscle by lifting and staying on maintenance calories? What's the what's the deal there? No I really like that you brought it up from that perspective because I think people need to know where this comes from and bulking and cutting is actually an artifact of competitive bodybuilding because you don't have an option as a competitive bodybuilder to do anything except bulk and cut because you're required to get on stage shredded so that means you're required to diet down to an unsustainable level of body fat which means you're therefore required to put back on a certain level of body fat just to get back into a position where you're hormonally functioning and relatively normal enabled us to live life. So because bodybuilders are seen as the archetypes of muscularity and the people who know how to build muscle and get shredded and produce the best body composition they're emulated in a lot of ways and even the bodybuilders themselves will promote their own methods as the best way to approach it because they're the best way to approach it in the context of the sport of bodybuilding but not necessarily if your goal was just to maximize hypertrophy over your entire lifting career because bodybuilders typically lose some degree of muscle mass getting into shredded condition or at the very least they're hitting pause on their muscle building potential and creating a less than ideal environment for building muscle when they compete ironically when they look their best. So if you wanted to say hey our bodybuilders actually the best archetype for building muscle technically not because when they go through contest prep they're actually doing something directly counterproductive to it. So I think it's important to understand that bulking and cutting is an artifact of bodybuilding competitive bodybuilding. However that doesn't necessarily mean that there isn't a benefit of being in a surplus and just because bodybuilders must be in a surplus at least after getting shredded and being in a deficit doesn't mean there's no reason to never go through phases of intentional weight gain that may come with some fat gain but does it need to come with precipitous rapid weight gain that you will often see especially in the immediate post contest period that bodybuilders do primarily because they're ravenously hungry and they were shredded probably not. Now before we get into the latest literature on bulking and whether that's actually necessary to absolutely maximize muscle mass in trained individuals and if yes how much of a surplus are we talking about. I wanted to briefly touch on the idea you briefly touched on staying on a continuous surplus theoretically if you wanted to maximize muscle gain something that we've often heard in the bodybuilding circle and even in our evidence-based echo chamber is the idea of a P-Ratio associated with different body fat percentages different body fat levels with a claim often made that cutting down to a lower body fat percentage may facilitate a more productive bulking season mass gaining season for a variety of physiological and sometimes psychological reasons but if we take away the competitive bodybuilder sort of scenario where you know having to cut for huge periods of time may interfere with the muscle that you've gained and so on and so forth could somebody theoretically stay at a relatively high modified percentage and keep on gaining muscle mass effectively or is that something that could hinder the process of muscle. I think there's no reason to believe outside of eventual pragmatic and illogical constraints on how much body fat someone's you know willing to gain if their goal is to become muscular to think that they couldn't keep building muscle. There is actually a fantastic participant level non-published meta-analysis that Dr. Eriksler did looking specifically at the influence of body composition on muscle mass gains in that he did in his classic debate with Meno-Henselmans. Great example of how to do a debate properly in my opinion and if anything there was a slight tendency towards people higher body fat to be putting on more muscle not less. So the data does not support at least one side of P ratios and that's the idea that when you're hiring body fat you have a greater predilection to gain more body fat. However unfortunately the other side of P ratios does seem to be true that when you are leaner and leaner and leaner you're more likely to lose muscle mass. So it's not a good news for those of us who are trying to maximize body composition but it makes sense from an evolutionary biology perspective in my opinion. Now with that said just because there's no evidence that gaining more body fat is going to lead towards gaining more proportion of body fat and therefore less muscle I think most people will find practical constraints to what's a reasonable amount of body fat to gain. Like if you're coming to me and you say hey I really want to put on as much muscle mass as possible I don't have an interest in getting shredded I just want to be big and muscular. There is typically a point for most people where they start to look at less muscular with muscle gain if it comes with fat past the shirt point. So most people and I think this should be their personal preference will hit some point either aesthetically or maybe what they're comfortable with as far as health or performance or just how they feel where they won't want to gain more body fat and I think you will probably benefit from running occasional cutting or bulking cycles but they don't necessarily need to look like that of a bodybuilder where you're getting really really lean or you're doing it super periodically but it might be three years of a very small surplus and then a six month period of cutting and you rinse and repeat that as opposed to say four months on one month off you know bulk cut or something like that. As far as certain cutoff points or certain variables that you monitor let's say to decide whether okay we have these sort of non-negotiable cutoff points at least from a health perspective. I've heard some people quote 40 inches for men at least as a waste of conference cutoff point for health and the literature somewhat supports that number. Are you a proponent of such an approach for people? I think yeah so if we think about how do we measure risk of negative health outcomes related to body composition I think the most important thing to remember is that body composition is not a marker of health it is a potential indicator of a higher or lower risk of developing a health complication. So BMI has come under body mass index has come under a lot of fire lately because it is not a marker of health but it is associated with say poor blood markers for health related to cholesterol blood pressure etc or a higher risk of developing metabolic disease heart attack or just all cause mortality and the data does indicate that once you're actually into like class one class two especially class three obesity that the probability of you having poor health objectively is a lot higher but it's still not the same thing right so metabolically healthy individuals with obesity do exist and we shouldn't make assumptions about someone's health status based upon body composition however you can be probabilistically sure that at a certain point you are running a higher odds ratio of developing health consequences so there's a few ways to look at it and it depends on how comfortable you are with risk. BMI is imperfect and you know body fat percentage is slightly better. Waste circumference measurement is probably even better because it's giving you some indication of potential visceral fat which is probably more associated with metabolic health but if you wanted to take the most like risk adverse position you could look at all right what body fat percentages are associated with BMI of the overweight classification or higher and for men depending upon ethnicity and age you're typically looking at the mid to low 20% body fat range. But then the issue is well how do I measure my body fat percentage and so you run up to these issues so all of the potential ways of doing it do have problems I think probably the best way to do it is just to regularly see your doctor and if you notice that your blood pressure your resting heart rate or your cholesterol LDL and HDL are moving in the wrong direction and it seems to be associated with when you get above a certain weight then maybe that's a decent cutoff for you if health is your primary indicator. And just a very small parenthesis with BMI specifically looking closer at the data I had assumed that BMI that classes you as overweight and then obese is associated with so much greater risk but when you look closely it's mostly no type 3 category 3 that things take a turn for the worse obviously there's a higher risk with being overweight based on BMI but it wasn't as bad as I had assumed. No the overweight category in some analyses doesn't carry any more risk than the normal range it's typically when you see BMI's that start with a 3 where you start to see pretty clear at least statistically more probable likelihoods of individuals having metabolic health issues. Exactly a third in a bowl that's nice but closing that parenthesis so for a good deal of people the idea of staying at a relatively high body fat percentage and just walking till the end of times for some of us that sounds great but for a lot of people especially those that consume the content that we make they have a specific physique in mind they want to maximize body composition and so on and so forth and since body fat percentage does not seem to impact muscle growth directly what does the latest data on different surfaces of different magnitude have to say about that in muscle gain doesn't make sense to gain a bunch of body fat in order to maximize muscle growth even though it doesn't seem to have a negative effect or could you get away with eating just slightly above maintenance and still see the same gains the worst interviewer here suggesting the responses. You're doing great I need a leading question because I don't know the answers to anything. No I think there's an important distinction in the way you ask that question between gaining body fat and then the size of the surplus. Yes and the reason I make that distinction is because based upon the individual and their let's say growth potential you're going to see different responses to the same size surplus. So one of the very first studies that came out on quote unquote bulking was done by Rosnick and colleagues in 2002 and this study basically came out and the bros would have been like told you were right you got to go on the seafood diet that's se you see the food you eat it go hard go home eat big to get big let's go Dave Tate writing on you know good old T nation large pizza pour olive oil on it choke it down you're going to be huge. Thank you that's the end of the video thank you so much for being here that confirms my biases one big pizza with olive oil coming right up. Domino's pizza we're calling you right now. This study specifically took untrained young university h-mails okay they had not done your resistance training previously three different groups put them all on a resistance training program for eight weeks and then two of those groups they gave them essentially a weight gainer. 2,000 calories on top of their habitual diet that doesn't necessarily mean they're in a 2,000 calorie surplus because you know you give them a habitual diet it'll change in modification based upon how they feel in response to this. One of them it was protein and multidextrin so basically carbs and fat sorry carbs and protein the other group pure carbs just multidextrin 2,000 calories of basically sugar and then the final group was just following their habitual diet. What's crazy is they gained three kilos of body mass in both surplus groups that got the 2,000 calories of multidextrin or the 2,000 calories of multidextrin plus protein and three kilograms of lean body mass meaning that they gained roughly a pound a week for the whole eight week study of pure lean body mass from throwing down an additional 2,000 calories of straight sugar in one of these groups that shows you how powerful the initial training stimulus is when you're untrained and that you can actually short change your gains if you're not an enlargement of surplus when you're untrained. I think that's a key critical component yeah and even more so it didn't matter that they were consuming it all from sugar that they didn't even have a protein shake macronutrients didn't matter there's a huge energy demand you mentioned the paper we wrote on is a surplus required to maximize muscle mass gains that paper we identified all of the energetic demands associated with putting on muscle for an untrained person there's the cost of the actual exercise itself then there's the actual energy content of muscle which is not that high because muscle is mostly water and then the parts of it that actually contain energy it's protein so it's only four calories per gram say compared to the nine calories per gram of adipose tissue that's actually triglyceride there's also the potential increase in non-exercise physical activity or non-exercise activity thermogenesis that some people have in response to being in a surplus that you have to offset and there's also something that we are we struggle to quantify and that's the actual energy cost of initiating and sustaining muscle protein synthesis so not the energy cost of the muscle but the cost of building it so that is an energy expensive process and you don't want to short change that or you can short change your actual muscle gain and if we go back to rosinic and colleagues the control group gained about half as much lean body mass as the two groups that were actually increasing their calories by 2000 and what's crazy is just how powerful resistance training is stimulus is when you're untrained they also lost on average about a kilogram of fat mass so the stimulus was so high that to get even just half the gains of the other groups they were losing fat mass they were experiencing body recomposition so that tells us two really interesting things one you can actually build muscle in a deficit because if you think about losing a kilogram of fat mass and gaining 1.5 kilograms of lean mass that's actually a net energy deficit when you look at the energy content of those different tissues so an untrained individual is going to make great gains no matter what even in the less than ideal nutritional circumstance but if your goal is maximizing muscle gain then you want to be in a big surplus the unfortunate thing though is that not only in the subsequent research that was done by Garth and colleagues in 2013 but also the one that you referenced that we did 10 years after that publishing it last year we found this is not the case in well-trained individuals obviously your growth potential slows down and we have this logarithmic curve that is unfavorable basically the more muscle mass you put on it's kind of like a p-ratio the less muscle mass you can put on and the slower it occurs so if you try to force feed this process you don't actually accelerate the process you just gain more fat mass this is observed by Garth and colleagues in not super well resistance trained athletes but elite level athletes from multiple different sports codes who had strength conditioning experience they tried to gain weight faster or slower and the faster weight gain that was observed resulted in additional fat mass gains with no significant difference between groups and lean mass gained or changes in strength and then recently we observed something similar targeting specifically well-trained resistance trained athletes back last year we tried to see if we could milk more out of individuals with different sizes of surpluses and i'm sure you'll have more questions about it but our principal findings were that the more weight you gained the more likely you were to put on skin full thicknesses or subcutaneous body fat without necessarily an impact on tricep muscle thickness quadricep muscle thickness or 1 RM squat or bench press gains although there was a lot of caveats and specifics to take out of that study if you will yeah there was also if i remember correctly the group that was in a larger surplus so some one of the groups was supposed to be on a slightly less aggressive surplus but they ended up on an aggressive surplus right so uh this was a study we did during coven uh so we had about half of the end that we intended to have so a post hoc decision that we made for analysis to get a reasonable um interpretation of our findings was we wanted to look at the group as a whole because when you do human research even when you have a dietitian like we did interacting with these people on a regular basis answering questions adjusting the surplus based upon weight change their humans are going to human and there's going to be some degree of variability and how well they adhere to the protocol and also how their body responds you know like i said there's some people are going to ramp up neat some are not some people are going to gain more or less weight than you'd expect based upon the prescribed surplus so our study was set up to have a group that continued to eat in maintenance after a familiarization and weight maintenance stabilization phase and then two other groups that went to either a five percent surplus or a 15 percent surplus over what they did doing the same training three days per week and then measuring their progress over eight weeks these are all people who had at least one year resistance training experience and had at least a certain strike standard in the bench press and squat 1 RM and we had a fair number of competitive power lifters weight lifters and even some physique athletes so it's a pretty well trained sample now just because we assigned them 15 percent or five percent surplus doesn't mean that their weight gain necessarily reflected that and we ended up with only having about five or six people in each group and we didn't want to do a comparison of between groups with only five or six even though you know in our pre-registration documents you can see that's what we plan to do so instead what we did was we analyzed continuously so looking at the whole group changes in body mass and the relationship between changes in body mass and changes in other outcome outcomes of interest such as strength and muscle mass and fat mass changes the cool thing about this is now instead of comparing groups of five or six we're looking at a continuous relationship in 17 people and that was sufficiently powered by our best estimation to make some reasonable inferences and essentially because like you said some of the people in the small surplus group gained more weight than anticipated and some of the people in the large surplus group gained less when you look at those group mean changes in body weight they were the same or at least the means were very similar but when you simply use of regression to analyze all 17 individuals now we can see the whole plot of gaining no body weight or a lot of body weight or a little bit of body weight and the relationship with changes in skin folds and also muscle thickness and one arm strength and now we can start to go okay now we can see what is more likely to happen when you gain more or less body weight as far as how that changes body composition and performance I remember seeing that the bicep measurements were favored those who gained more body fat but body weight body weight yeah at the at the same time I remember also seeing that that muscle group had more volume allocated to it anything interesting there yes I think it really so our main findings just to get right to it was that the strongest evidence we found we used the Bayesian analysis and essentially we reported Bayes factors which are more or less an odds ratio an easy way to understand this is that we had a 14.3 bf10 which just means that if you were to take any two participants out of the hat we got 17 individuals they're in a hat we had very small participants in a very large hat by the way yeah I was about to reach in the hat nice yeah take two out you got you got to me first with a joke perfect so we got our two individuals right and if one of them gained more weight than the other if we went to Vegas you'd be smart to bet that they also gained more body fat because that 14.3 means that there's 14.3 times greater likelihood that the person who gained more weight also gained more body fat which we measured as a sum of eight skin folds okay pretty strong evidence right so bicep thickness is the one variable besides body fat that also seemed to have some evidence that was related to getting more body mass as well so there was no meaningful relationship between one or m squat bench tricep or quadricep muscle thickness but there was for biceps much weaker evidence though so this is kind of like this little bit of saving grace that we think for bulking but then when I explained you how strong the evidence is you're like uh so we had 14.3 as our base factor for body fat one point four for biceps yeah so it's like yeah there's a one point four times greater likelihood if we took those same individuals that this guy's arms or this gal's arms we had a mixed sex group gained more thickness but it's one tenth the strength of evidence of body fat and the question is well why was there any evidence that the biceps responded differently and it has nothing to do with the nutrition you know you don't have extra like calorie receptors in your biceps or do you or do you what are the hiding to snibers probably what it was was that the disparity in the volumes and the proximities to failures that the different muscle groups are trained with yeah so if we look at you know the current evidence we have that informs group based averages for volume and intensity we've got you know the robinson meta regression that indicates generally closer to failure is generally better and we have both the basavall and the shown filled meta analyses that would collectively say hey maybe maybe between you know 12 to 20 10 to 20 sets per muscle group is where most people will start to see a tape ring of their their hypertrophy response right so if you look at the training protocol in our study we had nine sets of direct submaximal not to failure work for the quads we had 15 sets for the triceps which was a mixture of direct and indirect work and a mixture of maximal and submaximal sorry it was all indirect work it was all bench press and shoulder press for the triceps and half of it or I should say a third of it was to failure and the rest was probably submaximal and actually in basavall they specifically found the triceps seem to respond to to respond to the higher volumes likely an artifact of direct versus indirect work and then only the biceps did we actually meet some of the criteria that would indicate this should be optimizing hypertrophy they had 18 sets half indirect half direct and all of the direct work for the biceps was to failure they did a bicep curl every day and they either did a row or a pulldown on the three days of training so when we think about this being a group-based study and us looking at group-based averages from meta analyses it makes sense that the biceps probably would have responded best on average so this really confirms something that I've thought for a long time so confirmation bias it's a great thing is that your nutrition is permissive to growth and an analogy I like to use is that if your nutrition is the soil if it's the sun if it's the water the seed is training and you can you know you have a really nice field and planet get the best soil great environment create the perfect environment to grow something but if you don't have a seed nothing will grow so ultimately what people need to understand is that you can't force feed your gains and these data suggest that if you have a really really good program you can probably benefit from having a larger surplus because there's a more growth potential but if the growth potential isn't there then those calories have to go somewhere and you can't force feed muscle to grow it's probably going to come in the form of body fat so where does that where does this all leave us in terms of practical applications so for the majority of individuals who want to maximize body composition and want to get jacked but at the same time don't necessarily care to carry the additional body fat for aesthetic reasons health reasons whatever what is like a blanket recommendation that you'd give them in terms of surplus percentage and potentially training modifications based on surplus magnitude absolutely so i think the first thing to consider is that if you don't have a training program that is well set up to maximize the potential for building muscle putting yourself into a surplus is not going to go well then the second thing to consider is what's your growth potential and if you've only been in the gym for six weeks it's going to be a lot higher than if you've been in the gym for six years so while i don't have specific guidelines on how quickly someone can gain muscle because it's going to vary tremendously between individuals we do have the theoretical backing to say that you probably want to scale your surplus size inversely to your training experience meaning that like rosinic saw in those untrained individuals this is the time when you actually can bulk if you are an untrained participant in a study just like we saw in rosinic just like if you're the first time stepping into the gym in the real world you'll probably benefit from being in a large surplus and i think you could reasonably put yourself in a 10 or even 20 percent calorie surplus and you would benefit from that you know so if you're eating 3000 calories a day to maintain body weight and you know what i want to go on this new program you've got even half decent genetics in your training hard you could probably eat 3500 3600 calories and you might see in the majority of that actually be muscle gain for a while however once you're an intermediate level lifter once you're an advanced level lifter i think you want to start cutting that down pretty substantially and now we're talking about a five to ten percent calorie surplus and as far as the rate of body weight gains it's another way to kind of back calculate that i think you probably don't want to be gaining any more than say two percent of your body weight per month when you're a nut for when you're a novice and probably no more than half that's a one percent of your body weight per month once you are more experienced so basically what you want to do is set up an ideal training program as best as you can informed by the evidence and then scale your surplus to your training experience those are the big rocks of course from there then you need to look at individual response if you are gaining too slow you're hungry and everything seems to be seem to be putting on is muscle try to eat a little more right likewise on the other end of the spectrum if you think you're doing everything right but you just notice yourself gaining body fat and it's relatively quick and you're not seeing performance improvements maybe scale back and or reevaluate your training approach and because i know this will come up what about main gain the idea of staying on maintenance calories for long periods of time especially in advanced training and just writing that out and essentially experiencing body recomposition is that something that you'd recommend for people that want to get pretty jacked well first off it's gain training gain it's not main gaining this is an abomination of the term that was brought up way after the fact we've had gain training forever i was a gain training i think jeff nippard brought up main gain no it was someone else whose name will not be spoken and we're gonna bring back gain training that's all that's all i'm gonna say so gain training is what we're talking about here and essentially what we were able to identify in our review from 2019 so in that prior prior mention review  and bislater and colleagues on is an energy surplus required, we couldn't state that an energy surplus was required to maximize muscle mass. All we knew for sure was that you needed to satisfy all the energetic demands of building muscle, which technically could be maintenance. And there was actually a 2021 meta regression that was done by Murphy that found, yeah, you can absolutely build muscle on a deficit. And on average, with a fair amount of variability, you're able to build that muscle until you're in, like, say, a 500-calorie deficit. And at that point, on average, do people start to see no hypertrophy? So this kind of supports what we initially thought from that review. In practical terms, it's difficult to know exactly where maintenance is, but it's certainly true that if you are close to maintenance, you should be able to make gains, especially if you have a strong stimulus and a high growth potential. As we saw in Rosnick, those folks were actually in a deficit, on average, based upon the change in fat mass relative to the change in muscle mass, but they still grew muscle, even though it wasn't as much as the groups that got the 2000-calorie weight gainer on top of it. So I think absolutely gaining is a reasonable approach, and I think there's nothing wrong with it. And if you highly value trying to maintain a certain level of body fat that's within a reasonable range, that's certainly fine. And if you are okay with potentially short-cutting your gains a little bit, more power to you. I think probably a better approach that might be more efficient is just trying to make sure that you're in a very small surplus, which could also be classified as gain-taining. And just seeing the scale go up really slowly, like half a percent or one percent per month, then you know at least you're not spending a long period of time in a deficit, which you do want to avoid. And you can always adjust. But essentially, what you want to be seeing is slow weight gain over time. It does not need to be fast, and there's no reason for us to think that gaining faster is going to help you in any way in terms of strength or hypertrophy. To ask you again, is bulking dead? I would say that bulking is alive and well for those new to lifting. But going back to bulking, I think you can call it bulking, but in reality it's probably something a little more like lean gaining. So the old idea, in the classic pictures of Lee Priest and Jake Hudler, there's one of Ronnie Coleman as well, where they look morbidly obese. The idea that you need to get to that stage in order to actually look amazing on stage or after you do your cut or whatever, that doesn't hold much value, much truth, at least for non-enhanced, natural individuals who look to maximize muscle gain. Yeah, I think it's important to understand one more historical thing is that when bulking got popularized, it was an era where many of the thought leaders were from the enhanced ranks of both bodybuilding and powerlifting, and it consisted largely of enhanced super heavyweight powerlifters, and it also consisted largely of IFBB pros. So of course in those cases where your growth potential has variable limits, depending upon what you're doing at the time, you can make a case for going through true bulking phases. But if that's not you, if you're not running copious amounts of anabolic steroids, or if you are not a super heavyweight who actually doesn't care how much body fat you put on it, hey, you know what, this is the multiply era of the mid 2000s, that extra body fat might actually just stretch my multiply bench press shirt or squats you a little bit and give me some more poundages. Eh, body fat's okay. If that's not you, maybe that shouldn't be the most appropriate advice. But it's probably you. So good luck on your bulk. Eric Helms, ladies and gentlemen, another handshake. My hands are sweaty. Don't forget to like, subscribe. Eric's socials are in the description. Thank you so much for watching. I'm not sure where to look. Too many cameras. I will look directly into your eyes and therefore the salt of the audience. And see you guys next time. Peace.

=== FILE: Is Muscle Hyperplasia Real？ (Science Explained) [0RQf4kj5LaQ].txt ===

 I was a first-year undergraduate student, dragging myself to one of my first-ever exercise science laboratory classes. I felt pretty tired, but excited nonetheless. Just the night before, I had been up longer than I should have been, reading about a fascinating, secret way to build muscle, the phenomenon of muscle hyperplasia. I eventually got to the lab, sat down, and made it through the lesson. Truth be told, I don't remember what the lab was about, but I do remember why I showed up in the first place. Once the lecture was over, I called our lecturer 101. I asked him, does muscle hyperplasia occur in humans? He looked a bit taken aback, like I'd asked him a question I shouldn't have, before shaking his head and saying, no, it doesn't. And the conversation pretty much ended there. I felt as though I'd been dismissed a bit too quickly, and sure enough, only a few weeks later, he emailed me out of the blue. He explained that he'd been dismissive, that there was some evidence for muscle hyperplasia occurring in humans, but that it wasn't enough to be conclusive. See, there are two ways of building muscle. Most of the time, when people speak about muscle growth, they're referring to muscle hypertrophy, individual, existing muscle fibers growing in size. This increase in size can occur at the macroscopic level, and the microscopic level. At the macroscopic level, the individual fascicles of muscles, bundles of individual muscle fibers, can also increase in size. So that's muscle hypertrophy, an increase in some element of existing muscle components. But what about muscle hyperplasia? Could you define what muscle hyperplasia is for us? Sure, so when we think about hyperplasia, we're thinking about the number of muscle fibers. So we're not talking about the growing of the existing number of muscle fibers that you have. We're talking about adding entirely new muscle fibers to your muscles. So that's what we think about, typically, in the context of hyperplasia. And hyperplasia is a process that happens early during development in your muscles. There's primary and secondary myogenesis. There's a point at which you add a bunch of new muscle fibers. But then those muscle fibers, once they're there, there comes a certain point where you're just making them grow, and you're not adding new ones in order to make the whole muscle grow. And so hyperplasia would be like, as an adult, for instance, you engaged in something, whatever, some activity, that costs you to go from having 100 muscle fibers in your biceps, for instance, to going having 150. And those numbers are just, I'm pulling them out of my, you know, whatever. Those aren't accurate numbers. But just for the sake of argument, that's what hyperplasia is. Whereas hypertrophy is saying you have 100 fibers, and those 100 fibers just got bigger. That's Professor Kibben Murak, expert in the area of muscle physiology and muscle hyperplasia. We first found out about muscle hyperplasia in animals. Seminal studies in the area weighted down animals' muscles with insane weights. For example, a study by Antonium and colleagues progressively weighted down the anterior luteus mastorsi muscle of 26 Japanese quails, with up to 35% of their body weight over a period of 38 days. They observed the largest increase in muscle mass in the literature to date. An insane 334 increase in muscle size and a 90% increase in the number of muscle fibers in the lat. A few dozen other studies using stretching protocols have found similar results, both an increase in muscle mass and a demonstrable increase in fiber number, aka hyperplasia, though the results were lesser in magnitude in those other studies. Importantly, it probably doesn't have to be stretching either. A series of studies in weightlifting, cats by Goni and colleagues, found that muscle hyperplasia also occurred when doing more traditional protocols. In his studies, cats were trained to perform a wrist flexion exercise against resistance to receive a food ruled. Yet again, his studies found increases in fiber number from around 10 to 20% from this resistance training protocol. The evidence in animals is quite clear. Muscle hyperplasia does occur, both from stretching and lifting protocols. But what about humans? Well, the evidence is much scarcer for a few reasons. For one, human muscles often contain a few hundred thousand individual fibers, making it difficult to directly count fiber number. Instead, to assess muscle hyperplasia, you would require access to advanced equipment. You need to take out a chunk of muscle, what we call a muscle biopsy, and painstakingly count these fibers. But it gets worse. If you wanted to see whether performing resistance training induced muscle hyperplasia, you would need to take out a chunk, count muscle fibers, then have participants train, then do the whole thing again. And unfortunately, you couldn't just get away with taking out a small chunk of muscle and assume that you're obtaining a representative sample. That's because fiber cross-sectional area only correlates moderately with whole muscle cross-sectional area. So to get an accurate estimate of fiber number, you wouldn't need to exercise so much of the muscle that it would be impossible for a study like this to clear ethics, much less recruit willing human subjects. Since studies only ever look at a limited number of muscle fibers, this limits the strength of the evidence. Instead, most studies are indirect and cross-sectional in nature. Researchers compare the muscle mass of untrained and trained populations. For example, several studies have compared the cross-sectional area of bodybuilders and untrained folks. Cross-sectional area simply refers to how big a cross-section of the muscle being measured is. Then these studies measure the cross-sectional area of a few individual muscle fibers. If the bodybuilders muscle cross-sectional areas or 50% larger than the one of the untrained folks, all else being equal, you would expect their individual muscle fibers, which make up the whole muscle, to also be 50% larger. However, that's not what most studies find. There's a disparity between the two, likely because the bodybuilders have a greater number of muscle fibers. Now, there are two competing schools of thought here. The first, more skeptical explanation, is that bodybuilders self-select, continue lifting. Bodybuilders are born with a greater number of muscle fibers, which helps them grow faster. They're predisposed to being successful bodybuilders. If you have more fibers and they all grow by 10%, you'll grow faster than someone with fewer fibers, after all. Effectively, the proponents of this stance argue that these findings are a case of survivorship bias. I'm somewhat skeptical of this argument, if only because there are many other factors that can influence whether you grow well or poorly, making it unlikely that bodybuilders consistently have more fibers than non-bodybuilders. However, as I described, there are quite a few limitations to existing studies in humans, even the ones that estimate bodybuilders have more fibers than non-lifters. Likewise, there are some other convincing arguments against muscle hyperplasia taking place in humans. So you mentioned that hyperplasia can take place and does take place in humans during development. Do you think it can and does take place in adult humans? For example, engaging in resistance training. I'm gonna have to say probably not to be perfectly honest. In my opinions of, you know, weighing and waxed on this and, you know, I've thought about it a lot and I've read a lot of literature, I've written literature myself on the topic and I'm sort of of the opinion that if it is happening in humans, it's usually in an extreme scenario. I would think in a like, or a sponsor, like really intense resistance training, maybe intense resistance training that's supplemented by anabolic steroids. And it's not a mechanism of growth that I think is probably common to most conditions in humans. The alternative stance is that lifting does result in the addition of new muscle fibers. And most such studies on exercise, not just lifting, do support this contention. Some studies find a difference in size between a trained population and an untrained population can be purely explained by larger individual muscle fibers. But most studies results can only be explained by a greater number of muscle fibers. For example, a 2024 study by myoen colleagues found that subjects with long-term resistance training experience did have both 70% larger biceps but also had 34% more muscle fibers than untrained subjects. They also packed in more myofibrils per muscle fiber than untrained individuals. You can think of myofibrils in a muscle fiber as sardines in a can. There are a couple of important caveats to the findings by myoen colleagues. First, they inferred the whole muscle's cross-sectional area from individual fiber cross-sectional areas, which only correlate moderately. What are your thoughts on those studies that find that trained populations have a greater fiber number, indicating hyperplasia than untrained populations? Yeah, you alluded to it a little bit there because the technical aspect is not something that we can just brush under the rug. I guess how do you really measure that in live people, right? A lot of times you're doing calculations based on the size of muscle fibers from a biopsy versus the size of the whole muscle versus considering the panation angle and the interior architecture of the muscle and then calculating all these things. And that's a lot of factors where if you're off by a little bit, it could end up leading to a big estimation that is not accurate. Second, these types of studies cannot strongly infer causality. For that, you would need a randomized control trial. Unfortunately, there is some additional evidence for muscle hyperplasia occurring in humans. Where? In human cadavers. Some researchers found that there exists side-to-side imbalances in muscle fiber number in the tibialis anterior muscle, for example. Since many tasks in daily living present asymmetrical demands, this suggests that physical activity or exertion can stimulate muscle hyperplasia. However, this study design isn't without its issues when it comes to making inferences about muscle hyperplasia either. Do you think that forms solid evidence in favor of exercise potentially causing hyperplasia, even things like walking or day-to-day tasks? I mean, I think that also could play into the argument that the side that you favored more decided tendency to hang onto the fibers as opposed to you building more throughout the lifespan. And that's the argument I would probably advocate for, is that, yeah, the favored side, if that is happening, the favored side was the one that was being activated more so you just didn't lose as many. Overall, it appears possible that muscle hyperplasia could occur in humans from lifting. However, how does it actually occur? There are two primary proposed ways. The first one is well-documented. When a muscle fiber experiences a large degree of muscle damage, this can stimulate fiber splitting. One muscle fiber turns into two. The second is less well-documented. Muscle cells have what are called satellite cells. As the name implies, these are cells that float around your muscle cell and play various roles. Upon exercising, these satellite cells confuse, yes, just like in Dragon Ball, into a new muscle fiber. What's generally clear about these two methods is that they tend to occur in the presence of a large amount of muscle damage. Don't get me wrong, muscle hypertrophy can absolutely occur in the absence of muscle hyperplasia. But when you observe a large increase in muscle size, there is a chance that you also stimulated muscle hyperplasia and an increase in muscle fiber number. This begs an important question. Since muscle hyperplasia is a whole different way to grow muscle, can we intentionally stimulate muscle hyperplasia? Unfortunately, the answer is that we don't fully know. Kevin is skeptical. Is there any form of resistance training you would actually advocate for or think would be more likely to cause hyperplasia versus like other forms? Like would you chase muscle damage as a means to induce hyperplasia in humans? No, no. I had it hard, no, I would not do that. I would not advise that. No, I don't think that's something you should be striving for in your training. I don't think that doing some sort of damaging exercise continuously to gain more fibers is a safe or smart strategy. But recall what I said earlier. Something on the go looks like it's a disease. What's generally clear about these two methods is that they tend to occur in the presence of a large amount of muscle damage. With that being the case, forms of training that induce more muscle damage may help in this pursuit. Probably the biggest stimulus for muscle damage is novelty, performing exercises you've never done or that you haven't done in a long time. Similarly, eccentric training generally causes more muscle damage than concentric training. Training closer to failure may also cause greater muscle damage. So if you're inclined to believe muscle hyperplasia can occur from lifting, incorporating some heavy eccentric only exercises or four straps, like Nordic curls or reverse Nordic curls, or pushing to and past failure on occasion, could be good ways to stack the odds in your favor. Who knows, you might just build more muscle by stimulating muscle hyperplasia. The very least, just like I did during my first year in undergrad, I hope you come away from this video being curious about muscle hyperplasia as a way to grow muscle. The topic remains divisive for reasons that should be clear by now. If you enjoyed the video, you'll enjoy our newsletter. We cover new research about building muscle and strength every two weeks. No spam ever. Likewise, if you'd like to get an experienced coach to help you reach your goals, go to strongbyescience.com slash coaching. Kevin, you killed it. Where can people find you and your ongoing research? Sure, well, I'm on the X, I guess, I wanna call it Twitter, but X, Kevin, you're at PhD, I have an Instagram too, but I don't really use it that much, but there's some pretty pictures there for you of muscle and things, like the ones I have in my background. My website, University of Arkansas, you can Google me, m3rlab, University of Arkansas, you'll find me there. You can always just email me too, if you have questions. So, yeah, that should be fine. That's how we made this happen. So, we'll put all your links in the description. My Little Wolf, strong by science, until next time.

=== FILE: Is Periodization KEY for Maximum Muscle Growth？ [ToKw-gafj8E].txt ===

 ascidentic unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown Before we start, let's briefly define periodization. Periodization formally refers to how one manipulates different training related variables, for example, load, intensity of effort, frequency, etc. in order to be in peak performance for a specific event, usually a competition. When it comes to periodization in the literature and in practice, we have many different types of periodization, namely linear periodization, where one manipulates variables linearly as they approach the specific event that they're interested in. We have daily and weekly undulating periodization, where variables change either from training day to training day or from week to week. For example, volume goes up from week one to week two and then back up on week three. And we also have block periodization, where there are distinct blocks where variables are manipulated differently within those blocks. That's your typical old school powerlifters. There are my old school powerlifters that leave a comment, I guess, or like leave that regardless, but who remembers the good old days where it was all about hypertrophy blocks, strength blocks, peaking blocks, and that was the thing in powerlifting. Still is to a certain extent, but things have become much more flexible. Before we look at some of the scientific evidence, there is a classic article and I know I am biased. I am literally dripped out in stronger by science gear. I have a neon sign behind me that says stronger by science and a fresh chest tattoo that says stronger by science, which I cannot reveal for legal purposes. But even before I was here on the stronger by science channel and made content for stronger by science, I was a big fan of stronger by science. That cost stronger by science a lot of money for me to say. Just kidding. I am saying it for real. And if you are ever a student of mine at any of the universities I taught, you have for sure heard about stronger by science. Anyways, all that to say an amazing article about periodization and strength and hypertrophy by the man himself, Greg Knuckles. Link is in the description for those of you that want to check out a deep dive before some of the researchers out there actually formally, formally looked at the literature on periodization and hypertrophy and strength. But without further ado, let's have a look at the latest literature on periodization and hypertrophy. So the paper when it comes to the literature and periodization and its effects on strength and hypertrophy is a 2022 paper that looked at volume equated resistance protocols that were either periodized or non periodized on, you guessed it, strength and hypertrophy. Overall, the authors included studies that compared periodized to non periodized protocols and specifically included studies that were at least four weeks long and equated for volume and also for training frequency. Because although for hypertrophy, the current literature does show that training frequency does not seem to have a meaningful impact, assuming that you're completing the same amount of volume. For strength, we do know that, hey, if you train and lift more frequently, you may make more gains than if you trained it less frequently. Getting the strength results out of the way, because although we're focused mainly on hypertrophy for this video specifically, might as well touch on those as well. Periodized training led to greater strength increases. And I think we're looking at about a 28% versus a 23% increase in strength when it came to periodized versus non periodized groups. And the article that I mentioned earlier, Linged Bio, check that out, that was published before the study, last amended I think in 2018. And it essentially found that periodized training on average led to greater gains in strength than non periodized training. When looking at the type of periodization specifically and in trained individuals specifically, undulating periodization resulted in greater strength increases, nothing too crazy, but greater strength increases than linear periodization. So if you're a strength athlete or somebody who wants to maximize strength gains, if you're opting for a cookie cutter periodization scheme that you're going to follow to a T, then undulating periodization may be better than just linear periodization. Anyways, though, strength, strength. It's 2024. It's all about muscle growth. Just kidding, it's not. But for some reason, on social media at least, it is not the reason we're doing this video though. Hey, stop making that comment. We're looking at hypertrophy specifically because it is an area of research that is less clear than strength. So on to the hypertrophy results. Periodized training did not lead to a significantly greater gain in muscle size when compared to non periodized training, at least in the context of these studies. We're talking about an average of roughly 4% hypertrophy in those that follow the periodization program versus roughly 3% for those that didn't. It's important to note that training status did not influence the outcomes of this review as far as hypertrophy goes. In contrast to the strength outcomes, although even there, we just saw a difference between different styles of periodization, not periodized versus non periodized because that did not seem to have an effect on whether you were trained or untrained. So yeah, periodization, at least in the context of these studies that were not a year long and at the same time where volume equated and frequency was also matched between groups. Following a specific periodization model does not seem or did not seem to make much of a difference as far as hypertrophy goes. Now that's not to say that periodization is something that you should take and throw out the window completely as far as muscle hypertrophy goes. And the reason for this is in these studies, we're talking about few months of training and a few months maybe two to four months of consistent training where individuals fall a specific model versus the training program that is relatively constant. Now that specific periodization model, although it may have like if they were following an undulating periodization model, that means that on a given day participants could be doing something different from their next day versus doing say three by 10 for two training sessions every week they could have been doing three by five and then three by 20. The way periodization is usually explored in the literature does not necessarily mimic how you'd use periodization for hypertrophy in real life and obviously the duration of these studies is not long enough to truly explore the concept of periodization. So it would be much different if we had people that followed periodization for a year long which we're not going to have at any time soon versus just a few months where again given that volume is equated and frequency is equated, I would not expect to see much of a difference especially given the circumstances that these studies are performed under. Another thing is that these are studies that were controlled so participants were doing the exact same volume as I just said something that in real life conditions if you're able to have a program that is not periodized whatsoever and allows you to get the same amount of volume in as a periodized program that may have some you know built-in progression patterns and may undulate sets or reps on any given week or day if you're able to control for that and ensure that you're matching volume and you're getting the same amount of hard sets in over a long period of time then that's totally fine but for some people some form of periodization scheme and having an organized approach to their training may allow them to do a bit more volume over time thus potentially eking out a few more gains. On that note make sure to check out the Extreme Volume Extreme Gains podcast episodes on the Stronger by Science podcast where we do a deep dive on extreme high volumes and whether those can actually lead to extreme gains or whether they're a waste of time. Spoiler alert there is something to them however back to the topic so periodization although in the literature does not seem to play a meaningful role as far as hypertrophy goes and I would also say that in practice too there isn't a whole lot of need for absolutely planning everything to achieve, planning deloads and just having a built-in progression pattern that is fixed and you're following it to the absolute T for long periods of time. There may be some utility to following a periodization model if that allows you to do more volume to train harder and to not miss out on sessions. It may be that for some people out there having a program that is fixed and has the same sets every week and does not sort of coincide with their life, their schedules, their whatever holiday seasons and that may not allow them to do as much training volume, that may not allow them to push things as hard as they could thus leading to potentially suboptimal gains. Keep in mind this is all very speculative but I want to make it clear that although in the literature the current evidence suggests that hey periodization not much of an effect on hypertrophy I think that for some people there may still be some utility and if we look at some of the recent data that we also discussed on the podcast that I just mentioned about extreme volumes in the NS study for example where they ramped up training volume over time they saw although not statistically significant and meaningfully greater hypertrophy in those that did ramp up their volume over time. Although the study did not directly look at periodization and I'm not saying that you're missing out on a ton of gains if you did not periodize for hypertrophy just don't take the conclusion of the latest review on periodization and hypertrophy and just run with only that there may be cases where some form of periodization may still come in handy and may still allow you to at least maximize gains. For the majority of people out there that want to make solid strength gains they probably don't need to bother much with that either but overall don't completely close the door fully on periodization for hypertrophy. Leave it slightly open that's all I'm saying leave it slightly open not because there's some magical mechanism here that I'm proposing that you know periodization sort of taps into and you're able to make more gains because you are sensitizing the muscle more or anything like that make sure to check out our video and downloads as well on that topic but I'm just saying that if periodizing allows you to do more over time then there may be something to that. That is all thank you so much for watching don't forget that if you're somebody interested in strength periodization is still something that is probably of use to you although as you saw even when not periodizing you're still looking at awesome strength gains and just as I tricked you into thinking that I was going to say don't forget to like and subscribe don't forget to like and subscribe don't forget to check out the Stronger by Science podcast for in-depth dives on all things lifting check strongerbyscience.com if you want an evidence-based coach that will help you get closer to your goals and obviously strongerbyscience.com for articles and a lot of content that in my opinion is the best out there. I know you're not used to seeing the SPS flex but hey that's why we're here neon science baby our Manny Silk Handmade t-shirts that cause thousands of dollars and you know the vibes peace

=== FILE: SBS Battle Royale (Episode 134) [RwKl3EXZO9M].txt ===

angiAvastatin,angiAvastatin,angiAvastatin,! Welcome back to the Stronger by Science podcast. I'm Greg Tunkels. I'm Pac and I'm Milo. And we have another, what I assume will be a great episode for you guys today. The reason I say I assume is when we're, when we're coming in and we're doing kind of the standard Stronger by Science podcast formula, I'm very confident that it's going to be good stuff. And this time, I think it will be, but I have a bit less confidence and a bit more trepidation. I'll admit that up top because we are trying something new in this episode. What we're going to do this time around is we're going to have some, have some mini debates about topics that you will frequently hear discussed in the gym, see discussed on social media, things that, things that people just really get at each other's throats about. And we're doing kind of the, the policy debate thing where one of us is going to be arguing for each one of these topics. One of us is going to be arguing against and one person is going to be the moderator. A twist is that we don't know which, which position we're taking until the topic is introduced. So we'll, we'll see how that goes. But yeah, it should be fun. It should be fun, but it is a deviation from the standard formula. So I'm excited to give it a shot. And if you really, really like this format for an episode, or if you really, really dislike it, let us know either in the comments of the YouTube video where this is posted, or if you're listening on podcast feeds, head over to the stronger by science Facebook group or subreddit and leave your feedback there. To be entirely clear, this is not, this is not going to become like the standard exclusive formula for podcast episodes. But, you know, sometimes we do listener Q&A episodes, sometimes we do fireside chats, like we have a, we have a menagerie of shapes that episodes can take. So we're just feeling out if this is another formula that we might, you know, add, add to our cookbook for how episodes might look. So if you really like it or really don't like it, let us know. So quick question for both of you just at the top of this episode, would you say that you like, like debates, like arguing, like is, is it something that you just enjoy doing or are you more kind of like conflict averse on that in that regard? So I'll start by saying that I'm a recovering comments on Facebook debater as in like back in the day, I'd be, I'd be part of some closed groups, mostly focused on lifting and, you know, nutrition and strength training and stuff. And I would really enjoy spending a lot of time arguing with people that would never accept my stance, regardless of how much evidence I had to present. But it was, I always found it entertaining for myself having to craft an argument and present the sources and try to make a compelling case for something that I truly believed was true. And on the other side, aside from being a recovering, recovering debater online, because I've stopped doing that as it's, as I realized it was mostly a waste of time, besides, you know, the fun part of it, I do enjoy debating stuff with, with Milo, when it comes to anything, you know, sports science related with, you know, the odd, odd hot debate, hot topic debate, where either his or my stance will be a bit more controversial than some of the sort of established truths that we have all come to accept. I think those make for, for nice exercises and they often allow you to see aside, aside of an argument that you wouldn't have otherwise seen, because everybody accepts that, you know, X is better than Y. But, you know, when, when Milo comes in with his hot tag, I'm like, Oh, okay, sure, I get that this is a hot take. But interesting how you presented it here. And I cool, I hadn't thought of that because I didn't bother looking at what the other side had to argue. Yeah, I broadly mirror pack, let's say, I'm of two minds on the matter. On the one hand, I'm a bit of a consequentialist when it comes to having arguments or debates in the first place, where unless I sort of deem the other party involved as being willing to change their mind with their stance as a result of like this course, usually I won't debate or argue, I'll kind of just put my stance out there. And I might read about other instances. But that is about it. I'm not necessarily too interested in a back and forth. Unless I have good information that hey, this party is willing to change their mind. But then when it comes to actually arguing itself, just forget the consequences for a moment. I do enjoy forming the arguments and trying to put them in the most coherent way possible. And specifically, even in my own head, I like playing devil's advocate with myself a little bit, just because sometimes, especially when there is some evidence in favor of one stance versus another, it can be attempting to adopt a very absolute stance. And I think just checking yourself a little bit by devils advocating yourself can be a good way to arrive at a more nuanced place ultimately. But I would say generally I do avoid arguments unless I think there's something to be gained at the end of it. Yeah, what about you, Greg? I think, yeah, I think I think I'm kind of similar to you guys. I used to engage in arguments on social media quite a bit more back in the day, particularly Facebook. Like I'm going to date myself a little bit here, but Facebook back in the day used to be, I think, pretty good for having either fruitful debates and discussions, or just like, knock down drag out fights where you are trying to make the other person look dumb. Like both of those, the platform facilitated and I kind of thought both of them were fun. Because that was when like, I'm not going to get off on too much of a tangent complaining about Facebook and how it's changed. But like, the notifications used to be a lot better. Like if you had commented on a comment thread, you would get notifications of like new comments on the comment thread, like very reliably, and it doesn't really do that so much anymore. So if there were like, if there were like, 10 people who had like, commented on something and like, you and someone else were going back and forth, like you could be pretty confident that the other people who had engaged would at least be able to like, see it and be a bit of the popcorn gallery. And it showed more posts from people you followed and like, topics you had engaged with, rather than just like, brand posts and like, a bunch of ads. And so, there was a bit more of a feeling like it was productive to engage because yeah, there was like, more of an audience almost like you and another person could hash something out and there would be enough other people that would see it that you could potentially, you know, shift opinions even for the people who were just observing and not participating. And Facebook is way worse for that now. And I think every other social media platform is like, comprehensively worse for that, especially as more fitness stuff is moved on to Instagram, like an Instagram post goes up, people are only going to look at the comments section one time. And so if you and someone else go back and forth a bunch, one, most most stuff gets enough comments that no one's going to see that discussion in the first place and two, if other people see it once, they're not going to come back and look again. So it's like, yeah, like if you enjoy having the debate with a single person, it's cool, but it does feel less productive in terms of being able to shift like more people's mind, mindsets and perceptions around a topic, because it is like way more sequestered. And the only other way you can engage on a lot of the platforms now is like someone makes a post and you like screencap it and then respond in your own kind of like top level post. But then that just becomes like silo we and like echo chambering. And yeah, yeah, I don't know. Like I think I think the way that social media has changed over time has just made it feel like less rewarding and productive to engage in a lot of discussions like that. In real life, I do enjoy a friendly debate. And much like Milo, I think I have little debates with myself all the time. Like I'm a, I don't know, I'm a fan of like the Popperian notion of falsification. And so anything that I do think I believe from the research, I'm like constantly looking for the weaknesses in that position or, you know, things that I believe to be true that there's just like insufficient evidence to currently support. So I am I am always like having that dialogue with myself and playing Devil's Advocate for things that I believe, which I guess is like kind of a debatey. But yeah, that's I think my my general orientation toward it. Yeah, your comment about social media change you were spot on the comment section. Because it is all it is mostly Instagram now and crafting a huge response and organizing it and then posting it on Instagram just for a few people to see and the formatting is man, it's all mobile optimized. I don't know back in the day, Facebook felt so much more rewarding when you did that. But yeah, after you can't put clickable links in. Like if you're if you're trying to have a scientific discussion with someone like you want to have sources and you can put like the PMID and parentheses or whatever, but there's more friction to check that out. And like, I know that no one was looking at sources anyways. But like when you when you add even more friction to being able to check sources, people are going to be way less likely to do so yet. So yeah, yeah. Sorry, I cut you off. But yeah, just the the fact that you can't put links in like makes it if it's like a if it's a debate that is reliant on scientific evidence at all, like not being able to link out just comprehensively makes a platform worse. Yeah, for sure. What are some of the most heated debates you've had on Facebook, like a couple on on lifting specifically. I remember in our Facebook group arguing, I was arguing for you when you had come up with the article on the effect of PDs on muscle gain potential. And there were some percentages there that people yeah, there are some type of way. Yeah, that was there were it. Do what? That was for strength, right? I remember people being very up in arms about you say, Yeah, actually steroids only make you about 10%, 20% more competitive in strength sports because of weight classes. Yeah, strength. People got mad about the hyper-trophy one too. Yeah, there were there was a lot of bad blood related to that topic, I think. Yeah, I think I think those were probably some of the most the most knockdown drag out debates, I guess. Yeah, anything around like steroids or like natty or not content, like people people really get really get their hackles up about that. But also, I don't know that that was kind of the beginning of the end for me. Like losing my losing my my zest, I think for some of the debates because like, dude, the like almost exclusively when I would engage on those topics, I would just feel like I was I don't know, I like I'm not trying to like sound mean or whatever. I mean, I guess I am who cares whatever. I would feel like I was just talking to just a wall or just a bunch of rocks, because like, all of the counter arguments I would get would either be things that I had already directly addressed in the piece of writing that people were responding to. They'd be like, Oh, you didn't think about XYZ. I'm like, I did like here's a copy and paste or like a screenshot of where exactly in the article I discussed that. Yes. Or just like misrepresenting things I said in a way that like, I don't know what the principle of charity would dictate in a situation like that. It's like, is it more charitable to assume that you're like lying and operating in bad faith? Or is it more charitable to assume that you're functionally illiterate? Like, neither of those are charitable assumptions. But those are the only explanations for some of the things that I'd be getting like, folks, just attributing things to me that I never said and had like, directly contradicted like, yeah. And so I think I think after that it kind of kind of blackpilled me on a lot of stuff because I'm like, Oh, most people just aren't going to fucking read this. And if they do, it's not going to matter because they're just going to misrepresent it. And even a lot of the other people in like, following along with the discussion aren't going to read anything. And so, yeah, yeah, that was, that was frustrating. So was that around time you started turning off comments for call by science? I think that might have happened then, right? No, that was that was a lot later. And that was for a completely different reason. Yeah, I did. I did also enjoy arguing with people in the comment sections of the website. And if if the comments were still just like people arguing with me, I would have left them on forever because I thought that was fun. The reason, the reason we turned the comments off is like, so more and more websites, I think circa 2015 2016 started turning comments off. And so I think it started becoming a thing where like, folks reading websites became like had less and less of an expectation of a comment section and less and less of an expectation of if I comment on this thing, other readers will respond or the author will respond and we'll be able to have a bit of a back and forth either either heated or productive. Like I think as more and more places started removing comment sections, like this, the switch kind of flipped, like people would be less likely to seek out the comment section for that reason. And so like, we just stopped getting comments about the articles themselves, like people weren't engaging, people weren't trying to argue. We would get exactly two kinds of comments, which would be people saying like, Oh, hey, love this article. It's great. Which like, on one hand, thanks on the other hand, I don't know, like, this is going to sound really mean, but I, you know, it's not going, I hope it doesn't sound mean, it's going to sound like I have self worth issues because maybe I do. I don't like, I don't like getting compliments on my stuff, like it makes me very uncomfortable. It's like, if you like something I did, appreciate it in silence. I don't want to hear because I, I don't like hardly anything that I do. And so if someone says, Hey, I like, good job, congrats, I like this thing. My knee jerk responses, I want to argue against them. Like I want to be like, no, you absolute swine, how can you have such bad taste? Like I did my best, but it's still horrible. Like that's how I feel. And so like, I don't like positive feedback. Like I genuinely dislike it. So yeah, we get positive comments. My feeling would be, I appreciate the sentiment, but I wish you wouldn't. And that was like 10% of the comments we got. And the other 90% were just spam bots. And if all I'm going to get is like, good job and spam, like there's no point in having comments. So we turned them off for that reason. You absolute swine was nice. The one thing I'll mention, and then we can get into it is what was annoying with Facebook arguments and arguments in text is that there is an unwritten sort of code of etiquette when arguing online, especially when you're getting deep into an argument where I'm going to list my arguments one by one, the equivalent, the appropriate evidence to support each statement, blah, blah, blah. And you have to acknowledge that versus not acknowledging all the points made and then arguing for, you know, picking just one little point or one little piece of missing information, ignoring the rest and arguing based off that when that could, you know, I don't know. I just found that many people would go down that route, which was just annoying because then there's no point in me, as you said, arguing against a wall. Whereas in person, you can just repeat yourself and shout over the other person and say, address this address this address this address this until they leave your house in distress. That is true. That is true. Okay, I think that's I think that's enough of a wind up about the concept of arguments and debates in general. So let's, let's get into the meat of this episode. But before we do quickly just the standard plugs that we give up top of every episode. If you enjoy the show, please like rate, subscribe and tell your friends, it really helps us out. If you're interested in hiring a virtual coach to help you with your training and or nutrition, Stronger by Science has a team of excellent coaches that can help you out. You can learn more at strongerbyscience.com slash coaching. If you'd like to purchase supplements from a great source that has great prices and you want the prices to be even better, head over to balksupplements.com and use code SBS pod at checkout for an additional 5% off their already low prices. If you want to stay in the loop about all things going on in the Stronger by Science universe, check out our Facebook group and subreddit, that's Stronger by Science community on Facebook and reddit.com slash r slash Stronger by Science or and or you could do both. I'd recommend you do both. You can check out our newsletter. We send you high quality informative content every couple of weeks, not just spamming you with a bunch of ads and sales material and whatnot. It is actually high quality, useful, productive stuff. You can head over and check that out at strongerbyscience.com slash newsletter. And lastly, if you have questions that you would like us to address on the show, sometimes we post in the Facebook group and subreddit to solicit questions and anything else. Our preference would be people recording quick audio clips and emailing them to podcast at strongerbyscience.com. We tend to use those for like general listener Q&A episodes and for like targeted Q&A for specific episodes. We like that as well, but sometimes we forget to post threads asking with enough lead time for people to send in voice clips. And so yeah, in those instances such as this episode, we solicit questions from the Facebook group and subreddit and take plenty of text questions. But yeah, if you have questions for the podcast, our preference is recording a voice clip and emailing it to podcast at strongerbyscience.com. All right, so let's get into these debates and discussions. Pac, this was your idea. So I think you're kind of like emceeing this, right? So would you like to introduce the first topic and let us know who the combatants are going to be? For sure. So again, these were all randomly selected pre-recording using random.org, if I'm not mistaken, to find who they are. The positions, not the questions. Yeah, not the questions. Yeah, that would be that would be funny though. And the way we're going to do this is we're going to have one person going pro, one person going against regardless of whether their actual stance is pro or against. So there will be some level of mental gymnastics required in some cases. And then a third person acting as a moderator, obviously not to moderate the debate itself, because these are going to be relatively short with each person having two to five minutes for their response. But then it's up to the moderator to sort of create a summary of arguments and express what they believe is the truth, whether one side is more true than the other, whether the truth lies somewhere in the middle and essentially give you the actual take. Because I'm operating on the assumption that these topics are topics that we three mostly agree on in terms of our actual stance. But the fun of this episode is that we shall find out if we actually do agree. And there may be some mini sub debates that will come as a result of that. So the first topic is the big three are must do exercises for lifters looking to make serious strength and size gains. I will be arguing pro Milo will be arguing against and Greg will be the moderator here. So am I okay to get going? Greg, are you going to keep some sort of mental timer or actual timer? Do you want to do you want to tell me okay, go? Yeah, I'll just keep an eye on the clock on my computer. Yeah, it's not going to be super strict. But if you when you clear five minutes, I'll let you know to go ahead and wrap it up. Perfect. Just for transparency's sake, although I knew of the topics yesterday, I did not prepare just for just so it's fair to whoever to you guys actually because you guys didn't know the topics and I pinky swear, which is you know, is scientifically proven to to be better than light detectors are detecting whether somebody's telling the truth. So all right, let's get into it are so as the moderator, let me just say the person taking the pro side of this debate is already stalling for time. I think points are getting no, I'm just kidding. But yeah, let's, I think, yeah, I think, I think pro always goes first and then anti gets to knock it down. Okay, sure. So I'll take it away. Are you? Yeah. So the big three meaning squad bench and deadlift, I think, obviously, my real opinion is not exactly that. But I think that you can make the argument that there must do exercises for lifters. Because when you get into when you get into lifting and the culture of serious lifting and making gains for both strength and size, there is a cultural aspect to PRing on your squad on your bench on your deadlift to following programs that are specifically centered around those lifts and through training for the big three as a beginner lifter and then keeping those exercises within your routine that can sort of keep you closer to the culture of lifting to the culture of hardcore lifting where you essentially learn how to consistently push yourself. You learn how to do exercises that are hard, like the squad and the deadlift. And at the same time, they also give you plenty of experience when it comes to just general programming knowledge, some sports science knowledge, if you do decide to take your big three strength to the next level. From a hypertrophy standpoint, I guess there is a placebo effect that you can heavily leverage by reading articles on T nation where the words mass builder are used and the squad is the king of all exercises. Phrases like that are seen. So you may get a bit of a psychological boost where you're like, okay, instead of doing a leg press, I am doing the king of all exercises. This is really going to up my leg development and my overall strength. Plus, I get to train through different ranges of motion, get good at picking up stuff off the ground, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And overall, good exercises, regardless of whether you're a powerlifter or not. And something that I would say most lifters would benefit from having in their routine. This is as far as I can go with my back flips in my head and all the mental gymnastics I could do. I'm curious to hear what Milo has to say. Sorry, last thing, excuse me. No serious lifter or successful bodybuilder has not paid their dues doing the big three for a solid period of time. But yeah. All right, Milo, your response. Let's do it. So upfront, I don't think the squat bench and a lift are the worst thing to ever happen. But I am I have been coerced and taking the against stance. And so I'll do my best to give the against stance. First, I think I can pretty confidently argue that all three of the main lifts, as far as muscle growth is concerned, at least, are somewhat suboptimal, quote unquote. Like, there are certain things from the evidence that we can kind of at least be reasonably confident in. For instance, that to maximize hypertrophy, we at least want to get the target muscle reasonably lengthened, right? So for a lot of people just doing a regular conventional deadlift. For one, you're unlikely to maximize the stretch on your hamstrings, simply because you're also bending the knees. And for two, even when it comes to the glutes and the actors or the actor, Magnus and the gluteus maximum specifically, the hip extensors, even for those for a lot of people, especially with certain builds, they won't necessarily get all that stretched. Similarly, you could make a decent case that at least the way most people with a power thing perform the squat might not be best for growth, where if you're just going to power thing, that's the least probably not ideal for hypertrophy. Now the question didn't specify that we're talking about doing the power thing standards. So I'll know that that is a bit of a caveat. And then finally with the bench, I think that it's a fine exercise. And for a lot of people, it will be very effective or even maximally effective. But there is still a chance that for a non negligible proportion of people, they could potentially get more hypertrophy by focusing on a better exercise selection that maybe focuses more on the stretch or what have you. In fact, there is more of a practical argument against the big three as well. And that is that for a lot of people, I think in practice, it can detract from other muscle groups. So if someone does choose to include the squat bench that lived to a large extent within their hypertrophy program, especially oftentimes what I see happening in practice is that people spend their first hour of the session doing the squat bench or deadlift. And then I realize, oh, I have to be at the angiogermen half an hour, and I've got five exercises left. And then they often fail to get all of their accessory work in, which in the long term might compromise certainly their hypertrophy, especially if they're missing out on cath, abwerk, bisepwerk, whatever you want to call it, and also potentially their strength if in the long term they're not getting as big as they could be because they're always thinking the big three are must do exercises and they can't exclude them at any point. And then another sort of more practical consideration, and this is really not meant as medical advice, it's just something I've observed with myself and with some clients, is that thinking the squat bench and deadlift or must do exercises does, in my experience, just cause me a bit more pain. Like, during the times where I focus on the squat bench and deadlift, if I am being very specific with those three movements, doing them a couple times a week at least, for weeks and weeks on end, at least I personally find that I will eventually experience some pain, some point, and that pain can often entirely resolved by just omitting those exercises for a little bit, or just switching from the low bar squat to like a hack squat or a leg press, and that freedom of being able to change our exercises, I think is pretty important. And then the final thing is just, if we're arguing the big three or must do exercises, that inevitably places some constraint on exercise variation, and exercise variation, to an extent, seems to be beneficial for hypertrophy. Like, we don't just want to do one exercise for each muscle group. There was a lot of analysis, I think, by Cassiano and colleagues, if I'm not mistaken, around regional hypertrophy from exercise variation. Long story short, we don't just want one exercise per muscle group, if we want to maximize overall hypertrophy, not to say that you couldn't at least have a couple of exercises for each muscle group, but if you're always sticking with the big three, that may somewhat cause an issue with exercise selection and sort of variation over time. So, overall, especially for hypertrophy, I think you'd be quite hard-pressed that the big three or must do. Like, in fact, I can make a pretty good case that always including the big three will probably lead to you getting less muscular across your lifespan than if you ditch that rule altogether. And for strength, it entirely depends on what you mean by strength. Strength specific. Is it going to get you reasonably strong all around? Yeah. But could you do other movements and get similarly strong all around? Yes. So, depends on what you mean by strength, I guess. But overall, I think I am staunchly against this claim. Okay. So, that's the first round. Is there also like a second round for responses or is it basically just like one back and forth and that's it? One back and forth and now you as the moderator have to give us your take based on the arguments presented. Where do you think the truth lies? Sure. So, I think both my take on the topic and my evaluation of the arguments presented are that Milo carried the day. Pack the weakness of your argument. One, like I don't think it's true. I don't think the big three or must do exercises for people looking to make serious strength and size gains. Like Milo pointed out, there are simply plenty of other exercises you could do. There is a case that could be made that the big three for all of the muscles they train may be suboptimal. And yeah, yeah. I mean, I don't think there's a super strong case that could be made that they are absolutely essential. Even some of the stuff that didn't come up in this little back and forth that people will sometimes trot out. Arguments like the hormone hypothesis, you do heavy lower body work, that is an argument that you frequently see in favor of the idea that in particular, squats and deadlifts are necessary to maximize whole body hypertrophy. That didn't come up in y'alls back and forth, but that is a position that you see people take to support this concept. But even if someone's going down that road, it's like, okay, if you're saying that someone needs to do full body exercises that use a lot of muscle mass, like why does it have to be squat and deadlifts? Could it be farmer's walks? Could it be clean and jerk circuits? That's using more muscle mass than squats and deadlifts do. So yeah, I don't really see a way that someone could forcefully argue that the big three are absolutely essential employing arguments that couldn't be applied to other lifts. So I think that is the correct position, but PAC, I do have to criticize the argument you made in that the topic of debate was the big three are must do exercises for lifters looking to make serious strength and size gains. And all of the arguments you put forth were just generally positive things about programming around the big three. You were arguing that they are particularly good exercises to be doing, but in none of the arguments you put forth was there the implication that they were must do exercises, just that there were some particular benefits to them. So just in terms of the structure of the argument, I don't think you actually argued for the position you were supposed to be arguing for. So it was a difficult position to argue for. You selected the questions, man. Yes, because- You were going to put someone in the position of arguing the pro here. So I appreciate you falling on your sword, but I do think purely just from a rhetorical perspective, you lost from the start because you didn't actually argue for the position. I could have directly verbatim quoted certain authority figures that have released certain best selling books in our niche and essentially just have had like pages and pages of why the big three are must do exercises, but I couldn't do that in the 30 seconds I had to prepare for it, but there are people out there still to this day with big following and people that are being taken seriously and again have released plenty of educational material that are considered, you know, like I watched a few videos last week where, you know, the squat, the low bar squat specifically is non-negotiable if you're looking to build strength and size. Honestly, man, you should have just hit me with the, get stronger, bench four plates, and then you'll be jacked. Boom, that is all you needed to say. You would have won the debate then and there. That's true. But instead you, you know, went about it in a lukewarm fashion. Yes, yes, I should have also said, cool, where is your eight times Mr. Olympia titles Milo? Because last I checked the king, you know, built his legs by squatting 800 and dead lifted, whatever he dead lifted. Anywho's. Defeat is my second name now. So Patrick was defeat Andrew likes, I guess it is what it is. We went at it, but now I'm going to hit you guys with always training to fader, to maximize hypertrophy with the pro stands being Dr. Milo Wolf, the against stands being, sorry, the against stands being Greg and the moderator being me. So this will be, I think this will be quite interesting. You got this Milo. I know you got it. Sorry, Greg, but this is a debate we've had between us as well. And I know my boy is somewhat prepared. I see you popping the nicotine gum. Let's get into it. Yeah. I'm fearful because I know that Greg has written at length about this, even though it hasn't been released. And so I am concerned about this. But without further ado, let me get into it. First, I think you can make the epistemic case that most people are at least somewhat inaccurate with gauging reps in reserve. And so even though you don't need to be perfectly accurate to get an effective stimulus in, if we take the assumption that I'll get to in a moment that training to failure maximizes hypertrophy and that we're somewhat inaccurate, then training to failure gets us closest on average to actually being at failure, or at least training to what we think is failure gets us closest to actual failure. So there has been some evidence broadly supporting the idea that the closer a set is taken to failure, the more hypertrophy might cause. The difficulty is we don't have evidence around the interplay, really much evidence around the interplay between relative intensity or how close the failure a set has taken and how much hypertrophy it causes and how that impacts volume. Because two of the variables that seem to display the most of a dose response relationship between that variable and how much muscle growth is caused are one, how close the failure sets are taken and two, how many sets per week have performed. Because we don't have studies to inform which one is more important, how one can impact the other, we could simply make the case that you should be training to failure always as a means to minimize the inaccuracy and maximize the stimulus because we do seem to have evidence in favor of training closer to failure being more hypertrophic on a set per set basis. And then two, equally just training with the highest volumes that you can get away with and recover from for hypertrophy. And both of those can go hand in hand. I think specifically we can also, this isn't exactly, okay, this is gonna be a hot take now, are you ready? We don't have many direct findings in the evidence of overtraining syndrome with lifting. And therefore I can make the theoretical case that if training to failure is more hypertrophic and we don't often observe true overtraining syndrome in the way that people don't benefit from training more with higher sets, with closer to failure, most people, one, probably don't train hard enough or hard enough overall to maximize hypertrophy potentially. And so they should take every set to failure because it doesn't take any additional time. And two, more specifically, the vast majority of people or maybe even everyone out there will run out of time or just give up before they truly hit recovery limits. Like we just don't observe overtraining syndrome that often. And so I could argue that it is always best to train to failure for hypertrophy because one, most people are time constrained, in which case you want to get more bang for your buck however long you're in the gym for. And two, even for the people who don't think they're time constrained and spend as much time as they do in the gym, I don't know that I've often seen too many people overtrain and certainly from the evidence that doesn't happen very often. And so training to failure always gets you more stimulus and gets you closer to failure and probably doesn't cause you to overtrain or at least for a lot of people, maybe for most people in fact, or all people wouldn't cause you to overtrain. I think specifically you can also make the case that accuracy of reps in reserve is pretty good or reasonable at least until five or 12 reps. But for a lot of hypertrophy training, but that will happen above 12 reps. And I'm drawing on a meta regression we did by Halperin and colleagues a few years ago. Basically, even below 12 reps, people are inaccurate, often off by one rep, sometimes even more. But then above 12 reps is when people get more and more inaccurate and so especially there is where it makes sense to train a failure very consistently. But you can again make the case that because people are at least somewhat inaccurate and training closer to failure is beneficial for hypertrophy, that just to minimize that offset between how close to failure you think you are and actual failure, that is, it is recommended to always train to failure. I think that's about it. That's about as strong of a case as I can make for training to failure for hypertrophy always being beneficial. Yeah, that wraps it up. All right, I have, am I good to go? Yes, yes, yes. Okay, so yeah, I hear the arguments Milo is making. I think the fundamental premise that they rely on is that you do necessarily get a greater stimulus by training to failure versus leaving reps in reserve. The idea that it's a negative that some people struggle to accurately assess reps in reserve, that's a relevant argument if it is absolutely critical to be able to do so because you do need to get really close to failure to maximize the hypertrophic stimulus. The idea that most people aren't actually nearing their recovery limits, that is also an argument that kind of like presupposes that it is, on a set by set basis better to train to failure because you're going to get a greater stimulus, but people are concerned about recoveries, but if people aren't actually overtraining, then that's not as much of a concern. Therefore, there's the case against training to failure is weakened because you can do so safely without overtraining. So yeah, that seems to be the fundamental premise underlying the arguments that Milo is putting forth here. The issue that I would take with them is that the evidence that you get a greater hypertrophic stimulus by training to failure versus stopping shy of failure, or even strictly getting closer to failure versus maybe staying a little bit further from failure. The evidence in favor of that proposition is surprisingly weak, so the strongest evidence that you could marshal to support that position would come from a meta regression by Robinson and colleagues that was published earlier this year. And I think we've discussed on the podcast before. I also discussed it with Zach and Josh on the data-driven strength podcast, and that was like a three and a half hour discussion, so not going to recap the entire thing here, obviously. But one of the things to note when looking at that meta regression is that you do see the trend of greater hypertrophy when training closer to failure when you pool all of the results, but in particular when you split out the results based on intensity, what you see is that a lot of that effect does seem to be influenced by low load training studies where people are training with 20 reps in reserve or whatever. You see a much, much weaker trend in studies where people are training above like 60% or 80% of 1RM, where you see fairly similar hypertrophy without people pushing super, super close to failure. The slope of that regression line is a lot less steep and acute. And when you dig into the individual studies as well, the strongest evidence in favor of greater hypertrophic stimuli from training to failure comes from studies on untrained individuals. So there was a study by Godot and colleagues where there was a pretty large effect in favor of training to failure versus staying a little bit further. And probably the strongest evidence comes from a study by Martarelli and colleagues where subjects did untrained women, did bicep curls, either to failure or a bit shy of failure. The effect size with training to failure was considerably larger. So that is where the strongest evidence in favor of increasing hypertrophic effects from training closer to failure comes from. However, when we look at studies on trained lifters, we don't see the same trend nearly as much. So there's a whole line of research by a Spanish group headed up by Pereja Blanco and colleagues that assigns training based on velocity loss per set where greater velocity loss means you're training closer to failure. And oftentimes the greatest velocity loss in those studies is either 40 or 50%. And when loads get above like 75, 80% of one RM, subjects, occasionally too pretty frequently hit failure depending what lift is being trained there. And even when they're not hitting failure, they're getting considerably closer to failure in those conditions versus the moderate velocity loss conditions, which is usually 20 to 25% velocity loss. And in the vast majority of those studies, with one notable exception, that being a bench press study, I think headed up by Gonzalez Bedejo and colleagues if memory serves, but without one sole exception, all of the rest find similar hypertrophy in the moderate velocity loss condition versus the highest velocity loss condition in trained lifters matched for sets, not even matched for volume load. So that is pretty consistent evidence in trained lifters against the idea that going closer to failure necessarily leads to a greater hypertrophic stimulus. Similarly, there was a 2021 meta analysis by Davies and colleagues on the efficacy of cluster sets for promoting hypertrophy. And I know time is running out, I'm wrapping up. So cluster sets, you're inherently not training as close to failure when you're matching for total amount of work done. You might do three many sets of two versus one set of six closer to failure. And you see faster velocities, higher power outputs, every lower lactate levels, every indication that cluster sets don't take you as close to failure. And most individual studies and meta analyses on the topic of cluster sets find that they lead to hypertrophy that is comparable to traditional sets. And in fact, in the study with the most well-trained lifters in this entire body of literature, a paper by Carol and colleagues from 2019, skeletal muscle fiber adaptations following resistance training using repetition maxims or relative intensity, use the most well-trained subjects that we've seen in this body of literature and the group not training to failure even with like number of sets equated between groups, the group not training to failure achieved a greater hypertrophy than the group training to failure. I think that if we're approaching this from an evidentiary perspective, there's not particularly strong evidence that training to failure is better and to the extent that such evidence exists, it is primarily in untrained lifters doing single joint exercises. When you look at the research on trained lifters, you do not see the same thing. Therefore, I think that cuts the legs out from under Milo's argument. And it, you know, if you're not getting a greater stimulus by going to failure or closer to failure, then there are no unique benefits that Milo put forth and argued for that one would get from training to failure. Great. So I will accept donations from both parties arguing to help me in my decision. But joking aside, I empathize with both viewpoints. Obviously, you know, one of you guys was in the more more difficult position to argue for something as absolute as the statement, always training to failure to maximize hypertrophy. However, I'll share that as a coach and having worked with a lot of people over the years on particular exercise that we do not necessarily see in the literature that are often associated at least anecdotally with more discomfort like RDLs or pause squads, et cetera. I have observed that people are not that, some people at least are not that great with pushing themselves truly close to failure and actually going to failure and being asked to take a set to the point where they're unable to do another rep may have some benefit there. But I do agree with your stance, Greg. Overall, that training to failure, always training to failure is likely not necessary. From my personal standpoint, I do think that taking some sets to failure is good practice as a way to calibrate your ability to accurately gauge your proximity to failure. Although TNC apply, it's not like we've directly investigated that in the literature, but I will have to crown you as the king here, although I very much liked Dr. Wolfe's arguments because I think that's the most compelling case you can make for training to failure if you were to make one. But I know for a fact that that does not reflect Milo's actual opinion. So. Also, let the record show, arguments I put forth don't fully reflect my actual position either. I do lean more in favor of that perspective, but I'm arguing for a position, I'm going to take a maximalist case that distorts and twists things a little bit in order to support what I'm trying to argue for, which is what I think we're trying to do here. Yeah, my general take is like, for single-joint exercises, I don't see a good reason to not train to failure. My take is more practical than anything, I guess. I don't know, I do kind of think that going closer to failure probably leads to a greater stimulus, all things considered, but with heavy compound exercises, there are a lot of things you need to balance. Is taking a set of squats to failure going to just wear you out and fuck you up so much that the rest of your workout is less productive? Or injury risk considerations, whatever. So yeah, I think that heavy compound stuff, just do it in a way that's safe and productive, but then if I tell someone to do curls and they say, how many reps in reserve? I'm going to be confused. I'm going to say, what are you talking about? Like, what are reps in reserve when it comes to bicep curls? You're doing them to failure, just do it, you know? The duality of a man, 20,000 word article on arguing against them, then, hey, just do the set to failure. Respect. Moving on, we have a topic that, again, I've seen certain people argue heavily against, but in this case, we're going to have one of us arguing against. So sumo deadlifts for non-powerlifters. I'll be arguing pro. Mr. Gregg will be arguing against, and Milo will be moderating. So. All right, lads, are we ready? Pack, it's time for your opening statement, arguing for sumo deadlifts being included for non-powerlifters. Sure. So I think that sumo deadlifts, given that they are a barbell compound exercise and a great alternative to the conventional deadlift for many people because of a variety of factors, including their own anthropometric characteristics, preference, and so on and so forth. Great overall exercise that one can include in their hypertrophy or strength or overall resistance training routine that can allow non-powerlifters to actually get into the lifting culture, get plenty of stimulus from them, and they're not an exclusive exercise that you have to do, that in the case that you have to do, only sumo deadlifts for your lower body, your hamstrings, or your glutes. Great, great fun, especially if you get good at them, and a fantastic way for you to be included among your friends when you're deadlifting, especially if you find that your own anthropometric characteristics suit sumo deadlifts more than conventional. And in some cases, I have seen from working with individuals that the sumo deadlift is a much better option than the conventional deadlift, regardless of whether a competitive edge is trying to be gained. So overall, I'd say sumo deadlifts, excellent exercise for non-powerlifters to include as part of a balanced program, and I wouldn't have any issues with sumo deadlifts being inferior for whatever, posterior chain development, or just an exercise that is considered a cheat if you enjoy performing it and you can include it in your program. So nice and concise. I don't think there's much more to say, no, just kidding, I'm gonna drop the mic, grab it with the other hand, and then pass it to Greg, because once we dropped the mic on stage, and it broke, and then we had to pay for it. Actual story from one of the shows that we had done back in the day. So yeah, floor is yours. Okay, so I will start by responding to the broad strokes of PAC's argument, much like I did in the last debate where I took the anti as well. PAC's argument seems to rely on the presupposition that some form of deadlifts should be in people's programs anyways, and the sumo deadlift is a valid and useful alternative to the conventional deadlift. Therefore, if it suits someone's anthropometrics better, it is a perfectly fine thing to include in one's program. And that would be an excellent position to take in general, but within the continuity of this episode, we've already established in the first debate that the big three are not must-do exercises for lifters looking to make serious strength and size gains. So I wouldn't necessarily think that it's a good idea to presuppose that some form of deadlift should be in someone's program in the first place, which significantly weakens my comrades position. Some things that I will say against the sumo deadlift for non-power lifters is one, it's an exercise that's going to be subject to grip limitations. The thing about the deadlift is people can generally use quite a bit of weight, and oftentimes they're lifting more weight than they can comfortably grip with a double overhand grip, which would either mean that people need to learn how to use straps, which can be a little bit uncomfortable. It's another thing someone needs to purchase, bit of an accessibility barrier, or they're going to need to learn hook grip, which again, accessibility barrier, there's no reason that a non-power lifter should need to learn that to deal with the discomfort of hook gripping, or they're going to need to use a mixed grip, which may increase the risk of a bicep rupture, which seems like an unnecessary risk to take for someone who's performing this lift, not for a competitive reason. Second is that it's, you know, I do think that it's a lift that will train the posterior chain somewhat well, but much like the argument previously about the big three being necessary to include, it's going to be suboptimal for all of your posterior chain muscles. You're not going to be taking any of them through the longest possible range of motion, in particular, likely your hamstrings won't be particularly well-trained from it, and it's going to be, it's going to cause more fatigue than a lot of other lower body exercises you could do, much like the arguments Milo made in the big three segment. You put too much focus on the sumo deadlift, maybe you're going to have less time and energy to do other lower body exercises that might be a bit more productive, and notably with sumo deadlift versus conventional deadlift. Is the sumo deadlift is a little bit more quad dominant, leg dominant, and a little less back dominant than the conventional deadlift is, or something like RDLs would be, and if someone's already including some sort of quad dominant lower body exercise in their program, like some sort of squat, leg press, et cetera, adding the sumo deadlift as well is a little bit redundant on that front too.  and I don't, a note that I made is like, ah, shorter range of motion and ego lift, but that's the lowest hanging fruit, and I think that's a weak argument, so I'm not going to make it. So yeah, yeah, just to wrap it up, I don't think PACS argument presupposed that deadlifts should be included in the program, which we've already established they don't necessarily need to be. It's redundant with, it's more redundant with other lower body exercises than the conventional deadlift would be, and deadlifts in general for non-powerlifters, there are things about them that are less appealing, grip-related issues, et cetera, not training all of the target muscles as hard as some exercise could. Therefore, I think that sumo deadlifts certainly aren't a necessity, nor are any sort of deadlifts, nor are deadlifts even necessarily recommendable to non-powerlifters because they have unique disadvantages that other posterior chain exercises wouldn't, and that obviously applies to the sumo deadlift as well. Nice, I think you should have just ended it with a classic Rob Oberst quote of, the risk to a road ratio of deadlifts isn't worth it. On a serious note, go for it. Yeah, I should have hit you with the Greg Knuckles quote, the deadlift is one of the best exercises you can do to build muscle and strength. Take your sumo deadlift or conventional to the next level with this definitive guide on how to deadlift, but I was caught lacking in 4K, unfortunately. Anyways, I think both of your stances were actually reasonable, like I'm kind of in a split stance, mostly because the initial statement, like the one you were arguing for or against, was much less absolute and definitive than previously. Previously was you need to train to failure all the time for hypertrophy, or it was this big three or must do exercises. Where as this time, I was like sumo deadlifts, for non-powerlifters, yay or nay. And I kind of agree with both of you. Like I think for a lot of people, deadlifts can and should be included and they can be nice to do with friends, like that's what Pac said, right? And a lot of people do enjoy deadlifting. And so like more people enjoy doing the sumo deadlift, I'd say, than doing RDLs for example. Like RDLs, very few people I know get that excited about RDLs and slapping on some more weight on RDLs. Whereas quite a few people I know get excited about including sumo deadlifts and chasing a new PR on that. So in the context of not necessarily looking to optimize growth or strength and just should we include sumo deadlifts for non-powerlifters, I do think that bit of contextual information is good. But then I also agree with Greg that you don't need a deadlift in your program, like you just don't. You can get away with, like you do a good morning and you probably get largely the same adaptations. I also agree that the hip extensor musculature doesn't get trained all that well. None of them get a maximum stretch. The hamstrings specifically get trained less well than they would during conventional because they are being kind of, they're kind of like the rectus femoris or kind of like the hamstrings in the squat as well where they're shortening one joint and lengthening the other. One thing I'll push back on slightly is that the sumo deadlift might not be the worst thing ever from a range of motion perspective, just because it is relatively harder off the ground at longer muscle lengths. And there is some research maybe suggesting that having an exercise be more challenging in that stretch position might be beneficial for hypertrophy. So all is being equal with conventional, typically being more of a sticking point around mid-range and sumo more directly off the ground. Maybe there is something there for sumo being something to potentially include for non-palovtus. But then I for sure agree regarding grip limitations that it's just an additional thing that most recreational gym goers shouldn't necessarily have to worry about. So yeah, like overall I would give it to Greg just because I think the inclusion of one exercise as a categorical recommendation for a whole population is difficult. But I think honestly both make good points and like all of these considerations are in my head when I'm coaching clients like on both sides. So I think both make good points. Only else today. I will say, I mean, we talked about this before we started recording. This is one where my actual take is regardless anytime this discussion comes up, no matter who wins or loses the argument, we've all lost because anyone who's like getting super passionate about this one, I think they're barking up the wrong tree. I think, yeah, like if someone likes to do deadlifts and they're a non-powerlifter and they're built better for sumo, like yeah, it's fine. But someone doesn't wanna do it, it's also fine to not do it. Like I don't understand how anyone could get so heated about this one, but I certainly see people get heated about it. But my actual take on this is who the fuck cares? The wise words. I'm looking at two articles here, one titled the sumo deadlift, what's the point? And the other one why almost nobody should pull sumo and sumo is wrong in powerlifting too. It's up to the viewer to find out who these articles and videos are from. It's a single story. This is, I hope I'm not about to just shit on people I generally like, but I don't know. I do, here's my actual take on it. I think the people who are getting the most heated about sumo deadlifts are just people who are bad at deadlifts. I think most of the salt comes from people who have maybe lost on the deadlift to a good sumo deadlifter, and they're all up in arms about it. And my general take on that is like it's allowed. You could learn sumo or God forbid, maybe you're at a disadvantage because you're not built for sumo and the other person is and cry me a river because people who are built well for deadlifts tend to not be built that great for squat and bench. You want to be lanky for the deadlift, you want to be stubby for the other two. And yeah, if you lost on the floor to a good sumo deadlifter, you should have built up a bigger lead in the subtotal. That's my actual take. I think people who are salty are just salty because some of them are sumo deadlifts more than a conventional deadlift. Yep. The loser will speak now. So, all right, let's do this. Extreme how random has blessed me. I mean, okay, this will be a bit different. So we have old school bulking, 10 to 20% surplus, although I think 10 is not really old school bulking. Wouldn't old school bulking be more like 20 to 30? I mean, 10 is pretty high, right? Yeah, I mean, it's... 10, like for me, let's say that would be 400 pounds? It would be nearly a pound of weight gain a week. Solid. But cool. You know, that's the thick. The idea with the title was old school bulking, where you're gaining a ton of weight and you're on a substantial surplus. Pro is you, my friend, Dr. Milowulf. And I have to argue against you, although I did not want to. And moderator, obviously, Dr. Greg Knackl's real doctor, in terms of going to shop line on medical advice. PhD, MD. And also not fake doctor either. And a master of arts. Yes, that's true. Let's go. All right, let's get into it, guys. I'm very curious to see what Milowulf has to say about this, given his recent stance on bulking. Off the dome. We have some research on bulking, right? But we don't have a lot of it. But the research we do have does generally find a benefit in favor of the people that gain more weight, gain more fat-free mass. We don't have a ton of studies looking directly at muscle thickness, for example, by ultrasound. And typically the way that we measure fat-free mass, that would also get confounded by additional glycogen, or what have you. But generally, across studies we do have on bulking. I think we have four now, roughly, if I'm not mistaken. We have a study by Smith and colleagues, a study by Helms and colleagues, a couple other studies that I can think of. Generally, directionally, bulking and larger surpluses does lead to more muscle mass gained, with the confounders obviously being a TNC. Now, specifically in the study by Smith and colleagues, they used Bayesian methods and they drew a sort of correlation of... not a correlation, just essentially a regression of how much muscle was gained relative to how big of a percentage increase in body weight there was. And by and large, with a 2% body weight increase per month, I think is what I've learned from what I call, on average is like a rate of weight gain. All of that gain was fat-free mass. So even that 2% of body weight gained per month in that one study, pretty much all of the observed increase in weight was increase in muscle size. And when you went beyond that, obviously, because of the linear regression, you gained even more muscle. But at the very least, even rates of weight gain as high as 2% per month didn't cause excess fat gain in this one study. Similarly, you can make the case that the athletes that are largest, namely sumo wrestlers, also have the highest fat-free mass or generally just carry the most muscle. So I think it's more likely that they gain the muscle throughout the process of gaining that weight and gaining weight relatively aggressively oftentimes, because they went from relatively normal-sized human to relatively oversized human, often weighing up to like 200 kilograms or what have you. It is more likely to me that they gained that muscle in the process of bulking and often bulking quite aggressively. And they also ended up being the most muscular athletes on earth by and large. And so the idea that they're bulking quite aggressively and they have special diets and often are using diets with high surpluses that they end up having the highest fat-free mass, it is interesting observational data at the very least in the absence of much empirical data to support the fact that if you want to maximize your muscularity, there's a chance that you just call a turbo bulk. You know, you can just do it. So yeah, like pretty much all the studies by Gareth, by Smith, by Helms do generally find more favorable outcomes with the higher rates of weight gain. And by Gareth and Smith, I think the rates of weight gain were in excess of 10 to 20 percent surplus. So if you truly want to maximize your hypertrophy, I think you need a 10 to 20 percent surplus or more. If you truly want to maximize it, no matter the cost, sacrifice to win style, you know. A certain number of weeks out from the Ruby Classic, like if you truly want to maximize your hypertrophy, there is a good chance that you need at least a 10 to 20 percent surplus. That is, I think a more evidence-based stance than to argue the contrary. I think you are compromising hypertrophy if you're maintaining or if you're losing weight or even if you're doing a very moderate bulk. Like let's, pure hypertrophy-wise, you are compromising hypertrophy. So if you truly want to get jacked, old-school bulking is where it's at. Now, let's not talk about body fat, but if you just want to get jacked, old-school bulking is the key. Awesome. I will just say I lose and that's an established truth. Greg agrees. Thank you for watching. We will see you guys next time. Thank you for listening, actually. Bad habit. So joking aside, nice. I thoroughly enjoyed this. I will start by saying that, first of all, like the idea of bulking, at least in our world, is usually bulking is something that you do in order to build muscle mass to then eventually get rid of some of the excess fat and reveal your very muscular physique. So the idea of old-school bulking, I appreciate the point of maximizing hypertrophy regardless of whether you end up at a very high body fat percentage at the end, but for the majority of people who consider bulking, at least that's what I've observed, gaining a ton of body fat will probably result in a lot of fat. And a dieting period that is may not be successful. It may be hard for some people to rebuild eating habits, especially if they've gone full-on dreamer bulk. At the same time, I do think there is a bit of a survivorship bias with old-school bulking and positive results. Namely, we may tend to see mostly the high responders, classic pictures of Lee Priest and Jay Cutler used as examples when making the case for turbo bulking or super elite power lifters that are also on a bunch of PDs where they sure they look fatter than usual, but they're also insanely muscular. So I do think that we are not exposed so much to all the stories, much like the infamous dreamer bulk to all the stories of the poor folk that listened to those body builders telling them to just gain as much weight as possible. And as natty, average genetic individuals ended up being much fatter than they would have liked without actually a ton more muscle gain. As far as the literature goes, I appreciate Dr. Wolfe's stance. At the same time, we do see comparable gains in muscle size with different surpluses. There was a recent study as well published by Sanchez et al. where they didn't see greater gains with a 10% surplus than a 3% or 4% surplus. And even from the Helm study, there were some differences for the biceps that were trained with greater volumes, but overall it wasn't such a big difference. And I do think that going down based on the current scientific evidence, the fact that a lot of people that engage in bulking and cutting are drug-free, non-elite genetic freaks approaching their bulking phase, assuming they do eventually want to have a leaner, more muscular physique or a physique where they can see the muscle size that they've actually gained, going down the more conservative route where they're still gaining weight, just not a ton of weight, while also training in the gym makes more sense, especially given the muscular potential of the majority of individuals where after a few years things are going to be extremely slow anyways. So the idea of committing to a YOLO bulk gaining 10 to 20 pounds of fat for 2 to 4 pounds of muscle may actually lead to them training less in a surplus over the long term because they will have to spend an appreciable amount of time dieting. That can potentially come with some muscle loss as well, given the data that we have on energy deficits and how that impairs muscle growth. So overall I don't advise for the majority of people, I don't think that old-school bulking is the way to go, although it can be fun and personally I have gained over 80 pounds in a span of a few months, so don't add me when it comes to YOLO bulking. That's my stance. Thank you so much for listening. Dr. Gregg. Okay, not a doctor. I think that... This is going to be a cop out, but whatever, I'm the judge. I think I'll give it to both of you. Is it great against me? You know, okay, I was going to try to give you half a win here, but since you're pushing me on this pack, I'm going to further deduct an additional point because you're the one who formulated these topics, and I think that this is one where... The topic on the outline here is just old-school bulking, school spelled with a K, I'll note, and it's just... That's it. Both of you even had to infer that the topic was for the purpose of maximizing muscle growth. That's not even in the question, so I think it's a poorly formulated debate topic where it maybe could have been designed to more easily have a winner or a loser if the debate topic was formulated in a more precise way. I mean, for enjoyment, it's no contest. I win. Everyone loves old-school bulking. That is true. But yeah, I think the positions both of you ended up taking have merit. Obviously, I do think the research does generally support the idea that a big old surplus is probably going to maximize hypertrophy. Even the studies that you would use to argue against the idea that a large surplus is beneficial, like Garth, for instance, they didn't find statistically significant differences between larger and smaller surpluses, but if memory serves in the large surplus group, people gain 1.8 or 1.9 kilos of fat-free mass, and in the small surplus group, it was 1.3, 1.4. Not statistically significant, but things kind of leaned in that direction. So yeah, I think you can easily make the case that a large surplus is ideal for absolutely maximizing how much fat-free mass you gain, but then when you get into more practical considerations of do you want to then spend five years cutting because you push the dreamer bulk a little too hard, then I think you can look at the research through another lens and say, hey, it seems like people can gain virtually all of the muscle, maybe leaving a little bit on the table by taking a smaller surplus, and yeah, I think the research probably supports that as well. So yeah, for the positions you took, I'm calling it a draw, but Paak still loses because he formulated the topic poorly. I will not defend myself further. The draws cancelled, you lose now. Yeah, I'm leaving with half a point here and very little dignity. Perhaps I can save some dignity now because we are approaching the end of these mini-debates with the last topic being lifting weights for more than 60 minutes per week for health, specifically any criticisms about the title here, gentlemen, just kidding. I'll be arguing pro, Milo against Greg, unfortunately you are the moderator yet again, with random.org to blame and by random.org, I mean me, who randomly chose this based on preference, just kidding. I'm cool with that. I won both of mine. Just being the moderator from here on out, I'm preserving my flawless record. So yeah, put five more on here, make me the moderator for all of them. I'm happy as a clam. Next time I'm just going to go old school here and just start crying every time I lose, and then just make it super uncomfortable for everybody. There are methods of rhetoric and persuasion here that none of us have employed yet. I think we're heavy into the logos and very light on the pathos. So if anyone wants to mix that up for the last one, I would also be happy to judge your fake tears. All right, just pulling out the Greek passport for the words logos and pathos used. You're welcome. But you actually revealed to us how we could beat you. We could just say, hey, Greg, amazing, amazing debate points. That was the best debate ever. And then just watch you just go and just argue against yourself. But I would know this is theater. I would fake it like I'd be dying inside. But yeah, that's awesome. Best episode ever, not biased. So lifting weights for more than 60 minutes per week for health. I'll go again. I'll go for and Milo against. So I shall start if Greg, that's okay with you. Take it away. Perfect. So although we see from the current available literature that health benefits for lifting past six minutes seem to. Not be there obviously with some with limitations and co-founders. I would argue that the act of lifting itself assuming that we count lifting as moderate exercise and or in some cases vigorous exercise based on the totality of evidence on vigorous exercise and health where somewhere between 150 to 300 minutes seem to be enough to. Maximize the reduction of risk for all cosmetality. I'd say that going above 60 minutes makes sense. We also did a psychological benefits of lifting episode recently where we talked about some of the good things that lifting can do for your mental health. So there is that as well. Additionally, lifting weights does not need to be the traditional sort of definition that some people have where lifting weights is, you know, doing strength training or doing a bunch of very, very hard workouts that just look like grueling bodybuilding or power lifting workouts. It could literally be conditioning style workouts, drop sets, supersets, more fun stuff, which I would assume count towards your overall health in the form of moderate or vigorous exercise. Additionally, psychological, additionally social potential social benefits from for lift from lifting more than 60 minutes per week where you're if you go to a gym and you have a little community there. That's also something to be taken in consideration for your mental health and so on and so forth. And overall, if you are a lifter and you've bought in the lifting culture, it will be very difficult for you to not to sort of commit to just 60 minutes per week without missing out on some of the cool stuff that we as lifters get to try over the years, namely programs that allow you to maximize muscle growth, which can then. Whatever have some mental health benefits. But anyways, you miss out on a lot of the fun, which I could argue may not be the best thing for your health. But the main argument here is that doing more than 60 minutes can still potentially contribute to your health as a form of overall physical activity. And that's my stance. All right. Now here comes the real argument. Let's go. So first off, just come out guns blazing a little bit towards the end of the argument. You pointed towards fun being a reason that is not part of the premise. The premise is lifting weights for more than 60 minutes per week is a good idea for health. Fun. I don't know if I'd call it poor health. I think the evidence at this point is. Tentative. But it is leaning towards more than like 60 minutes, not necessarily being much more beneficial. If more if not, if not even detrimental to your health. So we have a couple of metanomestries from the past couple of years. I'll just refer to the one I'm aware of most familiarly by mom and colleagues from 2022. There has been another one with basically the same results. And looking at about between four and six cohort studies to look at all course mortality risk of cardiovascular disease, cancer and diabetes. 30 to 60 minutes of resistance training per week minimizes risk for these outcomes, basically. And going past 30 to 60 minutes starts increasing the risk for those things again. So by 130 to 140 minutes per week, you are back at baseline, baseline being not doing any lifting at all for all course mortality, cardiovascular disease and cancer. So if you go past 130 and 140 minutes a week, so you'll much past like two hours, 15, 20 minutes, whatever. You are then at least based on this, based on these core studies that aren't really designed to infer causality whatsoever. But you are at higher risk of having cardiovascular disease, cancer or dying, essentially. Another argument you made was that it can be more fun and there's more sociability. Now health is multi-dimensional. It isn't just physical health. It isn't just mental health. It isn't just social health. It's a combination thereof. But I do think one, based on mental health research, most of the benefits are seen at very low doses as well. Though we don't have cold meta-aggressions that are more of on lifting dose per week and mental health, I wouldn't be surprised if past 60 minutes, we also didn't really see an effect anymore. At the very least, the effect seems to be very front-loaded, whether heavily diminishing returns even for lifting for mental health. And then finally, including sort of social health now, I think that mental health and social health are at least somewhat part of all cause mortality as well. Like all cause mortality is a very umbrella variable to measure and poor mental health can impact, for example, risk of suicide and other things. And so there is going to be some... All cause mortality risk is going to be some proxy for overall health, not just physical health. And even that seems to increase past about 60 minutes, at least in these cohort studies. So I think really at this point, you don't have any evidence to lean on to say that past 60 minutes a week is better for health. And I think if anything, the evidence leans towards that being untrue and it actually being detrimental for health. Like outside of purely relying on mechanistic evidence, I just don't think there's any like to stand on to make that claim. Like mechanistic evidence as in like resistance training increases muscle mass, which staves off sort of perpinae in old age and reduces frailty. But then all of the cohort studies we have on that topic just point the other way. And in general, I think we are kind of on the boat that although this isn't... We're not relying on random mass control trials here. We are relying on empirical data looking at the actual outcome of interest. And that is pointing towards your claim being untrue. That is ultimately what I come down to. Adjudicating this one is tough because... Yeah, my hunch is that lifting waits for more than 60 minutes per week probably continues to accrue benefits for health. But PAC was put in the unenviable position of there not being a great evidence to support that contention. What I... If I were PAC and I were taking the pro side of this debate, one thing you could have potentially leaned on is like the all cause mortality stuff and the cancer mortality stuff. You could make the case that those are mere associations. Like, hey, we observe this, but there's no kind of mechanistic reason that one should assume that they're causal. So this is probably some residual confounding. There's like some underlying variables that weren't appropriately controlled or adjusted for. But one of the things that the meta-analysis of cohort studies on this topic did find is that it did appear that higher doses of weekly resistance training were associated with further improvements in insulin sensitivity. If memory serves or lower rates of type 2 diabetes, something related to glucose management. And there are like clear mechanistic links there.  so I think you could have strengthened your argument a little bit by arguing that the potentially negative cohort studies that were seen, the outcomes that weren't beneficial for your position were mere associations, and the one that would be beneficial for your position is more likely to be causal, which I will kind of admit that's sort of how I feel about the topic. But yeah, I, this is tough because on a gut level, I do agree with PAC on this one. I do think it probably continues to be beneficial, but I think that Milo had the stronger arguments for this actual mini-debate. So with a heavy heart, I have to give Milo the win. Another one. I agree more with Milo than with my stance, TBH, with the only caveat being what I mentioned about, if we count resistors training as moderate physical activity, whether that contributes there. But I don't know, I feel that, and what you've said, Greg, in the past about, hey, being alive and being healthy enough to be alive in the long term is probably not such a huge ask from your body. I do think that based on the literature on hypertrophy and strength and the literature on muscle mass and strength for longevity, like with 60 minutes of focused resistance training per week, there may be a bit more benefit to gain with more time spent in the gym. I don't know if I am convinced that you'd be looking at a ton more health gains, especially if overall physical activity is in check. What do you think? Well, yeah, I mean, that is kind of my position. In general, what we see is that more moderate to vigorous physical activity and even low intensity, just more physical activity in general tends to be beneficial. And that is observed across a lot of different subcategories of physical activity as well. And so I find it a little bit implausible that resistance training would be the one exception to that rule, where past 60 minutes, like walking or jogging or doing yoga or whatever, for like two hours a week may not be like that much better than one hour per week, but it does tend to be better. And resistance training being the only thing where that's flipped and doing two hours is a little worse. But yeah, I think that 60 minutes of resistance training plus 60 minutes of some additional physical activity is probably better than just 60 minutes of resistance training. And if that additional 60 minutes is more resistance training or jogging or yoga or whatever, I, yeah, that's what I tend to think. Like I don't, I can't think of a good reason why that extra 60 minutes of resistance training would be like deleterious when other forms of moderate to vigorous physical activity seems to be beneficial. Nice. Yeah. No, I, I think that's what I would say. It is with a heavy heart that I do not play, play both sides on this argument. Like, so I do fall just gut feeling and hunch with Greg in terms of I don't, I don't intuit that lifting for more than an hour week would be worse for health. You know, like relatively just listening for an hour week. But equally, I can't really have my KK needed to like what I will say is that we don't have many studies and their core studies. So we're like, I'm not making a strong claim either way, but I can't have my KK needed to and rely on purely mechanistic reasoning for this at the expense of empirical data. And then for other topics, say, no, no, no, it's all about the empirical data. I do think that we're generally epistemically better off on principle, on us being equal, relying on empirical data versus mechanistic data, empirical data of the outcomes we actually care about versus mechanistic data. So yeah, I agree with both of you actually. But yeah, I think just based on the evidence with this being the strong by science podcast, my stance was the easier one to argue for. Yeah, I'm, I am sympathetic to that take with the proviso that like I don't know, like I, I don't necessarily think that like all empirical evidence deserves the same weight, I guess. And like I, I take that approach to, yeah, like, I don't know the, like, like epidemiological research and like cohort studies, I maintain quite a bit more skepticism towards them, just in general, especially depending on like how they're conducted. So if it's like, if it's like the type of cohort study where you have like a really large sample, and it's like targeted, like if you're, if there was something specifically on resistance training where they really went out of their way to make sure that the people doing resistance training were like matched in all measurable regards to the people that weren't. And you're still seeing the same sorts of trends, I'd be like, okay, that's that stronger evidence. Otherwise, like, yeah, like a lot of things where it's like basically just we collect the data and look to see what the associations are. Even if you're doing some adjusting, like I, I maintain more skepticism towards that, even if it goes in favor of stuff that I tend to agree with. So like the, you know, the stuff around just resistance training as a binary variable and longevity, like there was a meta analysis finding that it like was associated with a 20% reduction in all calls mortality, just doing resistance training versus not. And like, I'm also similarly skeptical of that. Like I do, I do suspect that it has positive effects, but I do also kind of suspect that that overstates the magnitude of the positive effect. So yeah, I don't know, like I think rely on evidence, but kind of weight the strength of the evidence. And I do think that this is like, I think cohort studies are just in general kind of lower quality evidence, at least for drawing causal inferences than RCTs certainly. And I think that there's kind of scales to the strength of evidence you can get from cohort studies. And I think that the stuff we have on this topic is among the weaker evidence that one could get from cohort studies. So yeah, I don't know. It's one of those things where like I'm more sympathetic to not leaning quite as hard on the evidence just due to the kind of the characteristics of the evidence itself. Yeah, I think that's an entirely defensible take. And it is unfortunately, like I noted in the episode on mental health and lifting, we don't have as much research on lifting versus just exercise more broadly and aerobic exercise. So it is more difficult to draw somewhat confident conclusions on the topic. And that wraps up the SPS battle Royale. We didn't even say the title of this episode. But that's what it's called. But that wraps up the debating section. Feelings? I think it was fun. I think it was fun. If I'm giving just like my kind of unfiltered opinion on on air now that we've done it. I did enjoy it. I did think it was fun. But I do think that I do think that if we do it again, like if the feedback is generally positive, we maybe should do like a couple more cycles on the topics selected. I did feel like with some of these, there was like almost like a designated winner and loser. Just based on the three of us all having a pretty decent grasp of the evidence on these topics and the evidence on one side being kind of strong and the evidence on the other side being kind of weak. So I think maybe if if if we did it again, things that were kind of like more of toss ups where there is like, yeah, I thought that like old school, Balkin was good. I thought that training to failure for maximizing hypertrophy was good. And lifting weights for more than 60 minutes, I thought was good. Sumo deadlifts for non power lifters and big three being must do's. But yeah, I thought that those were amazing. Yeah. Yeah. But overall, overall, I enjoyed it. I think it was a strong foundation to build upon. I think it's cool to hear the like, yeah, of course, obviously there was a dedicated winner and loser with some dedicated loser being me. But it was, I think it's cool for people that see those arguments online to and often see very weak arguments that have sort of been debunked time and time again, see yourself, Milo, myself, people that are more in the evidence based trenches trying to argue for them. Because I think that may may sort of expose them to parts of that argument that they hadn't seen before. For example, you know, unlike, unlike sumo deadlifts, or even even on the Balkin side, where you'll see some some things being said by specific individuals that consistently say that thing over and over again. But I do feel that some people may may be like, okay, is there more to the story? Is there something else besides that? Have we not thought of all the against arguments here? But please do let us know if you enjoyed this and you'd like more episodes in the future like this. Yeah, I did think it was fun. I thought this was a really good idea pack. Thank you so much. Shall we get into some creative Q&A? I asked for creative questions. Some are more creative than others. But yeah, I'm excited for these. Yeah, let's let's do it. I'll I'd be happy to read us in. Please. All right. So the first question here is from aspiring human Dorito. He says, there's an old urban legend that ancient gladiators used to chew on bowl testicles as an early form of PEDs. Is there any scientific basis to the idea that I should be downing Rocky Mountain oysters before I go out for my next binge PR on a scale from creatine to trim balloon? How much of a performance boost should I expect? Yeah, so I'm going to say I'm not as familiar with because this essentially is it kind of falls under the purview of PD science, I think almost, because ultimately, like orals being a thing, people have researched how to make orals actually impact hormonal levels versus just being filtered by your liver, I think kidney liver. I can't remember which one. Yeah, there you go. My understanding is that because it isn't it is essentially just going to be the testosterone in even if there is some in bowl testicles is just going to be filtered out by a liver because it isn't attached to the right compound to make it pass through that. And so essentially, on its scale from creatine to tremolone, I think it's below creatine in that I don't think it does anything. But I think Greg is the one with more of a more knowledge regarding that sort of stuff. So very happy to be correct. No, I think I think you're correct. Yeah, so like oral. So, okay, there there is, I assume, like some degree of testosterone present in bowl testicles, I don't know if there is or isn't, but I'm, I'm sympathetic to the idea that there might be. But if there is that is still like probably fairly irrelevant, because like, like Milo said, if you were to ingest testosterone, like if you were to just take like testosterone pills, it's not going to do anything for you because for things to have a biological effect, they need to make it to the target tissue intact and ready to rock. And yeah, people that use steroids don't inject it just for fun. The reason that you tend to inject it is any like lippity thing that you consume, it goes into your digestive tract, it's, you know, kind of emulsified into your bile. And then it's taken, it's basically taken to the liver before it goes out to general circulation. A primary reason for that is a lot of like toxins and stuff are lipid soluble, and your lipid, your liver is what your body uses to like detoxify stuff. So, yeah, any like lippity thing, like your liver, your liver kind of wants to take a peek at it before it says, okay, this is, this is safe to go into the bloodstream. And yeah, your, your body regulates testosterone levels pretty tightly. And if you were to consume testosterone, if it was absorbed in the first place, like if it made it through the intestinal lining, it's going to get taken straight to the liver, and it's going to look at it and say, this is a bunch of testosterone that shouldn't be here. So we're going to metabolize and excrete some of it. And to the extent that some of it makes it into circulation, your body is going to say, okay, let's reduce endogenous production a little bit, such that like even if a little bit does make it in like your total testosterone levels, wouldn't be meaningfully affected. So yeah, that's why most of the time when people are taking steroids, they're, they're injecting them. And so you might say, hey, what about oral? So like people do take orals, pop pills, what's going on with that? And that's exactly what Milo said. The, the chemical descriptor for oral antibiotics, like most of them fall under the heading of 17 alpha alkylated anabolic steroids, you'll also see 17 nor as the, as like a descriptor of them. But basically, like any steroid hormone is composed of like multiple carbon rings, and you can kind of count the carbons, like each carbon position has a number associated with it. And the 17th carbon, if you add either a methyl or an ethyl group on it, I'm not totally sure how this works biochemically, but you add that in. And when you absorb it, and it makes it to the liver, the liver, I think just has greater issues metabolizing it. And so instead of metabolizing it and excreting it, it does make it into systemic circulation. So that's what's going on with, with oral steroids. And that's also why oral steroids tend to have greater hepatotoxicity, like they're worse for your liver than injectables tend to be. That's because they've specifically been modified to make it harder for your liver to metabolize them. So you can take them orally. And anyway, yeah, I don't think there's a ton of 17 alpha alkylated antibiotics in bull testicles. So yeah, it's, it probably isn't going to do anything for you, except for maybe like placebo or expectancy effects, if, if you think it's going to do something cool for you. Yeah, but physiologically, it's, it's probably not doing much if anything. But Red Bull was made off Bull's sperm, as far as I recall, and that gives you wings and also raises testosterone. I know you're, I know you're, wait, are you shitposting? Yes. No, I am on stronger by science claiming that Red Bull gives you wings. Imagine though, I actually take out a couple of wings now and it's like, this turns into like a conspiracy theory episode. Well, I assume, but do you know where the rumor that it was made from like bullsemen or whatever comes from? Yeah, yes. But I don't remember. I remember looking into it and there being not some like proper truth to it, but something to it, right? Gone? Yes. It's the, it's the taurine. Yeah. Like it has caffeine and taurine in it. And taurine, the taur, like taurose, the bull. It's bull in Greek. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so people kind of like made that connection and I think spun in, spun in urban, in urban legend around it. But taurine is called taurine basically because it was just first isolated from the bile of bulls. And so they're just like, Hey, here's a new amino acid. We found it in bulls first. Let's call it taurine. But it's pretty, it's ubiquitous. Like it's, it's in a lot of stuff. But once you give something a name, it's hard to change the name. So it continues to be called taurine. A lot of dairy products are particularly good sources of taurine. Like I think like Greek yogurt or not Greek yogurt, cottage cheese has like particularly high levels of taurine, but you can also find a lot of it in like fish and shellfish products. But yeah, just since it's called taurine and when Red Bull put it on the market, a lot of people just hadn't seen that word before. I think people just kind of ran wild with it. But yeah, it's just kind of like a normal thiol containing amino acid that happened to first be isolated from bulls. Yeah. That was a big deal in, in Greece when Red Bull became a thing back in the day because of the cause of taurine, which is taurine in Greek. And everybody instantly thinks of bulls. And now, you know, do you know about the lawsuit, the Red Bull lawsuit about Red Bull not giving you wings? No. So obviously, take this with a pinch of salt. I haven't looked into it properly. But the lawsuit was reported as somebody suing Red Bull because it didn't give him wings and the claim being that, but looking into the actual lawsuit, the actual claim was that guys, you're advertising this as like an F1 performance boosting drink and this sort of performance enhancer and it just contains 80 milligrams of caffeine. Like, this is not like this is really not a product that gives you wings even metaphorically and they actually won because like Red Bull is one of the weakest energy drinks, especially like regular sized Red Bull. Like you're talking the same amount of caffeine as three cans of diet Coke. Whereas you guys in the States being civilized, your rain energy drinks have 300 milligrams of caffeine versus us peasants here with our 200. But counterpoint, and I hope I hope I'm not going to make any any rain fans upset hearing this. It's terrible. Like most of them. No, watch it pal. No, you're walking over. It's a nice the new the new fangle. I'm one of my biggest boomer takes is I think virtually all of like the new fangled energy drink companies are terrible. I'm sure the products work, but I think they taste like absolute dog shit. How can you be a boomer and not like the white monster drink at least? No, I like I like white monster like I like monster. I like Rockstar. I like Red Bull. Red Bull. I think it's a whole range is OP bro. Rain flavors like the wild one. I am legit looking forward to landing in New York City on Sunday and drinking rain with 300 milligrams of caffeine and going to Walmart and buying rain for the entirety of the trip. That's literally what we do every time we go to the States abuse caffeine via rain and coffee. Yeah, I mean, I abuse caffeine as well. I just think that they taste. I just think those taste bad. Like I here's my thing like and this could just be you know, just stuff that I got used to like it associations with like childhood and whatnot. But like, I think I think the old energy drinks like the ones that are like the older brands, they had like a bit they had a bit of bitterness to them that and like I'm going to sound like such a snob. But like, I felt like the flavors were just like a little more complex because like they're obviously sweet. They have sweeteners in them. They all tend to have some sort of like lemon limey type of thing going on in the background. Like there's a little sourness. And then there was just like a just a touch of like harsh bitterness. But like, like in the same type of way that like coffee or tea is nice, like the little bit of bitterness is good. I think I think the new ones I think they I think they sanded down those rough edges. And so they just have like very smooth flavors that that to me just feel flat, I guess. That's just my opinion. That's just my opinion. I think they suck though. I like how you you took a step back and then you're like, no, they suck. We accepted the gay were open minded here. This is the SPS podcast. Please. All right. Yeah, next question. So Thomas Markov says, what's the most unusual or unorthodox movement you've trained for an extended period of time and why? Hmm. Pack you want to take it first? I'll say you take it first because I have to think you're you're a you're a freak when it comes to that. I mean, it depends on what you mean by unorthodox. One I did for a while, which I just found very fun was the single arm standing dumbbell overhead press. It's just fun because you're pressing one weight overhead and you can kind of benefit aside and it just feels like a very cool movement to do like even cooler than the standard overpressing my opinion. So I just did that for a while, even though it doesn't offer any particular benefits in my opinion over any other overpressing variation. An orthodox movements though, I have been known to do some strange stuff for my quads. For a while now, I've been blasting the sissy squats without a machine. So essentially just doing limbo, like extending well, going onto your tiptoes and then flexing your knees while keeping your hips fully extended and even sometimes arching my spine as a means to make the bottom part of the movement even more challenging. I've been doing that movement for years now and prior to the whole long muscle length stuff, I used to get some very strange books for it. I probably still do, but I just don't notice them anymore. And similarly, the reverse Nordic curl, which is like the Nordic curl that I was recently shamed for by Greg Knuckles for not being strong enough to actually do them. The reverse Nordic curl is basically the opposite movement where you're extending your hips and then just leaning back going into full knee collection. And I don't think I've ever seen anyone do this movement in the gym, like in my whole lifting career. I've seen people do the hero pose like the stretch where you just essentially the bottom and stretching, but I've never actually seen anyone do them as part of their routine. And this involves some theory crafting because we have one study on this exercise, and it's a study published in the infamous journal MinervaMedica.at. It doesn't get much worse than this, in my opinion. But anyways, there is one study on the exercise finding that it caused muscle growth in the quads, which is great in the rectus femoris specifically. So it does involve some speculation because we don't have a comparison of it to a leg extension. But I don't know. I think it's a good exercise because it lengthens the rectus femoris more and the quadriceps more. And so even though I don't see anyone do it, and it's an orthodox, I personally think it's probably one of the better or best quads that is out there. That is my hunch based on the evidence. Until we have studies directly comparing it, we can't make any super strong claims, but I do think it's unrated. And it's certainly an orthodox in the sense that you look silly doing it and no one ever does it. What'd you got, Peck? Honestly, nothing. I don't know. Fron squats, zombie squats as a warm-up for Fron squats. The most unorthodox movement I've done. Honestly, Pendley Rose. Really, I don't have much. I'm a big overhead press fan and I've been doing that more and more recently. But barbell overhead press, I guess. But I have nothing here. Wild. Wild, yes. Ground-breaking. That's fair. Yeah. Honestly, I've never tried stuff, I guess, but I've never committed to like, Cissy Squats, Nordic Curls, Zercher Squats, anything that you'd be like, oh, okay, only a few people try these exercises. I guess, sorry, I've done the prowler with Grizzly once. Then it's not really a prowler. It's like a handmade custom, like super friction-prone, not device construction. But yeah, I lose again. One I wanted to add actually real quick. I have done Behind the Back that lifts before for like at least a few weeks or a few months. And they're nice. Like, if they were actually good for hypertrophy, like it's particularly good, I would probably do them more often. But they're just okay. Like they're hard at the bottom, which is great for the quads for hypertrophy. But you don't actually get that deep of a stretch in the quads to begin with. So yeah, I guess I'll have to say that as well. I think that's solid. How about you? For me, probably the most, I have two. One is I used to do and honestly should get back to doing more like windmills. So like kettlebell windmills, dumbbell windmills. When I was really pushing them, I was doing barbell windmills. And that at a certain point just got kind of silly. But yeah, I've done a lot of windmills. For people listening that don't know what that is, you kind of take like a sumo-ish stance. You have a weight overhead in one arm, and you go down and touch the ground with your opposite hand. So yeah, like if you have the weight in your right hand, that stays extended overhead, and you rotate and hinge and touch your left hand to the ground, and then come back up, and that's a windmill. And the reason I did them is I have like a lingering QL issue, which also kind of dovetails with a disc issue. And yeah, just the lower the, to the sides of my spine on my lower back, like particularly QL, is like pretty janky and has been for me for quite a while. And windmills both stretch and train that area pretty well. So whenever I'm consistently doing windmills, my back consistently feels better. And so yeah, these days when I do them, it is just kind of like 50, 60 pounds, just get some reps in, maintenance work. But when I first kind of discovered them and discovered that they did tend to make my back feel better, I pushed them pretty hard and got up to a 185 windmill on both sides, which I was, which I was pretty proud of, which that may sound like a lot, but that used to be a lift that like people did, like back in the pre-powerlifting days when it was just kind of like circus performers.  doing the odd lifts. I forget, I don't know what the heaviest windmill anyone has ever done is, but like the bent press used to be a contested thing, which is essentially bottom of the windmill, but so okay, you're basically hinged down, rotated to one side, and you have the weight at your shoulder, and from that position, like from a bottom of the windmill position, you press the weight and then stand up. So it's essentially like a unilateral press combined with like a concentric-only windmill. So I can't think of a reason you'd be able to bent press something but not windmill it. But I think, man, I used to know this off the top of my head. Yeah, so Arthur Saxon allegedly performed a 300-meter and 70-pound bent press, or 168 kilo. The reason I say allegedly is like, yeah, people were traveling performers in that era, who really knows exactly how much weight it was. But I think like, in order to just get your career off the ground as a traveling strongman back then, you kinda needed to be able to comfortably do 225. Like 100 kilos legit was sort of the barrier to entry, so 185, I think to some people, may sound like a lot, it's actually not all that much, but I was proud of it when I did it. So yeah, a lot of windmills, that's a weird one. The other thing that I used to do a lot of was plyometric push-ups. So basically, I would stack up bumper plates and go down, like start arms extended on the plates, drop down to one side, and try to do it plyometric style. Like as little ground contact as possible, push myself back up, drop to the other side, do it. And usually just like two or three reps on each side, so low rep, plyometric stuff, and just build up the height that I could tolerate for plyometric push-ups. And the reason I did those was, it was twofold. One, I started doing them when I was training for sports rather than powerlifting. And so basketball and football were my sports. Basketball, I was like, yeah, probably when it hurt for being able to really whip a chest pass across the court, I have kind of short arms, so less space to generate velocity. And I was a point guard, so I was like, yeah, probably would help my passing velocity, not the worst thing in the world. And also I played tight end in football, so needed to be able to block well and figure, really, really being able to just hit someone in the shoulder pads really fucking fast, probably not a bad idea either. So that's why I started doing them. And then when I transitioned into powerlifting, I kept doing them for quite a while, because that was like big time West Side era. And if you've read the Louis Simmons literature, he was really big on, there are three ways to maximize motor unit recruitment. You have the maximum effort method, the dynamic effort method, and the repetition method. And so yeah, a lot of dynamic effort stuff was pretty big at the time. And so I was like, hey, what's better for moving fast than trying to do the most explosive plyometric pushups that one can? So I kept doing them for probably the first two to a half years that I was powerlifting as well. I don't think they actually ended up helping my bench press that much, but they were fun, so whatever. I think you have a speed to be honest. I think that is the bench press specifically. I mean, my dumbbell overhead press, the single arm thing, they didn't uplooking like a bench press much of the time. But I think you have a speed on that. I thought these can windmills for a second. I thought the calisthenics exercise where you're hanging off a bar and doing like a wiper essentially, you know that one? And I was like, and then you mentioned. Windshield wipers? Yeah, those ones. Initially I was like, okay, dumbbell, kettlebell. I can kind of see it and they said barbell. And I was like, this sounds like one of those IG gym fail videos or like when they purposely try and use as much equipment as possible to make the exercise as awkward as possible. But hey, they like ruled it and it makes a lot more sense. Nah, just like an old timey strong man, paper thing. Fair enough. Nice. Okay. Next question. Yo, yep, yeah, sure. Okay. Riverworm asks, what kind of realistic mechanical or genetic augmentations can a person get now or in the near future that could help them lift heavier? Surgical, exoskeleton, whatever. I have no idea. Greg, you better have something for this. And I know you will because you are the purveyor of fun facts that we did not yet know. Yeah, I've got some stuff. Let's go. Genetic augmentations I think are still quite a ways off. And there are reasons for that. Gene therapies now are, like, I mean, if you could do a gene therapy that could change your genetics for the purpose of building muscle, you could also do gene therapies that could essentially cure any purely genetic, single nucleotide polymorphism type disease now. So like, Huntington's wouldn't exist anymore, like sickle cell would be a thing of the past. The reason that's not the case is like your germ lines, that like your stem cell pools just kind of are what they are. And so like gene therapies can sort of like short-term effect like gene expression, gene transcription and like current mature cells, but they don't like long-term change your genetics in a way that like, you know, would like chronically cause big phenotypic differences. So yeah, like I think if we ever reached the point of like a Gattaca future where you could like edit the DNA of like embryos, then you could like, you know, robustly affect someone's genes and probably have pretty big impacts. And I sort of think for that, like the tech is kind of there already. But there are just like extremely understandable ethical issues regarding like gene editing and cloning in humans. So that's not really being pursued. And that's not for you, but like for your kids, if there was like a mad scientist who was willing to risk it all and, you know, both of you probably go to jail forever, I think that's like theoretically a thing for offspring already at this point in the world. But yeah, for the most part, genetic augmentations basically off the table. The rest of the stuff like surgical stuff, exoskeletons, exoskeletons that like progress is being made on that. I don't think that there are any like mass produced ones that are really cooking yet, but there are like several American companies and like several Chinese companies and I'm sure other places as well, but I think the US and China are kind of, the two leaders on this front, just like companies producing prototypes of exoskeletons that can help dramatically with lifting. Most of that research to this point is more slanted towards like just sort of like day-to-day work usage. So if your job would require you to lift, you know, 50 pound sacks of something or like 50 pound boxes, make it such that it requires 10 pounds of effort from the individual with exoskeleton taking much more of the load. But yeah, like if like once that gets working pretty well, I think it would just be a difference of degree rather than a difference in kind to kind of tune that for being able to help you lift superhuman amounts. So I don't think there's anything like production ready, but I think if you had enough money, the people working on prototypes for like industrial uses, you could probably say, hey, here's $5 million, make me something to help me lift a thousand pounds. Like I suspect with the right funding and like shove in the right direction, that's probably already feasible. Surgical stuff, this is like getting more, getting more into the realm of like theory and hearsay, but like, I don't know. Like it's one of those things where like, I don't want to put like attach anyone's name to it or whatnot, but in terms of what there are whispers about is allegedly, in particular sports, one of the better things that can happen to you is a full tendon rupture of a relevant muscle for performance. Because if you think of your muscles and bones as like a lever system, like when people talk about having good insertions for strength, what they're talking about is having muscles that attach farther from the joints that they create rotational torque about. So if you have two people that have the same size biceps, their biceps can contract with the same amount of linear force, and one of them, for one of the individuals, the bicep inserts twice as far from the axis of rotation of the elbow than for the other person. The person who has the bicep that inserts twice as far from the elbow will be able to curl twice as much weight because the same linear contractile force creates twice as large of a joint moment. And so again, I don't know if this is true or not, but in terms of what there are whispers about, I have heard people say that in some of the countries that take like Paralympic bench press really seriously, athletes kind of look forward to pec ruptures because then they can get their pec inserted further down their humerus, and once they're rehabbed, they bench more. Another thing that there are whispers about that I don't know how true it is, is that like when baseball pitchers get like a UCL injury and have to get Tommy John surgery, that there's like a way that the Tommy John surgery can be performed such that you get like a little more torque once you're rehabbed, like it's not terribly uncommon for people to come back from Tommy John surgery, throwing a little bit harder than they did before. So yeah, that's not really like that exotic, I guess. Like it's just kind of like an application of basic physics and finding it in a surgeon that is willing to reattach it tendon like two centimeters further than like where it was attached before, but I think that's theoretically something that's on the table, but yeah, I don't know. I don't know what like the long-term prognosis of that is, like will you be more prone to like re-injury or like rupturing it again? I don't know, certainly not recommending that, but yeah, those are the things that like immediately come to mind that are either here, potentially here or kind of around the corner. Is stronger by science releasing something? Is there a hint there, the SBS exoskeleton? Greek word, you're welcome. No, there, no. Saved it there with that, no. Well, hypothetically there is one coming. I want dibs on the first order. You can have at it, that's a, I'm claustrophobic. So the idea of like being in an exoskeleton freaks me the fuck out. I mean like wearing long sleeves, I don't like it. Weird sensory issues. Yeah, shorts and t-shirt baby. Like it's comfortable, but also, yeah, I don't like having too much stuff wrapped around me. So yeah, I'm extremely disinterested in exoskeletons. We'll get you a mink, what's it called? Mink coat, I know coat, what's the other way of a word? I just added fur, like a fur to wear. Yeah, that'd be, that'd look cool. Anyways, sorry to distract and detract from everything that Jesus said. Super interesting though. It would be cool to see in the future, mostly in the context of people who actually need like an exoskeleton, it would be interesting to see if it becomes a reality that we get to properly experience versus, oh, okay, more like a proof of concept sort of reality. Yeah, I mean, I think one of the reasons that it's not being pursued like more vigorously is just that like there's so much progress that has been made with regards to like industrial robots, that it's like why kind of why give robotic augmentations to people when maybe just a robot would be better at whatever thing. I think exoskeletons are also being researched and pursued for like military applications as well. I think that's where a lot of the current funding is coming from, but yeah, I don't know, I don't know. Okay, next question. Let's hit it. All right, Roaring Shark asks, can you point to research showing that training on consecutive days for the same muscle groups is detrimental? I've always heard that you need to wait 48 hours to recover before training again. It makes sense intuitively, but I don't know what the actual science behind it. Yeah, so I'll quickly touch on it, see if you two have anything to add. To my knowledge, there are two studies looking at the idea of spacing out training days across the week more versus training on consecutive days. And to my knowledge, both of these are in untrained populations, so they have the results with somewhat of a grain of salt. But from what I recall, both of them have found similar hypertrophy and similar strength gains. So personally, when it comes to distribution of training across the week, I view it quite similarly to protein distribution, where it's the sort of thing that theoretically matters, and theoretically matters a fair amount, but practically doesn't seem to matter all that much. And certainly the two studies we have, haven't picked up on any large effect of, oh, if you train on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and then the rest of the week off, versus you train on Monday, Wednesday, Friday, there's a huge difference in the results that hasn't panned out to be the case. And so in terms of importance, I think that you'd almost certainly be better off training three days a week back to back, for example, versus saying, ah, I'm not gonna train three days a week back to back, I'm just gonna train one day a week instead. Like the total dosage of training, volume, relative intensity potentially, is likely quite a bit more important than exactly how you structure it. And that is what the two empirical studies I mentioned earlier have found. Practically, if I can avoid it, I will try to avoid training on consecutive days, or essentially just space out training for the same muscle group by as long as possible. So disclosure, the way I write programs as a coach, is I essentially create a table where I have the days of the week mapped out at the top, and then I have the muscle groups or the movement patterns that I want to train mapped out on the side. And then essentially, I just try and make sure that training a given muscle group or a given movement is as spaced out as possible between each instance, and that each session looks reasonable as far as how many exercises are within that session, and so forth and so forth. So while as a coach, and practically, I try and space it out, from the empirical side of things, it doesn't seem like you're missing out on much if you do have to train on consecutive days. That is my take, but very open to Greg and or Paak full on fact checking me. Yeah, I'm of the same opinion. So I was, I'm curious as you would, Mr. Greg has to say. You know, I agree. The one small fact check I would give is, there are three studies on the topic, not two, and one of them did use recreationally trained subjects. So not people who are like super well trained, but people with some prior training experience. But yeah, I think this is, in my mind, one of the classic topics for, like, an empirical versus rationalistic approach to making confident statements about program design, because you will frequently see people say that like, oh, hey, like, let's concoct this argument. Like you train, you cause some degree of muscle damage, the muscles need to recover. If you train them again, they're still recovering. You won't be able to direct muscle protein synthesis toward actually building muscle if you train them again before they're recovered, because those resources are going to continue going to recovery. And before you've recovered, your performance is going to be negatively impacted. So you're not going to be able to put as much mechanical tension on the muscles. And due to like fatigue mechanisms, inherently like independent of performance, you're not going to be able to like fully activate and like reach peak tension for all of your muscle fibers. Therefore, you know, like you have to let muscles recover or like the next session will be suboptimal or potentially counterproductive. Like it's not going to stimulate as much hypertrophy as a session would if you spaced it out a bit more. Like that sounds like a compelling argument, but the only problem with it is every time it's been studied to this point, it hasn't panned out. And I think the fact that two of the three studies are in untrained lifters, and the other one is in recreationally trained lifters. If anything like further kind of bolsters the point that you probably don't need to let the muscles fully recover first because, you know, repeated bout effect kicks in like trained lifters experience less muscle damage and less long lasting fatigue after a session than untrained lifters do. And so, you know, if anything, you would expect training on consecutive days to be even more deleterious for untrained lifters than trained lifters. At least I would think. And so, yeah, like to this point, it doesn't appear that it really matters. Like if you're going to do two sessions, whether you do them on back to back days for the same muscle or space them out more, the data we have to this point suggests that you'll probably wind up in about the same place. I do think that there are, you know, like a limitation of research is that you're trying to equate everything. So practically in the real world, you might be able to like handle higher volumes or just want to train harder if your muscles are fully recovered. And so like practically you wouldn't be equating number of sets done and like intensity and whatnot. Like if you spaced it out more, you would actually wind up training harder and with higher volumes and grow more muscle because of that. But just purely on a basis of, hey, if we equate how many sets are done and the end points of the sets and whatnot, do you actually gain more muscle and wind up better off if you spaced sessions out more? To this point, the evidence suggests no. Like it's, yeah, if you wanted to train on back to back days like the same muscle group versus spacing it out more, doesn't seem, if you look at it, if you look at the evidence through an empirical lens, the empirical evidence doesn't suggest that it makes that big of a difference if any difference at all. So yeah, I mean, my kind of like practical recommendation is if your schedule allows you to recover, yeah, do it like unless you're a masochist, like it's probably, probably feels better to train a muscle when it's recovered and feeling fresh than like continuing to hammer it when you're still sore and like experiencing doms. And I do think you will be able to train a little bit harder, but on the flip side, if your weekly schedule kind of dictates that you're going to have to train a muscle on back to back days and you're like, oh man, will it be better to only train it once versus, you know, double the volume but end up having to train on back to back days? I think, yeah, if that's the consideration, yeah, training on back to back days is fine. Like it's not that deleterious if your muscles don't have time to recover. Nice, nice. I was pretty sure that that's what the evidence was, but I was like, are we missing something? Because that's one of those claims that people are notorious in certain environments for still saying don't train the same muscle to every day. I mean, it sounds obvious. Yeah. And the rationalistic case, like the argumentation, you can make, that would have been a good topic for this episode. Because like for the debate section, because yeah, I think you can marshal a strong argument in favor of it, but the problem is it's not, it's not supported by the evidence. When people vote that this was the best episode ever in the history of the podcast, then we'll have plenty of opportunities to debate many other topics. Yeah, I think this would be one to revisit, maybe in like a few months when people have forgotten this conversation we're having right now. Okay, next question. What's the best exercise in existence and why is it seated zircher strokes from blocks? I think this might be for grisly and by proxy packs. Yes. It is zircher strikes from blocks because you're essentially getting every benefit of exercise ever. Setting up, especially if you do the grisly way where you literally have to carry 45 plates on 45 plates to just set up on the small blocks. I mean, you are getting a total of what? 20 to 30 minutes of just walking, weighted walking and you're picking up stuff of the ground, functional fitness through the roof and then essentially you get to use everybody's plates from your local gym, thus making you more likeable because that's how it works. Like there's nothing better in a commercial gym than a guy using all the 45s to do a few zircher strikes in the corner. You will automatically become a person, an authority figure and somebody people look up to. And at the same time, you know, there's many times in both sports and just life where you are seated and you have to pick up something with mostly your forearms and shrug it up. That's it, seated zircher shrugs from blocks. Best exercise ever, cardio, strength, looks, dominance. I mean, I wouldn't be surprised if you also get a big testosterone boost regardless of sex from zircher shrugs. I'm sold. All right, next question. Okay, so Cindy Browning asks, if you could remove one piece of false information from everyone's collective brains, what would it be, lifting or otherwise? Yeah, so I'll take this one first. Again, not medical advice, but from what, just from like consequentialist perspective and what is ultimately important. Like, whether or not most people think that baro splits are the way to gain muscle or not, they're not really being harmed that much, minus maybe seeing a bit less of a bicep peak, like getting a bit less hypertrophy. But I think I'm gonna keep it to lifting because otherwise my brain cannot comprehend how many different options there are to sort through. But when it comes to lifting, I think fear-mongering around certain exercises or positions is probably one. So beliefs around movement do likely impact how much pain you experience from lifting and how much discomfort and so forth. And so I think, for example, the fear-mongering around deadlifting or around some spinal flexion, and that sort of stuff from the outside at least, not being a physical therapist does seem to be the one thing that very many people within the industry, especially beginners or exposed to just that, hey, if you're around your spine, you're gonna blow out your back and you're gonna slip a disc and hernia and all sorts of stuff. And I don't know. I kind of wish that that wasn't so broadly communicated and thought. And I think that might just make the lifting industry a little bit better. But yeah, that is my take. I'm curious to hear what you have to say. What'd you got, Pac? So I would go down the route of removing the idea that you can confidently predict or predict injury or fix imbalances or whatever faults with one's technique. And that will confidently lead to less of an injury risk and or that we can fully control for injuries happening. Something along those lines. And that comes off a recent discussion I had where, I don't know, people want to feel as if we know everything with certainty and we can control everything with certainty. And when it comes to injury from lifting and pains and aches, I just would love to get in people's heads and remove the idea that, oh, if you're feeling some sort of pain or ache or have some slight injury, that's because you are doing something wrong. And it is not a logical consequence of you doing, of you living and doing stuff repeatedly over and over again, especially in the context of resistance training. Something along those lines, it needs a bit more thinking in order to phrase it appropriately. But yeah, the world, I often get clients that go, hey, I had this pain, I'm gonna now go and get, going to get helped. Cause I think it was that one exercise that did it. And it's like, I don't know how well I, how much I am behind that sort of thing. So essentially make people movement optimists, to a certain extent. I think that's a good one. You? For myself, I think I was leaning in a similar direction, but like, in this might be a bit of a cop out, but slightly more meta yet. Or I think people have a lot of incorrect ideas about how to evaluate evidence and argumentation. Primarily, I think people are way too confident about way too much. I think that there's, I think that there's great power and great epistemic honesty.  in a way that's very freeing to just be able to say I don't know or to say this is a thing I think and I have very little confidence in it because I haven't looked for the evidence and or I have looked at the evidence and the evidence is weak. But this is what I think, but I don't believe it that strongly. And if I'm wrong, it's okay. I think that there are precious few things that we that we can be like super confident about. And a lot of stuff, there should be just varying shades of doubt and oftentimes way more doubt than people actually have. I think, yeah, I think a lot of people go through life being way too confident about way too much because they find arguments compelling that they shouldn't that have like key weaknesses. Or they think that evidence is strong when it's actually quite weak or sometimes non-existent. And I think that, yeah, I don't know. I think just like just being less confident and shit. And if you haven't had like the time or don't have the ability to like really dive into the like research on something for yourself to like generate a strong take, just don't have one. Like it's it's fine to not know it's fine to have beliefs but not be that confident in them. And yeah, I think I think that's a nice way to go through life. I think I think having too many strong beliefs that are based that are built on a foundation of sand is a scary way to go through the world, you know, because like there's there's a lot of stuff you're believing strongly that like, I think you feel on some level like it might be a little threatened because I think you might intuit on some level that maybe I believe this a lot, but like not for the best reasons. I think just being able to let go of that just to be like, yeah, I think some shit might be wrong. Who cares? Whatever. Just just roll with it. I think that's just a much better way to go through life. 100% agree. Okay. Let's see. I think I think you guys want me to tackle the next one. So can one of you read me in? Sure. Is there so this is by TK Gulo Galo Julo, something that on Facebook. Is there any research around the effects of HRT hormone replacement therapy on trans women athletes? Does a trans woman taking spironolactone, spironolactone hormone blockers and estrogen see a drop off in gains and the loss of gains? Would trans men on testosterone have to stop hormone therapy to compete or could they compete in natty competitions since all they are is doing adding all they're doing is adding a normal amount of testosterone to their systems. I am in the LGBTQ community and on the gender interesting spectrum myself. So I wonder about what the effects of such a normal part of our community members lives would be on them should they want to get into powerlifting or bodybuilding. Yeah, sure. So yeah, this is this is a topic with like some general evidence and quite a bit less like hyper specific evidence like there's there have been a handful of studies looking at like body comp changes in trans men and women that go on hormone therapy. And there have been much smaller handful of studies that have looked at some performance changes when when people go on hormone therapy, whether that be exogenous androgens or suppressing endogenous androgens and taking extra dial. Yeah, like there's a little bit but not much. But overall, the evidence tends to suggest that the hormones do what you would expect them to do. If you like knock if you take someone with with a Y chromosome and knock testosterone levels down to essentially zero in a vacuum that tends to lead to a loss of muscle mass and in a vacuum even without estrogen, like it tends to cause some fat gain as well, add estrogen into the mix that if anything would tend to cause more fat gain. But yeah, you take someone with a Y chromosome and make their hormones more similar to those of a biological female and you tend to get physiology closer to that of a biological female and vice versa. So, you know, you put exogenous androgens in someone without a Y chromosome and they wind up with physiology much closer to that of a biological male. And that's that's what you tend to see in terms of like individual studies, like how much do like how much does performance change? Like, you know, it's going to depend on what aspect of performance you're looking at. And also, you know, if you have if you take people who are relatively untrained and expose them to a type of training that would tend to cause gains, but they're starting like androgen deprivation therapy, like they're going on spira and a lactone, maybe you don't see performance change, but with like endogenous testosterone production, you would expect it to increase. So, that's still kind of like on net a decrease if that makes sense. But yeah, like overall, the hormones do what you would expect them to do. Like you take higher testosterone levels, knock them down to zero, tends to cause a loss in muscle mass, loss in strength, increase in fat gain. You take very low testosterone levels, add some exogenous testosterone in the mix, and hypertrophy gains in performance, loss in body fat, like that's what you tend to see. So yeah, that that goes about the way one would expect. The reason I'm not talking in like really kind of like strictly quantified terms is just there's not a ton of research to this point. Again, there's more just kind of like general body comp changes in the general population that have been looked at versus like actual performance and body comp and like hypertrophy changes in athletes, like there's way, way less on that. And so yeah, to make like confident statements about like time courses on which adaptations occur or the extent to which physiology becomes like normalized between trans and cis women or trans and cis men over time with like years of hormone therapy. I think we just need to wait for more evidence to make like really confident statements on that front. But yeah, I mean, overall, like I said, the hormones tend to do what you would expect them to do. The next question would transmit on testosterone have to stop hormone therapy to compete. Typically, yes. And the same is is also true for some sports for trans women on spironolactone. But I mean, that's that's typically just going to depend on the regulations of the body that sanctions whatever sport you want to compete in, like different sporting organizations have different rules and regulations. Like in a lot of drug tested sports, any amount of exogenous testosterone, even if it's for like gender confirmation therapy, is off limits just because yeah, it's off limits, like it's it's steroids steroids tend to be banned in sports. The same general thing tends to apply to cis men in sports who have like hypo androgenism for whatever reason, like if you're a guy with low testosterone, you might say, hey, it would be fair for me to be able to take some TRT to get my testosterone levels back to that of the people I'm competing against. But most of the time it's not allowed. Like, even if a doctor directs it, you can't get a therapeutic use exemption for it. So yeah, like in a lot of sports, a lot of organizations, I would be a no go for other sports and or and other organizations, they might make exceptions for it. Yeah, you would just need to look at the rules of like the drug testing of the sanctioning body for whatever sport you compete in, unless you compete untested, and an untested, all bets are off. And so I also called out trans women and spirinal lactone. That is also like a no go in some sports, which like kind of functionally serves as a ban on trans women in those sports. And I think this is like a little less common, but like when that is against the rules, like when like you would also get popped, like when it would also be counted as a substance violation for finding spirinal lactone in the system. The reason for that is it is a drug that can be used to hide evidence of doping. Like if someone just wanted to like really blast high like high doses of testosterone and then try to get that try to get that shit way down again before they're about to get drug tested, they might want to use spirinal lactone in order to do that, to kind of like cover up evidence of doping. So that's like the reason given when that is like counted as a positive test, even for trans women who want to compete. But like I said, that tends to function as just like a soft ban on trans women being able to compete in those sports. So yeah, long story short, the drugs that one would take for like gender, gender confirmation purposes. Yeah, whether or not it's allowed or not is going to depend on the sports and regulations of the sporting body under which you plan to compete. But yeah, yeah, it just varies. Like there's no kind of one size fits all. Nice. Plenty of questions and even plenty of answers. So yeah, I think this was a good episode. I had fun with it. What do you guys think? Did you guys enjoy the debates, the battle royale? Yeah, I think it was really good. I think here to stay. And I think specifically for future episodes, we'll make the prompts slightly more neutral almost as opposed to definitive statements. And then I think we're on to winner. But ultimately, I think we need to hear from the listeners as well. Absolutely. I would also just like to say before we wrap up, I was going to say this all fair, but I'll say it on air, take public accountability. Pac, I'm slightly concerned that I may have been like a little bit too aggressive towards you. At some points during the debate, I don't know if you felt that or not. But when I get into like competitive mode, I think I tend to like be a little meaner, like talk a little bit of shit. So nothing was intended with ill will behind it. So yeah, I'm not at all. There was no point where I felt any type of way. I was also shaking my head now for the audience that was just listening. No, no, it didn't feel like that whatsoever. Okay, cool. Just just making sure. I appreciate you. All right. Well, I think that wraps up another episode of the Stronger by Science podcast. Thank you, everyone, for listening. Yeah, let us know if you enjoyed the Battle Royale style episodes in the Facebook group subreddit or if you're watching slash listening on YouTube in the YouTube comments. And we will talk to you again in a couple weeks. Peace, peace.

=== FILE: SBS Podcast Final Q&A (Episode 144) [D4VyrSdkyKw].txt ===

 guessing вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам In many ways a final great episode for you guys today. If you didn't listen to the last episode of the podcast, I did have an announcement up top that this will be the final episode in the kind of like standard run of the podcast for the foreseeable future. That doesn't mean it's dead forever. Doesn't mean we might not pop into your feed with a random episode here or there at some point. But after this episode, the podcast is going on in indefinite hiatus. But announcement up top here. If you do just like getting stronger by science audio content, even though the podcast is going away. We're going to start doing a monthly audio Q&A for people on the newsletter. So if that is something that interests you and you're not subscribed to the newsletter already, you can go to strongerbyscience.com slash newsletter to sign up to the newsletter. And when those monthly Q&A episodes drop, you will be notified of it. And if you're not a newsletter subscriber already, and you're thinking like, I've signed up to a lot of newsletters and I think it's going to be cool. But for the most part, they're just spamming me with a bunch of ads and it's a waste of my time and clutters my inbox. So that is not something you need to worry about with the stronger by science newsletter. It's literally like 95% plus just sending you informative content. So breaking down new studies, giving practical training tips. We're going to have the monthly audio Q&As. So we're going to be in like maybe once or twice a year. If we're running a sale on coaching or running a sale on a product, we'll let you know about it. But like the ratio of just getting informative content to marketing related stuff, it really is like 10 to 120 to one, maybe even more. Yeah, it's good stuff. And if you'd like to continue getting audio content from us, check out the newsletter. So this is like I said on the last episode, this is going to be a Q&A episode. So a lot of y'all send in questions and we're going to answer them here. So without further ado, do one of you guys want to kick us off? I want to say a few final words before it's... Oh yeah, go for it. Keep in mind, we sure we are, I don't know, we are classed as temporary guests, the permanent co-hosts or CEOs and CFOs, whatever you want to call us. But we were listeners of the podcast first and foremost. And for many years, this podcast was a big source of education for both myself and Milo. We looked forward to every episode on this podcast, another competing podcast, but we all know that this was the first fitness podcast ever. And yeah, it's the end of an era. I want to say thank you, Greg, for rocking the podcast because yeah, sure, we've been rocking it alongside you for the past year or so. But for many years, this was an amazing source of information, entertainment and a good companion on some dark days. And that was reflected also by many of the messages that came in. So in addition to the questions, a lot of people express their gratitude and stuff. But I want to thank you and Linz and obviously Treks who was a part of this before, but also thank the people that were listening and big hug to everyone. It was a mixed sort of a goodbye message. But yeah, it's been emotional, men, strongly by science, awesome resource, awesome podcast and yeah, long live SBS podcast, I guess, hashtag. Free Todd the Ralph. Well, thanks, man. I really appreciate it. That means a lot. And just to echo pack and make you feel even worse about this since you have compliments. I have everything packs as if ever I was asked, Hey, I want to learn more about lifting and fitness. Where should I go? I would say the strong by science podcast. And although we won't be able to say it anymore, I do a faith that the monthly Q&A episodes will carry on the spirit of this podcast very well. So yeah, it's been very gratifying having the opportunity to be a part of this. And for one last time, let's get into some questions. All right, starting with Frank. Hey guys, first of all, I just want to say thank you for all of the incredible fitness content over the years been listening since the very beginning and haven't asked a question. Up until now, so I'm going to try to make this one count. It seems like strength more so than muscle mass is more strongly correlated with both life and health span. So my question is beyond hand grip strength. Is there a better way to assess overall strength as it relates to longevity? For example, could we assess lower body strength, pushing strength, etc. in percentiles like putting someone in the 64th percentile for lower body strength, 71st for pushing, etc. And how would that correlate with longevity? Thanks again. Not sure where I'll be able to find out how much an elephant can deadlift now, but I'll be make sure to follow you guys wherever you go next. Yeah, so that's that's a good question as a bit of context for this one for for people for whom it may sound like this is coming a little bit out of the blue. There's a pretty robust body of literature suggesting that strength is a predictor of longevity and that people who are stronger at 55, 60 years old tend to live a little bit longer, have a longer lifespan and health span from that point than people who are weaker at 55, 60 years old. But most of that research uses hand grip strength as their test for strength for determining the stronger versus weaker people. And so Frank is asking, basically, just like, is, is that the best metric? Are there other metrics that one could use that would work better? And I suspect so. Like, I don't know. I don't see a reason to suspect that hand grip strength would correlate with longevity, but like knee extension strength wouldn't, for instance. But I do also think that essentially, I don't know. So like, this to me is one of those things where I suspect that you could take more strength measurements and probably improve predictive accuracy a bit. Like, I, I can't imagine that a combination of hand grip strength and knee extension strength and isometric chest press strength. You want to be able to build a model to predict longevity even better than you can with just hand grip strength alone. But I also question the utility of that a little bit for a couple reasons. One is that unless you like, unless you're working for like an insurance agency as an actuary, the like precision of the estimate. Probably doesn't matter that much for you, I guess. So like, this is, this is something we've talked about a little bit as it relates to like body composition assessments, how like, on a group level, we can estimate body comp quite well on an individual basis. Estimates tend to be rather rough, even with something like DEXA, for instance. And the same thing kind of applies here. Like if research suggests that having like 80th percentile hand grip strength or any other strength measure, if that was predictive of like eight additional years of longevity or whatever, the confidence interval on that is going to be huge. And like the prediction interval, like range of individual values, like not even kind of like range of where the population average is likely to fall. But like the individual spread is going to be much, much bigger. And so like, I do think that you could get more precise population level estimates with more strength measures, but the range of individual prediction values is still going to be so broad that for an individual, I don't know that it would have that much utility. And the other thing that I would say is that one of the things that you see when you look at the longevity research is that strength itself is a pretty good predictor of longevity. But the research looking at the degree to which resistance training, and especially the amount of resistance training you do is predictive of longevity is like quite a bit weaker, or at least not suggestive of the exact same relationship. So like the epidemiological research looking at like how much resistance exercise is predictive of increased longevity, it's up to like, I don't know, like 90 to 120 minutes of total resistance training per week. Whereas if the relationship between strength and longevity was strictly causal, you would expect that to be like basically the more resistance training you do the longer you live. And I think that to some extent, the strength measures themselves are kind of a bit of a proxy for how strong and muscular someone like quote unquote naturally is. And so like, basically the idea that when a metric becomes a target, it stops being as good of a metric. It's not that I think that lifting is going to negatively impact longevity, but I do think when when I hear a lot of lifters ask about this, the the inflection tends to be or at least like the thing underpinning it seems to be a lot of times like. Hey, if I get as strong as possible, like if I train really hard and get as jacked and strong as possible by 60 years old, that's that's going to make me live a lot longer, right. And like, I'm not convinced about like just how causal that is. Again, because we don't see as strong of a relationship between amount of resistance training someone does in longevity. A B is like most of the research looking at strength and longevity kind of splits things out by quartiles and like the top two quartiles tend to do a lot better than the bottom quartile. And sometimes the top quartile is a little bit better than the second quartile. Sometimes it's not. But like, if you think about just when you're walking down the street, look at everyone around 60 years old and just be like, hey, like what is how jacked is the 60 year old that I'm seeing that seems to be more muscular and in better shape than three out of four of them. And if you're in a room of 100 just 60 year olds in the general population, the 75th percentile there is not that strong and that muscular. Like I do think there's some diminishing returns there. And yeah, yeah, I don't know. Like I basically to answer the question, I do think that you could probably you could probably on a population level get slightly more precise predictions if you did have more metrics of strength rather than just hand grip strength. But one of the reasons I think hand grip strength is good is that it does help isolate a little bit more just kind of like just like how strong someone is like inherently versus like trying to pick up on training effects because I do I do think those two things are like considerably different. Or at least like meaningful, meaningfully different to some extent. And just to just to put like explain that a little bit more like why why that distinction matters is like the the biggest reason. Like one of the big reasons why it is helpful to be strong from a longevity perspective, strong and muscular, but but more so strong, but kind of both is that like basically you want to be able to keep moving to live a long time, like moving is good for you being able to be independent, take care of yourself, do activities of daily living and maintain high enough levels of activity to maintain high enough levels of fitness that you can just like kind of be in good shape. So if something bad happens, you get some you get sick, you get some type of disease like your body is robust enough to fight it off. But like the way that losses and physical function tend to occur with aging is like there is a bit of a gradual decline, but in terms of like end of life stuff. So not talking about changes that people experience from like their 40s to their 50s, but you know, when people go from still being able to lead healthy active lives to like quite bad shape. And you get the feeling that like end of life stuff is coming up pretty soon. Most most of the time like that kind of last stage there is arrived at in in kind of a chunk like someone is in decent shape, they're doing OK. And then they get some sort of illness, they have an extended stay in the hospital, whatever and like they lose a lot of strength and a lot of function in that process. And they just struggle to get it back and like like their their fitness kind of takes a big step down. And that's like a fairly permanent decline. And like the the reason that like sort of natural strength levels and this also applies to like aerobic fitness as well like VO2 max is a predictor of longevity. Like the same principle applies that I've been talking about with strength like VO2 max is a strong predictor of longevity, but there's a weaker relationship between volume of intense aerobic training and longevity than you would expect if if that was like a directly causal relationship as well. And I think it's because like essentially those big big setbacks are like the thing that really are like shaving a lot of years off the life there at the end. And I do think that the the strength association, the VO2 max association is is a bit like people who are just like naturally stronger or just like naturally have higher levels of aerobic fitness independent of exercise. Or the people who who are who just like find it easier to bounce back from things like that a little bit easier where like, you know, if you're if you're strong because you exercise like an absolute madman all the time. That's awesome. And if you spend three months in the hospital, you're going to lose a lot of muscle and a lot of strength. And if you're 75 already, it might be difficult to build a lot of that back. If you're someone who's like all like almost as strong and almost as muscular with considerably less exercise, if you have to take that same three months stay in the hospital, you'll probably lose quite a bit less while you're in. And like, since you weren't having to do that much to maintain what you had previously, it will be probably a little bit easier to get more of it back. And so yeah, like I think I think hand grip strength is good because it it does help isolate a little bit more that kind of like sort of like it's it's a bit more of an independent measure of strength than something that like people in the gym are going to be specifically training for because like you do improve your grip by rowing doing pull downs, deadlifts, whatever. But like most people aren't training their grip super hard. Like it's not it's not like a core focus of training for most people. And so for that reason, I do think it makes for a pretty good strength assessment for kind of like longevity estimation purposes. So I don't know how directly that answered Frank's question, but those are just some of some of my thoughts on the topic. PoV you just asked Greg. Hey, how's your day going? But I wanted to give a sort of not TLDR response, but more of a like my opinion is that I don't know if it's useful to look for a specific metric. In terms of strength and longevity, given the fact that my my bet is my thinking is that if you're engaging in resistance training until your older age and you're doing plenty of stuff and you know, keeping relatively strong in the gym or at least doing your best to get stronger over time and you've been doing so for a while, it's likely that you're getting a lot if not all the benefits from resistance training, regardless of whether maybe you know your grip strength is in a certain percentile or whatever. Would you agree with that sort of that sort of view in terms of like practical applications just continue lifting and it's likely that you're not missing out on much. Yeah, pretty much. Yeah, I think I think if you're getting in the gym two or three times a week for. Yeah, like a total of like 90 to 120 minutes of resistance training and getting after it pretty hard while you're in there. I think I think I think your ducks are in a row from that perspective. And yeah, like the like like I mentioned, like when a when a metric becomes a goal, it ceases being a good metric. Like I do. I do. I do not think that if someone specifically trains their grip strength to get themselves into a higher grip strength percentile, that's going to directly and causally make them live longer. And I guess what I was getting at a little bit with like assessing other metrics of strength that may be more directly related to the types of things that lifters would be training. I think that's like selecting a metric that is already a goal where like whatever association you found would would in part be picking up sort of inherent differences in strength and would in part be picking up training effects. So it would be like not doing quite as good of a job of isolating strength is like an independent variable and sort of like the same thing where if they found a stronger association between the extension strength and longevity, then grip strength and longevity. I think it's good to train lower body, obviously, but I don't think like going out of your way to get your knee extension strength from like the 80th percentile to the 99th would like have that strong of a direct effect on longevity. Like, yeah, yeah, I don't know. I don't know. I hope I hope some of that made sense. Made a lot of sense. Anything to add Milo? Yeah. I mean, just like with view to max. I do think a lot of what Greg said makes sense. Like, hey, if your genetics in your lifestyle overall mean that you're not in those bottom 20, 30, 40 percentiles, that's probably a good thing. But whether or not that means that someone should train to like purely maximize strength, maximize longevity, or whether you need to have an absurdly high view to max to maximize longevity. I am a lot more skeptical of. And so because percentiles for strength, I think are quite heavily dependent on genetics, for instance. I'm not entirely, but pretty heavily dependent on genetics, especially once you get into the top sort of 10 percentiles or so. I'm not sure I would ever advise someone to chase a higher percentile for strength in the aim of maximizing longevity. I would rather just recommend, hey, based on literature, getting into the gym for an hour to a week. It's going to do you some good for health and ditto for overall activity. But I wouldn't really worry about percentiles. I think that can be helpful from a public health perspective and research perspective. But when it comes to actually telling you you need to be doing this, I think you can just refer to, oh, I should be doing some exercise. It's good for you. Kind of leave it at that. But yeah, that's my stance. Very boring stance, very simple stance, but hey ho. No, I'm 100 percent on board with that. Yeah, I think even, like, basically just there's a distinction between saying like stronger people and people in better aerobic shape tend to live longer. That does not necessarily mean that if you do everything within your power to get as strong as possible and maximize your aerobic fitness, that the direct gains you see in longevity will be as large of an effect as kind of those population level trends. Because part of what they're picking up is training effects and part of what they're picking up is just kind of like inherent, inter-individual differences. Okay, yeah, let's go ahead and move on to the next one. This listener wanted to remain anonymous. They specifically asked to remain anonymous. So Mark Smith says, now I'm joking, that's not their name, or is it? I have a question about how weightlifting impacts body weight. I have been deadlifting with a professional trainer two times a week for six years and I have deadlifted in those sessions 90 percent of the time. We have used progressive overload to build strength and muscle, but I noticed that my body weight has never really been more than five pounds less than my one repetition maximum. I have also found that I struggle a lot less now to increase my one-on-rem. It takes less time and what feels like less effort alongside the body weight gain. My one-on-rem is 245 pounds and I currently weight just under 240 pounds. In the last two years, I did develop binge eating tendencies and other body image issues, which have definitely impacted my body weight. But I was wondering if the demand on my body to lift the heaviest I can two times per week is a deterrent to intentional weight loss. Can the demand to hit my one-on-rem weekly have that much of an effect on my body defending my current weight and can it induce weight gain when I'm trying to progressively overload? Do you want to lead off on this one, Milo? I rambled way too much on the first question. No, you're good. Sure. The most honest answer I can give is that to my knowledge, there is no effect that would directly resolve that issue. To my knowledge, lifting heavy and going higher in terms of percentage of your max shouldn't inherently make weight loss more difficult. Now, directionally, you could argue that going too heavy too often might reduce your energy expenditure ever so slightly, like if you're doing higher volume work, maybe you'd burn an extra 50 calories. But that difference in energy expenditure isn't going to cause any meaningful difference in weight loss. So, just on principle, I don't think that hitting your one-on-rem max twice a week or weekly is going to have any effect, effectively, on your weight loss. It's likely going to do more so with other factors, specifically with overall energy expenditure and overall energy intake. That's the boring answer, and I would love if Greg had anything more unique or interesting to say about it, because maybe I'm missing something. Yeah, I'm wondering how mean to be, not to the person asking the question, but to their trainer. Honestly, I think you need to find a new trainer. So, that's coming from a couple things. One is, it sounds like you're having to work up to a one-rem max deadlift weekly, which I don't know how much utility that has for you, honestly. Part of the reason I say that is, and I do not mean this at all in a judgmental way, if you've been training for six years consistently and your deadlift is within five pounds of your body weight, that's tough. Part of why I'm thinking this is just knowing our audience demographics a bit. If this is an older woman, I retract that, and that's a very good deadlift. If this is a younger woman who weighs around 240, or a man under 70 who weighs around 240, obviously strength genetics vary between people, but like after six years of training, most people are going to have a better deadlift than that, especially at that body weight if they've been training pretty hard. I'm not assuming it's a lack of effort on the question-askers part.  it just like, there's not like a ton of context in this question, but the vibe I get is that your trainer sucks, honestly, and that it may not be a terrible idea to try to find a new trainer. So that's kind of the most direct and actionable piece of advice I would give to the person asking this question. As it relates to the questions about whether trying to go heavy and get stronger can induce weight gain or make it more difficult to lose weight, I don't think directly physiologically that's the case. I'm not even going to touch on the binge eating disorder part. That's a conversation to have with an R&D, but in terms of kind of like psychological impacts, I guess of weight loss, one of the things that I've personally experienced myself and have heard from other power lifters, like people really focused on maximal strength, trying to get as strong as possible, is that weight loss can for some people be a little bit of a head fuck because you're trying to get stronger. And it's easier to continue getting stronger when your weight is staying the same or going up, like when you're in an energy surplus. Not that it's impossible to get stronger in a deficit, but especially if you're trying to cut quite a bit of weight, at some point your strength plateaus and might start going down, especially if you have a pretty fair bit of training experience. And as someone who has experienced that, you can look at like your Wilkscore or your IPF points or whatever the fuck, scaled strength metric you want, but like if you used to squat X pounds and you tried that in the gym and it didn't go up and now your max is like 20 pounds lower, even if like relatively it's higher, like if you're the type of person that's just really wired to want to hit bigger numbers, like that can be like psychologically difficult for a lot of people, I think. So as a bit of advice related to like exercise selection to maybe make those psychological aspects of weight loss a little bit easier, it can help a lot to do more body weight training where maybe your bench press goes down a little bit, but the number of pushups you can do or the number of dips you can do goes up because you have less body weight you're moving around. Like maybe the amount of weight you can use for some sort of rowing exercise stagnates or goes down, but the number of pullups you can do increases. Strict step ups instead of like focusing as much on one RM squats, like there like a focus on body weight exercises or at least like including more body weight exercises in a program can I think help a lot with motivation when you're losing weight and maybe your max strength starts going down a little bit because it does like it gives you a performance metric that goes up when you lose weight or at least like weight loss helps to facilitate. So yeah, I'm not sure if that necessarily applies in the question askers scenario. Like I again, I don't know, I'm not even going to take a guess as to how that relates to binge eating disorder, but just for people that struggle psychologically to get in like a weight loss mindset when trying to improve their performance and get stronger. I've found that to be helpful and I think a lot of other people do as well. Oh, yeah. I mean wanting to be anonymous backfired a bit here because it would have allowed us to sort of, I guess have a bit more context because I think we could guess the at least the sex of the listener, but I assume that they don't want that given the anonymity, but that was a really solid response. All right, moving on to the next question by Faraz. They ask for hypertrophy, how important is resistance curve versus range of motion used? Do length and partial versus a full range of motion matter more or less when an exercise maximized tension and or external moment arms at short versus long muscle length? The critique of the new full rom versus length and partial study by certain someone says no exercises really maximize tension at longer lengths. Could this have played a major role in the results? What do we think? Yeah, I can hit a solve on this one. Again, this is a couple of questions baked into one. A for hypertrophy, how important is resistance curve versus range of motion used? I don't know that we can conclusively answer that or anywhere close to at this stage. Like we have a few studies looking at the effects of resistance curve on hypertrophy. Like we have a study by Nunes and colleagues where they compared cable preacher curls to barbell preacher curls, where with the setup used, they had less resistance in the stretch with the cable preacher curl and more resistance in the stretch with the barbell preacher curl and vice versa for the shortened position. And that study, for instance, no real difference in growth, but then we have studies that manipulate multiple variables at once. Like for example, a study by Zebelita and colleagues where they compare the incline curl to the preacher curl where for the biceps, the incline curl places them in a more stretched position. But there's also less resistance at the bottom of an incline curl versus at the bottom of a preacher curl. Meanwhile, the preacher curl does present greater resistance at the bottom of the rep, but because the shoulder is slightly flexed, the biceps are being trained in a more shortened position. And in that study, for instance, bicep hypertrophy or elbow flexors, if I recall correctly, was slightly greater from preacher curls. But then now we have a conference abstract comparing these two exercises again by my way and colleagues specifically using MRI to look at all of the elbow flexors individually from the most proximal side possible to the most distal side possible, showing that actually incline curls were slightly better for hypertrophy for the biceps, whereas preacher curls were slightly better for hypertrophy for the remaining elbow flexors. So the point I'm trying to make is that is almost all of the literature we have on the topic, which is not a lot. And of the literature we have, there's somewhat conflicting results in that some studies will find that, hey, more resistance beats out more stretch for hypertrophy. Other roles will find the opposite. Some won't even find an effect of resistance curve at all, like that lunas study where they compare the ball bell preacher curl to the cable preacher curl. My hunch is that both are somewhat important, but whether or not one is more important than the other, I couldn't tell you at this stage. I think that for you to get maximum benefit from length and training, you at least need to get a decent stretch. Whether you need a maximum stretch, we just don't know yet. And I do think you need some resistance in the stretch. Like I don't think that the resistance provided an incline curls, for instance, I'm not sure if that's sufficient to maximize hypertrophy of the upper flexors at the bottom. So yeah, not a very satisfactory answer, but that is the only answer that I could actually give at this stage. Before we move on, Greg, thoughts. No, yeah, I wholly agree. I do, like this is a topic that it, confuses me a bit when I see people make very confident declarations on social media, where people will be like, oh, like this, like if you're trying to, like benefit from training at longer muscle lengths, like you absolutely need to select exercises that maximize the tension the muscles are exposed to at those longer muscle lengths. And like you said, there's not that much research on the topic and the research that does exist is pretty mixed. And I'm just like, why are you so confident about this? Like I don't think that level of confidence is justified. Like I do think that, like I do very strongly suspect that if you were dealing with an exercise where the resistance curve was like, basically no challenge at long muscle lengths, I do think that's probably not going to be ideal. So like, I'm going to reveal my background here as more on the strength side of things than the hypertrophy side of things by the first example that came to mind here. I'm sure other people would think of an example of some exercise that you would set up with like cables to manipulate resistance curves or whatever. But the first thing that comes to mind for me is like squatting, obviously, with straight weights versus like only band resistance where like if you went really hard on the squat and all of the resistance came from bands such that in the hole, the bands are completely slack and you have like no resistance at all and it only starts ramping up as you go through the concentric. I don't think that's going to be ideal for hypertrophy. Like even if you're matching the muscle lengths you're training, because there's so little resistance there at long muscle lengths. Yeah, I don't think that's going to be the best thing in the world for quad growth. Like I think that's probably going to be worse than straight weight where you do have like greater resistance at longer muscle lengths. But I don't like, I'm not aware of any strong and consistent evidence that you necessarily need to go out of your way to maximize the tension that your muscles are under at long muscle lengths. Like as long as there's some significant degree of tension my understanding is that that's sufficient or at least there's no strong reason to think that that's not sufficient. So I don't know, it is just one of those things where I see a lot of people who seem extremely confident that the resistance curve is going to make like a huge difference. And like I'm not convinced of that because I'm not aware of that much research to back it up. Yeah. And if anything, Blackpill take the study, the latest study on the topic, train hard, do some lifting, it's all going to be fine. There you go. Here's your stronger by Sands response. Enough. Hammity asks, I want to bulk and gain muscle, but I have fears and I'm not sure if I can do that. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I want to bulk and gain muscle, but I have fears and questions regarding it. If someone yo-yo dieted, let's say for a contest or a photo shoot, and now their metabolism hasn't fully recovered, so they gained more weight and fat that they lost, now the original deficit isn't working and they need to go lower. What's the approach there? Maintain the weight gained and suck it up till metabolism catches up, or is there a fix for that person? Greg, I think as the preeminent metabolism enjoyer as of recently, as per your seven part article series on Macrofactorapp.com, I think you should be the one to see this off. Yeah, so I think this is tough because what the research on the topic tends to indicate is that once people do regain the weight that they lose when dieting, both lean mass and fat mass, like fat mass regaining, leptin comes back up, lean mass regaining, organ mass, muscle mass, like more metabolically active tissues. Like, yeah, it seems like for the most part, as people regain tissue, like whatever metabolic slowdowns they experienced when dieting tend to reverse, and to the extent that they don't, there's at least a hypothesis. I don't know how much direct empirical evidence there is for this. I think it's a little bit extrapolated from research on yo-yo dieters. Like for a subset of people, the number of diets that people have previously attempted is predictive of higher body weights and BMIs, and a hypothesis to explain that, I think first advanced by Dulu, D-U-L-L-O-O, I believe, is essentially that when people crash diet, they lose fat, but they also lose lean mass, and then after, in the post-diet hyperphagia response, people rapidly regain weight, but they regain fat faster than they gain muscle, and so when they, or just lean mass in general, and so when they've returned to their previous body weight, it's now at a higher body fat level and a lower muscle mass level than they were previously, and so as a result, kind of like their metabolic rate at that body weight is a little bit slower than it was previously, and then if you repeat that two or three more times, you do wind up with kind of like a gradual downward trend in metabolic rate relative to total body mass, but yeah, like I said, I'm not sure how much direct empirical evidence there is for that, but that is a hypothesis that's floating around out there. I do, like I think that I suspect for the person asking this question, it wouldn't surprise me if some of what you're experiencing though is more behavioral than directly metabolic, and by that I mean like a pretty good chunk of your energy expenditure doesn't come from resting metabolism, it comes from energy expenditure and exercise or like meat, non-exercise activity, thermogenesis, just the amount of energy you burn, fidgeting, moving around, activities of daily living, et cetera, and I do think that for a lot of people, once they die to like extreme levels of leadness, there's a lot of, or there can be a pretty fair bit of like fairly intense lingering fatigue that goes along with that, like that's a very like stressful thing to do, and your body adapts in a variety of ways to conserve energy as you're getting leaner and leaner and leaner, and some of that is going to be a reduction in resting metabolism, but a lot of that is going to be behavioral adaptations, like moving around a bit less, and even if like your, like even if your step count doesn't change, like your body gets like a little bit more efficient at moving to kind of like save every calorie it can, and I wouldn't be surprised if some of those adaptations persist when people begin regaining weight, either like kind of more direct behavioral adaptations, like maybe your overall activity levels are a little bit lower now than they were the last time you were around this body weight, or potentially some more of those like settle, but difficult to measure, like difficult to measure outside of a lab setting type of deal things where like, gains in global movement economy where like whatever you do now, you're a little bit more efficient at doing it. I wouldn't be surprised if something along those lines was contributing as well, and so the question is what to do about it, and I kind of think that's up to you. So like in the research on weight loss maintenance, which isn't exactly what's going on here, but I suspect it applies at least in an analogical type of way, is that like whatever, like when people achieve a particular body weight that they're having difficulty maintaining, basically like the longer they maintain it, the easier it becomes to maintain it. So like if you are still just dealing with some residual effects from the diet that you were on, I do think that I wouldn't recommend trying to diet hard again now, certainly. I think probably just spend some time at your current weight and it should gradually become more comfortable over time, and when it does and you're feeling better and you're thinking like, hey, maintaining this weight isn't that much of a challenge anymore, then maybe you could think about dieting again, but I would absolutely recommend going slower and not trying to get as lean. Like I think this experience, there should be some learning lessons from it. Like it sounds like things didn't go as well as you may have liked for them to have gone, especially on the back end. And I think a lot of that is just like rate an endpoint. Like either you got way leaner than your body is comfortable getting or you dieted way faster than your body is comfortable dieting. So I think if in the future you wanted to diet down again, probably either pull the plug a bit sooner or take your time a bit more. Yeah, spot on. Especially the last part is something that resonates with me from a coaching standpoint because there've been clients who have asked similar questions and that was exactly, more or less the response that I gave. Milo, anything to add? Awesome. No, I think that like, maybe I'm blackmailed about this and I think there's definitely some stuff that's under your control when it comes to metabolism and energy expenditure and just facilitating weight loss and or weight maintenance after weight loss. Physical activity is great. And generally having a healthy lifestyle but I'm not a heart percent sure you can do. Like people often talk about the importance of maintenance phases for instance, like between weight loss phases. And I think you can get caught up in the specifics versus the broad strokes you need to follow. Like it doesn't need to be a maintenance phase. It doesn't need to be a certain length. It's just a matter of sort of a function of calories slash energy state and time versus there being a prescriptive approach that we have the research really back up. This is exactly what you should do. So yeah, I just probably agree with Greg. I think it depends on what you want out of that situation. There's different ways to go about it. Nice. Ashley asks, On the second warm up episode recently, Dr. Wolf mentioned that shorter rest times maximize a hypertrophy response despite the fact of longer rest times often leading to greater performance. If someone, let's say a friend of mine who is definitely not me is a lazy power lifter who rests six or seven minutes between volume squat sets. Are they likely leaving gains on the table versus someone more diligently resting only two minutes and possibly getting fewer reps towards the end of their squat work? Yeah, that's a great question. You know what, Greg, you go first because I want to hear your take before I before I give my obviously biased response to myself. So I want to hear your steelman. Sure, I think that, I think the generalizability of research is something that always needs to be considered. And I think that, I don't know. Like I, whatever, whatever like a pooled meta analytic effect of rest intervals is, I would not approach it with the assumption that those same rest intervals and effects of those rest intervals would apply to all exercises all the time. And so for instance, like a bicep curl versus deadlifts, say. And let's say you're doing sets of 12. And like, let's just assume that you don't necessarily need to like, completely maintain performance to the greatest degree possible set to set to maximize the hypertrophic response of the set. But like, you probably don't want your performance absolutely dropping off a cliff. Like that's probably not ideal for the hypertrophic response you get from it. Like you do a set of 12 bicep curls and let's say you rest a minute and a half, you take the same weight, do it again. Can you get 12 reps? Maybe, maybe not. Maybe you only get 10, maybe you get nine, but like you're gonna perform pretty well the next set. It's gonna be okay. You do a set of 12 deadlifts with like a challenging load, taking it pretty close to failure. You rest a minute and a half, you walk back up to the bar. How are you gonna do on that next set? Probably not fucking good. Like it's a different beast. And so like, I do, and I think that's even more the case as people get stronger, just because the energy cost of lifting scales with the amount of work that's being done work in the physics sense. And so like, if you're lifting twice as much weight for the same number of reps, the set requires twice as much work, has roughly twice the energy cost. And so, yeah, like I, I do suspect that the amount of rest between sets necessary to maximize the hypertrophy response from subsequent sets is probably a little bit greater for like particularly compound lower body exercises for people who are quite strong than it is for single joint exercises or like compound exercises for people who are weaker. And so like, I don't think you're leaving gains on the table by resting for six or seven minutes between sets if the total amount of volume you're doing is the same. Like I don't know that six or seven sets is necessary. Maybe the hypertrophic response there could be maximized with like three minutes between sets or four minutes. And like, you're making your session take longer, but if it's get a certain number of sets done in two hours versus an hour 15, I think those sets will be just as effective if you're resting longer between them. And depending on the exercise in your training status potentially slightly more so. So I don't know, I don't know. I wouldn't, I wouldn't over generalize from kind of like pooled meta analytic results without considering like all of those, all of those contexts. Like, and for this question in particular, it's asking like lazy power lifter, I'm assuming they're pretty strong doing volume squat sets. I don't think six or seven minutes is an unreasonable amount of time to rest between sets personally. Part of that's based on experience. If I'm doing like sets of 10 squats, I'm not resting two minutes between sets. Fuck that, absolutely not. Like if I'm resting six or seven minutes between sets, I'm getting it. Like I might be pushing it to 10 if I'm being completely honest. So yeah, to me that seems fine, but what do you think Milo? I'll give my anecdotal experience first. And that is when I am squatting and deadlifting. And I'm doing it for like eight to 12 reps or five to 10, let's say. When I was trying to maximize a little on the bar and try to feel pretty good going into sets, yeah, I'd often be resting over 10 minutes. When it comes to whether or not you're Missy on a hypertrophy, my hunch is that you're not, but it's hard to say for sure. So I was specifically one of the first to say one of the people involved in extracting data from the rest time research for the metanasis that kind of found this. And so I had a kind of semi-close look at, well, pretty close look at all the studies included. And to my knowledge from a recollection, at least a few of the studies did include like squats in the sort of hypertrophy upper range. Now obviously we're not talking about highly trained lifters, not every study had that. And the amount of studies involved precluded subgroup analysis, where we looked specifically lower body training, et cetera. But there was some research in that realm. My hunch is that Greg is probably right in saying that slightly long rest times make sense for hypertrophy for higher reps, compound work, and maybe for more advanced lifters, you could go the other way and say, hey, more advanced lifters also tend to have slightly higher view to maxes or what have you. And therefore they can actually cope with the same rest times and be fine, even though their energetic demands per set tend to increase. But yeah, like I think there's a possibility that shortening and constraining your rest times to say around two minutes could actually lead to more growth versus like 10 minutes. But it would be by a mechanism that is currently unclear and that would require substantiating before I can make that claim confidently. That's why I think looking at the applied empirical evidence on the outcomes of interest tends to be the simplest way to kind of figure out what should I do in practice versus thinking, well, yeah, generalizable might not be great here. So let's see recraft around which demographics and in which context there might be a detriment. I tend to be on the side of, eh, let's assume that there's a decent amount of research here and we don't have much evidence to the contrary. And the evidence we do have is more mechanistic or acute in nature. Let's assume this generalizes at least reasonably well. So yeah, I would say you're probably not missing on growth, TLDR, and you're probably fine. There is a case where you have finite resources, like you don't have infinite time to train. And therefore if you're spending 10 minutes resting between sets and you only have an hour to train, you're getting five sets of squats in. Versus if you're resting for two to five minutes, let's say all of a sudden you're tripling your volume. So you can make a case that for a lot of people resting for too long can practically reduce the hypertrophy just via opportunity costs. But I think on principle, if you had infinite time and you wanted to rest say five or six minutes instead of two between sets of squats, I don't think you're reducing hypertrophy necessarily.  or at least I couldn't say so with any confidence. That's my stance, and practically I do think most people are better off resting somewhere in the abode of one to two minutes, maybe a bit north of two minutes for lower body movements, because almost everyone has some degree of time constraints involved, and so far the empirical evidence is leaning towards, eh, one to two minutes gets you probably close to optimal growth. So yeah, that is my stance, Greg, what are your thoughts? Yeah, I think there are, like for the person asking this question, I do think that there are just like practicality considerations, yeah, not even like practicality, but just kind of like, I don't know, like context I guess. They said they were a powerlifter, and so like, I do suspect that, you know, they're squatting for like, they're obviously trying to, like I suspect trying to achieve some hypertrophy here, but also like their performance on the squats sets probably matters as well, like they're trying to get a strength effect too, I strongly suspect. And so like, I do kind of think that if performance is your goal, like your main lifts like this, you focus on performance first and foremost, and then like, if they do also want to get some additional volume in for an additional hypertrophic effect, like yeah, do some like knee extensions or lunges or something like that with a minute between sets. Like I don't know, like for a powerlifter asking about squat benched ed lift specifically, I don't think I would ever like recommend shorter rest times. I think that yeah, like you're doing that as sports practice and like any hypertrophy you get on top of it is kind of like a nice little cherry on top. And then there's like other stuff you can do in your workout to promote hypertrophy. So I yeah, like I think that for a powerlifter asking this question, just like rest as long as you need to to perform well. Cool. Yeah, I did not get the, there was a tiny bit of controversy around this, this meta with rest. I tend to view things more from a, oh, okay, more training flexibility. Turns out that if you're pressed for time, even resting less than we thought is totally fine and you're not going to be leaving massive gains on the table, but people seem to take this as a sort of like, okay, this is the new hard cut rest period limit. And if you're resting above two minutes based on this meta, you are, I don't know, doing something wrong. But yeah, moving on to Mason. Hey guys, this is a question for the sports fans. I'm sure we've all seen where a player in a major professional sports league sustains an injury. And if you look at the comments on Reddit or any other social media, a litany of the comments will suggest that, you know, the players on PEDs or all players are on PEDs. It's stuff we don't know about. It's better. It's different mechanisms that don't affect hormones. And you know, it's really something that I've seen become more prevalent of a discussion just in the last couple of years. You know, you really can't go to basically any comment section without seeing that. And so I was wondering how feasible is it that, you know, there really are these super drugs out here that, you know, these players have access to that we're not even really familiar with. So I think this is the is a classic question around any sort of a professional supporting event where it's assumed that, oh, OK, all professional athletes at a very high level are on some form of PEDs because they are exceptional at what they do. And because there is a monetary, there's a financial incentive to them performing really well. I empathize with that because we've seen, you know, many popular athletes in the Olympics, for example. And I'll just use, you know, a couple of Greeks. Greek athletes as an example where, you know, you often hear cases of people at a very high level being caught on PEDs eventually after years where they were testing, they were testing clean. But as far as super drugs that are out there that people have access to, I don't think whether that's true. And I wouldn't necessarily assume that every professional athlete out there is on PEDs, especially in countries where PEDs are illegal. And depending on their sport and the drug testing protocols that they follow, that can sometimes be very difficult. Do I think that every professional athlete out there is completely drug free and there's no chance that they are potentially doing something behind the scenes that is not in accordance to the drug testing and the drug use federation laws or whatever they're following? No. But I don't think that it's a productive sort of a productive exercise for anybody to try and deduct whether professional athletes are on PEDs because at the end of the day, professional athletes are where they are because they are also in genetic anomalies as far as their sport is concerned. So chances are that many of them are not on PEDs and even if they are, unless you find out about it explicitly through a drug test, I don't think it really changes much. Your thoughts? Yeah, I agree with that. I think that, I don't know, I see where this comes from, but I think that it would do a lot of people a lot of good to just learn more about modern drug testing because you can get a pretty good idea of the type of stuff that people could get away with if you know the types of testing protocols that they're under. And yeah, I think that would probably give people a pretty decent indication because I do think people dramatically underestimate how good the best modern, motivated to catch cheaters style drug testing is. I think people still have, have in their mind kind of the the Balco era or like Lance Armstrong, like never failing a test while winning a bunch of Tour de France or whatever and just having this idea that, yeah, that like the cheaters are always ahead of the testers and kind of it is what it is. But I do think it's important to note like, like highly motivated, well-resourced drug testing is a lot newer than I think people realize. If memory serves, and it may not, I may be off by one Olympiad, but I think 1988 was the first Olympics where performance enhancing drugs were actually banned. And 92 or 96 was the first Olympics where like a lot of people were actually tested. And then it was like another Olympiad when kind of like offseason testing became like much more common. And so like, I don't know when like when Lance Armstrong was doing his things like drug, like drug testing was kind of new. Like they had to doing it for that long and like similar with like like the Balco scandal. And now there's like three decades of folks improving quite a lot. And like this is already, this is already a bit of a dated reference, which makes me feel kind of old. But like as of I think 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics, you know, when you have the the Russian state apparatus trying to help its athletes be able to use gear and beat tests, what was the state of the art drug protocol that they came up with to help their athletes do that? Oh, wait, they didn't have one. It was literally just like passing cups of piss back and forth between a hole and a wall to like swap it out with clean urine. Like that's as of 2014, the way that like a highly resourced motivated state actor decided like this is our best method for beating drug tests. Like basically we beat the drug test by not even trying to beat the drug tests. Because like they're they're pretty good. And so like, yeah, I think so a couple things can really dictate the quality of a testing protocol. One is just simply the types of tests that they do. So a big one for people like in sports where they might want to use androgens is do they ever or with any frequencies carbon isotope ratio testing, like it just has a much longer detection window than the kind of like standard testosterone to epi testosterone ratio test. It's also far more sensitive than those tests. And so like if it's a sport that doesn't do any CIR testing, like folks can. Oh, not like not micro dose. That's that's people using like mushrooms and shit. But like they can use like low doses of stuff and just keep their TD ratio below whatever the cutoff is for the sport, typically four to one and just kind of like get away with it. So, yeah, that's that's something to look for if they just do ratio testing. Yeah, there's probably a lot of people using low doses and getting away with it like that. That was kind of the the Lance Armstrong method. Another big one is like, are they storing samples because like tests are getting better and there are analytes that people either didn't know to test for or couldn't test for at some point in the past. And then they figure out how to test for them. And then you can go back and retest samples and a lot of people get get popped on retests. So that like in 2014, I believe there were better tests made for some of the fast acting steroids that are like not fast acting steroids, but steroids with short half lives that a lot of Olympic athletes, particularly weight lifters were using. And so then when they went and retested samples from 2008 and 2012, it was an absolute blood bath and there were some division. I think there was like one weight class where like the person who finished fifth and did up with the gold medal because like everyone else got popped on retests. And just knowing knowing that like samples are being stored and that you can like be sued for like prize money you won and like metals and accolades and what not being stripped. I think does function at least as some degree of deterrence from people wanting to use stuff that maybe couldn't be detected now, but you have sufficient reason to believe might be able to be detected in the future. And then the last one, and this is a really big one, it's just like what what are the details of the testing protocol and like when people can be tested. So do you have true random unannounced testing year round in ways that don't have loopholes that someone could drive a truck through? And if you aren't where you said you would be for a test, are there consequences? And so like if you're in the testing pool for Olympic sports in the US, like this applies to you, you have to let USADA know about your whereabouts, essentially 24 seven. And if you're not there for a test, you're in trouble. I think like two missed tests are treated as a positive test, like treated as as an adverse analytical inference. And so yeah, like in sports where you maybe have some time away from testing or like if there's like too big of a window like in the evenings. So like for, oh, I'm sure I'm sure I'm going to get these details wrong. But with with USADA, for instance, I think essentially your kind of like free time is like midnight to six a.m. Like they're not going to knock on your apartment door at like three a.m. And say like, hey, wake up, you got a piss. But yeah, so I think you have like a six hour window at night where you can like if you wanted to maybe like use a little growth hormone or something like something with like a short half-life like short detection window, you could like maybe theoretically try to get away with it. Although I think that I think they're getting better at testing for peptides now too. Like this is also a few years ago, but I remember they they popped Pat Mendes twice for growth hormone, which honestly surprised me. Something I've heard like in the cycling world is that they've gotten a lot better at testing for Epo, which is another like peptide hormone with a short half-life short like short glow time is what what the cyclists would call it. And so now like people who are trying to do stuff like that are just going back to like classic blood doping, where you just kind of like extract your blood, spin down the red blood cells and and re inject them instead of trying to take exogenous substances to achieve the same effect because they're they're getting better at testing for them. But yeah, so like if there's you know, if instead of like six hours at night, there's like 14 hours at night, like if if you knew that from like, I don't know, 10pm until noon, you're not going to have a tester show up, then like you could probably get away with using low doses of some stuff and not getting popped. And then the big one is just like are there gaps in the testing calendar? And so like I don't want to tell tales out of school because I don't have like a perfect memory of every of every sports testing protocol. But like I know for some of them, they don't test over the summer. Like if like once the season gets done, the testers might show up when you show up to training camp again. But from the end of the season until kind of like the start of the next preseason, you're good. Like you could you could do whatever you wanted. There's no offseason testing. And I don't know if this is still the case in the NBA, but I know that in the the prior collective bargaining agreement, the details of the testing protocol were basically that like each player would be tested five times per year and could only be tested five times per year. That was like something that the Players Association kind of like got in the CBA. And that the last day you could be tested was the last day of the regular season, which essentially meant that like once you get tested for the fifth time, have fun. Like you could do whatever the fuck you wanted. Or you know, at the end of the regular season, like you want to tune up for the playoffs? Or you know, if you're maybe differently motivated and it was back when marijuana was a banned substance by the league, it's like, yeah, you want to have some fun in the playoffs? Like there's there's things you can do, all of which is to say like in a situation like that, I still don't think everyone's doing gear. But like there's fucking loopholes where, you know, like, like announcers talk about, oh, like the young teams have like the fresh legs and the regular season, but the playoffs is when like experience and championship pedigree and like the veterans really shine. It's like, well, I think there's a lot of that like experience being on that stage before, but also maybe if you're a little a little older, you have a little less endurance, you've lost some pep in your step, but now the season's over and you can take some stuff to roll the clock back a little bit. Who knows? Who knows? Like that might contribute to veterans being able to step up in the playoffs. Who can say? All of which is to say, yeah, all of those things make a difference. Like I do think that like really, um, if a sport has like motivated, well-funded drug testing where they're doing random unannounced tests year round, using the best analytical methods and storing samples for retests, like it's not that it's impossible to cheat, but like it's fucking hard. And like the way the way that people do it when they do is mostly just trying to make it like, like not lying about what their whereabouts are, but just making it difficult for folks to come out to test them. Like, um, like that's a big thing in like distance running where like, um, they're like, basically if you're an American runner, like there are certain countries around the world where like their local testing bodies like effectively don't exist. Like their version of USADA just doesn't give a shit. Like doesn't really test anyone. And so like you could go train in your offseason there and like truthfully tell USADA like, Hey, I'm in this country training like during my offseason. And like they don't have the budget to put a USADA tester on the plane and send them over there. And like the local testing authorities probably aren't going to do anything. So it's like, yeah, like you beat tests by not getting tested. And like that that is kind of the meta because be like the if you're getting tested, like the tests are good and it's very, very difficult to beat them. And like, yeah, like Olympic athletes and like athletes and sports with like water to your testing aren't as far as I'm aware really aren't trying to beat the test by like using stuff and not getting called. Like most of the time they're trying to beat the test by dodging the testers and like finding those loopholes to go places for long periods of time where no one's going to show up to test them. But like the tests are fucking hard to beat. If it's a sport that is just doing like kind of a basic panel, like if if they're doing the style of testing that was being done to Lance Armstrong in the 90s, like yeah, people people can beat those tests, like they beat them all the time. And yeah, there are probably more people using drugs in those sports and getting away with it. And then the testing window is a big one. Like if the sport has a limit on how often in a year someone can be tested, once people hit that limit, I suspect some of them are, I suspect more people in sports like that are using gear than people in other styles of sports. So all of which is to say, I think a very sport by sport. And I think you can get a decent idea of what it looks like based on like reading about and thoroughly understanding the testing protocol. But I definitely don't think all pro athletes are on gear. And I think the ones that are aren't aren't using like crazy advanced shit that's like impossible to detect and test for. I think the I think the ones that are using it are just like competing in leagues that have lax testing protocols, and they're using testosterone and like EPO and just like growth hormone and normal ass shit. Like, I don't think I don't think like the black market chemists are like way ahead of the testers. And like, I like that is not the vector where that war is being waged. Like it's mostly about just trying to get laxer testing protocols or figuring out how to not get tested. Like that's that's kind of where things are at right now because modern tests are really fucking good. Yeah, 100%. And people also need to remember that, you know, there's multiple different layers. As far as like the people involved in professional sports, including sponsors, whatever shareholders, yada, yada, yada. And I very much doubt that you can be transparent with anything, you know, AAS or PD related. So it's, it's unlikely that there's a big conspiracy where they have access to the super lab and everybody's on the same page and they're like, yep, we're rocking it behind the scenes and we have access to these very advanced substances. I think it's a case by case basis rather than every team agreeing that, you know, we're all going to keep quiet about this. Yeah, no, I agree wholeheartedly. And I think like, I don't know, I think some sports leagues probably do just want people to be able to use stuff because like it's putting a better product on the field. But yeah, I don't know. I do, I do think it varies. Like, I think a lot of it is just like cultural, like different sports have different cultures. And yeah, I don't, I don't know. Like, I think that I like, I understand the position that like, Oh, if there's all of this money on the line, like, everyone's going to be doing everything they can to, to secure the bag and get that contract. But like, I do think it's worth keeping in mind that that sort of like, I don't know, the like, I think it's, I think it's more along the lines of like, people are just kind of more, most likely to do what they feel like they have to do to kind of like, advance and keep the ball rolling. So like, I don't know, someone who's like, a good athlete in high school, but maybe like, not quite good enough to get a D one offer in college, might say like, maybe I need to use some chemical enhancement to like, get there. But then like, by the time they get there, if they needed to use gear to get there, they're probably not going to be a standout. Like, they barely, they barely made it to that level. And the people that were able to get to that level without having to do the same stuff, they're going to leave them in the dust, like continue to develop better. And then like, you know, the folks who are going to get drafted to the pros that don't that like, don't need to use shit to do it, like, they're not going to like, that's, or like, they're going to be less likely to that's an unnecessary risk. But like, some people that are there kind of on the fringe might say, Yeah, I got to do what I got to do to like, get my foot in the door, like make it to the league, whatever. But then like, again, once they once they get there, if they had to go down that road to barely make it, they're probably not going to be a standout. And then like, yeah, the folks who are like, maybe competing for that second contract or like, you know, getting some time in the rotation, like getting some playing time, but like, they're not quite like, yeah, maybe they're like, essentially, if you need to do some shit, like, I think that a lot of people will do some shit. But I if you don't, like, it's an unnecessary risk. And I don't, I don't know, like, I don't, I don't think people are going to, especially now that like, in a lot of sports, the bands for performance enhancing drugs, like the suspensions and whatnot are like, much, much longer. I do think that the risk to reward calculus like, isn't, isn't what it once was. Like, I do, like, I think PEV use is like, pretty widespread. But I think, like, if I'm just taking a guess, I think probably between like, a quarter and a half of pro athletes are using shit, maybe like, maybe up to two thirds, I don't think it's, I don't think it's anywhere close to 100%. Like, not not like, I, yeah, I like, I think it's, I think it's a size, a sizable minority. Like, I don't think it's unheard of, but I don't think it's like, completely pervasive everywhere. That's, that's my hunch. Everybody's a fake nady. You heard it here first. Yeah. Shall we jump to the last, the last question forever, I guess, for the politics or at least for the foreseeable future? Yes, sir. Let's do it. So Max Thomas asks, What would your general recommendation be for a teenager who's 15 and is trying to gain muscle and strength at the same time in terms of exercise selection, weekly volume, rep ranges, intensity, and kind of effort as well. So like, RIR, like going to fail it all the way or not. And also what the nutrition side should look like. So calories, kind of how much of a surplus and what the macros spread should be. Yeah, it'd be great. Loaded question. Thank you so much for asking, dear listener. And I will do my best to give you short response that covers sort of everything you've asked for. So assuming you are the teenager in question, first of all, congratulations on embarking on your lifting journey and listening to Stronger by Science. If this is for somebody else, congratulations to them. I'd say that I started lifting around that time as well, around 15 or 16. And unfortunately, I was not a Stronger by Science listener, nor a strength theory follower at the time. I'm not sure if that even existed. But for many of us out there, we just ended up doing whatever. However, in your case, I would recommend that you start by doing a plethora of exercises that are compound exercises, including classic exercises like the squat, the bench press, the overhead press, the deadlift, the row, but also while using machine exercises, if you have access to them as a general rule of thumb, picking out two to three exercises per major muscle group should cover you as far as exercise selection and do more than that. And the only reason I'm recommending learning some of the classic barbell lifts is that I think they can allow you to become better at certain movement patterns that can then allow you to be very versatile in terms of your overall exercise selection in the future. So like learning how to deadlift, learning how to squat, learning how to bench press, learning how to overhead press and barbell row, then you have so many different variations and other exercises that involve similar movement patterns. And in general, it will make your life a bit easier. Additionally, there are fun exercises to learn, but keep in mind that if for whatever reason you don't like any of those lifts or their variations, you could very well just do any machine exercise and do two or three machine exercises for any, for all your muscle groups and be covered. As far as weekly volume goes, I would start on the low end. So I would do somewhere around a  P8-12 fractional sets per muscle group per week, whereas where you'd count like a set of bench press or a pushing exercise as half a set for your tricep and a full set, one set for the prime mover, and in that case, stay somewhere in the five to 12, maybe five to 15, but I'd recommend personally staying in the five to 12 rep range just so that you can get, so you can feel confident that you know that you're truly training close to failure. I would keep most things in the zero to two reps in reserve mark as a rule of thumb, maybe 60 to 70% around the one to two RIR mark and then having the remainder 30 or 40% to failure, so you get familiar with what failure feels like and if you're really trying to push yourself and progress, there will be cases where you'll just naturally go to failure. As far as your nutrition, I would say that gaining roughly 1% of your body weight per month, while doing your best to consume enough, a good amount of protein per meal will cover you anywhere from 1.5 to two grams per kilo of body weight, as far as your protein intake, your daily protein intake goes will cover you, although you can go even higher and potentially see even better gains, but I wouldn't necessarily given that this question is posed for a 15 year old, overly stressed in nutrition side of things, as long as you're steadily gaining body weight, because it is the training that will be the main stimulus here and the potent stimulus, even if let's say you assume you're not cooking by yourself or you may not have access to high protein meals, even if you're doing your best to have whatever food you have at home or at your school cafeteria and you are eating a bit more here and there and seeing the scale go up while doing your best to have some protein source with each meal, it's very unlikely that you're not gonna make amazing gains assuming you're in the gym every week. As far as training frequency, anywhere, like even if you did two sessions per week, that would be fine, but I'd recommend being somewhere in the three to five session mark per week, and a good way to address many of those points would be to just download any training, any free training templates that are out there. You can also check out the SPS training programs, and in general, having some sort of rough template or idea of what you're doing will likely be better than just taking what I said and sort of trying to freestyle it on your own, but that's also fine. Supplements, just to mention, I'm not sure how much you've seen, but besides creating monohydrate, I don't know if that's allowed for your age or what's the deal in different countries and jurisdictions, so I'm not gonna put myself in any sort of legal risk here, but in general, that aside, I would know. I think it's legal everywhere. I don't know if it's like if there's a specific age where you can buy supplements. I'm not sure. Okay. Maybe, whatever, better safe than sorry. But regardless though, my recommendation, even if there's no issue with your age and buying supplements, is that you don't necessarily need any supplements. Do your best to eat mostly whole foods, unprocessed foods, eat plenty of vegetables and fruits whenever you can, and you are likely going to be more than covered. That's my short-ish TLDR for our listener. I am glad. I hope you remember me when you're an IFBB pro on stage and say, hey, remember that bold guy on that podcast? Yeah, I didn't listen to any of that. And look at me now, IFBB pro, Max Thomas. Yeah, I agree with all of that. The one thing that I would potentially add is for new lifters in particular. I'm a big fan of body weight training and calisthenics. I think it's very helpful just to, you know, not just learn how to exert a lot of force with your muscles, but also get a feel and kinesthetic sense for like where your body is in space and how to feel it and control it. I just think that that's a helpful skill to have where, you know, I do think this is like complete, this is a complete bro science belief, but I do think that just having better kinesthetic sense and kinesthetic awareness will help in the future make other training you do more effective. Just you have better control over your body. And if you want to like slightly tweak an exercise to target a particular muscle or part of the range of motion or whatever, like just you'll have a better feel for that. And I can't see why that would be a bad thing. And then too, like as you're learning, it's not that like free weight or resistance training is like particularly dangerous because it's not like injury, injury rates are lower than like most other sports or active hobbies that people would have, but like they exist, like they're non negligible. And I do think that using less external loading early on while you're learning to exercise and push yourself will probably help mitigate some of those risks, at least to some degree. So when I worked at a gym and was training, like a lot of the young athletes who were signing up, like these were a lot of like 13, 14 year old kids who'd never lifted before, but they were basketball players, football players, like wanted to get under heavy weights and get big and whatnot for their sport. One of the things that I always liked to see was like 20 good strict body weight pushups before we lay down on the bench, because like, hey, if your body weight is sufficient enough challenge, there's no reason you need to add external resistance to it. Like you can get a good workout there. And so yeah, like I think that a lot of free weights are great, but I think that you should get really comfortable with things like pushups, body weight lunges, step ups. And like once you can do all of those for, like, you don't have to be able to do them till the cows come home, but like 15, 20 good strict reps, then I do think you will probably have kind of a better, a better body sense, more of a, like a better understanding of the feeling of like pushing yourself and what like a challenging set should feel like before you add a lot of external load into the picture. So yeah, I agree with all of PAC's recommendations. And I think if you've already been lifting for like a year or whatever and you're just looking for advice on how to continue improving, completely disregard that. But if you are like, if you're a young kid or even like in your 20s or 30s and you've never spent much time in the gym before, like I do think it's generally advisable to start off with exercises that don't require much if any external loading, get what you can out of your body weight and then progress from there to barbell or dumbbell or machine exercises. At least for like compound stuff. For like, if you're trying to get jacked, like don't try to figure out how to do like body weight bicep training. Like do absolutely grab like dumbbells or hop on the machines for curls. But yeah, for things like bench press or like compound lower body exercises, like, you know, see what you can do with body weight stuff first. And then fill in the gaps for like accessory lifts with dumbbells and machines. That's what I would generally recommend. I think that's really solid. There's not too much to be added. The one thing I'll say is these specific exercises you pick and the specific sets and reps you do probably don't matter all that much in the grand scheme of things. It's a lot more about finding exercises you enjoy and whatever keeps you in the gym. Doing it pretty hard over time. Finding a way to make it harder over time like adding a rep every session. Even if it's just an intention to add a rep. That'll go a long way. Same with adding weight. It doesn't need to be the barbell bench press. It can be any variation of chest pressing that you personally enjoy. Don't let yourself be constrained by barbells, machines. Just especially for muscle growth, do what you enjoy. Find something you enjoy and stick with it. Ultimately for you to get anywhere in the gym, you need to be doing it for long enough. And the only way we'll keep doing that is if you actually enjoy it. I know it's tempting to always prioritize results over everything else, but there is very much a time and a place to figure out what you enjoy and do that for as long as you enjoy it. And we don't enjoy it anymore. Find another way to do it. You're probably not gonna be married to one style of training forever. You're not gonna be enjoying one thing forever. But if you're enjoying it right now, just keep doing it for the most part. And then when you don't, switch. And that's the way to stay in the gym for a long time and for long enough for anything, like any of this to even matter in the first place. So yeah, I think we did a pretty good job covering all this pack. Yeah, 100% man. At the end of the day, fall in love with lifting and as long as you're not doing anything wild, the rest will come. So definitely echoing my lo. Absolutely. All right, if there's nothing else, I think that does it for this, the final episode of the main run of the Stronger by Science podcast. Again, don't unsubscribe. There might be a random episode here or there. Just don't expect one two weeks from now. But if you do still want audio content on more of a predictable cadence, check out our newsletter, strongerbyscience.com. Where we will be doing monthly Q and A episodes, much like this one for newsletter subscribers. So that's it. Thanks to everyone for listening, not just to this episode, but to the 143 episodes prior. We love you, we appreciate you. Good gains, great training. And we'll see you on the other side. Peace.

=== FILE: The ONLY Testosterone Boosters That Work (Science Explained) [mThbGfW_Q5k].txt ===

! It is common in the lifting world to look for the next testosterone booster, the next supplement that will massively boost testosterone. But what is testosterone? Testosterone is a hormone found in both men and women, but it's more abundant in men. It helps develop male characteristics, boosts sex drive, and maintains muscle and bone strength. Low testosterone can cause fatigue, mood changes, reduced muscle mass, and levels naturally decline with age, but can be maintained with proper exercise, diet, as well as stress management. Although what I just said is pretty straightforward, misconceptions exist around testosterone levels. Some men stress about below average levels, or even just normal testosterone levels, while some women aren't aware of the actual functions of testosterone. Testosterone has also become a bit of a buzzword in the world of lifting, in the world of self-improvement, specifically for men. You often hear about things that will boost your testosterone, or the fact that testosterone is lower in men than it was years ago, and practices, and routines that you can do in the morning, and exercises that will specifically boost your testosterone, and therefore will allow you to get stronger, more muscular, and will potentially improve your health. Focusing solely on testosterone numbers can be misleading. And overall, health and well-being are more important than testosterone levels. As it stands, there are plenty of supplements on the market, promising huge gains in testosterone, and promising that those gains in testosterone, aside from being real, will also translate into extreme muscle growth and muscle gain. From dodgy supplements with weird labels and names that claim all sorts of stuff, and have questionable substances in them, to regular supplements that are not necessarily marketed for bodybuilders or muscle growth enthusiasts, but are still promoted as testosterone boosting. In certain circles, testosterone boosters have existed for quite a while now. And in certain circles, especially the pseudo-deep-dive self-improvement circles, there are certain supplements that are still coming up as science-based and as effective for boosting testosterone meaningfully to the point where once life quality and potentially muscle mass and strength will be improved. But let's have a look at the supplements that currently exist that are claimed to boost testosterone, and what the literature actually has to say. Obviously, keep in mind, we won't be doing an absolute deep dive in every single supplement. But we will be looking at the overall state of the literature, and whether there's actually something out there that you can take and see significant increases in testosterone, which will then translate to more gains in and outside the gym. As far as promising supplements, we have zinc, an essential mineral for various bodily functions. Zinc is effective in boosting testosterone for those with a zinc deficiency. Somewhere around 40 mg per day will be enough to cover the deficiency. But overall, in terms of zinc being able to take your testosterone to a level where you're going to be experiencing super physiological testosterone levels or getting more gains out of your testosterone levels if you're within a healthy range, that evidence is currently not there. So yes, if you are somebody with a zinc deficiency and you're not getting enough zinc from your diet, supplementing with zinc may help in actually boosting your testosterone. However, it's important to note that that increase in testosterone may not necessarily increase your muscle mass in the way that some people presented or some people expected to. People often hear testosterone boost and hear an increase in testosterone and assume that all of a sudden that increase in testosterone will be physically noticeable in and outside the gym and all of a sudden their gains will skyrocket. Moving on to asragandha. Now, asragandha is a shrub mainly from India known for its anxiolytic effects. The current literature on asragandha and its effects on stress and anxiety is there. It is a promising supplement that can help you manage stress better and potentially reduce anxiety for individuals who may have issues with anxiety. However, lately, and you may have seen asragandha being mentioned in many big platforms and by big names in the self-improvement world and even in the muscle building and fitness world, asragandha has been promoted as a testosterone booster based on three studies that exist out there. Now, if we look at these studies, we have a study that was conducted on untrained individuals who were literally untrained to the point where their starting 1RM benchpress was around 80 pounds and over the course of a few weeks they supplemented with asragandha while also resistance training and the group that took asragandha saw greater testosterone increases than the group that didn't. Now, keep in mind we're talking about untrained individuals who were engaging in resistance training while also when we look at their testosterone levels pre and post they already had high testosterone, pretty high as far as the natural healthy range of testosterone goes and what happened was their testosterone went from already high to slightly higher likely not enough of an increase to actually see any meaningful changes as far as muscle mass and strength goes. Similarly, in a different study where they had individuals who were overweight with 20% of them working night shifts or working at mines, they supplemented with asragandha over a certain period of time and saw some increases in testosterone, but again, we're talking about increases that were likely not going to result in any meaningful changes in muscle mass and strength. It is also important to note that in that study that is often referenced the individuals that took part in the study, their diet, their training, their physical activity, sleep, none of that was controlled and it's important to note that in that study specifically individuals collected their own saliva samples by themselves which is how testosterone was assessed. Overall, the literature on asragandha testosterone is at best very slightly tiny bit promising, but as it stands claims that present asragandha as a game changing testosterone boosters are not evidence-based. Asragandha is a great anxiolytic supplement and I recommend it based on the current scientific evidence for those that want to take a supplement to better manage stress and anxiety. However, as a testosterone booster, there is still much more research needed in order for us to say anything in a conclusive manner. Another supplement that is often presented along asragandha for its testosterone boosting effects is Tongad Ali which has shown a tiny bit of promise in men with low testosterone, but it does not appear to have any benefit in men with normal testosterone. So yes, in conjunction with improvements in diet, stress and obviously engaging in resistance training, supplementation of Tongad Ali based on the limited evidence as highlighted by a recent review may have something to offer for those that have a low testosterone, but as a testosterone booster for those with normal testosterone or a supplement that you can take to further increase your testosterone and see better gains in the gym, the evidence as it stands is very limited. Although asragandha and Tongad Ali do have some at least weak evidence as it stands to show that they may be among the quote unquote somewhat promising supplements as far as testosterone boosting goes, more research is needed. But we have a bunch of supplements that are often presented as testosterone boosters that as it stands don't even have that level of promising evidence to support them as part of a testosterone boosting stack. Starting with boron, a mineral that is sometimes recommended for postmen or postmen with low hormone levels, evidence of its effect on testosterone is very mixed and unreliable. The same goes with deaspatic acid and amino acid that has been believed to increase testosterone, although mixed results in trials do not really give us much confidence. Some trials have shown a bit of promise while others have shown absolutely nothing. Maka, a route with a reputation to increase virility, though there is no convincing evidence for boosting testosterone. Evidence on libido may be misrepresented sometimes as testosterone increasing and that's what you may often hear about some of these supplements where essentially they assess libido and sex drive via the use of questionnaires and other forms and often people will use that data in order to claim that a supplement is also effective in boosting testosterone which is a bit of a big leap of faith. So yeah, for Maka the evidence as far as testosterone boosting is not really there. Magnesium, an essential mineral involved in many bodily functions including testosterone production, there is insufficient evidence in humans that the supplementation of magnesium will sufficiently increase testosterone. I know I'm sounding like a broken record but you'd rather hear me be a broken record and save your money and lower your expectations and focus on what actually matters for testosterone boosting versus not listening to me sounding like a broken record. I guess I digress though. An ingredient of many testosterone boosters that I'm sure many especially old school lifters have heard trivilus terrestris, a herb that is common in testosterone boosting supplements but does not have enough evidence behind it. Effective in some contexts where testosterone is very low but overall the current scientific evidence does not support its use for increasing testosterone especially in those that are already within the normal range of testosterone. Another supplement that you may have heard being mentioned when talking about testosterone boosting is ginger. Limited human trials with methodological issues and overall insufficient evidence to confirm its efficacy so unfortunately as a ginger man I have to say ginger is bad. No it's not bad but for testosterone boosting purposes not that great aka not recommended. Vitamin D has been presented as the supplement for everything. It is essential for bone health and immune function but when it comes to testosterone the evidence that exists is mixed at best. Vitamin D supplementation is recommended for those that live in countries where they don't see the sun very often but even for its health promoting sort of hype that it got a few years back questions arise even for that but that's that's for another stronger by science video. However as a testosterone booster assuming you're not deficient in vitamin D you are likely fine and supplementing with more vitamin D is not magically going to boost your testosterone. Last but definitely not least you may also hear that creatine can boost testosterone and although it's solid for muscle gain and excess performance it is not advised for testosterone boosting there's not enough evidence to support that and overall if you're going to take creatine take creatine for its strength boosting effects and also for the potential increase in muscle gain that you may see from creatine versus looking for creatine as a testosterone booster. However even if you placebo yourself to take it as a testosterone booster the fact that you likely see some gains from the effects of creatine on muscle gain and strength you may actually get what you wanted out of it but for different reasons and not because it all of a sudden boosted your testosterone and made you superhuman. So where does this leave us? As it stands there are no magic supplements for testosterone boosting assuming that you're consuming plenty of whole foods you're exercising regularly and more specifically performing resistance training and doing your best to manage stress and sleep six to eight hours regularly every night it is very likely that your testosterone is not going to be affected much by any supplement or that you're missing out on gains because of not taking that one testosterone supplement that everybody's now fully hyped about. As it stands the current literature is pointing at a couple of supplements that may have a tiny bit of promise but take that with a huge grain of salt because the evidence at the moment is very weak at best and a lot of companies and especially a lot of supplement companies that want to sell you the next magic pill that will take your gains to the next level will tell you oh look there were studies where people took this and they saw a boost in testosterone without mentioning all the fine print for example the fact that their testosterone went from good to still good and it just increased while they also resistance trained as untrained individuals and a lot of terms and conditions that are often not mentioned. If you have symptoms of low testosterone and you're worried that you may actually have low testosterone which can impact your life much more than just not making you a superhuman in terms of gains and strength consult a medical professional actually get tested and get help from a medical professional. If you're somebody who's living a healthy lifestyle exercises regularly sleeps relatively well lifts weights and you feel good which is the main thing and there's there are no symptoms of low testosterone you're likely wasting your money by buying all sorts of supplements in hoping that they will magically boost your gains your testosterone or whatever unfortunately as much as I would have loved to and it would have been great for the channel to tell you this is it the latest science and throw a bunch of buzzwords and graphs in your face showing you the latest supplement as it stands the current literature does not support the idea of any supplement being a game changer for testosterone boosting. Thank you so much for watching don't forget to like subscribe and hit the notification icon I have been Dr. Pack it has been stronger by science we'll see you guys next time

=== FILE: The Perfect Warm-Up For Muscle Growth and Strength (Science Explained) [pUfTC-UGLjs].txt ===

 metaphysicum, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, lot of time warming up and just feeling like if you skip parts of your warmup you may be leaving gains on the table. But as the neon sign implies, we are stronger by what? By science. And we're going to look at specifically the literature, the scientific literature on warmups and what it actually says. When it comes to warmups and lifting performance and more specifically strength, things are not as clear as one would assume in the literature. If you were to go to a powerlifting gym or to a strength gym, I guess where people do all sorts of strength training, including powerlifting, you'd assume that we have a very clear understanding about warmups given the practices of experienced lifters that includes myself as well. I warm up before I do a heavy deadlift, I don't just go straight into it. However, when it comes to the current literature, things are not as clear. The narrative review, published in 2021, and side note, a narrative review is essentially the author's take on the literature. As we put it, when we published a narrative review, it's like a peer reviewed blog post that goes over the current literature. But obviously we care to judge a paper by the information that it presents. However, in contrast to a systematic review where we can actually trace back the steps of the authors and see exactly how they located what they located and how they came up with their specific search terms and the databases that they used in order to source the current literature, an narrative review is more on the side of you select papers that you think are relevant to your topic and you discuss them slash review them, which leads to a greater risk for bias as certain papers may not make it in that review. However, given that the current literature on warm-ups is still in somewhat knowledge infancy, but there's still more to learn, this narrative review specifically found one that more research is needed, but more specifically that either a combination of a general and specific warm-up, a general warm-up being a general aerobic warm-up that gets your muscle temperature up if that could be anything from a walk on a treadmill for 10 minutes or as typically seen in most studies, cycling on a cyclic thermometer at around 60% of once maximum heart rate for again 10 to 20 minutes or a specific warm-up, meaning a warm-up that actually has you doing the exercise that you're warming up for. And it's usually warm-ups that utilize a heavy load that lead to more favorable one repetition strength outcomes versus warm-ups that utilize lower load. So we'll look at one study in particular just to give you an example, but the current totality of scientific evidence when it comes to warm-ups for lifting performance highlights that look doing some form of general warm-up before you're lifting is probably a good idea followed by an actual warm-up on the exercises that you're doing where you're progressively increasing loads. That's a really, really safe bet when it comes to your performance. However, even just a specific warm-up may be enough for you to maximize lifting performance and when it comes to long-term data and hypertrophy, we don't really have much. But let's look at one study in particular where they compared a general and specific warm-up to just a specific warm-up to see what they found. Now, keep in mind that this is not the study, but it is a good example of a study that has found a favorable effect of a general and specific warm-up on strength. However, as noted, the literature is not entirely clear on whether that general warm-up is an absolute must every time you train. So let's look at it. So the study was a crossover design study, meaning that the participants that took part essentially took part in both conditions tested in the study. Thirteen resistance-trained male participants took part and the authors essentially looked at a general plus specific warm-up versus a specific warm-up on leg press one repetition maximum strength. So the general warm-up group essentially did 20 minutes of cycling at 60% on a cycle and then did a specific warm-up where they did a single set of eight reps at 50% of their one repetition maximum strength followed by a set of three reps at 70% of their one repetition maximum strength. And the group that did just the specific warm-up did just the specific warm-up that I just described without the cycling before. Overall, the authors found that the condition that included both the general and specific warm-up resulted in 8% greater 1 RM values for the leg press, which could potentially and take this with a pinch of salt be attributed to the general warm-up increasing muscle temperature and then having the specific warm-up to specifically practice the lift that the participants were doing. But as noted, we are still not 100% clear on whether the general warm-up before a specific warm-up is always needed in order for you to reap all the benefits that warm-ups have to offer. Now, the reason that I'm saying this is one, the specific warm-ups in many of these studies in the literature either include a couple of sets and specific repetitions at specific percentage of 1 RM sometimes even one set. So there's another study that looked at squat and bench press by Rebaro published in 2020 where they had three conditions. The first warm-up was a light and heavy warm-up at where the participants essentially did two sets of six reps at 40 and 80% of their 1 RM and then they had a couple more conditions where the participants did either one set of six reps at 40% or one set of six reps at 80% of their 1 RM. Keep in mind that these warm-up protocols in many of the studies that we see do not necessarily mimic what many of us do when we go to the gym and warm-up for a specific lift. So for many of you when getting ready for a squat, I assume that you'll start and do a couple of sets with a bar then add a bit of weight, do another few sets of five, add a bit more weight and keep adding weight until you reach your working set with not and not necessarily doing one or two sets of six reps at a fixed percentage of your 1 RM and then going to your working set. Keep in mind that the more sort of traditional in the trenches at least from my coaching experience and some of the studies that we've done on power lifters, that sort of specific warm-up may count as a general warm-up to a certain extent given the multitude of sets used and the very light load sets at the beginning that could potentially have the same effect as a general warm-up on a cyclerometer or something. So that's one disclaimer. The other disclaimer is that some other studies haven't looked specifically at one repetition maximum strength as their main outcome but have looked at propulsive velocity, power, RPE and in general have not really looked at long-term adaptations when it comes to strength but also hypertrophy. Also keep in mind that solely looking at one repetition maximum strength as they've done and some of these studies where we see that heavier warm-ups tend to do better than lighter warm-ups and sometimes adding a general warm-up is a good idea. Keep in mind that these are also not telling us a ton, they tell us something, they don't tell us a ton about long-term strength adaptations and whether you just need a warm-up whenever you're getting ready for a one repetition maximum attempt or whether that warm-up would have made a difference if you were to do a bunch of working sets where the working sets at the beginning of your session would essentially count as a warm-up themselves. Disclaimers more research to be done and at the same time it is important from a practical takeaway standpoint to not solely focus on the fact that we don't have enough research to come to a definitive conclusion but based on the current evidence if you're somebody who's trying to maximize your strength performance during a lifting session it may be a good idea to include some form of minimum general warm-up which can take any formula you like as long as it allows you to get a bit warmer get your heart rate up that could be anything from dynamic stretching to again using a cyclericometer or even doing more of the exercise itself for more sets either using an empty bar or you know very very low loads and then proceeding to your specific warm-up. However, based on the current literature it does seem that just a specific warm-up by itself is probably fine for you to have an amazing session and do great as far as strength performance goes although if you're getting ready to max out and you're not there to just train adding the general warm-up is only going to take you a few more minutes and at worst case scenario it's not going to have a negative effect and it may actually give you an extra performance boost but I hear you saying Dr. Pack that's all great but the reason I warm up is to decrease my risk of injury and that's something that I understand a lot of lifters do so let's have a very very brief look at the current literature as far as warm-ups and injury risk go. So a 2015 study and this was not in particular focused on lifting power lifting or any sort of traditional strength lifting that looked at the upper body warm-ups and their effect on injury risk found drumroll. They didn't have any studies to look at so they didn't find much. However if we look a couple of years back at a 2013 meta analysis that looked at injury risk in athletes and how that can be mitigated overall they found that strength training in itself was somewhat protective of injury terms are going to supply a lot of things to unpack there but strength training had a positive effect on injury risk but stretching for example did not have an effect on injury so the reason I'm mentioning this is because us lifters were already engaging in strength training and that seems by itself to have a positive effect on decreasing injury risk so when it comes to a warm-up specifically further reducing injury risk although the current literature does point at things like plyometrics potentially and not necessarily as part of a warm-up having some positive effect on decreasing injury risk and even dynamic stretching to a certain extent being associated with a lower injury incidence in some populations overall if you're strength training and you are performing some form of warm-up either being just a specific warm-up or a general and a specific warm-up if you want to make every educated bit and maximize your performance you are taking some boxes it seems when it comes to preventing injury we don't really know if there is much more that we can do to actually prevent injury injury is quite a complex topic but the literature at least is clear that there is no magic solution and there's no form of stretching or foam rolling or any sort of magical warm-up combination that will massively decrease injury risk so as long as you are somewhat warmed up and then you do your specific warm-up or if you do a lengthier specific warm-up to get warmed up and you're engaging in resistance training and you're getting stronger over time that is probably putting you in a really good space as far as preventing injury goes terms of the supply obviously how you manage your training your load your stress will also play an effect on injury and injury is something that sometimes happens randomly we can't really predict it and in general is a whole other rabbit hole by itself but overall general warm-up great specific warm-up somewhat mandatory for stray specific outcomes but if you're somebody who's just interested in getting bigger and you do not care about maximizing strength performance on any given lift in a session especially if you don't train with lifts that are someone more skill based on others let's say you're doing mostly machine work my hunch based on the current evidence is that even quick relatively quick warm-up on a couple of machines that you're training on so spending 10 minutes on a chest press doing a few light sets and then starting your workout and doing your working sets that will count as enough of a warm-up to allow you to move on to the rest of your session ideally having a warm-up set on most exercises as just the general feeling the exercise set I'd call it is not a bad idea it's not going to require a whole lot of time commitment from you at the same time it may count as a specific warm-up and lead to a slight performance boost but worst case scenario it is a safe bet when it comes to maximizing performance but take that with a pinch of salt because we don't have much long-term data if any on warm-ups and their effect on hypertrophy or long-term strength adaptations that is the video if you're somebody who warms up for quite a while and that's more of a ritual let's say you're a competitive power lifter and you're doing a bunch of rehab exercises that make you feel better and allow you to have a more productive session feel free to keep those in just know that if you're pressed for time you could potentially just skip those do an extended specific warm-up that will somewhat count as a general warm-up as well and you'll likely be more than fine both from a performance and injury prevention standpoint thank you so much for watching don't forget to like subscribe hit the notification icon more videos coming collapse coming and please make sure to check out the podcast for an in-depth breakdown and all things lifting check out strongbyrscience.com slash coaching for amazing evidence-based coaching and we'll see you guys the next time peace bye

=== FILE: The Powerful Placebo Effect (Unreal Muscle Gains) [6VdUmZ6D9jY].txt ===

 the almighty plus-cebo effect. The plus-cebo effect is traditionally defined as the phenomenon where patients experience improvements in symptoms despite receiving an inactive treatment or intervention. It is often attributed to the psychological factors such as the patient's belief in the treatment's efficacy. Now, the plus-cebo effect is often presented as so powerful that it can lead to similar outcomes as the intervention itself. And you hear that oh, just believing that something works can actually give you the same benefits as an intervention, medicine treatment, whatever. But that is not entirely true. And without overloading you with information, if we look at oncology, for example, only 1% with advanced solid tumors can expect to achieve some response even in the absence of treatment. However, complete regression without treatment is extremely rare, almost at 0%. In plus-cebo controlled trials, the plus-cebo effect observed may be more significant for psychological and self-rated measures relative to more objective measures that are objective. Using a plus-cebo in psychological and medical studies is as advantageous as it helps minimize the influence of patient expectations on outcomes. But many plus-cebo studies often lack rigorous controls and fail to adequately isolate the plus-cebo effect from other factors such as the natural history of disease or even the relationship between the patient and the healthcare provider. The plus-cebo effect is not a uniform phenomenon and it can vary significantly, which and that can depend on the condition that is being treated as well as the characteristics of the population that is being treated. As mentioned, defining and accurately measuring the plus-cebo effect is often a challenge for many researchers and there's an ongoing debate on how you can effectively design studies to account for that versus mistaking the plus-cebo effect for a genuine treatment effect. But all that aside, what about lifting and the plus-cebo effect? You may have heard and I'm sure many of you here on the Stronger by Science channel, especially if you're following Stronger by Science for a while, yes, I'm getting the metaphorical guns out just to make sure we're not, if you're listening to it, you don't think that I'm actually getting guns out, I just rolled up my sleeves slightly. You may have heard of certain infamous studies that exist out there where people were told that they were taking steroids and made steroid-like gains, although in reality they weren't taking steroids. How's that even possible? Is the plus-cebo effect really that powerful and is it something we as evidence-based lifters can utilize to make better gains? Let's look at some of the classics, the classic papers out there, more specifically two studies that are often mentioned when talking about the plus-cebo effect and how powerful it really is. Starting with the classic study that you may have heard of called anabolic steroids, the physiological effects of plus-cebos. Now, it is important to note this is a relatively old study and you often hear it when the plus-cebo effect is mentioned in the context of lifting. Let's see what they did. They took 15 male varsity athletes that were training for two years and were allegedly training five times per week with some exceptions when holidays and so on and so forth came about, but they were continuously training. Those subjects were then taken for four months and they trained again five times per week and tested on the following day. I assume after the four months ended, I am just quoting what the paper said. The paper is a bit difficult to understand times, but the gist of it is they trained for four months, five days a week, and then were tested for their strength on the curl, the squat, the bench press, the military press standing, and the seated shoulder press. And we're told, look, during this period of time, whoever the people actually that make the most strength gains will be selected to be given anabolic steroids and more specifically, dianabol, a relatively well-known oral steroid known for its ability to increase strength and muscle mass. But the good people at the university did the following. They randomly selected eight of those individuals after that period was done and they told them, okay, they had the administrator of health and sciences present steroids to them, talk about steroids in a positive manner, essentially tell them, look, you're going to be taking steroids, they're going to do X, Y, and Z, but it was all presented very positively. And only six of them ended up making it in the study. And after four weeks, they were reassessed again for their strength. Now, as I mentioned, they were told that they will be taking dianabol, more specifically, 10 milligrams of dianabol, and they looked at how their strength changed during the seven weeks, pre-taking steroids, taking the placebo, and then how their strength changed after four weeks of taking the placebo pill that was supposedly steroids. What do you think happened? I'm now waiting for a response, even though you cannot respond, but I assume you said they made insane gains because they thought they were taking steroids and you're absolutely right, dear viewer, that's exactly what happened. They assessed strength at the lips that I already mentioned, the curl, bench press, squat, military, and seated overhead press. And surprisingly, although some of you guessed it, as I said, for some reason, I have to run with this, they made insane gains. So, although the participants did make some gains during the pre-plastic period, more specifically, they added around five kilos to their bench, a kilo to their military press, two kilos to their sitting press, and around 2.6 kilos to their squad. After the four weeks of thinking that they were on steroids, they added some serious weight to their lids. And keep in mind, these participants were not untrained, their numbers were relatively solid, especially their bench press numbers. More specifically, they gained 13 kilos on their bench, seven kilos on military press, five kilos on the sitting press, and 19 kilos on their squad. Now, these are big increases, especially in four weeks. There are likely increases that would be considered meaningful by the majority, if not all, powerlifting coaches and athletes out there. And if we actually look at what is required to go up a place in an IPF world, if you want to move from one place on the podium, not on the podium specifically, but one place in the rankings to the ranking above, you'd require somewhere around 16 kilos on your total. So, on squat, bench, and deadlift combined, and these individuals added 19 kilos to their squad in just a few weeks, just four weeks, of thinking that they were on steroids. So, what does that tell us? Is it possible to actually gain 40 pounds on your squad in just a month, simply by telling yourself that you're on steroids? This study somewhat supports that, but unfortunately, if we look at the fine print, there are some important terms and conditions that we need to consider. For starters, these individuals were not training in a supervised setting. They were left on their own devices that were told, hey, go ahead and train. You are on steroids now. And if you ask me, my assumption is that they trained much harder and did much more than they previously were doing, or at least they pushed themselves harder, they adhered to training better, and overall, they made their training so much more effective simply because they thought that they weren't on steroids. Additionally, the belief that they weren't on steroids may have positively affected their stress, stress, expectations, and in general, allowed them to create a much more quote unquote, anabolic environment as far as their nutrition and sleep goes. They may have been more on top with their nutrition and sleep simply because they were told by the university, by the administrator of health and health services that, hey, you're going to be taking steroids and those are going to lead in great gains and so on and so forth, which heavily limits what we can take from this study and whether we can attribute these insane gains to just the placebo effect. Additionally, we're only talking about six individuals here. As much as this is a cool study, it is a pilot study at the very best. We're talking about a lot of crucial details missing from its methodology. We do not know a lot of details as far as what the participants did training wise, what they did outside the gym, how much that changed, and the fact that there were only six individuals heavily, and I mean that, heavily influences how much stock we can put on such a study. At best, it's a cool study to mention on Christmas dinner table when talking about placebo and then be a party pooper and mention all the disclaimers that I just mentioned because, hey, honestly, like not much stock can be put on this study. Similarly, we have another classic study by fellow Greek elite author where they took 11 national power lifters that were around 80 to 93 kilos with only two of those benching below 200 kilos and they also benched four plates plus. So we're talking actual beasts. These athletes were in an environment where they trained with a coach and they had been doing so for the past two years when the study commenced. They essentially had a ton of trust in their coaches and they were also told that they were going to be taking steroids. Before that, they had some basic strength testing in powerlifting competition, in a powerlifting competition setting where they had to actually adhere to powerlifting competition standards in terms of pausing the bench, squat depth, and so on and so forth. They were tested for strength and then they were told you are going to now take dienobl, similarly to the previous study, but they took some sugar pills and then were told to train for the following week. They all reported an increased vigor during training and they said that they lifted heavy weights or completely more repetitions than usual, potentially breaking PRs during that week. It's not really clear if they actually achieved all-time PRs, but they did mention that training was much better during that week. So after training and thinking they were taking steroids, they tested their strength again and saw that people were making great gains, but then they took roughly half of the participants and actually revealed to them that they were indeed not taking steroids and they were just taking a placebo pill. They then asked them, hey, do you want to keep taking the placebo pill? And they said no, but they left the other group unaware of the placebo and that group actually maintained that rate of progress that was extreme. They kept gaining strength even in that week, whereas the other group did not. They didn't see any further improvement. Now, before we get super hyped, we're talking about just two weeks, one RM testing. There may have been some form of learning effect there where they essentially peaked better because they did a bunch of testing the previous weeks as well. So there may have been something to that. Obviously, the hype from thinking that they're on steroids could have helped, but keep in mind, we're talking about a few weeks here. We're talking again about just a few individuals, but in terms of methodological rigor, that study does not allow us again to put a whole lot of confidence on the fact that it was just the placebo effect that led to them making these insane gains. At the same time, we are talking about individuals that were exceptionally strong. So that's really cool because they were insanely strong before the study as well. And the fact that they made gains is definitely interesting. But we're talking about 11 individuals, certain details missing as far as their training goes. And at the same time, we cannot discount the effect that the strength testing itself may have had on some of them experiencing greater strength gains when they were tested, despite thinking that they weren't steroids. So is the placebo effect something you can actually use to your advantage? The answer there is yes and no. It's important to note that on the yes side of things, you are likely not going to be able to replicate what they did in these studies and have somebody tell you you're taking steroids. If you are the friend of somebody and you want to give them a sugar pill and replicate the experiment, I don't think I should legally recommend it for whatever reason. I'm going to be better safe than sorry. But that could be one way. Joking aside, another way would be to just really believe in whatever you're doing at the moment, especially if there is a ton of scientific evidence behind its effectiveness. Let's say you've downloaded a stronger by science program, and you are looking to get stronger and increase your muscle mass. You know that the program is solid, there are plenty of testimonials, it's based on actual scientific principles. So going into the gym and going into the program, believing that it will work, that it will do wonders for you may not necessarily actually increase the size of your muscles or your strength to a super physiological level as if you were taking steroids. However, it is likely going to have some positive influence and worst case scenario, you're going to make the same gains you would even if you didn't practice that. The same goes with new training techniques that you could be using, for example, like the partials, or if let's say you've all of a sudden reorganized your diet, and now you're getting more protein in, and you're improving your sleep and your stress management, you can tell yourself that those things are going to make a huge difference and are going to really help you get to the next level. So that's one way you could do it. Obviously, you can know to just take a sugar pill and tell yourself, yep, I just took steroids. Obviously, if you have the ability to do that, that could be another way. But that would be very difficult unless you have one of those devices that had in many blackware, you'd have to erase your own memory. But then how much of your memory are you racing and will you remember that you erased your memory? It's a whole other kind of worms there that I would advise you not to try, especially if you have that device. But overall, the placebo effect is not entirely what we're used to hearing. It's not that you can suddenly grow muscle by just thinking that you're growing muscle or whatever. And in those studies, although cool and interesting, there are methodological limitations that don't allow us to necessarily say with a lot of confidence that just thinking you're taking steroids will make you bigger. Obviously, it would be cool to see studies replicating those protocols with a better design overall and more control over training and other variables that can influence adaptations. But until we have those studies, I wouldn't necessarily tell anyone that, hey, placebo yourself will get you steroid like gains. Obviously, it can help you get a bit more out of your workouts. But I don't think you can replicate the effects of a steroid cycle simply by believing you're in a steroid cycle. Sorry to break it to you. I love placebo in things, but the placebo effect may be a bit of a placebo itself. Thank you so much for watching. Don't forget to check out strongerbyscience.com for a bunch of cool stuff. Check out the podcast where we release much longer form content where we deep dive into stuff. Feel free to check out the coaching page as well for excellent one to one coaching premium online coaching by some of the best in the game over at strongerbyscience.com slash coaching. I am done plugging stuff for strongerby science. Thank you so much for watching. Subscribe, hit the notification icon, leave a like, leave a comment and we'll see you guys next time. Peace.

=== FILE: The SIMPLEST Way To GAIN MUSCLE (ft Dr. Brad Schoenfeld) [o0XuQOkuk2A].txt ===

 doctor pack here, real doctor with another fellow doctor at arguably the medical center of New York here, I AG, your house, Dr. Brad Schrodenfeld. Thank you for being on the channel. And I want to talk specifically about minimum effective dose training and essentially have somebody who is known for maximizing adaptation, maximizing hypertrophy, maximizing muscle growth, looking into the research and actually producing much of the research around maximizing muscle growth. And just hear from you and have people here from an expert who's focused on the maximization side of things, how little does one need to make solid hypertrophic aids? And is that really the case, even for those that are trying to get really jacked? It's a great question, a great topic, because the vast majority of people are not looking to be bodybuilders or even to optimize their muscularity, they're looking to get some muscle, working to get some strength and they want to be healthy. And for the vast majority of people, the type of stuff that I do is just not within their purview. They don't really care about that. They just want a more moderate word. They don't aspire to get those gains. They're looking for moderate gains. But time is of a much greater essence to them. And they're not going to want to spend the time with the effort to do it, but it takes to optimize results. And how much would you say a regular person would need to do in order to make substantial gains and get pretty jacked? Obviously, it doesn't need to be the lowest amount they can do to make some solid gains. But what is a sweet spot as far as trading volume goes and just some general recommendations for somebody who wants to look visibly more jacked, not necessarily become a mass monster or absolutely maximize or at least make a safe bet in maximizing their true potential. But what's the least they could do and still end up being pretty jacked? Yeah, so when I'm answering a question like that, I have to speak in generalities because there's a lot of inter-individual responses that need to be taken into account. Probably a majority of people can get a majority of their gains doing single set training three times a week, two, three times a week. So anywhere between an hour to an hour and a half a week of training, they can make, when I say a majority, certainly more than 50% of their genetic potential. Now, I will also say with that, that there are responders and poor responders. So those who are poor responders generally do better or they will need more volume to bring that up. So there are people that if they did that routine, they would not make substantial gains. And that's going to be only determined on an individual basis. Yeah, I would even go as far as to argue that 10 sets per muscle group per week for the majority of people is not really that much volume to do. And you can get it done in a relatively time efficient way if you're aware of your surroundings and your intent, intentional training. Well, I would agree with that. But then it depends on how much time do you want to allocate. So some people only have an hour, hour and a half, or I should say they perceive they only have that they only want to allocate that amount. And that if you tell them, when you start talking about 10 sets, they're going to be in the gym for several hours a week. And that could be four, probably around four or five hours a week when you're talking that type of volume. And that could be problematic for some people, as you know, time is considered a primary barrier to exercise adherence. However, the great doctors here at Lehman College recently, aka today, preprinted a brand new study on supersets and how that affected hypertrophy. So can supersets be a potential strategy for people to not only hit that minimum effective dose with effective being relative to the individual and obviously some adjustment needed. But are supersets a potential game changer for people? Yeah, game changer is a strong word. But I mean, certainly, it's a strategy that can really help to save time. And as our study indicated, really, all the muscular adaptation strength, obviously, hypertrophy, muscle endurance, and even power were very similar between conditions between Supersec Group and the traditional Sec Group and the Supersec Group was almost 40% less time that to finish the workouts. So maybe game changes isn't even too strong word that it certainly can make a huge difference in the amount of time allocated. And that gives you the ability to add in more sets, particularly for those quote unquote, who are poorer responders, they can get more volume and in similar time. Yeah, because we we specifically looked at supersets that took about 20 seconds to go from one exercise to the other. And it was agonist antagonist supersets. And then a couple of minutes break between each superset, which can then be tailored to the preference of each individual. But overall, it does seem that making really, really solid gains doesn't is not really rocket science. No, so I've always said that if you want to just get a good physique, and gain some strength, look, could feel good, get good health benefits, a really minimum dose training is extremely effective. And unless you're really looking to be a bodybuilder to optimize, you know, be one of these people who wants to optimize every muscle muscle you can build, that's when the nuances of training become more important. So you can reach, you know, it's always difficult to put an exact percentage on it. But let's say three quarters of your potential or so, fairly minimalistic routines, though, it kind of goes up quickly, where you get a lot of the gains very quickly, and then kind of tapers off. So you need some what more and more, the higher you want to go, the more in depth you need to, where the more focus you need to have on the nuances of training to really take your body to its ultimate level. Yeah, that makes sense. And what do you think are some of the nuances that people tend to overthink or at least perceive as, oh, I saw this brand new study by Dr. Schoenfeld's lab, or this is the new technique people are talking about, and they tend to over focus on relatively minute details that mostly cater to those who want to optimize. I mean, virtually all the variables, so for instance, frequency, you know, do you need two days a week, one day a week, if there is a benefit to doing more than one day a week per muscle group, so you do need to, I should clarify, when I say two days a week, that would be of per muscle group. So certainly I would think a minimum of two days a week of training for basic gains, probably three would be, get you somewhat better results depending on your goals there, but how many times a week should you train a muscle group? Maybe two would get you slightly more results, but the focus on that is, I think, way overblown. I think it's very minimal. So another one that's really, I think, overblown is rest periods. We just came out with a made analysis on that, like two minutes, three minutes, and basically the made analysis that we carried out showed really over 90 seconds you're getting, there's really no differences, and even with 60 seconds, wasn't that big a difference from 90 seconds. So again, from a minimalistic standpoint, you might sacrifice some gains, but if you're not looking at bodybuild, I don't think it's going to be appreciable enough to be meaningful for the majority of people. Yeah, I'm fully behind on that, and it's something that intuitively made sense, especially if you're training with a high intensity of effort and you're consistent. Another thing that I wanted to touch on is there's this misconception that science constantly changes with the recommendations and the way things are supposed to be done, which I feel is a very bad straw man that is not really based on much. What do you think has really, really changed in terms of fundamentals for muscle growth in the past, I'd say 15 years or so, because you've been doing research for how many years now? A lot more than 15. So I think it then comes down to what your consideration is of change. So I'll give you a few. My opinion has shifted 180 degrees on repetition. So I was trained as a up and coming sports scientist on the concept that if you did more than 12 to 15 reps, you were basically doing glorified cardio and that you're not going to build muscle, you're not going to activate and recruit all the highest social motor units, which are attached to the type two fibers. And over the past 15 or so years, there's now been compelling evidence. I mean, there's a few things that I'm very confident in saying, but this certainly is one that you can trade across a very wide spectrum of loading ranges, anywhere between, let's say, five to 30 plus reps and get similar whole muscle. I perjure, there's nothing wrong with sticking with that hypertrophy zone that the majority of body will lose you. But to say that doing higher reps is not going to get hypertrophy, it's been, I think, undeniably refuted. And it opens up the possibility that one of the real important factors that comes out is for people that have joint related issues, older individuals in particular, where they have difficulty with osteoarthritis and other issues, that it really can be a very effective tool, failure training, you get it. So depending on what your goals are, I think the vast majority of evidence now is suggests, strongly suggests, that most people can make gains, stop them two to three reps short of failure, that you'll need to train all out. Look, I came up from that old school, go all out or go home, where I was doing not only every set to failure, but I was doing four straps of dropsets and all these extension techniques, set extension techniques. So I think my views have changed, I think there still may be for those who are really looking to optimize results, a benefit for selective use of failure, can't rule that out. But I mean, we can go through really all the variables. And I think we've seen some shifts in most of them. But I don't see why that would be an issue for anyone, because that's what science is about. And that shouldn't be what everyone wants, shouldn't want to seek the truth. And if you come across new knowledge, if your goal is to optimize results, if you're seeking new, if you really want to get to your optimal potential, seeking the truth is where you should be focusing. Now, you could have been training with a minimalist routine 20 years ago and not change that at all, and still gotten the results that you want. So again, where science really, I think becomes more applicable, is when we're talking about those who really want to take their body to its ultimate potential or close to that. I would even argue that science, if anything, has made things even more flexible. Because people act as if every week or every month or every six months, there is some huge scientific update that completely changes the basics. When in reality, the basics off, do enough depending on your goal, if you want to maximize or not enough training volume, train hard, be consistent, make sure you hit all your muscle groups or whatever, maybe some tweaks with exercise selection. And aside from that, sure, there's some room. Yeah, you may be able to eke out a bit more muscle growth if you rest a bit longer, or if you include some exercises that target that will need to better regional hypertrophy for some muscle groups. But nobody's not going to make extreme gains just following the most basic of principles. Yeah, so obviously, we have been involved in the LinkedIn partial research, and bringing that to the forefront, where I think the evidence is showing at least some promise to the fact that training along muscle aids provides added benefit. Again, for the average individual, I don't think that something that really is going to make an appreciable difference. The person that just wants to know, I think they should incorporate, to me, that's the type of thing that it's kind of a no brainer to what we look at some of that, because it doesn't involve extra training or anything. But if they didn't do that, it's not like the difference between them making gains or not making gains. So again, I think it really comes down to context in this type of situation. Yeah, that's what I feel most people miss. And it's great to hear, I think for many people watching to hear somebody who, like yourself, who is behind the scenes at the highest level, and behind the scenes of maximization at the highest level, essentially telling them, hey, the basics will get you there for the most part. Thank you so much for being on. My pleasure. Thank you for your service. Hey, real doctors out, don't forget to like, subscribe, and keep an eye out for many cool research projects coming out from the lab from New York. We'll see you later. Peace.

=== FILE: The SIMPLEST Way To LIVE LONGER (Science Explained) [e47ktb22fLU].txt ===

 longevity is a universal goal. Nearly everyone desires to live a longer and healthier life. While many people will usually turn to complex diets, supplements, some new, some old, some questionable, or even fancy workouts in order to be healthier, research suggests that there is a much simpler and potentially easier way to take a lot, if not all, of the important boxes for health. The issue, I feel, is that many people are under the impression that in order to be healthy, you need to be some form of athlete or engage in countless hours of cardio and weightlifting. However, this couldn't be further away from the truth. The reality is that some lifting and some walking can do wonders for your overall health and fitness. Yes, you heard that right, just lifting and just walking can do wonders. Let's break it down though. Starting with lifting, lifting is legitimately one of the best types of activities you can do for your overall health. Resistance training can positively affect cardiovascular health by improving blood pressure, reducing resting heart rate, enhancing vascular function. It can also help reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases by improving lipid profiles, including lowering LDL cholesterol, as well as increasing HDL cholesterol. Regular resistance training can improve sensual insensitivity, glycemic control, and to some point, increase resting metabolic rate, although it won't turn you into a calorie burning furnace machine or whatever people say. Awesome video by Milo on the channel. Check it out. The increases in resting metabolic rate are there, but are not as extreme as many people think. However, lifting can help in many ways improve your body composition and the overall way that your body manages nutrients. Resistance training is also effective at increasing bone marrow density, which helps prevent osteoporosis and reduces the risk of fractures, particularly in order all their adults. There is also evidence that resistance training can alleviate symptoms of anxiety, depression, and improve overall mood and calming dysfunction. We've released a very long podcast episode on lifting and mental health. Check it out at sbspod.com, but overall, lifting equals improvements in quality of life. Lifting also obviously increases muscle mass strength and muscular endurance, as well as enhancing overall functional capacity. This is particularly important, aside from, you know, looking big and stacked and whatever, for maintaining independence and mobility as you get older. Lifting will literally allow you to be a much more capable individual. Lifting can also be beneficial for individuals with chronic conditions such as arthritis, as well as cancer by improving muscle strength, reducing some symptoms, and again, enhancing quality of life. In addition, lifting can also reduce visceral fat, even in some cases without necessarily losing a ton of weight. But overall, if we look at the data around lifting and death from all causes, any amount of lifting can lead to a 15% reduction in the risk of all cause mortality compared to doing no lifting at all. And as many of you may already be familiar with, the maximum reduction in mortality risk, which is around 27%, is observed at just 60 minutes of lifting per week. So yes, just an hour of lifting per week is enough for you to get a ton of the health benefits as it pertains to lifting and all cause mortality. Many of you out there may not just be concerned about lifting and health, but also care about making enough gains. But I'd argue that even in the context of making solid muscle and strength gains, an hour of lifting per week, if planned a bit more carefully, can lead to substantial strength and hypertrophy gains. Check out the video we did with Dr. Brad Seinfeld on the simplest way to gain muscle, where we break down essentially that what's the least you need to do in order to gain an appreciable level of muscle mass. Now it is likely that your intensity of effort, so how close your training to failure is somewhat keen reaping at least some of the health benefits associated with lifting, although for some populations, for example, the elderly, simply lifting is enough to help a ton and to get a lot of the health benefits. Additionally, and this is where the magical of lifting comes in play, the in the context of health specifically, specifics around exercise selection, repetition ranges, and specific programming sort of considerations are likely of a very little importance. So if we assume that you're engaging most major muscle groups and you're lifting with some intensity of effort, over time, you are likely getting all those health benefits that I just talked about. Although lifting is amazing and resistance training alone may be enough for you to get a good deal of the overall health benefits that exercise has to offer, the combination of some form of aerobic activity and resistance training is likely going to be superior versus either modality on its own. And this is where walking comes in the picture. People will often say that walking is not really exercise, but if you walk enough, walking can lead to similar reductions in the risk for various diseases as running, albeit being much less efficient. Walking 40 to 60 minutes four times per week and also lead to substantial improvements in VO2 max, especially if performed in a brisk year, is this is this even a word fashion, so a brisk walk, a really brisk walk can actually improve people's VO2 max if done for sufficiently long time throughout the week. Yes, walking is less time efficient than running or any other higher intensity aerobic activity like cycling or swimming, but for many people out there, it can be more manageable to fit in their lifestyle versus those activities. Walking can be combined with social activities, chores, and given its relatively low intensity, the mental preparation required to go for a quick walk is in my honest opinion, at least much lower than required when you want to go running or cycling, especially for those who don't particularly enjoy these sort of activities. Going for an intense run is not as easy as just going out for a walk. How much should you aim to walk to reap most of its health benefits? I hear you asking. You may have heard that around 10,000 steps per day is some sort of magic number and there's some truth to that. However, especially since I assume you will also be lifting for at least 60 minutes per week, anywhere between 6,000 to 8,000 steps per day seems to be enough to give you the majority, if not all of the health benefits that walking has to offer. This is further supported by recent evidence suggesting that 300 to 600 minutes of moderate physical activity, walking and lifting fall in this category, is enough in order to substantially reduce all cos mortality rates. The caveat here is that vigorous physical activity like running led to similar reductions in all cos mortality, but in half the time. But you can also combine both. That's definitely an option if you enjoy doing higher intensity cardio or higher intensity physical activity in general. Overall though, if you are a lifter who averages close to 8,000 steps per day and lifts for approximately an hour per week, you are definitely doing more for your health than you may think. But I hear you, it's not just about your physical activity. There's other factors that we may need to consider for health. But these factors are relatively straightforward. Do your best to eat plenty of whole foods, around 30 to 40 grams of fiber per day, sleep 6 to 8 hours per night at a similar time, maintain a healthy body composition, which isn't necessarily what many influencers will have you think it is. And at the end of the day, you are likely covered. The most important takeaway here is that even if you don't manage to hit these guidelines during busy periods of your life, or let's say your sleep is a bit worse, or you're not able to hit the gym as hard as you wanted, doing your best to be somewhat physically active will play a massive role in your health and will pay massive dividends. Even if that's taking a walk two to three times per week and hitting the gym once per week, it may not be ideal, but you're still getting a lot from it. If you look at the literature on lifting and walking, doing any sort of lifting, as I already mentioned, is enough for substantial decreases in all cause mortality. And for walking, increasing your step count above 2000 steps, any few thousand steps you add above that will lead to health improvements. These are important things, as I feel that a lot of people out there may get in their head a bit about physical activity and health, and end up doing nothing because they think that doing something is not really worth their time. Get out there, move as much as you can, and as much as your schedule allows, do your best to include some resistance training within your week, even if that's at home in the form of exercise snacks or whatever, and you'll be surprised if you keep it up for a bunch of years with how your health will improve. I know this is not a muscle growth or the latest study on how to get bigger biceps, but this is an important message for a lot of people out there, especially those who may be a bit more health conscious. Lift weights, walk and just be physically active, and don't really lose your mind over physical activity and health. The basics are king. Thank you so much for watching. Don't forget to hit the like button, subscribe to the channel, strongerbyscience.com, slash coaching for amazing one-to-one coaching, sbspod.com for the best podcast in the world, scientifically proven, and we'll see you guys next time. Peace!

=== FILE: Time-Efficient Training for Hypertrophy and Strength (Episode 137) [0irfy14-d3M].txt ===

! Welcome back to the Stronger by Science podcast, aka The Muscle and Feel's Stronger by Science podcast. This is the second time we make this joke, and from what I know, this also will be the last time, at least for a while, as the famous or infamous, as he'd prefer, Greg Knuckles, will be making his return soon. I am Dr. Pak. I am Dr. Melle Wolf. And as noted, this is the Stronger by Science podcast. So we are here today for a banger episode on time-efficient training. When it comes to time efficiency, and we'll touch on why it's important later on in the episode, but it is arguably one of these topics that are prevalent multiple times, regardless of one's training age, training status, goals, size, and so on and so forth. Nobody wants to make gains, but nobody has time, and ain't nobody got time to be in the gym for four hours per session. But before we get into it, let's just touch on what we've been up to in the past couple of weeks. So I'll start with you, Dr. Wolf, not like there's anybody else besides you here, or maybe there is. What have you been up to the past few days? Yeah, so I've been keeping it tight in the gym, using some of these time-efficiency hacks, because we've both been working quite hard. In fact, as the listeners may or may not know, we've both been hosting, although predominantly you, the gracious Eric Helms in the UK. And so we've got some content coming out, content on the YouTube channel with Stronger by Science feat Eric Helms. So you can all look forward to that. Besides that, we're just getting ready for another trip to the US. We're seeing off the range of motion study we previously alluded to. And so right now we're in a mid-interim phase where we're back in the UK for a couple of weeks, just making sure everything stays afloat as far as the research side of things, the content side of things, just keeping up with all responsibilities. But it's been a good time, and I've been applying some of these time-efficient hacks that we'll get into later in this podcast episode. How about yourself? Have you been incorporating any of these hacks and how the past couple of weeks have been for you? Yeah, exactly. Exactly the same situation over here. So we had the good doctor, Dr. Eric Helms in the UK for a whole week because we were both presenting at the British Powerlifting Conference here in London. And despite both of us being super busy, I'm not sure how many training sessions you managed to get in every week, but I still managed to get my four to five sessions in, despite being exceptionally busy and having Dr. Eric Helms as a guest here, which was a positive from a training perspective because she always wanted to train. However, time was limited and we had to make things work. As far as any major updates, nothing crazy, just looking forward to going back to New York and seeing off the study, we should be able to share some preliminary or even close to final results in the next couple of months with everyone. I'm not sure if you'll get to hear about the findings of the study before the pre-prepareant is out, but there's a chance that you may. Exciting stuff. For those of you that may not know, it is a study on full range of motion versus partials at long muscle lengths, entrained participants on the upper body musculature, and it is all being done at the Lehman College Applied Muscle Development Lab. But yes, it's been a heavy period. However, gains are still being made. We're still after it, both for health, physical and mental, but also for the gains themselves. Other than that, we're off in a few days back in the land of the free, but expect a lot of cool stuff on both the Stronger by Science website in the form of a big article that we're currently working on, but also on the YouTubes, where aside from Dr. Eric Helms featured the videos, we're also shooting a bunch of stuff featuring one another. That aside, I think it's time to plug stuff, and this is my third or fourth time doing this. I think this will also be the best time, so let's get it. If you're enjoying the show, please like, rate, subscribe, and tell your friends. It really helps us out. It really does. And don't forget to check out the YouTube channel. This is where a lot of stuff will be coming out in the next few months to a year, and we're doing our best to level it up as far as providing you with easy to follow content that is not two to four hours long like this podcast. However, the podcast is here for those that love the deep dive. If you're interested in hiring a virtual coach to help you with your training and or nutrition, Stronger by Science has a team of excellent coaches that can help you. Head over to StrongerbyScience.com slash coaching. A bunch of updates happening behind the scenes, new seats for all the coaches to use, a lot of processes being improved, things being streamlined, but regardless of that, SBS coaching has the reputation that it has for a reason, solid coaching team, and arguably in our opinion, although somewhat biased, the best out there. If you want to purchase supplements from a reliable source and support the podcast at the same time, try BulkSupplements.com using the code SPSPOD for a 5% discount. Stronger by Science wouldn't be Stronger by Science without its community, and we highly recommend that you join the Facebook group and the subreddit where both myself and Milo are active participants, at least as much as we can, but we are definitely liking and replying to stuff as well as participating in topics that are of interest or of match our expertise at least. Also, check out the newsletter. So the Stronger by Science newsletter, which you can find at StrongerbyScience.com slash newsletter, high quality informative content, no spamming, no ads, no BS, no ads, no ads, BS, that's something that Milo and I are handling at least to a great extent. An easy way to keep up with research and all things muscle growth, strength, and nutrition related that may be of interest to you, sign up, definitely recommended. And last but not least, if you have any questions that you want us to answer, aside from replying to the threads that we post on the Facebook and subreddit communities, you can also send us a voice note at podcast at StrongerbyScience.com and you never know, we may be answering your question. I think that's it as far as plugs. I brought my A game. This was me done for this is me done for the episode Milo have fun and I'll see you guys next time. Peace. All right, getting into the actual subject matter. Before we go into how to make training more time efficient, I think we need to briefly outline why time efficiency is even important in the first place. Because one common rebuttal that I already hear happening in the comments is, nah, that ain't me. I don't have time constraints in the gym. I like being in the gym for three, four hours or one half year. And to an extent, you have a point. If you truly don't mind spending 15, 20 hours in the gym a week, more sometimes, then you probably don't need to worry about time efficiency too much anymore. Obviously, if you do one set per three hours, you might have a problem. For most people, around 15 to 20 hours in the gym a week, you probably don't need to worry too much about time efficiency anymore. But for basically everyone else, and believe it or not, most people don't have 15 or 20 hours in the gym per week, time efficiency becomes a concern for a few reasons. One for people who have really just not that much time. I'm talking an hour, two, three, four per week in the gym. You do really need to consider what is going to give you the best bang for your buck. You only have so much time. You need to make it count. One to four hours in the gym, for example, may very likely not be enough to maximize hypertrophy. And so you have to come up with a combination of approaches, variables, etc. That will at least make the most of what you have. You probably still won't get your best gains, but you can get at least very solid gains if you consider how to make your training more time efficient. But what people may not be as aware of is that even people with like four or five hours in the gym, or six, even people with increasing amounts of time to spend in the gym, should probably still be concerned with time efficiency. For one, there is the obvious example of opportunity cost. So if you make your training more time efficient, and instead of spending, say, seven hours in the gym per week, you're now spending four, all of a sudden you've freed up three hours that you could spend on something else. And while for some people that may not be a pro, because they enjoy training that much, for other people that can mean more time with loved ones, other hobbies, etc. But additionally, for hypertrophy specifically, emerging evidence, where we have some evidence behind the scenes that is going to be pre-printed relatively soon, and we're also read up on the research that's been published, for example, a meta-analysis by Baz violin colleagues from 2022, more volume tends to, predictably, yield more hypertrophy. There are still some questions to be asked around extreme volumes, like in excess of 20 or 30 sets per week per muscle. But for the most part, doing more sets in a given week for a given muscle will cause more muscle growth. If you only have two to five hours a week, you may only be able to get 10 sets a week per muscle, or 15, if you don't consider how to be time efficient. Time efficient training modalities can allow you to get more sets in throughout your training week and see more hypertrophy. Or it can allow you to save time, or both. So even if you're someone who has a decent amount of time to train in the gym, you probably do still benefit from making your training more time efficient in that it allows you to do more volume and therefore oftentimes see more hypertrophy. So even if you don't currently identify as someone who's time constrained, and that is impacting your training, it very well might still be impacting your training and your progress. So I would highly encourage you to stick around throughout the episode to hear us out on tips to make training time efficient. Pak, anything else on that note? I just wanted to add that we will obviously touch on strength to a certain extent and mention how things can be more time efficient there, but given the relationship between volume and strength being different to that of volume and hypertrophy, things become not necessarily more manageable there because there are other variables that you need to take into consideration like rest. However, we will be focusing the bulk of the episode on hypertrophy specifically, given that you have to be a bit more methodical with how you approach things and you can be a bit more flexible with how you manipulate certain variables. If you want to maximize strength training, there are certain things that are somewhat non-negotiable, but when it comes to hypertrophy, things may not be as clear-cut as some people may assume and you can still be looking at very close to optimal gains with very little time spent in the gym. That's what I wanted to add there because I think there's a lot of people here that will be expecting to hear a ton about strength training specifically and maybe things like powerlifting, but we'll briefly touch on that as well and little tips that you can implement in order to make that type of training time efficient as well. Yeah, and as Pak has pointed out previously in his walk on the effective dose for strength, you can often start seeing meaningful improvements in that with just two to five sets a week per lift, maybe even less than that. And so if you're very time constrained, but you're concerned with strength, just realize that even if you're only able to get into the gym for say an hour a week and get a few heavy sets for the main lifts you care about in, that will still be enough to promote some strength gains. It probably won't be your best and in fact your best strength gains might be seen around like 10 to 15 sets per week per lift. Around there is what where you'll probably see some of your best strength gains. So for the bench, for example, that might be across the week, five to eight sets of competition bench, two to five sets of some bench variation, etc. Getting up to around 10 to 15 sets. For hypertrophy, on the other hand, your best hypertrophy will very likely be seen somewhere in the vicinity of 10 to 30 weekly sets. So we're talking about substantially more volume. However, just like for strength, you can start seeing some appreciable progress with as few as around two to five weekly sets for a muscle. So you don't need to do a ton if you're super time constrained to still see some progress. So while we won't be touching on strength a ton throughout this episode, just because the time requirements to optimize strength may not be quite as large as to optimize hypertrophy. It is worth noting that for both hypertrophy and strength, you don't need to do very much to see some improvement, especially if you're super time constrained or you're going through a rough patch in life and you don't have the time to dedicate to more extensive training protocols. Without further ado, we can go into the individual tips. How can we make training more time efficient? First, I think maybe the most, the two most well researched and relatively evidence based quote unquote techniques to save time would be antagonistic paired supersets and drop sets. We'll touch on antagonistic paired supersets first because we recently preprinted a study on that very topic and that was the third study on this topic. Essentially the idea of an antagonistic paired superset is to superset two exercises that have no muscular overlap and specifically involve antagonistic motions. For example, supersetting a bench press with a row and supersetting a dumbbell curl with tricep pushdown. In these exercises, you're essentially performing the opposing joint functions, meaning that you're guaranteed to have no muscular overlap. And in fact, some acute research suggests that by using these antagonistic paired supersets, you're typically looking at at worst no detriment to performance, like you're performing the same whether you're supersetting these two exercises or whether you're not. And at best, maybe a slight improvement in performance. This might have to do with reciprocal inhibition wherein if you're especially if you're relatively untrained, your when you're benching, for example, your back might co-contract resisting how resisting the bench press motion, making it a bit harder for your pecs and triceps, etc. to perform the motion. If instead you perform the set of rows right before you did your bench press, your back would be more fatigued and your body quote unquote, instinctively would know not to co-contract the back quite as much and resist the bench press motion. But the very worst in general, we see similar or slightly better performance from performing antagonistic paired supersets versus just doing traditional straight sets. So that's a good news acutely. But the even better news is that we now have three studies, including the recently pre-printed one by Birken colleagues on antagonistic paired supersets versus traditional training on muscle hypertrophy. And to make a long story short, across these three studies, two of which were performed in relatively untrained populations by Pringan colleagues and by thinking colleagues. I believe the study by thinking colleagues looked at a superset of the leg extension and leg curl. And the study of Pringan colleagues looked at the superset of the banded curl and banded tricep extension. In both of these studies, we observed similar hypertrophy, whether using supersets or just traditional training. Similarly, in this most recent study by Birken colleagues, we actually looked at trained lifters in the context of a full body program. So specifically, if memory serves, we're looking at Smith machine bench press, lat pull down, cable push down, dumbbell curl, leg curl and leg extension. So we're looking at six exercises total and either participants in the traditional group perform these exercises one after the other with traditional rest intervals between each set versus in the superset group, they went back and forth between two exercises in any given pair. So supersetting the pull down with the Smith machine bench, supersetting the dumbbell curl with the cable push down and supersetting the leg extension with the leg curl. And in these trained lifters, when I average it around three and a half years of training experience, we observed similar hypertrophy, whether using a superset approach or using a traditional approach. So overall, both the acute evidence and the longitudinal evidence on antagonistic paired supersets is quite favorable when it comes to saying, Hey, you can likely see similar muscle growth, but oftentimes cutting down training time by 30 to 50%, which is a really substantial decrease in workout time, because either you just got the gym 30 to 50% faster, or you now have cleared up 30 to 50% of your session to do more sets. And as we established earlier, doing more sets to a relatively high level of 10 to 30 potentially plus sets per week from muscle group is going to yield more hypertrophy. So for someone who's got, say, two hours a week to train, that could be increasing your volume per week by about 40%. If you spend the same amount of time training, but simply perform supersets and that allowed you to do more sets in the given training week. A couple of caveats to the recent findings by broken colleagues that we demonstrated similar hypertrophy and trained lifters using supersets versus traditional sets. One is that at least initially when lifters first performed a superset session versus just a traditional session, they did report slightly higher exertion. So session RP rating was about one point higher around seven out of 10 for the traditional session versus around eight out of 10 for the superset session. So at least initially, when you're first incorporating this technique, if you've never done it before, you may find that it is a bit more challenging even for the same number of sets. And this makes sense because training density is increasing. You're doing the same number of sets, but in less time. So you're doing more work, but in the same amount of time in the end. The second caveat would be that the reports of nausea, so just in general feeling nauseated, were around twice as high if memory serves correctly in the superset group compared to the traditional group. Notably, we only asked for this at the end of the study. So this was entirely recall based as opposed to being something we assessed throughout the study. So there is some doubt around whether or not this was a super solid measurement, but it is worth noting that you might experience a bit more nausea. To circumvent this issue, what I would recommend doing is taking slightly longer rest intervals, essentially decreasing the work density or training density slightly by taking longer rest intervals, or simply starting out with fewer sets to begin with. Both of these would functionally lower training density, and I think help out initially with reducing or limiting amounts of nausea experienced. The final caveat I was going to give was while session RP was initially higher in the superset group, in the superset workout versus the traditional workout, this difference when averaged across the study, like essentially just asking people in the superset group how difficult was the session on a session RP scale, and people in the traditional group the same question. When you average those ratings in both groups across the whole study, across the, I believe, eight weeks duration, their ratings were actually very similar. So even though in the first session, when first exposed to a superset session, it seemed more challenging, in the long term, there's a good chance that mostly goes away. You're still training with a higher training density, so I would expect it to be a bit more challenging, but it doesn't seem to be a huge or meaningful limitation of the superset technique. So probably speaking, I think those are the findings from the superset data pack. Any thoughts on that? Yeah, I just wanted to add one extra caveat that in the study itself, the volume prescription was not, would not be deemed high or extremely high. So as it stands with the current available literature on supersets, there is a small asterisk close to next to supersets and the their effectiveness or how appropriate they would be in very high volume training, arrange the supersets. In my opinion, there's nothing to indicate that they wouldn't be as effective or you'd get more nausea or they wouldn't be as manageable. However, it's worth noting. But more interestingly in the Ryan and the Burke, excuse the first author name, shout out Ryan Burke. In the Burke et al study, strength was also assessed by Smith machine bench press one or M test, and that was also not different between groups. Also power and endurance were assessed and there was no difference there. And in addition to no differences in hypertrophy being observed for whatever is worth, there were also no differences in body composition assessed. And a common issue that is often brought up for supersets and a common misunderstanding, misconception of supersets and some of the limitations around them that I've seen from quite a few people when that data was made public is that supersets are great only if you either have a private gym or you go to the gym at ours where the gym is empty because in order to do supersets, you need access to multiple pieces of equipment and it's impractical. And you end up having to hog different machines and in practicality, they're not a technique or a method that you can really utilize if you're just in a commercial gym during busy hours. However, I think that that's a bit of a myth. And if you're somewhat organized with your exercise selection and how you approach and implement supersets in your training, there are many ways that you can incorporate supersets without having to hog two different pieces of equipment. And a couple of ways to do that are the following. One, you can opt for a machine and for a machine-based exercise and then a dumbbell-based exercise. For example, chest-press machine and bend over dumbbell rows or a lat pull-down machine and a dumbbell chest-press and so on and so forth and essentially combine two exercises that you can do in the same sort of vicinity where you grab a pair of dumbbells, you go to the lat pull-down, you do your lat pull-down, you do some push-ups, you do some standing shoulder press, whatever you like, some form of agonist antagonist superset. But there are many other ways that you can make supersets happen even in a very crowded and busy environment. For example, using a cable pulley machine where you can do cable chest-press and cable rows and that would only require you to be on the same machine and just adjust the height of the cable pulley. Same goes with a bunch of different exercises. So yes, the traditional idea of supersets being things like the barbell bench-press and then a bend over barbell row, although that's still possible if you really want to make it happen. If you find that you are in very busy environments and equipment availability is limited as long as you do your due diligence before and plan ahead, you can incorporate supersets in great ways. A very cool superset that we did for some time was dumbbell pull-overs and dumbbell chest-press, but there's many different combinations. Just do not no-sebo yourself necessarily and tell yourself that supersets would be great, but I don't think I can implement them because I work out at a commercial gym. It's likely that if you make some slight adjustments to your training and I'm sure my looking at a few examples here as well, supersets become a very easily implementable time efficiency strategy. Fully agreed and I'll give a few more examples of supersets I commonly use in my training, but I think ultimately if you think through your array of different exercises you can use for a given muscle, you'll almost always find one piece of equipment that matches up. Let's say for example you train chest and back in the same session. Okay, you can train your chest with a barbell, you can train with a machine, you can train it with dumbbells, you can train with machines, you can train with cables, you can even train with body weight. As long as you consider which modality an exercise has and you think about, whoa, this is crazy zoom, for our viewers, as long as you consider what modality one exercise is using you can almost always find a modality and an exercise that matches with that one. So for example if you're doing a push up for your chest or deficit push up you could do a pull up and as long as you're doing it in the same vicinity that can be an easy superset. If you're doing a Smith Machine bench press you could find a pair of dumbbells and do some dumbbell bent over rows. Certain exercises are also just more flexible like grabbing a pair of dumbbells for dumbbell bent over rows, that means you can superset that back exercise with nearly anything else. All you need to keep hold of is that one pair of dumbbells. So you can make a walk, I would say like 70-80% of the time there's going to be cases where the gym is so hectic and so busy you're not able to grab the equipment. There's going to be cases where you want a very specific exercise and then it's not going to be feasible. But I think for 70-80% of the time there is a way to superset a couple exercises and the important thing is before I give you some more specific examples, the superset probably doesn't need to be antagonistic. It can probably just be non-overlapping as well. Now there is less research around this as it relates to hypertrophy so I'd be a bit more cautious in being super confident in the findings there. But I think that as long as there is no muscular overlap, for example a calf raise and a bladder raise and neither exercise ties you out too much, like for example a squat or a deadlift would, there's a good chance you can superset them to good effect. There's a good heuristic if performance doesn't suffer on either exercise involved. Personally, at this point I'm comfortable saying you can superset them with likely no detriment to hypertrophy. It's a relatively hot take but I do think that allows you to superset many different exercises that obviously aren't squats or deadlifts typically. But many different exercises can be supersetted and typically when I'm trying to make a session time efficient, I will superset 60 to 80% of my exercises. Some exercises don't lend themselves to it but most exercises do in some capacity. A few examples as I mentioned I typically superset pretty much all Adam Kath walk to get the evil walk out of the way, two birds one stone sort of thing. I superset any bicep tricep walk pretty much. I frequently superset any chest and back walk. I frequently superset any quad isolation and hamstring isolation walk like a leg extension or leg curl. I frequently superset any hip abduction and adduction walk I do like a machine hip abduction and machine hip adduction walk. So yeah, there's a wide variety of things you can superset. You could even superset something like a shrug and a wrist curl if you wanted to provide used straps on the shrug. There's a wide variety of things you can superset and instead of me prescribing you use these exercises specifically I'm just going to tell you if performance doesn't suffer on either exercise it's a good sign you can superset them and save time with likely no detriment to hypertrophy. That is my hunch there. So yeah, those are paired supersets slash non-overlapping supersets. In terms of those who are mostly interested in strength training if you have the main movement that you're training specifically for strength you could use agonist and agonist supersets to get in some of your hypertrophy work. If you're doing your hypertrophy work the same goes with some power lifters but again for strength training specifically it is likely that you can just be very time efficient simply by opting for a bit less volume. But still if you have other movements that you want to include in your training let's say you're doing a bench workout your bench is your strength movement but you also have some accessory backward. It's likely that it would not affect your bench strength training sets a lot if you were to  superset, benchpress, latpulledun, terms and conditions apply. If you're a world champion powerlifter, you probably need to have enough time available to optimize, but for the majority of individuals, that would be totally fine, and you'd still be looking at also strength gains there as well. Agreed. I've had power of think clients do this before, with essentially no detriment to performance, so that's been good. I do think generally I'd reserve this more for successory movements, so not for the main competition lifts, specifically the bench, because I think supersetting the squat with anything else or the deadlift with anything else can be a bit tricky, but yeah, I think it can certainly work as far as even just preserving performance and load on the bar. Cool. Next up, we have drop sets. As I mentioned earlier, I think this is probably the second most or even the first most evidence-based technique, quote unquote, for saving time. Just to summarize what a drop set is first, before we go into the evidence, a drop set is when you perform one set relatively close to failure or two failure, and then the protocol I would use is perform a 20% load drop and immediately perform another set. Repeat this process for as many drop sets as you want to do. Typically, I cap it around a three to four, I would say, at the most, just because at that point the load you're using becomes so light that I couldn't tell you for sure that we're observing the same marginal hypertrophy for each additional drop set as we were before. Once you've done three to four 20% load drops, the load you're using might have dropped from, say, 80% of your max to 20% of your max or something. Keep in mind it's a 20% load drop from one set relatively to the last, so you go from 80% of your max to 80 kilograms. Let's say your max is 100 kilograms in a very lucky example, you would drop that down to 64, so a 20% drop, and then from 64 you drop it down to, like, 52 point whatever it is. So a 20% load drop each set relatively to the last, and by the time you do three or four drops, the load you're using might have become so light that you're no longer optimizing the hypertrophy you get from each additional drop set. Or at least that's a potential concern there, so I would typically cap this around three to four drop sets for a given exercise. But yeah, essentially you do one hard set, you drop the load 20%, you do another set, drop the load 20%, do another set until you're done. And we do have a meta-analysis by Coleman colleagues comparing the effects of drop sets, roughly performed in this fashion, the exact protocol can vary, but that is the protocol I would run with as relatively representative of what the evidence is done. We have an analysis comparing studies that have done this to in these studies groups that just did traditional training with traditional rest intervals. One caveat to the findings I'm about to say is that in the drop set group they on average performed around 30% more sets, but that's on a set per set basis, so a drop set would count as one traditional set as well. So for every 10 sets, let's say the traditional groups in this meta-analysis performed, the drop set groups would perform around 13 sets. However, even with that difference in volume on average, the drop set groups took between around 50 and 70% less time to train, and the results were similar hypertrophy gains. So you could probably save around 50% of the time with a drop set approach. I am a bit more skeptical personally, and we can discuss this, about using drop sets exclusively as part of your hypertrophy training routine, just because the drop off in load being used is quite stark, and I think it can be quite acutely fatiguing. So going from a drop set earlier into the session for say your chest press into a dumbbell flight later, I'm not sure you'd be able to use that much load anymore. Just don't count how fatiguing that was, and you might very quickly drop below that minimum effective intensity, quote unquote, or minimum effective minimum effective maximum, right, minimum maximum effective intensity. This is complicated. Over around 30% of your max. And like, if you get very fatigued early in the session by doing drop sets for the bulk of your session, I could see that becoming somewhat of an issue. But yeah, certainly on the same level as paired supersets in terms of how much time they can save, and the evidence suggesting that they can result in similar hypertrophy in just much less time. What do you think about drop sets as a main thing? I think there are great, great strategy that you can implement, but there are some practical, quote unquote, issues with with some exercises where you will need somebody there to potentially unload the bar as you're getting into the drop set. The same goes for certain kids of equipment, but a great way, especially on on like a cable exercise, or I don't know if you're doing a dumbbell exercise, running the rack can be fun. But at the same time, in some of the environments that we train in doing a drop set, for example, on bicep curls, maybe a bit of a pain sometimes. I think overall a great, a great time efficient strategy that you can even combine with supersets, so supersets on some exercises, drop sets on some other exercises. And before you know it, you're in the gym for half a minute, you've done 35 sets, and you are unaware of how you got in and out of the gym, and are you questioning if you were even in the gym in the first place. But yeah, joking aside, something that we've started to implement a bit more and something you've been a proponent of, and I've started to use more in my training. What would you say for those that would critique the fatigue from from each drop set and how that can impact hypertrophy? I've heard I've heard things about drops as not being great, or with some mechanistic mumble jumble being thrown, which does not seem to be supported by the evidence. But what would you say Dr. Wolff? Yeah, I think this falls in the category of things people say about a technique without realizing that if this were such a big issue, that would also show up in the applied outcomes. So if the excessive fatigue caused by drop sets, for example, were to be problematic in the context of hypertrophy training, let's say mediated by the excessive fatigue caused, that would show up in the context of these studies, in that the drop set group would experience less hypertrophy. So at the very least, what we can say is one, there's insufficient evidence to make that claim, and two, if there is such an effect, it isn't big enough to show up in these studies, or at least it isn't big enough to mediate a reduction in hypertrophy in these studies comparing drop sets and traditional training. I do think there is something to probably not overusing drop sets in your training, like I think you can definitely use them to get effect. But I think if your whole session is just drop sets, maybe we start seeing that with how dense your training becomes in terms of just how many sets you're doing back to back, how many exposures close to failure you're doing very quickly, by a couple exercises and for a given muscle, you may not be maximizing stimulus per set anymore. But yeah, I think it's a silly argument when you consider that the actual outcome of interest is still the same, whether using drops as traditional sets, so you're almost defeating your own argument, or at the very least, you're just pointing out that there is absence of evidence in the conflicts that you're interested in, which is fine. But probably I think that criticism is made too frequently rather than not frequently enough. Yeah. And some me, when hearing about drop sets, some often result to comparing them with myoreps. What do we think about those? So that's a training technique that has gone quite a bit of, not hype in a negative way, but it's been used more and more in certain circles and promoted by certain people in our field. Why, how would you say myoreps differ to drop sets? And what do we know? Sure. I don't think there's personally, and this is something I've somewhat changed my mind on recently, but I don't think there's a huge difference between the two. It's just that I think we have more direct evidence on drop sets versus myoreps. And I think the use of myoreps has far exceeded the use of drop sets, for example, which I think it should be the other way around almost. Like we have reasonably okay research on drop sets and consistently see similar hypertrophy, even with only 30% more volume or sets rather. So myoreps, to my knowledge, we only have one direct study testing the actual concept. And I don't think it's been published yet. I could be wrong. You can correct me on this. I'm not sure I've seen it published. We have studies on rest pause like techniques, and they're generally relatively underwhelming. Like as you see similar hypertrophy, but it's a bit less consistent, it's a bit less data to my knowledge than drop sets. So I think it's a totally final alternative. It's just that I would typically, typically opt for drop sets over myoreps, just on account of there being more evidence on them. I'm also a bit skeptical of the general rationale for myoreps, where it's all about essentially, when you end the set, you're close to failure, all of your motor units and largest muscle fibers, the faster twitch muscle fibers are recruited and activated, and thus being stimulated. And so if you only take 15 to 30 seconds rest, and you know another set of like three to five reps, all of those reps are perfectly effective. It essentially comes back down to the effect of reps model. And I'm a bit skeptical of that, at least in its most fundamentalist or strictest sense. So yeah, my reps are fine. You can incorporate them if you like. I think drop sets are usually the better way to go. That covers me. And yeah, the study, so there's an unofficial study that was unofficial. I'm not sure if publishing it. Unpublished? Yeah, it was just referred to us on a couple of websites as unofficial. It still hasn't been published. It was presented at a conference, and the actual title of it at that conference was Muscular Adaptations Following Eight Weeks of a Myoreps Set Configuration vs. Traditionals Straight Sets in Resistance Trained Individuals. And the muscle thickness that was measured via ultrasound was, yeah, that was the same between Myoreps and straight sets, despite big differences in volume. So somewhat similar outcomes to what we see with drop sets. Myoreps sounds cooler though, so I'm going to be doing those and not your yes, drop set. On a serious note, I think one cool use case for drop sets is as a last set. So I think this is especially relevant for people who have like, some time to train in the gym, but want to cram more training in. And I think that's especially relevant for people training for hypertrophy, who are trying to get more volume in and make more of the time in the gym. It's to essentially just treat the last set of most exercises, especially later exercises into a session where fatigue incurred by drop sets might not be an issue, is to use the last set as a drop set. So essentially you do, so you're planning to do three sets of normal pressing or let's say chest pressing for ease of illustration sake. Let's say you did three sets, you do two sets and for your last set, instead of just doing your third set and calling it quits, you would do say two to three, maybe even four, 20% load drops and just immediately do another set. And that can be a really easy way to get like effectively maybe an additional three sets of volume in like if you're doing four load drops, for example, that might be five drop sets quote unquote, which might be the equivalent of like three to four ish normal straight sets. But instead of spending an additional 10, 12 minutes or whatever it is on the chest press machine to get those additional four sets ish, you might be spending an additional two minutes on there. So it can be a very nice bang for your buck option on many exercises that lend themselves to it. They can even be combined with antagonistic perts super sets, where you do that for the last set of a super set. So you do say machine rows and machine chest press and for the last set of each, you do a drop set. And I think that can be a good option for time efficiency sake. Anything else that on drop sets? Nope. Yeah, that was that was perfect. Beautiful. Next up, we have slightly moderating rest times. So we've spoken about this before on the pot, I think. But there's been a recent preprint by singer and colleagues we were involved in, we're also authors on a preprint on the effects of rest times on hypertrophy. And essentially, looking at all of the available evidence on training with different rest times, measuring muscle hypertrophy, we found that around one to two minutes of rest might be sufficient to maximize the muscle hypertrophy response. There's a number of questions remaining, but that is one of the, I would say the biggest takeaway. And so especially for hypertrophy training, this is different for strength, I think, because for strength, you might be more concerned with maximizing low load on the bar as a means to increase specificity. But for hypertrophy, just resting for one to two minutes between sets might allow you to get more total sets in and get more total stimulus in a given session, especially if you're someone with time constraints. And I think this can be especially helpful for people who are under the impression that they need to rest for three, four, five, six minutes between sets for hypertrophy to not make it quote unquote junk volume. If anything, even the rest time between like even rest times of less than one minute seem to lead to appreciable hypertrophy and metanasis, it was certainly it seemed to be less than one to two minutes, but it wasn't as though those sets were totally ineffective. So I think one to two minutes is going to be a relatively big time saver for many and something they may not be aware of in their pursuit of hypertrophy. Next, we have training to failure. And should you train to failure, how close to failure should you train if you're pressed for time? I think at this point, we have the general understanding that on a set per set basis, you're just looking at one set. If you want to maximize how much muscle growth that one set caused someone had gone to your head and said, look, you don't maximize the growth from this set you're about to do. It's goodbye. Should you train to failure? How close to failure should you train? The answer to that is probably to failure, at least according to a meta regression by Robinson colleagues from last year, which basically show that the closer a set is taken to failure, the more hypertrophy you see. Now, because hypertrophy is sort of a multivariate outcome, wherein it isn't just proximity failure that can influence it, but the combination of volume, proximity failure, potentially even frequency and other things can influence the hypertrophy response and their interaction can influence it. It's not as though we have all the answers, but at least on a set per set basis, it seems like going closer to failure probably causes at least a bit more hypertrophy. And so for someone who was pressed for time, you probably do want to take every set pretty close to failure or even to failure, depending on just how little time you have. But additionally, there is some evidence in my view, not much, but there is some in favor of four steps or going past failure for hypertrophy. Specifically, there's a few different ways you can look at it. One is you could view drop sets as a form of past failure training in that instead of altering technique to get more reps after failure, you're essentially dropping the load. But oftentimes modifications and technique such as involving your hips more or like bouncing the weight up or what have you, those really just involve a reduction in the force production requirement of the primary muscle group involved, like for example, the curl, for example, the biceps. And so that is essentially the same as dropping the load. Both involve your biceps needing to produce less force to complete another repetition. And in the drop set data, we see that doing 13 really low rest set, a really low rest interval sets is about the equivalent of 10 traditional sets. So at the very least, it seems like going past failure offers a bit of additional benefit potentially based on a drop set research. Similarly, this study by Larson and colleagues that we recently preprinted was comparing just doing four range of motion calf raises to doing four range of motion calf raises, but then doing length and partials after failure as a means to get four straps in. Indeed, it's a muscle and feels episode, we're going back on the length and train. It's hard to tell whether the additional hypertrophy I'm about to describe was as a result of doing four straps or whether it was the additional length and training. My hunch is that it's both. As I mentioned, as you go closer to failure, you generally see more hypertrophy. And there is a pretty compelling body of evidence at this point, suggesting that length and training is better for hypertrophy than shortened training. So I think both are ultimately a play. But the group rather the condition because it was within participant design, the leg that trained with length and partials after failure doing those four straps, saw about 40% more growth actually. So even just for the same number of sets, doing four straps after failure, at least based on this one study might be beneficial for hypertrophy. It could be the fact that they were length and partials. So my personal way of implementing that would be once you've reached four inch motion failure, bust out some length and partials until you can't do another partial. That would be a good way to go about it. But at the very least, I think that if you have really limited time in the gym, four straps specifically length and supersets, doing length and partials after failure might be something to try. It probably doesn't hurt. Pack. So I wanted to touch on and ask something that is related obviously to what you just said, but not so much time efficient training, but rather training to failure and that changing in the next couple of years based on findings like the one by Steen et al, where going beyond traditionally defined failure and going into length and failure as we're doing in the study that we're running in NYC at the moment. Do we think that the current definition of training to task failure, task being usually full ROM failure may actually change in the next few years? It's a parenthesis. I know we don't have Greg here to go down certain rabbit holes, but I got to fill in that gap somewhat. So it's a chat that I'd love to have with you on air. Oh, man. So I think for hypertrophy sake, you would essentially be shifting the goalpost of failure from four inch of motion failure, which for many movements like half raise, like a pull down, like a pull up, like a row is in the shortened position to failure occurring when you can't get another length and partial. And depending on how the evidence pans out over the next few years, there is a chance that will be warranted. Like let's say pack you did a set of barbell rows to four inch of motion failure with street technique. By the time you weren't able to touch the bar to your stomach or chest anymore, would that set of felt particularly challenging? Probably not really. Right. Like you kind of just aren't able to touch your stomach anymore and the set is over. Right. If I use the stomach, the sets over at rep one, it's like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I think for many movements that are really shortened biased and that the resistance is the challenge is greatest in the very shortened position. You can often get a lot more length and partials or partial repetitions that are a bit more stretched after failure. And depending on how the evidence pans out over the next few years with the study by Lawson and colleagues, I mentioned on the calf raise being their first look at this, that may or may not be warranted. I think certainly it's a more palatable way of incorporating length and training that most people are more receptive to. Like if you tell someone to do just length and partial based on the evidence, they may not be super amenable to it because like as it looks weird, I don't know, I'm not sure I'm going to get Jim cred for this one. Whereas if you do partial after failure, who that sounds a lot more hardcore and is a lot cooler, you know, so depending on how the evidence pans out over the next few years, perhaps. Yeah. For time efficiency training specifically, if you're somebody interested in hypertrophy, I think there's very little downsides to not going past sort of full range of motion failure and reaching the point where you cannot perform reps at the long muscle lengths and at the point where you cannot do parses and long muscle lengths. I think that for the majority of people, at least for most exercises that you can do, that you can do so in effectively and safely, the latter being maybe a bit more important. I think that that's a great way to at least tell yourself that, hey, we got everything we could potentially get from this set. Is it possible that you didn't get a whole lot more by doing those few, like those three to four extra reps past the full range of motion failure? Sure. But if you're pressed for time and you want to get the most bang for your buck stimulus, I don't think there are many concerns there. Again, as long as you're being somewhat methodical about your exercise selection and where you implement this, I don't think there's a lot of concerns as far as fatigue goes. In other words, that are often thrown to counter that sort of approach or training to failure in general. But the one thing I recommend to most clients who are pressed for time, especially if we are doing slightly less volume even when trying to incorporate drop sets and super sets, treating some movements or at least some sets in this manner, I think is a safe way to make sure that you're getting absolutely the most bang for your buck as far as hypertrophy stimulus goes. Yeah. And I think we can have a whole discussion, not necessarily now, but in the future as more evidence comes out around whether or not going to failure too frequently or too early into a session specifically can be detrimental for hypertrophy. The recent publication of a study by refollowing colleagues on this has spurred some discussion around, essentially they compared going to failure in all sets for the leg press and leg extension to staying a bit more submaximal around one to two reps in reserve for all sets on a leg press and leg extension. And essentially they found better hypertrophy or maybe slightly better hypertrophy of the muscles primarily being stimulated by a leg extension when staying a bit more submaximal throughout the session. So essentially by staying a bit farther from failure throughout the session and being a bit fresher by the time they go to leg extensions, they were able to stimulate more growth in the leg extension potentially. This was a very small difference in what it's worth reading into a ton. But as a general heuristic, I think that there might be for people who have time a point to staying a bit farther from failure earlier into a session for hypertrophy and going a bit closer to failure later into a session for hypertrophy, just to guard against this potential effect with no meaningful downside. But for people who really pressed for time at this point, I would still take every set very close to failure or even too failure pretty much always. So that brings me to another tip since we're already on length and super sets, which is one of the few things that seem to reliably increase hypertrophy at this point across like across different comparisons, like whether we're talking a comparison of length and partials versus shortened partials or length and isometrics versus shortened isometrics. One of the only things that seems to reliably cause more hypertrophy with no additional time commitment is focusing on the stretch. So whether it's pulling them partials, whether it's aiming for a fuller range of motion, if you're currently not training with a full enough range of motion missing on that stretch, focusing more on the stretch will probably get you more growth with no additional time commitment to speak of. So it's unclear exactly how much more growth that would be. But if it doesn't take any additional time and you're constrained by time, it seems like a no brainer to just focus on the stretch a bit more, get a bit more growth without spending any more time in the gym. Yeah, I don't see many scenarios where skipping on the stretch unless you feel, I don't know, you have some injury or some exercise feel extremely uncomfortable or whatever, but even then you can mitigate by choosing different exercises. I don't think there are many scenarios where skipping on that stretch makes sense or at least not emphasizing it. We're literally talking about an extra half a second or a second. It is not really a big deal. You do not need to go to the maximum possible stretch that feels super uncomfortable and do a deficit push-up off of seven plates to the point where your shoulders hurt. But yeah, that focus on the stretch, I think should be a default regardless of whether you're trying to be time efficient or not. But when you're time efficient, when you're trying to be as time efficient as possible, ensuring that that's there makes even more sense. For sure. All right, next up we have compound movements. This is a relatively no-brainer and I think this has been preached to no end even when you're beginning to get into fitness. But compound movements should form the basis of your training plan, just because they allow you to train a variety of muscles at least reasonably well at once. So let's say for example, you're doing a lat pulldown, right? We have evidence suggesting, as we've previously discussed on the back episode on the podcast, that pulldowns are actually a decent bicep exercise. There is only one study on this, but at least it's some evidence in favor of that being true. Equally, pulldowns also train your lats, your terrace major, your doubts, some of your upper back musculature, even your grip. So we're training a lot of muscles at once, maybe like five, six muscles at once, at least reasonably well. If you want to replace that with isolation movements, you would need to do a lot of different isolation movements to get the sum of its parts, right? So compound movements as the foundation of your training and as a rule of thumb, the more time constrained you are, the higher the proportion of compound movements from your training should be and the lower the proportion of isolation movements. There's going to be times where you might want to incorporate more isolation movements as they can essentially allow you to increase the likelihood of the target muscle being the limiting factor. If you're doing something like a pulldown, theoretically, there is a chance that your bicep skill at first and you're no longer able to produce enough elbow flexion torque to complete the lift. But if you're doing something like a pullover, for example, to isolate your lats, you have less of a chance of that being the case just because it's primarily shoulder extension occurring. So there's going to be a time when you want to include more isolation work, but when your time constrained, probably isn't one of them. Pac? Yeah, for sure. And just to give an example, so you could be doing a super set with an incline dumbbell press and bend over a dumbbell rows. And that super set, you are hitting your chest, your triceps, your front delts, your rear delts, your lats, mid-back, biceps, and in a, I mean, obviously, not all those muscle groups will get the same stimulus, but they're all going to get pretty good stimulus as far as hypertrophy goes, assuming you are going to failure or very, very close to failure. If you're time pressed, doing that versus doing, for example, chest flies and then maybe an isolation exercise for your lats, which obviously would still involve some biceps, I think that's, that can make a big difference for somebody who is time constrained. But yeah, 100, like there's this traditional view of compound movements from back in the day as the big three or the big five and specifically like barbell compound movements, where in reality, any exercise, even if it's a machine exercise, or a dumbbell exercise that involves most many muscle groups simultaneously, is a compound movement and will be a much better option than trying to include isolation work if you're pressed for time. Sure, you can do that if you have those extra minutes at the end of your session, you can always have like an empty slot on your program where you're like, cool, if I have time, I'll also do some bicep curls. But if you've already done three pressing and three pulling exercises, it's likely that your triceps and your biceps as well as other muscle groups are getting a ton of stimulus without you just having to focus on them and then missing out on other muscle groups. Yep, fully agreed. The next tip we have for listeners is minimizing warm up time. So people with a strength background, I think are typically the ones most culpable or guilty of this in that they might spend a bit more time.  alchemyup, then is strictly required. And specifically with warm-up time, it is for hypertrophy specifically now. It is mostly a sunk cost. There's going to be cases where it isn't. If, for example, you have an injury and you find that you need more time to be pain-free or what have you. But as far as directly stimulating muscle hypertrophy, warming up doesn't do much if any of that. The work is simply to some maximal to really stimulate hypertrophy maximally. Similarly, the research around what the best warm-up protocol is, as I think Pac recently did some content on, that's being published on the Strongly Science YouTube channel, so go check that out, is remarkably simple and should be pretty quick. The evidence around warming up, like one of the studies that I'm thinking of, they compared doing a set of just a set at 40% of your max with around 8 reps to just a set with 80% of your max for 8 reps, I think, of working weight, a lot of your max, to using both. And doing both was a bit better than doing just a set of 40% of your working weight or just 80% of your working weight. But just doing a set of 80% of your working weight already gave you most of the benefit. And that's in the absence of any other major warm-up from what I can recall. Pac, you can speak more to this, but from what I understand, a warm-up for hypertrophy does not need to be extensive, especially if you've already done some exercise for that body part in the session. You may not even need more than like one quick set to feel out the weight, essentially. Yeah, exactly. So when it comes to the current literature, yes, for one repetition, maximum strength testing, specifically because it is not like we have longitudinal data, specifically on whether different warm-ups will lead to more favorable strength outcomes over a long period of time. But yeah, if you're going for a one-or-rem for whatever reason, doing a specific warm-up and gradually increasing the load until you're ready to do your test makes sense. But for hypertrophy specifically, it is likely that just a feel set or whatever you want to call it, where you sit down on a chest press machine, use a light load and do a few reps with that, and then jump straight into your set. It is likely that that will be more than enough for you to maximize hypertrophy adaptations in the long term. And I would go as far as to say that for many of you, and obviously that depends on the exercise, if you're doing a machine exercise, you could even jump straight into your working set. I wouldn't recommend it, and spending the extra 20 seconds is not a big deal, but if we're talking theoretical here, I don't think there would be a big issue or a big increase in injury risk. Obviously, if you're doing a bench press, if you're doing an exercise that has some form of skill component, doing a couple more warm-ups may make some sense. But again, if you're pressed for time and you've designed your session, which we will get to in a second, and you've designed your session in a way that makes sense from a time efficiency perspective, and your exercise selection is on point, you will likely be fine by spending very little time on warm-ups. And yeah, overall warm-ups for hypertrophy, I think, are somewhat overrated. I wouldn't recommend doing a bunch of pre-hub and whatever exercises unless you're specifically instructed to by whatever, a healthcare professional or anything of that sort. Get in the gym, fill the first exercise, and if the next exercise that you're doing is targeting a similar muscle group, you don't need to do much. If you go from a chest exercise to a back exercise, again, one or two light sets at the beginning with minimal rest in between, and you're ready to rock for your first set. Beautiful. I think our last three tips that we really have are going to be around hypertrophy specifically, around exercise order. I would say there's like three heuristics I follow, so obviously we have made some content previously on how to best order exercises for progress, and that's on the channel, so you can check that out on the YouTube channel. For hypertrophy, it doesn't seem to play a tremendous role, and so I wouldn't be too concerned with what it is, and that brings me to tip number one, which is be flexible with exercise order. Especially if someone who's busy, and doesn't have much time to train, there's a good chance you're not always picking when you train, and you might have to pick around rush hour. Regardless, if you have to train in at least a somewhat busy gym, being a bit more flexible with your exercise order, meaning you're not tied to exactly how your session is written out, can allow you to avoid waiting around for five or ten minutes until a piece of equipment frees up. Instead, you can just go do another exercise in the meantime, and for hypertrophy, you'll likely see similar growth. So think being flexible with your exercise order as far as doing the third exercise in a session instead of the second one, if the second piece of equipment you need is taken, for example. The second tip around exercise order would be to structure the order in a manageable fashion. So personally, for example, if I try and do squats, and then any other compound lower body exercise right afterwards, I'm going to be inflating my rest times quite heavily, because I'm just out of breath already from the squatting, and if I go into another compound movement, I'm going to get increasingly out of breath to the point where I might feel at least, like I need to take relatively long rest times between sets. Whereas if I do a set for, say, I do my squats, and then I go into, let's say, a machine chest press, I get to sit down. Life is good. I get to catch my breath a little bit. And then if I have to go back to do some legs after, that's totally fine. I'm not going to be out of breath anymore. And so I can actually cut down on rest times with likely no real downside as far as hypertrophy goes. So being reasonable about your exercise order as far as structuring it in a fashion that makes sense for you and your experience as far as what limits, like reduces workout time is also good. And then the final tip I have is in the same vein as for drop sets earlier, where I would make the last set of an exercise a drop set, is to do some of your hardest training as far as how out of breath it gets you, as far as how tiring it is right before you leave the gym. If you do it earlier in the session, like for example, I do high rep leg press midway through my session, that might get me quite out of breath and fatigued for the rest of the session, which might inflate my rest times for the rest of the session a little bit. However, if I do it right before I leave the gym, if I'm driving home or if I'm walking home, I can typically cope with being out of breath if I'm outside the gym. It won't have inflated my rest times and therefore inflated my total workout time. And so that can also help with reducing workout time in my experience. Pac, anything else to add as far as hypertrophy goes? Not really. You hit the nail on the head. Beautiful. I think you noted down a few tips for making strength training more natural. Is that right? Yes, for sure. We've obviously alluded to a couple of things at the beginning of the episode, just because we didn't want the strength enthusiasts to sign off and be like, oh boy, this is another muscle growth episode. However, as Mila alluded to at the beginning, the first tip would be, cut your training volume significantly. The current literature on training volume and strength suggests that even with around 10 sets per lift per week, you may be looking at close to maximum strength gains, and that's not really a ton of volume, but you could go as low as three to six heavy sets in the one to five rep range for the lifts that you're trying to get stronger in. Now, the research that we have is specifically in squat, bench, and deadlift with one orem as the main outcome. So number one tip, do less training volume. That is going to make things much more manageable as far as time goes. Do your accessories as supersets. That's something that I often see take more time than is needed. If you're a powerlifter or somebody who is power building, do your heavy squat, your single, or whatever your set of one to five, your one back of set, that can be done if you're methodical about your warm-ups and you're not just socializing in the gym. We're taking a lot of time just between sets. Doing your accessories as warm-ups following your heavy set can make your session much, much more time efficient. Doing, resting less in certain strength movements is also a good way to further minimize the time in the gym. Now, I'm not saying spend the rest 30 seconds between a heavy set of squats, but instead of resting for five minutes, rest for three minutes. Sure, it may be that you're leaving something on the table, but it's likely not going to be a huge issue. And for strength specifically, based on the latest meta regression by Robinson and Dowell that looked at specifically proximity to failure, you can probably get away with doing some heavy, but not very close to failure sets for your strength work. So you could go in, do a single on RP6 to 7 or RIR3 to 4 for your squat. Do a couple of back of sets that won't require a ton of rest in between because you will be quite far from failure. And then following the other tips, super setting, doing drop sets, doing all your accessories in the most time efficient manner. Obviously, using the tips that we've talked about for hypertrophy and implementing it, implementing them for your accessories will make things super manageable. But if you're a strength-pilled individual who just cares about strength, you want to go in and out to the gym in no time. A few heavy sets, three to six heavy sets per lift per week are likely to be enough for you to make meaningful gains. Do those, adjust and add as time availability permits, but keep in mind that it's likely that for six to twelve weeks you can make amazing gains, maybe not optimal gains, but still solid enough gains without spending too much time in the gym. And that's it for strength. Beautiful. You crushed it. Why don't we move into some Q&A? I will hit us off because the first question is about powerlifting and you're the resident strength-lifter here. Nathan Beckett on a platform I'm assuming is Facebook. I would love to hear your thoughts on some ideas for time-effective powerlifting and powerbuilding. How can you milk the most strength gains out of your workout without being someone who spends hours in the gym? And how would you then modify that for a mixed powerbuilding approach? The best response, well two responses. One, check my previous response a second ago. And the other response is check out the powerbuilding episode that we released before this one where we cover powerbuilding. I think powerbuilding can be organized in a way where things are very manageable as far as time efficiency goes. I'm not going to repeat exactly what I just said, but essentially hit two to three heavy sets at the beginning of your training. Very specific to one RM strength specifically. So in one, two, I'd say three. If even five rep range, do that. Don't go to failure. Don't have a squat single that requires you to get hyped and have six people around you and you barely make it and then you need ten minutes to rest for your next single. At least a couple of reps away from failure and then combine some of the time efficiency strategies we mentioned for all your hypertrophy work. And you could be looking at near optimal strength gains and even closer to optimal hypertrophy gains. Like if you really sit down and just plan everything beforehand versus just going in the gym and trying to make your current program fit those parameters. If you make some adjustments, I wouldn't be surprised if you can have your cake, eat it, buy another cake, eat that and then complain to the Stronger by Science Support Team for gaining weight from unnecessary cake eating suggestions. Hey, let's go. I think you killed it. I think our last two podcast episodes are essentially answering this exact question. I think if you combine the tips we gave for making hypertrophy training more time efficient and some of the tips we gave for making strength training more time efficient. Congratulations. You have a time efficient power building approach. Thank you. I'll read the next question to you and then we can just go back to back. So Joel Phillips from Facebook, not the, like from the Facebook group, not working at Facebook. How do you reconcile the research suggesting that drop sets are roughly as effective as straight set training for hypertrophy with the rest time research that might indicate that maintenance of volume load in later sets is an important driver of hypertrophy stimulus. IE drop sets should lead to a much lower volume load per individual drop set. Sure. So I'm going to give you a couple of answers there. The first one is based on our meta regression. Sorry, based on our metanast actually by singling colleagues on rest times with rest times of less than 60 seconds. The effect size associated for hypertrophy is around 0.4. The effects associated with hypertrophy from one to two minutes of rest between sets is closer to around 0.5. Going off memory. With drop set research specifically, we see that we observe similar hypertrophy from an additional 30% of drop sets as an equivalent number of straight sets. So essentially you need to do 30% more drop sets to make up for the difference in stimulus. The difference in stimulus between resting for less than one minute and one to two minutes in the single metanosis is also around 30%. So I think that kind of paints the picture pretty well that one each individual drop set is less effective than each individual straight set with a regular rest interval. That much is clear because it seems like you need around 30% more sets with drop sets to get to the same muscle growth. We also have research on rest time suggesting that's the case with minimal rest time between sets less than 60 seconds that does result in less hypertrophy than one to two minutes. So that all plays well together. And finally, I think the consideration with drop sets is as I mentioned earlier, I think no one here at Strongwell Science, speaking for Greg and Pak Tuha, is a fundamentalist effective reps enjoyer. Meaning to say that we think that it is only the last five to eight reps before failure or whatever you want to call it, that truly matter for hypertrophy. It's more gradual than that. While the last rep before failure might be a bit more effective than a few reps before failure, rep per rep, it's probably not a lightening difference. And so drop sets, which allow you to train past failure on each subsequent drop set, those reps might be slightly more effective on average than if you were just doing a traditional set for those first two reps. So when you combine these few things, that resting for a bit less time, like under 60 seconds, is around 30% less effective than resting for only two minutes. And the fact that drop sets allow you to train past failure, essentially, which slightly increases how effective each individual rep is, that kind of explains why we see similar hypertrophy from around 30% more drop sets compared to the equivalent number of straight sets. So yeah, that's my personal take. I'm open to being proven wrong by facts and logic by the Honourable Doctor Pack. Yes, not many facts and definitely not any logic here to counteract that. I definitely agree there. So let me hit you with the next one. Hit me. We have NH, I assume that's how you pronounce it. I assume that's not a real name. On Facebook, who asks us, I fear that what I'm curious about there won't be any data for. So in the absence of longitudinal data, what does your albeit highly educated gut tell you? How long can we use these sorts of strategies before lack of training time because of the living factor in creating new training adaptations? What evidence can we look for as individuals to determine if this is a significant factor that's holding us back? So if I understand it correctly, that person is saying, okay, when can we actually tell that I'm not having enough time in the gym is actually now costing us or killing our gains? I think so, but give me your answer first and I will follow up. It's a tricky question because based on the current evidence on all the training strategies to minimize time spent in the gym that we discussed, it does seem that the evidence is there for them being effective for hypertrophy for similar timelines like traditional sets or straight sets. We're talking like 8 to 12 week time periods. But the way you'd go about assessing whether time is an issue, I think you'd have to look at how that's affecting things like training volume and intensity of effort, more specifically proximity to failure. I don't think time spending the gym itself as a sole variable would be what you'd look at. But if you are finding that for whatever reason, you cannot do supersets or you're not getting enough volume in or you're unable to train hard enough, I think that would be the first way. The main way that you'd determine whether time efficient training or time in the gym is your main limiting factor. Aside from that, I don't have much else to say. Yeah, I agree wholeheartedly. I think the question asked her had two components to this question. The first one is an inbuilt assumption that time saving techniques become less effective over time, which I think we don't have the evidence to suggest that. I don't think antagonistic period supersets are only effective for so long and then they become less effective and your time starts holding you back more than before, unless being equal. I don't think the effectiveness of these techniques really decays over time. I don't think it's novelty mediating these things necessarily. And so I think that assumption needs to be challenged. And so it's a. I could see a factor of time playing a role in the sense that as you become more trained as a lifter, eventually you may or may not benefit from doing more volume overall. And if you start the exact same amount of time to train, these techniques will only compensate for that so much. But I think that inherently these techniques do not become less effective over time. So that's not really a consideration. And I think that it essentially comes down to there is an amount of training time per week that any given individual would need to have to maximize their progress. If they have any less than that, we can use time saving techniques to compensate for it to a large extent, but they are reducing their potential progress to some level. And that is that remains the case even down the line as you become used to these techniques that doesn't change. So yeah, that's basically how I see it. Does that make sense? Well, yeah, definitely. So I'll hit you with the next question. By Randy D 718 from Reddit. Can you give us an example of a 30 minute 45 minute and a 60 minute push pull routine? Give us a sense of what things you'd prioritize for what time frames. What would you add if you had more time? Maybe you would just do a little bit of everything and that sets. I can give I have a ready example if you want me to give it. Please do. So this from an up and coming free program that I'll be releasing. I'm not going to plug this here, but this is how it goes. This is a superset base routine. So the first day you'd be doing push and pull. Essentially, incline dumbbell press supersetted with bend over dumbbell rows, dumbbell chest flies supersetted with dumbbell pullovers, cable lateral raises supersetted with cable rows. And last, dumbbell overhead tricep extensions supersetted with dumbbell bicep curls. The number of sets and reps depend on how much time you have available. I've allocated about four sets to each exercise and the rep ranges around 8 to 12 reps at 0 to 2 RIR. So that would be an example of a relatively, relatively quick push pull day. Obviously, just by adjusting the number of sets, you'd be looking at more or less time. So this could be a 30 minute day, could be a 45 minute day, could be a 60 minute day. As we alluded to the majority of exercises there are compound exercises with some exceptions. Actually, half are compound exercises. And yeah, that would be that would be a push pull example as far as legs goes. Now, I'll pass the baton to you in a second for legs, but an easy way. So what I've done here is I have some straight sets or two straight sets for a squat pattern exercise. So three straight sets followed by hip hinge exercise. So a squat leg press or a hack squat followed by a Romanian deadlift or another hip hinge exercise. And then we have a superset in the form of leg extensions and seated leg curls or reverse Nordic curls and seated leg curls again. But what are some other leg exercises you could add to that? Yeah, so I'm not going to go too much into what a push pull legs routine will look like because that would take us probably an hour plus to actually flesh out and make intelligible over a podcast. So apologies for not directly addressing the question here. But for leg day specifically, since that kind of compliments your answer, I think as a one off tip, compound lower body movements can broadly be categorized into two types and both of them are essentially a leave one muscle group out type. You have the hip hinge type, which trains your hip extensors really well and your lower back. So that would be hamstrings, adductors, which is maximus and your erectors, but doesn't train your quads. So that's leaving the quads out. And then the second category would be any sort of squat or lunge type pattern, which could be anything like a leg press, like a split squat, like a pistol squat even, which trains your quads, glutes and adductors really well. And it leaves the hamstrings out. Right. So as far as the major muscle groups of the lower body, both of these movements can train most of the lower body really well, minus like one muscle, which is either the quads for the hip hinges or the hamstrings for the lunging slash squatting style patterns. So a really quick workout to train most of your lower body pretty well would be one of these two categories. So either a hip hinge or a squat style movement, then complimented with an isolation movement for whatever muscle it didn't train. So you could combine the split squat or lunge type movement with the leg curl to train the hamstrings, and you compliment the hip hinge type movement with some sort of quad isolation movement, since the quads didn't get trained very well. And all of a sudden in two exercises you've trained most of your lower body pretty effectively. Could you add in some calf work? Absolutely. Right. If you wanted to. Could you add in some training for slightly smaller muscles that don't get trained very well? Like for example, if you did a split squat or leg press, you wouldn't train your rectus femoris all that well. Sure. But if you're talking strictly in the context of like a minimalist leg day in 30 minutes, that can take you a really long way. And if you did two of those a week with a slight variation to kind of remedy some of the small muscles you didn't target, and just two half an hour leg days a week, you can target most stuff pretty well. You're not going to win any Mr. Olympia titles, but it is going to get you some decent growth. So yeah, since we're not going to be able to respond to this question in too much depth, I think that's about as good as we can do. Yeah, agreed. I'll read the next question to you since I answered the question myself. So this is by Stimg Stimg Stimg. Let's spend 10 minutes now pronouncing the name from Reddit. Unilateral movements always seem to fall by the wayside when I am pressed for time because they basically take twice as long. Are there any clever strategies for squeezing those in? Yeah, so I'm going to put forth a hot take that Mr. Stimg Stimg. I'm going to keep pronouncing it in random ways until we figure it out. Stamg. I'm going to put forth a hot take that Mr. Unnamed Shaw potentially disagree with. And that's that I don't think unilateral or bilateral movements are inherently much more time efficient than one another. While bilateral movements involve a half number of sets, they also typically involve a bit more warming up. For instance, I can warm up for a set of pistol squats within about two minutes, or maybe even less than that if I wanted to. A set of barbell squats with both my legs, it would take me substantially more than that just as far as setup goes and everything else. The absolute load being used is quite a bit larger. Additionally, I think it sounds like the question-asker might be making the mistake of resting for a full rest interval between each side. So they do a set for the left side, they take a full two minutes, let's say, and then they do the right side. And then they rest for a full two minutes and then they do the left side. In reality, test this out, see how your performance is, but you might just be able to go back and forth with minimal detriment. So what I mean by that is, do your left side maybe take like 15 seconds of rest and do your right side and then rest for two minutes and then repeat. You probably don't need to take as much rest between sides as you think, unless you feel super out of breath from one side. And if you do, it might be a rep range issue or an exercise issue rather than specifically a lack of rest between sides. Like, I personally think you can go pretty heavy on split squats and pistol squats, for example, and that actually works pretty well. So yeah, that's what I would generally say about why lateral movements seem to fall by the wayside for this question-asker. Any additional information? No. You hit the nail on the head again, you keep hitting that nail on the head all the time. Let me ask this the next question. Cool. Wolfpack Enge 22 from Reddit. Truly one of our favorite listeners. Totally not us, by the way. Indeed. For the time crunched, early morning lifter, how can you make your room up meaningful to your training goal? Can you incorporate prehab or even meaningful volume into the routine? I'm not a big fan of the word prehab as far as direct evidence goes for prehab being effective to preventing injury or rehabbing injury. We don't have much, if anything. And I would just say that, hey, do a very quick warm up as we discussed and get into your routine. Now, if you have been prescribed prehab by a professional for whatever to treat an injury by your physiotherapist, actually now there's more to the question. I need significantly more warm up for morning sessions and it often seems like it's taking up too much of my session time. But if I neglected activation, prehab and multiple warm upsets, I get all types of aches and pains, particularly if I'm lifting heavy. I think that you may be suffering from somewhat of a nocebo here when it comes to activation, prehab and multiple warm upsets. I'd say that if you're doing your heavy work, just doing a few more light warm upsets with the modality that your training in should suffice. And I'd just be skeptical with drawing this sort of connection between activation, prehab and aches and pains. Now, obviously, I can not tell you that you're not feeling any aches or pains, but my recommendation would be if you're squatting, do a few more warm upsets with a bar without spending too much time on them, rest for 20 to 30 seconds between each set, bang those out relatively quickly and then potentially leave one or two extra reps in reserve for your heavy work. That may help you feel a bit better. But the way the question is phrased, it may also be that you may be in the gym not fully ready to go yet because of your sleep or whatever. There's other things that could be done.  I'd be leading to you feeling that way, but I'd be confident in saying that just doing a specific warm-up and slightly extending that before your heavy lifting should suffice and activation and prehab are probably more on the waste of time side of things, especially if you're pressed for time, right? Like if you said, hey, I have all the time in the world, these things make me feel great, even if they're a waste of time as far as adaptations goes, all for doing them, but in your case specifically, add just prioritized specific warm-ups and just spend a bit more time there. That's it, it's very difficult to answer it with a conclusive recommendation without obviously knowing you and knowing all the terms and conditions that go on with your life. Yeah, I agree with that. I think obviously none of this is meant to be medical advice and if you're consistently experiencing pains, it might be worth seeing a physiotherapist about it, but just on a lack of context, lack of knowledge about the situation basis, I do think activation and prehab and excessive warm-ups may not be the best use of your time strictly from a driving adaptations perspective. If you visit a physiotherapist or medical professional and they recommend doing this, that is all well and good, but just without any additional context, that's what I would say. Cool, next question from Matt Soskins on Facebook. I want to know about optimizing versus diminishing returns from Carpinelli and Otto 1998 to today. If I spend twice as much time lifting, how much more results do I get? What if I do half as much twice as often? How do I maximize efficiency of time in the gym? Now, it's important obviously for the latter part of the question, we've gone through it for one hour and a half now, but for the first part, I wouldn't necessarily look at just time as the variable that will determine your gains. Obviously, if we're making the assumption that time equals volume, then that's a whole other kind of worms. Let me ask it back to you, what would you say here? Actually, I'll send my reply and then pass the ball to you. So if you are sacrificing a lot of training volume by spending less time in the gym, you could literally be looking at 50% less gains. There is more evidence coming out soon on the relationship between volume and hypertrophy that sort of pushes back that minimum effective training dose to as far as percentage of gains acquired goes. Now, that was a weirdly structured sentence, but what I'm trying to say is that our current understanding up until recently based on the Bas-Val and more specifically the Schoenfeld meta-analysis on training volume and hypertrophy, showed that with a couple of sets, your first three sets will get you roughly 50% to 60% of your gains. However, it may be that you need roughly closer to 10 sets to get somewhere around 30% to 40% of your potential gains. So with that in mind, it will depend on how you've actually structured your sessions and what time efficiency training techniques you're using and how much volume you're able to get. So it is not that if I say, oh, I spent 60 minutes in the gym and Milo spends 120 minutes in the gym. Therefore Milo will get twice as much hypertrophy simply because he's in the gym for longer. We could be getting the same amount of hypertrophy if I'm doing supersets and dropsets and my exercise selection is on point. And Milo is there doing sets of five on squats and resting for five minutes per set and taking his time between each exercise. So I would view this question more from a volume side of things as it pertains to both hypertrophy and strength. So yeah, that's my response there. I think that's pretty solid. I'm going to give you a behind the curtain sneak peek. We have knowledge, knowledge of data that is yet to be published. That should be pre-printed pretty soon, to be honest. We won't go into the details because things might still change, et cetera. But I think as a general heuristic, when it comes to hypertrophy and volume, there's ways to get more volume in less time as we've discussed repeatedly throughout this episode. But ultimately, doing more volume will take more time. So in this case, we'll use volume as a proxy stand-in for time. The general heuristic seems to be that doubling your volume or how many sets you do for a muscle in a given training week gives you roughly 50% more growth relative to how much growth you were getting before. So around five sets per week per muscle is where you start seeing appreciable muscle growth. And then for every doubling of volume, that might give you an extra 50% of growth. Let's say, for example, you were due to gain four pounds of muscle in a year by doing 10 sets a week for a muscle. If you went to 20 sets a week for that muscle, you might expect 15 pounds, so an additional 50% growth. That seems to be the general heuristic that holds up reasonably well from around five sets to around 30-ish sets per week per muscle. Those are some of the findings. So I'd say you're essentially dealing with diminishing returns from the get-go. Like those first two sets you do in the gym per week are going to be the most bang for your buck, the highest marginal returns. But that doesn't mean you can still see appreciable increases in hypertrophy going higher and higher in volume, but you are fighting an uphill battle, pun intended. So yeah, doubling the volume seems to roughly result in a plus 50% hypertrophy up until around 30% or 30 sets per week per muscle. So whether or not that is ultimately meaningful and relevant to you and you're going to spend more time in the gym, it's up to you. Then there you have it. That wraps up our Q&A for today. It is, I know people are like, okay, time for part two of this episode now. It's only been an hour and a half, but no, time efficient training, time efficient podcast, especially if you play that four times the speed as the grind said recommends and you haven't understood anything, but hey, that bar looks full and you've listened to the podcast. But joking aside, this is it. We are living in a society, but we are also living in a time where making amazing gains and making a ton of gains is much more flexible and easy to do than some of us may have thought. In the past, time efficient training is not for beginners or for those that just wanna make some gains, you can make amazing strength and hypertrophy gains in much less time. Obviously some sacrifices will need to be made, but we hope that this podcast episode helps you, manage your training better, still remain not just physically active, but gains active and still be on that gain train during periods of time where life gets in the way. And the both of us at the moment are traveling quite a bit. We are in different time zones. We are obviously working and doing research and all that sort of jazz and take our anecdote for whatever is worth, but this is the way we've been training for the past few months and not really feeling like we're sacrificing much as far as hypertrophy goes. Keep in mind, we are literally talking about making substantial gains, not maintaining or just getting a tiny bit or just seeing that needle sort of move a tiny bit during busy periods. So life is good, gains can be made even if you don't have tons of time or tons of equipment or whatever, do your best, follow these practical tips and don't forget to check out strongerbyscience.com for the entirety of the Stronger by Science universe, subscribe to the YouTube channel and we'll see you guys and hear you guys next time. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace.

=== FILE: Warm-Ups, Stretching, and Injuries (Episode 141) [a2VAbWrCdGg].txt ===

 guessing вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам for all of you today. But yeah, just before we get into it, how's it going guys? All good. The summer from hell is officially over. 11 flights in three months, multiple trips to the States. We are finally done with the infamous, soon to be famous, just kidding. Full ROM versus partial study. This, which will be pre-printed in the next two to three weeks. Today is September the fifth. So by the time you're listening to this podcast, you'll be mere days out from the big reveal of the results. Very excited to share that with the world. Other than that, it was great spending time with you in person, in Ireland, in Limerick, and in Southampton and Bristol. Lots of hugging and other things that we will not disclose here. But I mean, I didn't say what things, so thanks for assuming things listener. But yeah, that's me, all good. 100%, same thing here. 20th of September might be the provisional release date for the pre-print, if people want to be in the know. But yeah, all good. Happy to have seen the Knuckles household recently in the UK, it's been phenomenal. And looking forward to talking about warm-ups today. So, Greg, how are you? Oh, I can't complain, I can't complain. Yeah, it was good being over in the Isles, seeing everyone in Ireland going to EPC, and yeah, hanging out with you guys over in the UK. And seeing Stonehenge, when our travel day, for the listener, our travel day between Southampton and Bristol, we didn't really have anything in particular planned. And I just looked at a map and I was like, oh, I don't know if these would be the fastest roads, but Stonehenge is smack dab in the middle of these two places, have you ever been? And Pac, you were like, no, I don't think so, which to me, wild, like big old rocks, how did the Druids do it? I have no idea, but yeah, yeah, I've always wanted to see Stonehenge as well, so that was very cool. And the experience of seeing Stonehenge was also, I think the UK does it right in a way that America wouldn't, in that it was just big old rocks out in nature, at least one assumes, I don't think there's any archeology suggesting that there was a big city or whatever built up around it. And you definitely still get that, whereas I feel like if it was a thing in the US, it would be kind of like overly commercialized and there would just be like a, like the Stonehenge experience for some shit. But yeah, like to get there, there's like a parking lot and then you just like walk through a cow field and it's like, ah, here are the rocks. And I loved it, I loved it, that's exactly how I would want it to go. But today, we're not talking about rocks, we're not talking about pre-printing studies, we're not talking about meeting dear friends in person over in Ireland and the UK. We are in fact talking about warm-ups. But before we do that, just some quick plugs up top and then we'll get into the episode. So if you listen to the show, you like it, you enjoy it, and you haven't done any of these things yet, consider liking, rating, or subscribing on your preferred podcast listening platform and tell your friends, it really helps us out. Second, if you're interested in hiring a coach to work with, you should check out the Stronger by Science coaching program. That's if you have goals related to either training or nutrition, and our coaches are great. So you can learn more at strongerbycicience.com slash coaching. If you'd like to get some supplements from a reliable source that also has good prices and you want those prices to be even better, you can go to balksupplements.com and use code SBSpod at checkout for a massive 5% discount, truly, truly wild. If you want to stay up to date with all of the goings on in the Stronger by Science Extended Universe, check us out on Facebook and Reddit. That's Stronger by Science Community on Facebook and reddit.com slash r slash Stronger by Science. And last but not least, if you want a more convenient way to get a bunch of our best content sent right to your inbox without getting spanned with a bunch of ads and other associated bullshit, check out our newsletter where we send you high quality, informative content every couple of weeks, it's good stuff. You can do that at strongerbycicience.com slash newsletter. Let's get into it. Usually, I have an admittedly very low effort opening question to start a podcast and it's mostly just like, what do you think about or do you have experience with this thing? And this one is so obvious, it's very stupid and therefore I have to do it. So, hey guys, what's your experience with warm-ups? Have you done warm-ups? Do you like it? So, I have indeed. And the thing with warm-ups is coming up as a strength trainee and semi-powered lifter at some point. I was under the impression that, hey, we gotta do the dynamic stretching, the McGill Big Three or whatever they're called, the bird dog, the dog bird, the mobility drill, and then the specific warm-up. And then as I slowly got more familiar with the literature, things became much more minimal. And since, let's say 2021 or so, when I switched to like 95 to 98% hypertrophy-oriented training, warm-ups for anything that is not a barbell exercise that has a bit more of a skill component, have been the simplest thing ever. Go to the gym sometimes in jeans, bang out a couple of easy sets on an exercise, and just get to it. So yeah, my experience with warm-ups and my overall feeling with warm-ups, but we'll get to the details right after Milo Scherzi's own experience with warm-ups. So, what about you, pal? Yeah, it goes all the way back to, I wanna say Christmas 2015, perhaps, which incidentally is also the year I asked for the art and science of lifting for Christmas. But alongside that, I also requested several things I am not as proud to admit, specifically a foam roller, a lacrosse ball, and some voodoo floss band. Keep in mind, upon no real physical medical advice or anything, I was just like, I need these things for warming-up purposes. And I tried using them, and more than behold, besides getting some pain while foam rolling, as anyone does, I didn't really get much out of it in all likelihood. But yeah, I think gradually my warm-ups have become a lot more streamlined over the years. Nowadays, with hypertrophy training specifically, it's maximum two warm-upsets, and sometimes one warm-up set, and sometimes no warm-upsets. So it's somewhere between two and zero, consistently. Which, based on the research, as we'll get into in this episode, I think might not be a bad approach for hypertrophy training, whereas for strength, I usually do a bit more than that. Maybe just getting some heavier weights, working up slowly until I get to my target weight. But that's essentially it. I don't really do much of anything. I guess I walk through the gym, which raises body temperature at least a little bit, and that's about it, really. Greg, how about yourself? How do you warm-up? Yeah, so my... Like, I grew up playing sports, and so I was exposed to a lot of different styles of warming up with that, just because I think there were at least, at least in the US, just different kind of old-school conventions about how to warm-up for different sports. So like, two examples are for football. Every team that I was on had like a, God, probably like 10 to 15 minute, at least, if not 20, like kind of calisthenics-based warm-up before every practice, every game. Like, the idea of needing to do a very thorough dynamic warm-up was very deeply ingrained in football culture. And then the very next season is basketball, where warm-ups are just like, yeah, we're gonna run lay-up lines for like three minutes, and then it's time to practice or play. So, yeah, yeah, so I was exposed to either you can warm-up forever, or you can basically not warm-up, and whatever, athletes in both sports would do those things, and everyone more or less seemed to be okay. When I got into lifting, I came from like a sports background, like I was working with someone for like improving my sports performance, and then whatever, like transition into powerlifting. So I do think early on, I still had kind of a, kind of like sportsy, like fairly long dynamic warm-up, like doing the type of stuff, like the types of things one might do to make, like to theoretically reduce their risk of a hamstring strain if they're running sprints. You know, we'll talk about injury risk in this episode, but that was the intention of like a lot of this stuff. And then I realized like, wait a second, this is a bench press workout. Like I don't need to do stuff to reduce my risk of a hamstring strain here. So yeah, I think much like you guys, over the years my approach to warming up has gotten progressively more minimal. To the point now where it is just maybe a set with the bar with my first, like for my first lift of the day, maybe two more warm-up sets going up if it's more of a strength workout. And that's it. And then by the time I get to my second exercise of the day, I'm warm enough from the first exercise that I basically don't need to warm up for it. The only exception there is, is if it's like a full body workout. And you know, if my first thing is squats, my second thing is deadlifts. And my working sets for deadlifts is like somewhere in the fives or sixes. Like I'm not gonna jump straight to that. Like I'm still gonna do some stuff to build up there. But if it's like, yeah, my first thing is bench press. And my second thing is like chest supported rows. I know, like my body generally is warm enough after benching. I'm just gonna put my working weight on the chest supported rows and I'm good to go. So yeah, yeah, much, much more minimal these days. I think cutting down on warm up times can appreciably reduce workout times too. Like especially if you're currently spending 20, 30, even more minutes sometimes warming up, cutting it down to five to 10, can really allow you to do a lot more work in your session like additional five sets will have you. It can really add up. So there's something to stay care with good warm ups I guess. I will say in a consistent experience I've had is like if I feel like I need a longer warm up, the real cause is just, I've just been sitting around like a knot on the log in day to day life. So if I've been sedentary for 23 hours per day for the last like four days, then yeah, like I feel like I need a bit of a longer work, a bit of a longer warm up just to kind of get everything going. And I do wonder if that's why some people feel like they need longer warm ups, but yeah, I think for a lot of stuff, I think if that is a feeling you have, you could take a longer warm up, which then might make your sessions feel like they take a little longer, or like my experiences when I kind of get into those modes sometimes, just carving out like 10 minutes in the evening to just kind of like stretch and like move around a little bit helps a lot. And then when I go to the gym, I don't need quite as long of like a dedicated warm up time before workouts. Man, we're five minutes in and I'm already in non sequitur mode. Cool, but yeah, yeah, so in general, I agree. You can constrain workout times quite a bit if you don't have to warm up for quite as long. So what is a warm up supposed to achieve? We actually have a review paper by McGowan and colleagues from 2015 that is titled warm up strategies for sport and exercise, mechanisms and applications. And essentially this is a pretty big review paper that aim to look at all the things that might make a warm up effective for enhancing performance in a variety of physical tasks. So as far as performance goes, what are the mechanisms that might help you perform better after warming up, which can then help inform us as to, hey, what might a good warm up look like to boost your performance? And there's a few things. Warm ups generally can enhance performance via different effects and there's kind of more proximal effects and more downstream effects. So for instance, warm ups have thought to influence excess performance via increases in ATP turnover, muscle cross, bridge cycling and oxygen up to kinetics, which all enhance muscular function. So those three things occurring downstream then enhance muscular function, but even upstream of that, for example, physiologically, most organisms tend to be more metabolically efficient at higher temperatures. So one of the things a warm up is supposed to do is just to raise your body temperature a little bit in order to make, for example, glycogen availability increase a little bit, improve oxygen kinetics, whether it's delivery of oxygen via your bloodstream or extraction from the bloodstream into your muscles. It can even increase modern recruitment. So essentially how well is your nervous system able to activate motor units and muscle fibers that are attached to it? So there's a variety of physiological effects that occur, but many of them physiologically at least seem to be linked to an increase in temperature. And many other things happen downstream of that. One of the most proximal things physiologically, increase in temperature, downstream from that, a variety of things like muscle glycogen availability, blood flow, oxygen kinetics, all that sort of stuff. However, physiological mechanisms aren't the only things that may be involved. So for instance, one area of research that's been emerging a lot more recently is around neuro mechanisms. One specifically that's been termed as a number of term, the post activation performance enhancement effect or PAPE for short. And as we'll delve into later into this episode when we're talking performance, there's been quite a lot of research finding that doing certain warm up tasks can thereafter increase strength performance, whether it's strength endurance or even potentially maximal strength. And that's what's been termed the post activation performance enhancement effect. However, it's potentially not just physiological or even neural, it could also be psychological. So certain strategies like visualization, using certain Q-wads, like focusing on certain Qs or being given certain Q-wads. Having a certain attentional focus, such as like psyching up before you exercise, which can be considered part of a warm up. Those things have sometimes been shown to increase performance as part of a warm up routine. And they're generally thought to do so via narrowing your attentional focus on the task you're supposed to be doing. And as a quick aside, I noticed some research around, for example, using social media between sets reducing performance. I could see this kind of being somewhat in the same vein of, hey, if a warm up allows you to get your head in the game a little bit, it might increase performance a little bit. However, from like a bird's eye view, I think there's a few things to keep in mind for a good warm up and what it's supposed to achieve. First, when it comes to increasing muscle temperature, which is probably the main thing to pay attention to physiologically, that seems to occur around, like your muscle temperature seems to reach a peak or equilibrium that you kind of wanna reach after around 10 to 20 minutes of moderate intensity exercise. So if you're just doing moderate intensity exercise, 10 to 20 minutes seems like a roughly decent ballpark. Obviously that might be different if, for example, you're walking to the gym, wherein you're increasing body temperature and muscle temperature via the activity of walking, which is in itself, moderate intensity exercise. By the way, most people define it. So yeah, just some consideration there of the rough duration that has been shown to enhance performance by different mechanisms. But it has a variety of mechanisms through which it can act, the most proximal ones are muscle temperature, post-activation performance enhancement, nearly, and then finally, a potential psychological benefit, although there's a bit less robust research on this potentially compared to physiological mechanisms, like increases in muscle temperature and the post-activation performance enhancement effect, which we do now have a fair amount of research in favor of as we'll discuss later in the episode. But that's kind of the bird's eye view of what a warmup is supposed to do, which is to say, warm me up, oddly enough, wasn't obvious from the name, potentially give you that post-activation performance enhancement effect, and finally, maybe allow you to narrow your attentional focus a little bit on the task at hand, which might help as well. Greg, pack any objections, comments on this paper? No objections for me. That is, yeah, that is all of the stuff that I kind of assumed you were supposed to get out of a warmup. I do truly think that just the fact that it's called a warmup really does point in the right direction of what it's supposed to achieve, and I do think that that is often missed on people. Yeah, it's supposed to raise the muscle temperature, a lot of those enzymes and whatnot do function better at a slightly elevated temperature, and so, yeah, there are potentially other mechanisms in play and other things you accomplish with it, but really and truly, warming up helps warm you up, and warming up physically, like elevating temperature, good thing, state you wanna be in pre-exercise, so yeah, yeah, that's fully what I expected to hear. Pack? It also lets people know that you're super serious and you're like an actual athlete, so especially for lifters, like, if the rest of the gym is not seeing you there, doing stuff that they are not really familiar with and seeing you spend at least 30 minutes doing easy things, then you run the risk of being looked down upon as just a mere lifter and not some, like, potential Olympic athlete, in terms of, this is applied, Olympic athlete, not included. That is true, that is true. Yeah, oh man, I, that is one of my favorite gym people, like, especially some guy who you know doesn't compete in any sports, like it's someone who probably has a desk job and recently really got into a particular type of training content and yeah, whoever they're following really convinced them that a full 30 minute dynamic warm up is critical. And so you're just like, I'm in Gold's gym, there's really no dedicated place to do any of this and this guy's trying to do some bounding and everyone else in the gym is looking at him and I'm like, ah, you'll figure it out one day and for the time being, I just hope you're having fun. That is one of my favorite gym characters for sure. We've talked about what warm ups are supposed to achieve so now let's talk a little bit about, do they actually achieve them? So let's start with injury prevention. That's a big reason why people warm up. Does it work? Does it work? Is your injury risk reduced by doing a thorough warm up or some specific type of warm up? What does the research have to say about that? Yeah, so before we get into the segment, I wanna make clear none of this is medical advice. This is just the research that appears to be available out there and in putting together the segment, I did consult with physiotherapist as well, just to make sure I wasn't too off base in any of my interpretation and this is just the rough takeaways from the research. If you have injuries or if you're worried about them, don't take advice from us, we are not physiotherapists or medical professionals. So the first issue in trying to understand whether or not warming up will prevent injury from lifting is that we don't have much if any research on injuries from lifting and moral protocols. Turns out conducting a study where you're exposing two groups, one to a warm up protocol and the other to no warm protocol, I think a lot of ethics boards have some degree of trepidation with allowing that study to pass in the first place just because there is a deeply ingrained belief in people's minds, including ethics boards that warm ups do prevent injury. That therefore, if you're exposing one group to no warming up before exercising, you are potentially gonna harm them. So that's one of the reasons. Other reason, I think most people don't care about lifting and the money is not in lifting necessarily, like as we'll soon find out, there is a fair amount of research in other sports. So for example, in football or soccer in America, well, we do have a fair bit of research, but when it comes to lifting, not very much. A few other things about lifting specifically that make it somewhat different from many other sports or activities. For one, lifting generally has very low injury rates. So compared to sports like running, right? Running has relatively high rates of injury per 10,000 hours. I think last I checked, it's around 10 to 20 per 10,000 hours. If I'm not mistaken, or a thousand hours actually. Whereas lifting is more in the realm of one to five, depending on the specific sports you're looking at, sometimes even lower. So bodybuilding typically has the lowest injury rates, followed by powerlifting and crossfit and weightlifting, usually followed with strongman being highest in terms of injury rates of the kind of strength sports. Greg? What sport did you say had injury rates that high? Running? No, no, no, no. I mean, it depends, like there are levels to running, obviously. I think that there are, God, I haven't looked at this research in a while, but my memory is that like elite level competitive running has higher injury rates. But you know, like to kind of compare apples to apples there because the research looking at say injury rates and powerlifters are just people participating in powerlifting, not necessarily people who are placing like top 10 at IPF Worlds or whatever. My memory is that injury rates for recreational runners were also somewhere in the neighborhood of like three per thousand hours, like around where you see strength sports. I could be misremembering that, but yeah, I kind of thought it was somewhere there the two to five range and the higher rates were for, I think like the very highest competitive levels of running or super long distance running, one of the two. So just a quick search, the stuff I'm finding, like for example, a paper titled, incidents of running related injuries per thousand hours of running in different types of runners, a systematic review and meta analysis. The ballpark estimate seems to be closer to 10 to 20, like it's injury rate of 17.8 in recreational runners and 7.7 in, sorry, 17.8 in novice runners, so new runners and 7.7 in recreational runners. So it is more so like maybe not as much as I suspected, but I do think it's a fair bit higher than most strength sports. Yeah, at the very least I suspect there may be slightly more injuries occurring in running than strength sports. Yeah, that could be the case. That could be the case. Yeah, like I said, I remember digging into this a while back and it was the case at that time, if memory serves that the paper, like the papers reporting the very highest injury rates were the ones that got cited the most.  and because a lot of people are trying to make the case that, like, oh, running is, like, not the people doing the original research, but the people citing wanted to have a reason to say, like, oh, running is dangerous, and here's a way to prevent injury rates, kind of secondary research that would be citing the papers. But yeah, yeah, I mean, it very well could be that I'm misremembering, either way, not a, not a major thing for this particular episode. Rebranding to faster by science, let's go. All right. So, lifting has relatively low injury rates compared to many sports, and certainly bodybuilding, for example, seems to have lower injury rates than strength sports, but that is just some thing to keep in mind when looking at this research, given that the research is not on lifting oftentimes. So, instead, we'll need to make some inferences from other research, but you may expect the results to be a little bit smaller in lifting versus other sports for a few reasons, some of which we'll come across in a little bit. The first paper I'd like to cover is a paper by Fratkin and Hollies from 2006 titled, Does Warming Up Prevent Injury in Sport? The evidence from randomized controlled trials? And you may infer from the question marks in the title of the paper that there wasn't all that much evidence out there yet in 2006. There were five studies that they found that were randomized controlled trials, specifically in American football, in runners, in handball, and in specifically male army recruits. The effects were somewhat inconsistent, but generally in favor of warming up being beneficial. Out of five studies, three noted a significant reduction in injury risk for warming up, whereas two found no effect, or rather no significant effect. One study that found an effect was in handball players, where they observed as a relative risk six times lower injury rates in handball players warming up versus not warming up. One study in American football players found half the injuries in when warming up versus not warming up. And finally, the third one, again, in handball, found no difference in overall number of injuries. They had one outcome where they did find a difference, but the other outcomes they measured weren't significantly different between warming up and not warming up. The two remaining studies that didn't find an effect were one, a study in runners, and two, the study in military male recruits I mentioned earlier, though it's worth mentioning that oftentimes within these studies, and particularly in the study in the military, as in the runners, you do observe relatively poor compliance rates wherein people, especially with extensive warm protocols, especially if they're not being supervised to actually do them, tend not to stick very well to long, extensive warm protocols. And that's anecdotally been my experience whenever I've tried to stick to, like, I mean, it's the same as many health related habits that you might try to implement. But if you're trying to implement like a very structured, long warm up routine, you might find that you struggle to stick to it a little bit, just in terms of finding the time for it and it attracting from other things and what have you. But anyways, their conclusion from looking at these five studies was there is insufficient evidence to endorse or discontinue routine warm up prior to physical activity to prevent injury among sport participants. However, the weight of evidence is in favor of a decreased risk of injury. Further, well conducted random mass control trials are needed to determine the role of warming up prior to exercise in relation to injury prevention. So basically around 2006, despite how widespread warm recommendations might have already been them, at least from my limited experience on the earth by then, there wasn't actually that much evidence of warming up yet, like looking at actual injury rates, such that the review paper at that time didn't really have much confidence in what they were able to say. Pack, Greg, any thoughts on this one paper? I think it's the case with a lot of things that we grew up taking as gospel and as insanely well established, similarly with things like weather. Resistance training really improves sport performance, like when you look behind the curtain, you see that things are actually not as clear cut. And yeah, if you had asked me a few years ago, I'd be like, yep, injury risk and warm ups, especially in the condos you just presented is probably like set in stone to an extreme extent. But hey, another similarly to the myth busting that we did on the sleep episode series, where we're like, hey, just exercise and sleep three hours a day, baby, you're going to be good to go. Just kidding. That wasn't the takeaway, but a lot of things that you may often hear were not really true. I think this may be a similar sort of episode, but stick around to find out. Hey, you like that? How build that tension there? Yeah, no, for sure. Yeah, my take and just there are a lot of topics in our field that people have ingrained beliefs about. And those beliefs are often presented as like, hey, this is the science evidence based thing, blah, blah, blah, whatever. And the impression that leaves people with is that there is a large body of research that in multiple populations been replicated a bunch of times like blah, blah, blah, showing the same thing. And we're like really confident in this stuff. And then a lot of times you look into it and you're like, oh, no, there's like two papers here, maybe. There's slightly more than two papers here, but not that many more than two papers. And it's, yeah, I think this is a topic where the first time I looked into it, I was surprised by just how little research there is. And I think most people would just kind of assume that there's more research on the topic than there actually is in terms of whether not on warmups in general, but just whether or not warmups affect injury risk. Yeah, I think people expect that to be a super well supported thing. And presently it's not so much. But I will note, you can't necessarily, you can't and shouldn't conflate absence of evidence with evidence of absence. Because I think that that is a easy direction to go here. Just be like, ah, it's debunked, it's fake news, there's actually not strong evidence for this. It very well could be the case that thorough well designed warmup reduces injury rates quite a bit. Like I'm very open to that. And I do think that like from having previously done a bit of coaching in the world of like high level athletics, like a lot of things where there are like really strong and non-negotiable kind of conventions that people fall into. A lot of them do sort of fall under the umbrella of being risk averse. Because if you're working with like really high level athletes, folks who are just kind of like genetic freaks, you're always considering the risk versus reward of any training you're doing or at least you should be. And the upside is I think a lot smaller than a lot of coaches would want to admit, but they know deep down is the case. Like the people you're working with are already freaks. And if you're a really good trainer, yeah, you can improve their performance. But whether they work with you or not, they're still going to be awesome. Like there is a limited amount that you can improve them. But you can hurt them. And that's bad. Like you always have to keep that in mind. Like top of mind is don't hurt the athlete. And so yeah, there are a lot of conventions just kind of like built around that, you know, because the risk to reward ratio is kind of like so skewed there. And so I like the importance and value of warmups is like super ingrained in that culture. And I suspect that there's like I could see that going one of two ways either. It's like if you don't do a thorough warmup and an athlete gets hurt because everyone believes that it's so important, your your ass is on the line, you know, because it's like, oh, there's this like really obvious thing you could have done to prevent this and like you didn't. So like you're stupid and an idiot. Or it could be that like, even though there's not a ton of research on it, just coaches found hey, if we do this thorough warmup, my athletes get hurt less frequently in the subsequent training sessions or practices. And so then you just kind of have conventions built up around that. My hunch is that it's a little bit of both. Like I do think that the perception of warmups for reducing injury risk is probably a little inflated. Like I don't I wouldn't be at all surprised if they're not quite as effective for reducing injury risk and like your subsequent training session or practice or whatever. I wouldn't be surprised if they're slightly less effective than folks would assume. But I would also be quite surprised if once more research is done, if they don't turn out to be effective to some degree. That's that's kind of my assumption. But I also think it probably depends a lot on the type of injury you're talking about. And I've already I've already mentioned this previously, but like hamstring strains. It's a big thing in a lot of sports. Like we're not really thinking about that in like a powerlifting or bodybuilding context because we're not really sprinting. But like, yeah, you sprint. Sometimes you strain a hamstring and a lot of that comes down to like eccentric strength reserve, blah, blah, blah, whatever. But like I do. I do think a lot of it. My suspicion is to some degree, a lot of that just depends on like how how warm are you before you're getting into this? Like, I don't know. I've I've seen I've seen several athletes throughout the years. Papa Hammy myself included, I've strained my hamstring sprinting a few times. Every time I did, it was when I didn't warm up thoroughly. And like teammates or whatever, like I I can vividly remember two teammates, like straining hamstrings during practices. And it was like, and like this was this was during the football times. And they were people who were had gotten in trouble and they had like a touch of after school, after school detention, and then just had to like roll up to football practice as soon as they got out of detention. So they didn't warm up and just like second drill, take off in a sprint, strain a hammy. So like, I think I think it probably is effective, but I do also think it, you know, shouldn't paint with too broad of a brush. Like it I suspect the sorts of things that it likely prevents is more targeted rather than just injury kind of big picture. Like, I think that I think that there would probably be like particular types of injury that if it does prove to be effective with more research, etc. I think I don't think that it would be the same risk reduction for all types of injury across the board. Like I do think in particular hamstring strains are would be much more heavily influenced than most things. Yeah. Hamstrings specifically, like even one of James's James Steel, shout out, old, previous students, his entire thesis was on the effect of lumber extensor fatigue and how it impacts hamstring strain injuries. Like that was his entire doctoral thesis. Yeah. I mean, there's there's a reason that like when you dig into injury literature, like a very disproportionate amount of it is just hamstring strains and ACL injuries. And we always talk about how like, you know, hypertrophy research, there's not as much of it as we would like. And a lot of it is like smaller sample sizes, not as long of duration, blah, blah, blah. And like a lot of that just comes down to funding. Like there's not money in it. But boy, howdy, there is money in hamstring strain and non contact ACL injury research because that's that's what's getting the real athletes, you know. And if if a star, a star football player, American or European football, whatever, doesn't matter if a star football player that you just signed for like three hundred and fifty million dollars in the offseason has a has a hamstring strain when they're warming up and miss like six weeks of action. That's bad. People lose a lot of money as a result. Therefore, there's a lot of money into looking at those two things in particular, like hamstring stuff, ACL stuff, a lot of research there. General injury risk prevention for resistance training workouts. Yeah, there's there's not as much there's not as much money that gets lost by big money guys. If someone strains a pack in a bench press workout, getting ready for IPF worlds. So yeah, less little, a little bit less research funding there to know specifics. But let me ask though, the stretching help reduce injury risk is like stretching your hamstrings. That's something we see a lot of people do. Well, it's funny you should ask that because that's exactly the next topic we're going to touch on. We're looking at a review paper by small and colleagues from 2008 looking at the effect of static stretching. So the sort of stretching most people think of as stretching, meaning like, hey, for example, you go up to a wall and do a calf stretch, and you just statically hold that stretch, or you're stretching your hamstrings by doing the sit and reach test. I think that's the one that's called those sorts of stretches are what we refer to as static stretching because the muscle length is supposedly remaining the same or what have you. Specifically, they looked at seven studies, including randomized control trials and controlled clinical trials. Broadly speaking, across these seven studies, static stretching failed to reduce injury risk. But there was one potential exception, and that was muscular tenderness injury risk. So specifically things like Greg mentioned hamstring strains. The evidence wasn't super strong. And in fact, the potential effect of static stretching for muscular tenderness injury risk was described as there may be some preliminary evidence to suggest a relationship between static stretching and the prevention of muscle tenderness and ligaments sprain type injuries, even if not all injuries. This may be due to static stretching improving the flexibility of ligaments and muscle tenderness units by facilitating connective tissue plastic elongation, thereby promoting muscle relaxation and therefore further stretch and range of motion around the joint, which is believed to help reduce injury risk. So static stretching probably doesn't meaningfully help with injury risk overall, although this relatively early research, again 2008, only a couple of years after that first review paper, seemed to suggest that maybe there's something here for reducing muscular tenderness injury risk. Greg, since you're an avid defender of victims of hamstring strains, any thoughts on this? Yes, yeah. Yeah, I do think stretching is another one of those things where people assume that the impact of stretching on injury risk, they just assume there's a lot more research on the topic than there is. But yeah, yeah, there's not a ton of research. A lot of the research that has been done is smaller scale than you would necessarily like it to be. And so yeah, it is one of those things that is still like a little murky, couple things kind of like leaning in favor of stretching, a lot of null results. So it's just kind of like who knows. But if it is effective, it is probably less effective than your coaches told you 15 years ago when people were all aboard the stretching train. I do think that a warm up, like actually warming up, is likely going to do more for hamstring strains in particular than stretching will. Like there is actually, I guess this is contested now as well. Not that long ago, it was a relatively uncontroversial claim to say that some interventions that seem to chronically increase hamstrings muscle length, like Nordic curls, reduce hamstring injury, hamstring strain risk. Although I think a reanalysis of some of that research suggests that like, yeah, that's a little bit weaker than we previously thought. But I wouldn't be surprised at all, honestly, if there's kind of like a threshold type of system there where, you know, if you're taking an athlete who does a lot of sprints, either because they're a sprinter or they're sprinting for their sport, they are being exposed to quite a bit of eccentric strain at long muscle lengths for that. And that's probably going to get their muscle length kind of to where you'd like it to be. But if it's an athlete for the same sport and it's the first day back from the offseason and they weren't doing a ton of sprinting or anything to kind of maintain their muscle length in the offseason, I wouldn't be surprised at all if some things to increase muscle length again, like doing some Nordic curls, ended up being mechanistically beneficial there. Anyway, but yeah, there's a difference between doing things to actually like chronically lengthen the muscle versus just like doing some stretching pre-exercise. And yeah, so I do think that like the warm up, like the actual warming up portion of the warm up is probably doing more than just like doing some hamstring strains before you go out and sprint personally. Like I suspect that that's the case. And yeah, as I love stretching in general, I think it's great. But just purely on a hedonic level, I just like it. And there are a lot of benefits you get from stretching. I do think stretching as a whole is a bit too poo-pooed by a lot of evidence-based lifting people. And we've talked about it. Do what? I'm curious. What benefits are you talking of? I'm curious though. I mean, I don't know how long, like how much we want to derail this. But yeah, I mean, I don't think that it is something you want to do. So like the reasons that people stretched, if you go back like 10 years, they'd say, ah, I'm doing this for injury prevention. Like we're talking about here. Evidence there is, I think not as strong as people would have previously assumed. And the stuff of it that exists suggests that like, yeah, maybe not all that effective. Like that's kind of where the current stuff is leaning. And the second is, yeah, people did it before exercise for like, you know, something related to performance enhancement. And it seems that if static stretching is doing anything for you, it might reduce like maximal power output or whatever. So yeah, I don't think it's doing much for you in those regards. But I do think that one, there, like when, especially the research suggesting that it might acutely reduce maximal performance came out, I do think that there was like a pretty big pendulum shift where people landed on the position. They went from me like stretching is basically good for everything all the time to stretching is basically a waste of time and does nothing for anyone ever. And neither of those two positions is correct, I don't think. So like stretching interventions, if applied consistently and with enough volume intensity, whatever, do, do the main thing they're supposed to do, which is increase muscle length and range of motion, like a common, a common claim you still do what? You said do do. Oh, yeah. Got my ass. But yeah, like a common claim you'll encounter is that all static stretching does is increase like kind of neurological compliance and like people, people's nervous systems feeling safe, relaxing into a stretch, but it doesn't actually like chronically increase muscle length or range of motion and like, that's just not true. And the research people cite to back that up is like relatively short term, non intense short duration per stretch interventions. But yeah, like you, if you stretch and you're consistent with it and get after it when you're stretching, yeah, you can like significantly increase range of motion. That's something you're trying to do. Stretching can do that for you. And for lifters in particular, for people like interested in kind of like strength or performance based outcomes, the research looking at like chronic stretching interventions on muscular performance, there was a systematic review on this in, I don't know, maybe like 2018 2019. Like a bulk of a bulk of the research suggests that like chronic stretching interventions either in isolation or when combined with lifting do tend to help like increase measures of muscular performance over time as well. It could just be that it's like a small additional stimulus. Who knows, but that has that has been my experience with it personally, like when I when I do a consistent job of like stretching at night between workouts like my performance tends to be better in my sessions and my performance tends to improve faster. Yeah, like I think I think it's a good thing to be doing. I think that it doesn't I think it does less than people previously expected. If it's like a major part of your warm up like pre-workout routine. But I think it I think just kind of across the board for basically everything it has like neutral to positive effects, if done pretty much any other time of the day. So yeah, I'm AI'm a big fan of it like I do you stretch. Yeah, I love stretching. Like a dedicated stretching times. Yeah, dog. It's like I. Know this. Do what? Do people know this? I've I've got knuckles is a big stretch and joy. Yeah, I mean, we all do some form of stretching here and there's something, you know, I've mentioned it quite quite a few times before. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know like my my personal experience with it is like it to me also as well. Like I do I do think it like I'm very confident that it's doing some things for me physically that I just talked about. But also I find it to be like a helpful like almost meditative practice. You know, like a lot of people do like the like lower intensity yoga for kind of the same purpose. But yeah, just like at the end of the day, like stressed in my head about stuff and go down to the basement and just get into like a nice three to five minute hamstring stretch. And it brings me just very, very into the moment because I'm focusing on my breathing and like kind of tense a little bit when I breathe in relax when I breathe out, like really focused on like this. Sensation that I feel as I as I'm doing it. And yeah, it's it's great. Like I I end most days with at least like if I'm kind of like in a rush and like I just need to get in bed. It might be like 1015 minutes just like in the shower. But if if I have time like I love carving out like 45 minutes to an hour just for for dedicated stretching. And it's great. I love it. If you love it so much name it every stretch. No, fine. If you don't even if you could like you're the one person on earth that we could we finally beat the aspartame episode in terms of length and it's five hours of that is just me listing existing stretches. That's awesome. But in all seriousness, can you name like some of your top stretches? I mean, people that. People that are people to actually give a go or like a stretching routine like the Greg Knuckles stretching routine product soon launching. I mean, most of what I focus on is just like I have the desk job. So like what's tight at the end of the day. And that's most like it's primarily lower body stuff like I'll I'll throw some pecker bicep stretching in sometimes but for the most part it's. Hamstrings sometimes sometimes like adductors but. Have you guys seen me do do a split before? I think you have pack. Yeah, I I rarely do any adductor stretching. I just have child bearing hips and they open right up like that. So we all remember the squats. Yeah, yeah. So I'll. If I've recently had a squat workout and my hips feel a little janky, I'll be like, ah, let's.  for the sake of thoroughness, throw the adductors in, but usually not all that much for the adductors. But yeah, like hamstrings, piriformis, like glute medius, low back, both flexion and lateral flexion, hip flexors, quads, calves, that's kind of what I go through. And I don't do any crazy stretches that no one would ever think of. Like for hamstrings, it's a nice, standard forward fold, and then one leg at a time. So either one leg elevated on a bench or feet slightly wider than shoulder width apart and going down to each leg, just kind of feeling out both of those and just seeing which one feels better for the day. Piriformis stretch, you know, just one foot up on the other knee and pushing the knee down and hinging forward into it. A lot of times that's done seated. I prefer to do it standing just because I can move my hips around a little bit more to feel what really helps me get deep into it. Lumbar stretching is lumbar stretching, you know, just intentionally going into lumbar flexion. Some old Jefferson curls, lateral flexion, just kind of like side bends, but not for reps. Like I'll usually grab a kettlebell just to help like pull me down a little bit and just kind of play around with how forward or back I want to be, or do I want to get a little rotation into it just to feel where the stretch feels the best? Yeah, quad stretch, back foot up on a bench, lean back into it, try to push my hips forward, tense my glutes straighten up, really get in with the rec-fim as well. Like my Vastire never tight. When I say quad stretch, it's like a rectus femoris stretch basically. Yeah, like I don't know, just like normal stretches for those muscle groups. But like any not going through the motions type of way, like I know what muscles I'm trying to stretch, I know how I want them to feel and I'm very like tuned in and engaged and kind of like making small adjustments to the positioning of my body and like what I'm tensing, what I'm relaxing in order to like feel the deepest kind of like purist stretch possible in those muscles. But yeah, like it's nothing fancy, like it's just stretching. And I do it in like part of this is like I'm a low back pain guy, you know, like got to do a bit of maintenance for that. Like it's not exclusively about performance with me. But yeah, when I'm when I'm staying on top of my stretching, like the chronic low back pain I deal with is way better. Like it helps tremendously with that as well. At least for me personally, don't take that as medical advice results may vary, etc. etc. Unfortunately, I took it as medical advice right before you said this claimers. You'll be hearing that from my lawyers, but hey. But yeah, this is this. Oh, go ahead. I was going to ask one question on the topic of stretching, which was. I was actually asked this question, I think a couple days ago by Jeff Nippard. Don't you find that those long stretching durations fatigue you to a similar extent is lifting? I think. Man. I think. Most. I think most topic like most kind of discussions of. Muscular fatigue in a in a lifting context, not talking about like within session, but like kind of fatigue as it relates to recovery and whatnot. I think almost all of that is is blown way out of proportion. And it's not something most people need to think about. Most of the time. Unless the topic is just like, hey, you know how what's like the highest level of per week training volume I can handle per muscle group. I think. So. We've we've talked. I forget. I forget what episode it is, but I know I've had occasion to discuss this study on the podcast before. I think I think with you guys on it. But. You take someone who's completely untrained, you expose them to really intense. E-centric exercise, like. I believe the study I had in mind and. I'm just going off the dome here. I forget the author's name. I'll. Try to remember to look this up and put it in the show notes. But yeah, I if memory serves study five sets of. 10 maximal either eccentric or concentric reps on a isokinetic dynamometer. One group doing eccentric when one group doing concentric concentric training causes quite a bit less muscle damage and fatigue than eccentric. And if you take untrained folks and have them do 50 maximal eccentric reps, they're going to be fucked like that's. A lot of muscle damage lot to recover from. And so this study, if memory serves, it was eight weeks. They were doing that workout either like five sets of 10 maximal concentric or five sets of 10 maximal eccentric reps once per week for eight weeks. And by the end of eight weeks. So by the end of eight workouts and previously untrained lifters, you were seeing like. No discernible elevations and markers of muscle damage. So that included like performance decrements 2448 hours post elevations and inflammatory biomarkers. Soreness like yeah, like it's like I'm sure that there was some muscle damage still, but like there there. Weren't any like clinical signs that there was like crazy intense muscle damage going on. And so that's again, like 50 maximal eccentric reps. That is rough. Like I haven't been doing any like dedicated eccentric training. If I did that today, I would be walking like I had for I'd be walking around like a baby giraffe for the next two days or three days, maybe four days. Who knows? Like that's a lot. But so I do think that I think that most things that are like I think that we have. An impoverished view of recovery kinetics just because like most studies don't do that. Like most of what we know about fatigue and recovery is like one session in either untrained individuals or people with some training experience. But like the actual like exercise belt done for the study is novel. Like, you know, maybe maybe you do some squats. But like this the first time you're doing the squat protocol used to test fatigue is like, you know, the one time you come into the lab to do it. And in much the same way, you know, like if you do a bunch of low rep training and you do like sets of 10 for a day, like, ah, you're going to be really sore. But you do the sets of 10 for like five weeks straight won't be sore anymore. You know, yes, I think I think most of what we see in the literature for a lot of that stuff is just like, Hey, what what do fatigue kinetics look like for relatively novel and accustomed exercise? And there's a lot less research on what do fatigue kinetics look like when people are being exposed to a stimulus that they're relatively habituated to. Um, and so in the case of stretching, yeah, like if I haven't been stretching, like if I go on vacation, this comes to mind immediately. Like I was recently in Ireland in the UK, like we talked about doing a lot of stuff. Most days, didn't like when when me and Lindsay would get back to the hotel room at night. I didn't want to be like, Hey, babe, like you go do your thing. I'm going to be in the same room, but I'm going to spend the next like 60 minutes doing like a big stretching thing. Like, no, fuck that. Like so I didn't stretch for like a week, like week and a half. Um, very stiff from from the plane rides. And so like my first time getting back into it, like when I say I get after it, when I stretch, I mean, I get after it. Like I get rather sore from a stretching like workout if if I haven't done it in a while. Um, so yeah, yeah, when I'm somewhat unaccustomed to it, it's causing fatigue. When I'm doing it every day, it doesn't like it's something I've habituated to. So yeah, like I think in a vacuum, sure. I think if you do it consistently, no, like that's that's kind of my take. Like I think when I'm doing it like consistently every day, something that was previously like a significant enough stress stressor to cause like quite a bit of soreness the next day. I think reaches the point where it's basically just kind of like active recovery almost like it's stimulating some blood flow feels nice. And I feel like looser, less fatigued and just better like ready to go the next day after I do it. Nice. That makes sense. I've never incorporated stretching that much in my routine and mostly putting aside the potential injury prevention effects. So curious as to why you're implementing it. Yeah. Yeah. I'm most most of it. Honestly, just to reiterate this is just I like it. Like I think I enjoy how it feels. Anecdotal returns for me have been quite positive. And yeah, like I like I said up top when you asked when I started by doing the nerd the nerd shit and talking about research, the research does broadly suggest that it does good things like it improves. It increases like it on a longitudinal basis. It increases range of motion as long as volume and intensity are sufficient. And the research that relates to like longitudinal muscular performance is broadly positive. So yeah, there is that. But for me, again, the main thing is I just like it. I think it feels good. What about health? Because obviously like range of motion is one thing, but I never heard anything about health. Like I know people tend to poo poo stretching when it comes to comparing it to other forms of activity for health. Do you know? Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like I think I think a lot of that comes from a bit of an ROI perspective where if you take someone who has no consistent exercise habit and if you look at kind of like self reports of barriers to entry to exercise like lack of time is a major one people report. And so if you're coming into it with the assumption that hey, this this person I'm working with, maybe they can only carve out 30 minutes a day or they can carve out like an hour twice a week or whatever. And you're like, okay, what's what's going to be the best thing for Buck that they can do during that time? I am struggling to immediately think of a situation where the answer would be like, oh yeah, like they should they should get on stretching like. No, you're probably going to want to do either either or both some dedicated aerobic training or some dedicated resistance training. One of the two or both. Because just in terms of the panoply of benefits you would get from it relative to the time you. Damn. Hey, hey, you know how the DJs wheel it up. What was that word? Did you say panoply? Panoply. Yeah. Oh, I bet that's. I bet that's Greek in origin. Yeah, it's if I'm not mistaken, it means the armor. A full set of armor. Yes, it does actually. And it also means a splendid display or an extensive or impressive collection. The Google dictionary definition is a complete or impressive collection of things, which I think is a way to describe the types of benefits that one would get from resistance or aerobic training. A lot of benefits. Anyway, so just kind of like minute for minute. I think you get way less from stretching than either of those options. And so if you assume someone's time for exercises severely constrained, then like, yeah, the stretching is not the the direction you're going to recommend. But that again, doesn't therefore imply that it's not beneficial. It's just like not as beneficial on a minute for minute basis as other options, you know, sure. Well, since we're talking about substituting different things, I think we need to touch on what should be part of a map. It sounds like static stretching may not have a ton of applicability for general injury prevention, at least based on the research in that review paper. So the next question is what should be a part of a warmup to prevent injury? What is their evidence for actually helping as part of a month? And some more recent evidence by Lawson and colleagues from 2014, basically a metanalysis entitled the effectiveness of exercise interventions to prevent sports injuries, a systematic review and the analysis of randomized control trials. They did something a bit different from what we've spoken about thus far, which is that they compare different modalities and their respective impacts on injury risk in athletes specifically, so sports injuries, including in military recruits, soccer players, basketball players and other sports too. And when you looked at different interventions, there's a few things that jumped out. The main one is that strength training reduced sports injury risk by the most of any intervention, followed by proprioception training and studies that specifically combine different interventions, like for example, strength training plus proprioception training. Finally, stretching on the other hand, like static stretching, like we just mentioned, once again had little to no effect on injury risk. And to kind of zoom out a little bit and spoil the rest of the research a little bit, lifting seems to potentially prevent injury risk from other sports, like sports injuries. And it is unclear whether or not these things like strength training, like proprioception training or even stretching would need to be part of the warmup to prevent injury. So one thing we'll come to a bit later is that there's certain warmup protocols tend to include quite a variety of things, like for example, some strength training, some proprioception training, even some static stretching, some dynamic stretching. It becomes difficult to parse out which is causing what, like whether or not one specific component is responsible for reducing injury risk, but it seems like strength training is helpful for that for sports. But that there may not be a need for that to be the warmup, that it may just be something you want to incorporate overall for preventing injury. So yeah, I think it's just like it's positive news for pretty much anyone listening to this podcast that, hey, lifting might help prevent injury overall. So yeah, that's kind of my reading of that study. But Greg, I feel like you might have slightly divergent opinions. Yeah, I'll be completely honest with you right now. I heard you were talking about like, lifting seems to help prevent injuries. I was like, okay, I'm on board with that. So I can divert my attention slightly to quickly find those two papers that I was alluding to for the last section just to make sure I could put them in. The outline so they can be linked in the show notes. And if there was anything you said that I would disagree with, I think I wasn't paying attention quite closely enough to clock it. Just, hey man, just be just being honest here. 100% the TLDR is met analysis found that strength training reduced sport injury risk by the most followed by proprioception training and seemingly stretching interventions didn't seem to have much of an effect. And so my takeaway was, hey, strength training and lifting is a good thing for preventing injury overall. But I'm not sure whether that needs to be a part of the warmup or can just be done in general. Oh, yeah, yeah, I don't think that would necessarily imply it needs to be part of the warmup. I think the question you need to ask yourself is like, hey, if something is preventing injury risk, why? And if something isn't preventing injury risk or reducing injury risk, why? And like, I don't know, there's a lot of types of injuries. One of the things that is like a bit difficult is kind of like ascribing causality to anything because most of these are just observational studies. And specifically, there's like a lot of sports have injuries that one could sustain that have not a goddamn thing to do with most of the interventions you'd be testing to see. Like, is this reducing injury risk like concussions are a big thing in a lot of sports and like neck training might reduce your risk of concussions. But like stretching, I don't think so. Or like other forms of resistance training. I don't think so. Warmups. I don't think so. You know, like you get your bell rung, you get your bell rung. So there is, you know, it kind of depends like what is the study just looking at all injuries or just like specific injury types. But yeah, going back to the idea of kind of like mechanism of injury and and cause. I think that it's relatively unsurprising that resistance training helps reduce injury risk for a couple reasons. One is most resistance training you would do is going to have a relatively challenging eccentric component and some research on like muscle strains and muscle strains kind of big, big genre of things that of like common athletic injuries, specifically hamstring strains, but like other types of muscle muscle strains as well. You you help like build build up eccentric strength by doing strength training. And that's a good thing. Like that should help reduce injury risk, but you don't need to strength train immediately before like a practice or game in order to reap that benefit. Like it's a it's a chronic thing over time. Or as with stretching the hypothesis there, like if if it were to kind of like causally reduce injury risk, it is like the kind of mental model you'd be working with is you have like a particular range of motion that this muscle can safely go through and produce force. While you're still kind of like in the plastic region of the like length strain curve and then due to the muscle being too short, too tight, you get into the you know, the oh, what's it called the part of that curve where like, you know, further increases in length are causing like actual damage and not just you don't you don't just snap back. And so therefore if you stretch, you can increase kind of the operating length of the muscle and have a have a lower risk of like getting to muscle links where where you would be straining. And yeah, like I think that that my understanding is that that would be sort of the kind of like causal effect for a relatively small minority of injuries that athletes would be getting. Like my understanding is that a lot of it just has to do with like not having enough eccentric strength to do what you need to do like you're like just sprinting itself. There's like pretty high eccentric force demands, you know, landing from a jump and then quickly trying to change directions like trying to decelerate rapidly change directions like there's there's a lot of things in sports that require high levels of each eccentric strength and power in multiple different directions being able to do that dynamically. And oftentimes it's not necessarily strains occurring in like absolute max muscle length where just like if your muscle length was a little bit longer because you've been doing some stretching it would make a big difference like it. A lot of it does seem to have more to do with just your your eccentric strength. And again, like I don't want to be too myopic about it. I do think that there are like I find it very plausible that if an athlete is like to like quote unquote tight like if if you have an athlete coming back after an offseason, they haven't been doing anything. And maybe like their their muscle link characteristics are now such that like oh their hamstrings have just gotten shorter and like now they're going to immediately get into sprint like I could see that being being the case but like I do think that doing your sport tends to get you to kind of like the muscle length characteristics that you would likely need for your sport just like you're you're doing the thing you know. And so just having like greater range of motion for the sake of having greater range of motion than you strictly need. I can't think of a good reason why one would necessarily expect that to reduce injury risk. So yeah, like I'm I'm not surprised that the that there's not like great research showing that like acute stretching reduces injury risk. Also not that surprised that there's not good research suggesting that chronic stretching reduces injury risk like it's like that. That doesn't surprise me because like this stuff the the reason that people previously thought that stretching would reduce injury risk as we've learned about the mechanisms and causes of injury. We're learning that like hey the things causing these injuries don't actually seem to be the things that like stretching would be helping with like most. Sports injuries don't seem to be caused by the muscle just being too short. And like I said like not to not to be too myopic I'm sure that there there are I would not be surprised at all if there are a small minority of sports injuries that are caused by like an athlete's muscle being too short. But and in those cases like I may be stretching would have helped prevent that injury but like that's just not the vast majority of injuries that athletes would be getting. So yeah, in the aggregate I'm not surprised that it doesn't make much of a difference. Yeah, I think it makes a ton of sense. You can even somewhat conceptualize stretching as lifting in some regards in terms of it does still provide some hypertrophy and strength benefits but usually quite a bit lower than lifting. And so if your mental map is that hey getting stronger especially at certain muscle lengths is part of the benefit of lifting for injury prevention. It makes sense that stretching would confer that but potentially lesser extent as like an intervention. So yeah, I think it makes sense personally. However, that wasn't the only study that looked at different interventions and their effects on injury risk. We have a slightly more niche or targeted systematic review by our Southern colleagues from 2022 on ACL injuries specifically. So that's anterior cruciate ligament and the knee injuries. Again, it's one of those injuries like Rick mentioned for hamstring strains that do tend to be relatively common in athletes and cost a lot of money and a lot of money being spent on trying to prevent. And specifically in this case, they looked at injury prevention programs that included plyometric exercises and looked at whether or not those reduced the incidence of ACL injuries. And broadly speaking, including plyometric exercises in your routine seemed to reduce the incidence of ACL injuries but it didn't need to be part of the warm up. It could just be part of the overall routine. And so yet again, it's kind of the same. I don't know. Personally, I would put it into. I think you can interpret this in one of two ways. One, yet again, like strength training, just including it somewhere in the routine and allowing you to be stronger through a variety of ranges of motion and preparing you for sport is a good thing. And you could read it that way. Or you could read it as a slightly more specific argument where, hey, practicing these plyometrics in relatively controlled environments allows you to develop good quote unquote technique, which then could help with injury prevention long term. I don't know that I buy into that quite as heavily. I think it probably has more so to do with getting stronger and providing some of the same benefits to lifting. And that would lead me to believe like, ah, it probably doesn't matter when you do this as long as you do some of it in your routine if you're particularly worried about ACL injuries. But that's my reading. Greg, thoughts? Yeah, I think that I, I, I, I think, I think some of it could be general strength development benefits of, of plyometrics or more so, I guess, like specific strength development characteristics. Like, you know, you're not necessarily doing high speed, high speed, like e-centrics and plyometric type stuff in the weight room most of the time. So, you know, do some specific plyometrics that would be a more kind of like direct stimulus for, you know, muscular performance in those like speed power ranges, I guess. So I could see that. I do, I do find it plausible that part of it does just come down to practice and improving landing mechanics. Like, this, this is one of those things where I'll, I'll admit I could be getting out over my skis. Like this is a lot of stuff. Like I have been told things by PTs that I think are quite bright and up with the research, but like I haven't necessarily done a deep dive myself. But if memory serves one of the arguments in favor of like, oh, this might be helpful with landing mechanics is most of, most, not all certainly, like not even close, but like most of the athletes getting non-contact ACL injuries. And that, that is like a very important distinction because, you know, if, if you're playing American football and some, you're running at full speed and someone like grabs your lower leg and pulls it at a weird angle pops your ACL, not much, you can really do about that. You know what I mean? But if you're just landing from a jump.  tarinacl, or trying to change directions, tarinacl, like, you look at that and you're like, ah, that should probably be preventable, one would think. And so for non-contact ACL injuries, that does seem, there does seem to be like a higher risk for female athletes and male athletes. And there, I think this is like contested, but there is still some, like the assumption, or like there's some research supporting the contention that a predictor of non-contact ACL injury risk is functional knee valgus when landing or cutting. And also like the risk of non-contact ACL injury seems to scale a bit with just like jumping exposure or like change of direction exposure, where like, you don't see that many in sprinters, but you see a lot in like volleyball players or soccer players or whatever. And this is like a slightly different sport, well, it's a very different sport in that it's much more controlled, but it does often involve a lot of jumping. And that is ballet. So like ballerinas tend to have like very low rates of ACL injuries, but they're doing a lot of jumping and specifically jumping where they're landing on one leg, which is often when it happens. And when you get them in the lab, they tend to have like impeccable landing mechanics, not necessarily because they're going out of their way to try to prevent ACL injuries, but because like ballet is an art and landing on one leg and your knee caving in, that doesn't give you the smooth aesthetic lines that you're looking for in a ballet performance. And so, that's not like the most direct evidence, it's not like an intervention showing that like, interventions to help athletes have mechanics more similar to ballerinas reduces their ACL injury risk, but like there is kind of that line of thinking there. And but yeah, yeah, yeah. So I could see part of it just being a practice thing. Like if you have an athlete who just like naturally lands a particular way, like if you're doing a depth jump and you can just like cue them, cue them, cue them, like, hey, keep your knees out, keep your knees out, like whatever, I couldn't see that being a thing. Like you're just practicing moving in a particular way that exposes this tissue to lestering. Like I am still open to that being a possibility, but I don't suspect that that is the dominant thing going on there. I think the dominant thing is that it's, I guess this is like kind of a practice thing, but it's a almost like just kind of a improving motor skill type of thing, kind of independent of if you're practicing like particular landing mechanics like what angles are your bones and joints at here? You're also exposing your nervous system to plyometrics. And like a lot of like the muscular activity going on in plyometrics is like conscious obviously, but like a decent bit of it is should be based on just like reflex arcs as well. Like you land like rapid eccentric lengthening, reflex arc activates, increase contraction and explode powerfully in the opposite direction. Like, and like the, there's, there is my understanding is that there's a fair bit of evidence suggesting that just kind of like poor neuromuscular control of the tissue surrounding the knee contributes to risk of non-contact ACL injuries. And like there's like several lines of evidence here, but I think the one that's like maybe the easiest to understand is that, so like when you tear an ACL, your lifetime risk of re-tearing the ACL is quite high. Like I think the number one predictor of non-contact ACL injury is have you previously had a non-contact ACL injury in the same knee? And part of that could just be kind of reverse causation. Like athletes who, you know, athletes who moved in such a way to increase their risk of having one, probably like you're basically like selecting to then subsequently study athletes who for whatever reason were doing something that calls them to have a non-contact ACL injury. But another thing you see is that you do typically observe some like differences in muscle activation after a ACL replacement. Like it seems like some of those reflex arcs don't work quite as well anymore. And like I'm not sure how much like quadriceps to hamstring strength ratio is quite as big of a deal for ACL risk as like people used to think. I think the evidence has like shifted on that a little bit. And it's more so about like when you land or cut or whatever is like something in like a plyometric context does just kind of like both a combination of like your conscious muscle activation and reflex arcs that would be kind of like kicking your hamstrings into gear is all of that working fast enough to like provide your tibia with like the anterior, the like posterior restraint force it needs to not be exposing your ACL to high loads. And it does appear that a lot of that stuff just like it doesn't work as well after your first ACL tear such that like your risk remains elevated. Anyway, so like regardless of being able to train and just like practice landing technique or whatever, I also wouldn't be at all surprised if plyometric training helps with just those like super early phase like zero to 50 millisecond like muscle recruitment characteristics that seem to like be beneficial for reducing your risk of an ACL injury. So yeah, I'm not surprised that there's some evidence showing that plyometrics might be helpful. And I think there are a few ways in which they could be helpful. Again, all standard disclaimers apply, not a physical therapist. This is my understanding of some of that research after slightly looking into it. But yeah, I think there are like a few things going on there. For sure, it's just interesting to realize that some of the interventions where we probably have the strongest evidence for them preventing injury aren't necessarily warmups or things you need to do as warmups. Which is I think the opposite what people tend to think. People tend to think if you don't work for lifting 100 millisecond of snappy shit, whereas it might be that other things are a bit more important. Cool, I think the last paper we wanted to cover for warming up and injury prevention, this time tackles dynamic stretching. So we've covered static stretching, we've covered even plyometrics, strength training, all manner of things that may not necessarily have to do with a warmup, let's put it that way. The last one is about dynamic stretching before exercise. It's a narrative review by Ben and colleagues from 2023 entitled potential effects of dynamic stretching on injury incidents of athletes, a narrative review of risk factors. Now, unfortunately, this narrative review only included two studies, because there have only been two studies looking at the impact of dynamic stretching on injury incidents so far. So not a whole lot of evidence there in much the same vein as many of the papers covered thus far. You know, if most of the review papers on injury incidents to date include a single digit number of studies, that might suggest that we don't have a ton of confidence in many things about warming up yet and injury prevention. They looked at a variety of forms of warming up, not just dynamic stretching, but the most frequent elements of a multifaceted training program were a combination of strength, balance, plyometric, and dynamic warmup and stretching exercises, which tended to have the best outcomes for injury prevention, like as part of an injury prevention program. Within the current literature, there did seem to be a conflict regarding the effect of impaired or restricted flexibility on injury rate, which kind of runs counter to the hypothesis that static stretching increases range of motion, which is like a hugely beneficial thing for injury rate. And it kind of jives with the observational data and random mass control trials on the effect of static stretching on injury rates, which is to say, it might be an effect, might not be a big effect if there is one. The one thing that tended to jump out was that an increased ability of the muscle tendon complex to absorb forces or torques, especially along muscle lengths, might have been what helped prevent injury as a result of static stretching interventions, for example. So it might not so much have been the increase in range of motion, but more so have been the strengthening of the individual in those ranges of motion, like, for example, at very low muscle lengths, which would kind of jive with some of the older school thinking of, hey, Nordic curls allow you to become stronger at those low muscle lengths, which helps with injury prevention or what have you. In general, the paradigm shift in the last decade or so that Greg mentioned earlier, from more static stretching to more dynamic stretching, partly because of the supposed performance detriments you see with static stretching before exercising or before high-force production workouts, is generally attributed to dynamic stretching causing improvements in range of motion while not causing potential detriments in performance. And if anything, dynamic stretching, like, for example, performing arm circles, bodyweight squats, a variety of different movements, can potentially give you the increase in muscle temperature that we want from a lot without giving you that reduction in force production that some people are concerned over with static stretching. Unfortunately, though, as I mentioned, only two studies have looked at the effects of dynamic stretching on injury. But it turns out there is a relatively extensive body of literature looking at multi-component or multi-modality interventions, like activity programs, before exercising. Specifically, there is a fairly large body of evidence on the P511. As I mentioned earlier, there's a fair bit of literature on warming up in soccer, okay, football in Europe. The P511 is essentially a relatively complex warm-up routine. I think it's called P511 because there's 11 different activities involved. These activities involve things like dynamic stretches, but also things that would more traditionally be considered like strength training. So I think typically like some Nordic curls, some push-ups even, so a variety of strength training exercises, some plyometric exercises as well, some static stretches as well, and even some proprioception training if alone-staken. So effectively, amongst all the interventions we've discussed so far, you kind of have the Avengers meetup of everything is being thrown together here to the point that you don't really know what is contributing to the success of it. But the research we do have seems to suggest that doing the P511, which incorporates some strength training, some plyometrics, and some other stuff, seems to be at least fairly efficacious at reducing injury risk, like the studies that we do have seem to suggest that. I think you can kind of take one of two stances on those findings. Stance number one. Since these protocols involve strength training and plyometrics and things that seem to consistently reduce injury rates, that's probably the thing at play. It's not so much maybe the static stretching or even the dynamic stretching or what have you. It could mostly be explained by just doing some strength training and doing some plyometrics, and it might not even have to be part of your warm-up routine. It could just be at some point in your strength and conditioning program or just in your lifestyle. The second stance is, hey, maybe there is an additive benefit here, but we just don't have the research to confirm or substantiate whether that would be the case. I am personally partial to that first stance, just because we don't have the classic absence of evidence versus evidence of absence conundrum. I do think in this case we have some evidence suggesting, hey, static stretching probably doesn't do that much for injury prevention. I am inclined to think most of the benefits are explained by strength training and plyometric exercises as part of the routine, but I am open to there being something that might be attributable to static stretching, dynamic stretching or what have you. That's my stance and we are not exactly dealing with a wealth of evidence here that we can draw upon. It's more like, these things seem to generally help and be all nuts. You kind of grasp your control to try to piecemeal stuff together. Greg? Yeah, now I find that to be an agreeable take. And I do think we're also, I think we're at a point in the literature where anything we think works probably doesn't work as well as we think. Just because we live in a world where publication bias exists and the file drawer effect exists and most studies aren't pre-registered, so there's some researcher degrees of freedom to kind of tweak things, whatever, like try to make your, whatever you're studying, either like get below the threshold for significance or increase that effect size as much as possible, even without necessarily trying to do anything shady, like, hey, now that I think about it, I do think this is the right way to run these numbers. Anyway, a lot of that ends up hopefully washing out over time with more research, better methodology, more pre-registration, whatever. Yeah, like for a lot of these things, there's not a ton of research yet, and oftentimes when you're dealing with a relatively small body of research on a particular topic, once you get like 30, 40 studies in, the effect size, like the pool effect size of everything, why is it being a little bit smaller than what you see from the first few studies that get published? Yeah, I think that, I suspect that this stuff we think works, like resistance training at long muscle lengths, generally warming up, dynamic exercise, like all of that stuff, like, yeah, I have no reason to think it probably isn't like somewhat helpful for reducing injury risk, and like we talked about up top, the benefits of warm-ups generally, things that get you moving, increased muscle temperature, that helps performance as well. So, you know, a lot of good stuff going on, but things that currently look ineffective, like static stretching, I suspect as more research is published, they'll probably, I suspect in most cases, look even more ineffective. And thinking, again, just like kind of mechanistically, the things that one would get from static stretching, if your goal is reducing injury risk, I, again, out of PT, all standard caveats apply. But I do think nothing is immediately coming to mind that you would get from static stretching that you couldn't get better from some more sort of dynamic exercise, whether that be something plyometric or more realistically, some sort of like strength training thing, like, you know, if you're comparing just stretching your hamstrings versus RDLs, you're kind of doing the same thing, but one of them is also building up your eccentric strength reserve through that added range of motion that you're getting. I think, you know, like I'm sure that there are instances, like, for certain sports that do just require crazy range of motion, like ballet, or like gymnastics, or like certain martial arts, there are certain joint angles you can get into where you're just like, I'm not really sure how, like, what a resistance training intervention at this joint at this joint angle would look like. So, yeah, maybe, maybe stretching is just what you got to do there. But yeah, for, for the most part, I think, yeah, for, I agree with your take Milo. Yeah, it does, it does seem like the more dynamic stuff is what at this, at this time appears to be the most effective, though, again, like I said, up top. Yeah, I assume it's effective, and I assume we get 20 years down the line and we'll still say it's effective and have a smaller confidence interval for precisely estimating the effect, but I suspect the pooled effect that we wind up with will be probably a bit smaller than, than it is now, like an unfortunate thing when we're talking about like injury risk is like, a lot of injuries are kind of just random. And a lot of injuries come from the fact that like sports are hard. Like, you know, another thing, like talked about kind of the some of the neural stuff that might be impacting ACL injury risk, but like muscle strains as well. You, you tend to see muscle strains happening one of two times, which is like immediately like like very, very early on in a game or practice, which I do think just comes from like a, you know, not not trying to say like one to one causation, but I think that's like heavily influenced by doing an insufficient warm up, not like the specific characteristics of the warm up were insufficient, but just like, you probably just didn't get warm enough like, kind of it is what it is. So yeah, you see, you see like hamstring strains early on in like a practice or game and you tend to see them also late in the game when fatigue has accumulated and your neuromuscular control decreases because like your nervous system isn't just coordinating force output in terms of like how much force does this muscle need to produce for the task demands, whatever. It's also like more kind of on a more kind of like nuanced level determining like where that force needs to come from and making sure it's like distributed throughout a muscle such that like the tissue isn't exceeding its loading capacity to the point that it would strain like your your nervous system is doing a lot of work to simultaneously facilitate performance but also like protect you from your muscles contracting hard enough that they hurt themselves like that's that's something that does and as as fatigue increases it gets worse at that. And so yeah, I think I think a lot of those kind of like fatigue related injuries are like basically unpreventable and it's late it's late enough in a game that like whatever you did as a warm up is done like it's it's gone it's having no effect anymore. You know you got you got 10 minutes left in a football match and like I don't I don't care what you did to warm up before a game like the thing that's affecting your physiology at that moment is you just played a whole football match like, you know, I think I think the warm up the warm ups have a lot more to do with like, hey what what can we do to make sure that people aren't getting hurt in the first like 10 minutes of a game or practice. Yeah, 10 minutes might be too short but let's say like 20 minutes whatever but like. A lot of injuries occur late in games and practices when people are fatigued and at that point whatever you did to warm up. I don't think is doing much for you at all anymore like. So I do I do think that if you're talking about like warm ups preventing injuries. A lot of the types of injuries people get are things that just you just kind of can't do too much about honestly. Yeah, those are those are my general thoughts. I agree. I think one other thing that's slightly. This concerning, I guess, or sad is that just having had a an injury and a joint or specific injury before. Does quite substantially of it your risk typically and like. Exercise or existing risks injury. You know, like there's just a built in level of risk and certainly those things you can do to reduce it. But there's also things that predispose you to it, whether you can control them or not. And there's always some risk. So yeah, it's. My reading is essentially there are some things you can do. Doing something before exercising quite vigorously is a good idea. Doing some strength training is good idea. Doing some plyometrics might be helpful as well. And that's kind of mostly it, at least from the research side of things. Which makes for relatively simple recommendations in the end. Pack anything else to mention on the injury front? Yeah, there's this somewhat. There's this misconception that you can perfectly control and manage everything to the best of your abilities. But it's likely that if you're taking those few basic boxes, you're doing the majority of the work and some things, especially in a sporting environment, some things are going to be so random and unpredictable that. It wasn't your warm up. It wasn't your recovery things just go wrong sometimes, especially if you're somebody who's training very hard. And if you're an athlete who's training multitude and multitude of athletic qualities and you're doing lifting, you're doing agility work, you're doing your sport specific training, even if you are a professional athlete with the best sort of recovery resources available to you as people are aware. They are seeing that even the best, the best of the best with an infinite amount of money allocated to them being fit, they are still getting injured, they're still experiencing career ending or career threatening injuries. So let's say do not fall in the trap of trying to find the next sexy thing or the next stretch or warm up that will prevent injury for good. Make sure that you're taking the basic boxes and yeah, just be be a bit mindful when people trying to sell you the idea that you can perfectly control for those things. Yeah, for sure. For sure. I do think, yeah, I think I think they're, I understand why. Like I think I think for a lot of competitive athletes, like one of their biggest fears is is injury. And so I, I understand the inclination to find it convincing when someone is making like really confident statements about like, Oh, this thing is like definitely going to reduce your injury risk by a lot or the one that that really gets under like good pts and researchers skins is saying this thing will prevent injuries. Yeah, that's in most cases a pretty pretty unjustifiable thing. But yeah, I can understand why anything in that genre would be appealing to athletes and coaches like you're an athlete, you definitely don't want to get hurt. Coach you definitely don't want your athletes to get hurt. And so I think there's, I can see how there can be a desire to look for confident statements about like, Oh yeah, this thing. It's going to make a big difference because you really want it to but yeah, yeah, the research to this point suggests that a lot of the stuff that works is like pretty basic. And there's really no magic bullet. And yeah, it is what it is. Very, very quick parenthesis. There's also slight misconception around lifting weights being more injures which as we alluded to at the beginning of the podcast. By looking when you look at like Olympic weightlifting or actually powerlifting and bodybuilding specifically injury rates are pretty low. But I find that it's the opposite when you look at sports and injury people will go out and play basketball without you know any any great preparation for that and do things that they're not really used to but then they will fear lifting in a controlled environment which they may have been doing for quite some time. So yeah, just wanted to point that out. I was having a discussion with somebody in a gym in Greece a few weeks ago because he was worried about hurting his lower back. But when I asked him, Hey, do you play sports randomly here and there? He was like, Yeah, of course. So yeah, that's another thing that I do see quite a bit. Myle. Myle. Nah, that's pretty much it. Greg, play yourself. Yeah, you can do the honors. You got it. I don't know how to do this. I'll do it. Okay, yeah. Yes. Pack. Yeah, you got it. Pack. Guys, thank you so much for listening to another stronger by science podcast. Do not forget to check out stronger by science.com for amazing articles stronger by science.com slash coaching for coaching and make sure that you're subscribed to the YouTube channel where we be where we're putting out a lot of content on a bunch of stuff lifting related with plenty of cool guests. To be featured in future videos. That is it from us. Thank you so much for listening. And we'll catch you guys next time. Peace. You

=== FILE: Warming-Up to Build Muscle (Episode 142) [8dhXdt6rh-M].txt ===

! And it is just the two of us. Alexa, play just the two of us. If you have an Alexa, I apologize. And we're here with part two of the How to Warm Up, or the All About Warmups episode series, to talk about a few things that we missed out on the previous episode, as well as some of your questions. But before we get into that, Alexa is actually playing the song in my living room. That's crazy. Alexa, be quiet. Nice. Now the listener-plausible viewer got to see that. Hey, that was crazy. Anyways, 24th of September, allegedly, a certain pre-print of a certain study is out, Dr. Wolff. Full range of motion versus length and partials in trained individuals. I'm going to give the audience a snippet of the results. Obviously, we're not going to go in detail in this episode, but the usual how we're doing first. Listen, if the listener had the audacity and the courage and the bravery to click on part two of the podcast series about warmups, we have the duty to give them something nice instead, aka a full breakdown of the latest length and partials study. Without further ado, let me briefly describe the results. This study was pre-printed as of Saturday. Saturday, I believe. So I believe that was like the 20th of September, 21st. Here's the abbreviated version of the design and results. We previously mentioned this, but effectively we took trained lifters who had an average training experience of about five years and had them perform single limb training. With one of their arms, all the training they did was with a full range of motion. With the other arm, all the training they did was with length and partials only. In contrast to previous studies that only ever included a single exercise, we used a more complete program, something people would actually use in the real world, in an attempt to boost ecological validity. Effectively, just design a study whose results would translate more directly and more effectively to your practices, dear listener, who might be doing a variety of exercises and might have been lifting for a while now. Because one of the common claims around length and partials, or length and training in general, is that they act via stretch-mediated hypertrophy. We've discussed that at length on the Strong by Science website. There's a whole article on it, you can check out. But one of those claims is that stretch-mediated hypertrophy only occurs in beginner lifters, and therefore in more trained lifters, doing length and partials wouldn't do anything, or wouldn't have any benefit whatsoever. So that was one gap in the evidence. Previously, there weren't really any studies in more well-trained lifters. So we set out to perform the study with the help of Jeff Nippard, who funded the study and helped with recruiting trained lifters. We're in New York for the majority of the summer to help out with the study, and effectively, the measurements we took were thicknesses of the biceps and the triceps before and after the eight-week intervention. Since we used a within-participant design where one limb was being trained with four-inch motion and one with length and partials, many of the usual confounders of differences in sleep between different individuals of the groups, or differences in genetics, maybe one group on average had better genetics than the other, or nutrition. All of those differences are largely washed out on account of your training one of your arms, one approach, and the other with a different approach. Differences in nutrition or your nutrition will impact both conditions the same way. So we can account for many confounders and effectively just bolster our statistical power in trying to determine whether there is an effect of one intervention versus another on our outcome of interest, in this case hypertrophy. We measured a thickness of the biceps and triceps, a composite, so not just the biceps, but also the other elbow flexors at 45 and 55% of muscle length, so a more proximal site and a more distal site for both the elbow flexors and the elbow extensors. And to make the last way short, we observed the same hypertrophy across the board between both conditions. If you squint just right, you could trick yourself into thinking there might be a benefit to lengthen partials for the biceps, and there might be a benefit of full range of motion for the triceps. But the difference was small enough that in all likelihood it is just sort of random noise versus there being a true effect of one approach being superior for hypertrophy. And in fact, when we analyzed the data using a Bayesian approach, the results indicated anecdotal to moderate support in favor of the null hypothesis, meaning there is no difference in how much muscle growth can be obtained via a full range of motion approach or lengthen partials. So that is the TLDR there. A couple of minor interpretations off the back of it. One interpretation you can make is that because we didn't observe any difference in hypertrophy in the present study, it may be that training at a sufficiently long muscle length is sufficient to maximize hypertrophy. So that's actually a take that our dearly departed co-host Greg Knuckles has had, and by dearly departed, I mean just currently not on the podcast, still very much alive, but RIP nevertheless. He's basically made the claim that the existing studies don't really provide strong support for the notion of needing to train at the longest possible muscle lengths, but rather just training at longer muscle lengths is a good thing. Whether or not you need to chase the maximum muscle length is debatable, based on the current evidence. In our study, it kind of provides some support in favor of that notion, because when we compared a full range of motion with a stretch emphasis, you know, in the full range of motion condition with that limb, they were still doing a full pause in the stretch position. They were still chasing the maximum stretch available within that exercise, and so they weren't skimping on the stretch position, and they were training on average at relatively long muscle lengths. So that seemingly was sufficient to maximize hypertrophy. So that's one stance you can take, is that there is a sort of threshold that you need to hit with muscle length to maximize hypertrophy. The corner argument there is that there's just not that many studies actually looking at that, so it's probably premature to say that's the case for sure. It's very possible that there is an effect. We just don't have the studies yet to be able to really tell. The other argument you can make in light of this research and previous studies as well is that the shortened position just doesn't really seem to be offering much in the way of additional hypertrophy. So almost whenever a more lengthened form of training has been compared to a more shortened form of training, so for example a lengthened isometric to a shortened isometric contraction, or a lengthened partial to a shortened partial, or a full range of motion to a shortened partial, where the full range of motion on average is being performed at longer muscle lengths, or a lengthened partial to a full range of motion. Across the board we have around 25 studies performing these comparisons of a more shortened form of training and a more lengthened form of training. And almost invariably, with exceptions that I can count on one hand effectively, lengthened training results in the same hypertrophy or more hypertrophy. So with the prevalence of greater hypertrophy being seen from shorter training being so low, and in this study in a very ecologically valid setting, there being no benefit of including the shortened position in the full range of motion condition, we can seemingly say with pretty high confidence that the shortened position probably isn't increasing your hypertrophy. Otherwise, in this study, as in previous studies, we would have seen worse hypertrophy from incorporating the shortened position. So that's another takeaway. I think the most realistic takeaway, in my opinion, is our study, despite our best efforts, may just not have been sufficiently powered to detect any potential differences. Keep in mind, our study was one of the most highly powered ones. We had 25 participants. It was a within-participant design. So just as a very rough and inaccurate heuristic, you could think of it as having 25 limbs in each group for a total sample size of 50. That is a relatively large sample size for the field, and for specifically range of motion research. And even in spite of that, we had a good chance that the effect is pretty small, and with that time frame, in advanced lifters, who on average grew only 5-6% over 8 weeks, detecting differences between two different interventions might have been difficult. Like let's say, for example, that, hey, length in partials did actually cause more growth, and they on average caused an 8% increase over 8 weeks, whereas the fore-intermotion condition caused a 4% increase. That's a sufficiently small difference that it can very easily be overshadowed by measurement error, random variance, all sorts of things. So it's possible, and relatively likely, that our power was not ideal. But just keep that in mind when you look at other research as well, because that is very often the case in resistance-training research and exercise science at large, which is why a single study should never undermine or overtake your whole view on a topic. Now, there are some minor exceptions to this. I think that it's worth drawing a distinction between a single experimental study and a meta-study. In the case of meta-analysis or a systematic review, there is a reason why that's at the top of the hierarchy of evidence, because effectively, you're looking at oftentimes dozens of individual experimental studies all pulled together, so that the limitations in terms of power, study design, what have you, of each individual study can be overcome sort of in a strength and numbers approach. But in this case, with it being a single experimental study, in a field where we already had around 25 studies overall and around 5 studies-ish, comparing length and partials in a four-range emotion specifically, that single study should only shift our consensus by so much, effectively. In a Bayesian framework, as we used in the analysis for our paper, you have your prior beliefs about a topic. In light of new evidence and new data, you will shift those prior beliefs by an amount proportionate to the strength of the evidence compared to the strength of your prior belief, and what evidence that prior belief was based upon. So in this case, we have around 25 studies again, which is a relatively strong prior belief in my view, and we have a new study, which, yes, we think is a very important study, on account of being ecologically valid, on account of being one of the most highly powered studies in the field, if not the most, when it comes to re-intermotion. But it remains, nevertheless, a single study, which should only shift your prior consensus or stance so much. So on that balance, I personally still think length and partials are a good bet for maximizing hypertrophy, whether in a trained population or not. But yeah, that's the short, long, short version of the study. Yeah, respect. That was the best way to explain that summary. Thanks for any additional thoughts on the study for another 45 minutes. Yeah, so let's start by visually describing each of the sets performed by the participants, frame by frame. So participant one. Now, I'm joking, obviously. Now, that was a very good summary. You can check out the preprint on Sport Archive by going to rangeofmotion.study on your browser. We've had the domain for years. It wasn't just for this study. And yeah, looking forward to hearing everybody's thoughts. It's also part of the Stronger by Science communities, which I will plug in a second. So I've posted it on the Facebook community, which you can also join. So the Stronger by Science community on Facebook and Reddit both have a lot of like-minded people that love listening. So before we get into warm-ups now, an area that can be somewhat controversial, especially in certain worlds. Let me just do our usual plugs and I hope I nail this. So if you're enjoying the show, please like, rate, subscribe and tell your friends, the latter being almost a legal requirement. It really helps us out. If you're interested in hiring a virtual coach to help you with your training and or nutrition, Stronger by Science has a team of excellent coaches that can help you. Awesome roster people with all sorts of expertise, all sorts of backgrounds, both athletic and educational. Check out strongerbyciences.com slash coaching for more information. If you want to buy supplements and you want to buy the infamous tall pill that Milo featured in his breakdown video of the study that he just talked about, that supplement doesn't exist and it's not available. But if you want to buy a solid supplement like creatine monohydrate, for example, you can buy from bulksupplements.com, which will allow you to not only get it from a reliable source, but also support the podcast, use code SBSPOD for 5% off. Facebook group and subreddit, as I mentioned, awesome communities, Stronger by Science on Reddit and on Facebook. Lots of people there interacting on a daily basis on all things, not just lifting and science, but like physical activity and science. Check out the newsletter so we do send out very high quality informative content in the form of a newsletter. No spamming, no ads, no BS. You can sign up at strongerbyciences.com slash newsletter. And if you want to potentially get your question answered on one of these podcasts, you can send us a voice note over at podcast at strongerbyciences.com, or if you're part of the communities, as I mentioned, you can also take part in the Q&A posts that Milo and I make there. Awesome. Feel free to check out episode one, part one, sorry, of this episode series. If you want to hear Greg talk about his experience with stretching and how he implements stretching, as well as some of the general research on stretching, sorry, not stretching, warm-ups, what warm-ups are supposed to achieve, the research on injury prevention. But for now, we're going to look at warm-ups for strength and hypertrophy. Dr. Wolff, the warm-up expert is here. Let's hear it. All right. So in part one, let's pack, put it, we talked about the effects of warm-ups on injury prevention and stretching as well, with Greg explaining many of his practices in stretching. This time we're talking about how to warm-up for strength and hypertrophy. So some of the things we mentioned last time around what a good warm-up is supposed to achieve for preparing you for a walkout and for exercise more broadly, just to recap, organisms generally function most efficiently at higher temperatures. So one of the main aims of a good warm-up is simply to increase muscle temperature. For instance, at higher muscle temperatures, muscle glycogen availability increases, there is improvement in your oxygen kinetics, whether it's delivery of the oxygen towards your muscles or the extraction from the blood into your muscles. A variety of things happen. And importantly, the effects of warm-ups on performance appear not to just be physiological, such as an increase in muscle temperature or improvements in oxygen kinetics or just in general improving energy metabolism, but also potentially have neural components and psychological components. So there is some research on the post-activation performance enhancement effect, for example, or PAPE for short. There's some research on psychological warm-up strategies like visualization, saying the key words, attentional focus. These things generally help to narrow your attentional focus on the task at hand and build your self-confidence or your sense of competence going into performing a difficult task like exercising. Specifically, when it comes to warming up, muscle temperature at least usually seems to reach an equilibrium after around 10 to 20 minutes of moderate intensity exercise. So that could be something like walking, inclined walking, or what have you. But it seems like warm-ups have the potential to improve performance during a hypertrophy or shrink walkout via a variety of mechanisms that span from physiological, psychological, and even neural. That doesn't mean we need to make things extremely complicated though. And we have a fair body of research looking at the effects of different warm-ups on performance when it comes to a strength-based walkout and hypertrophy-based walkout. Now, that's in contrast to the research we have on warming up for injury, where things are quite sparse, especially when it comes to lifting. When it comes to performance at least, we do have a fair bit of research. However, there is one big caveat to that statement. While we do have research on how a specific warm-up intervention or approach will impact performance in the subsequent session, that doesn't necessarily tell us much about long-term hypertrophy. And this is an issue we come across time and time again in different areas of evidence. There's a few reasons for why that's the case. For one, studying an acute outcome, like for example, performance during a session, is much, much, much more resource-friendly than actually measuring hypertrophy. If you're looking at the effect of a warm-up on performance, that is going to take you maybe two to four experimental sessions per participant. So as a Roth ballpark, you can think two to four hours per participant that you're including in your study, and you have a study. So for a sample size of 30 or 50, you might be talking about around 100 hours of total labor. If you're doing a training study instead, wherein you measure the muscle size before and after different groups use the same warm-up strategy consistently across the study, you might be multiplying that time commitment by approximately five to ten times, oftentimes, because you're now committing to training the participants in the lab for often eight to twelve weeks instead of just one off. And therefore, you'll be spending much, much more time to conduct that study compared to an acute study simply looking at performance. So that's one big reason. The other reason is it is easier to recruit participants for a study that is less work as well. So if I told you, hey, give me control of your training for the next 12 weeks, you might not be very happy to hear me ask that of you. And you might not be inclined to say yes. But if I ask you instead, hey, could you just come into the lab for three or four days total and do different warm-up protocols and maybe max out on the bench for a few sets? Yeah, like, yeah, sure, I can help you out. So there's a variety of reasons why these studies are much more commonly done than longitudinal studies, but it boils down to feasibility, effectively. Also, most sports and most actual sports, much to my dismay bodybuilding might not be considered a sport, most sports care about performance quite heavily. And so if you can find a way to boost performance via a better warm-up strategy, that is going to be more important to most people and most funding bodies compared to what boosts hypertrophy the most. So when you kind of weigh up the cost versus benefit of doing a longitudinal study on hypertrophy or strength development versus just an acute study on performance and the effects of different warm-ups, that is why we often only see acute studies. In this case, it's just worth keeping in mind that the studies we're about to discuss may find that a certain warm-up approach is best for boosting performance in a given hypertrophy workout, but that doesn't necessarily mean that that will translate to more hypertrophy in the long run. For example, as a little spoiler, many of the warm-up strategies seem to boost performance predominantly on the first set or maybe the first couple of sets of a hypertrophy workout. But thereafter, it seems like performance is largely the same, potentially because you've already reached like adequate muscle temperature, you've already done a set or two, so the priming effects, similarly, for example, the post-activation performance enhancement effect have been achieved purely by doing an actual work set. And so the subsequent sets are already maximized performance-wise through the prior sets you've performed. So that is worth keeping in mind. There are cases as well where even though a given training intervention or change to your training might improve performance, it doesn't necessarily translate to an increase in hypertrophy observed, for instance. So as an example, when you take longer rest times, let's say, for example, three, four, five minutes, six minutes plus between sets, you'll usually see at least slightly better performance for a lot of people, in certain movements at least. And yet, when you look at the empirical research on the topic of rest times for hypertrophy, you see that one to two minutes seems to lead to very solid growth and arguably the best growth. You don't need to rest much more than two minutes or so to maximize your hypertrophy. And so with rest times, for instance, that is a situation in which if you were to purely look at what maximized performance across the workout, thinking that that would translate to additional hypertrophy, you'd probably be mistaken. Other examples of this kind of limitation of research include citrally malate, for instance. So the most evidence-based, quote unquote, supplement out there is probably creatine monohydrate because we actually have quite a few studies looking at lean body mass or direct muscle mass measurements from taking creatine in conjunction with lifting compared to just lifting. And so we have a control group. We actually measure the outcome of interest and we have longitudinal studies and quite a few of them with something like citrally malate, which does seem to reliably boost performance a little bit. For bodybuilding style workouts, we simply don't have any longitudinal research on its effects on hypertrophy. So while you can make the claim that, hey, citrally malate does these things which improve performance, nitric oxide, boost blood flow, energy metabolism, all that stuff, you cannot make a claim with high certainty that that improvement in performance will necessarily yield more hypertrophy. It stands to reason, but as we've demonstrated with the rest time example, for instance, there's cases where that might not necessarily play out the way you want it to. So that is one huge limitation of the existing malatry research in that we don't have those longitudinal studies. So for hypertrophy, it seems like getting close to failure in a set is the main thing. While you might get an extra report to across five sets by following a certain acute warm-up strategy, and that does constitute performance boost, whether that then goes on to increase growth on term is another question. Importantly, with warm-up specifically, it's not as though there isn't an opportunity cost. So when we're talking about warming up, we're talking about spending additional time in the gym. Or oftentimes, spending more of your limited time in the gym warming up and not training hard, performing hard sets, which ultimately are the thing that is going to contribute to growth the most, not whether you get an additional rep on your first set. And so for many clients, speaking from a coaching experience now which you can touch on afterwards, I would prioritize getting more sets in into a given workout than making a warm-up go from five to 15 minutes. So adding 10 minutes of warming up to my clients' workout. Generally, I think that you are usually better served spending more of your time doing actual sets and less of your time warming up, at least for hypertrophy and the research around that we'll get into in a second. But, Pac, what do you think? Yeah, specifically for hypertrophy, it's something that I discuss with clients quite a bit because it intuitively makes some sense that, you know, especially if you've come up either in a strength sort of background, if you've started training, you're just mostly doing strength, strength-based programs and hearing about warm-ups and seeing other people warm up, or even if you had like an athletic background before you got into more specific training for muscle growth to have this idea that warm-ups are absolutely essential, extremely important and a significant amount of time should be allocated towards them if you want to maximize adaptations and if you want to maximize performance in the context of our virtue view to therefore maximize adaptations. But when it comes to my advice, based on the current literature, to clients is that warm-ups should not be viewed as anything more than just a quick chance at the beginning of the workout to get their heart rate up, perhaps perform a couple of sets on their first exercise, depending obviously on the exercises, some will require more time than others depending on whether there's a skill component or not, and not really worry about them much, especially if they're performing subsequent exercises that target the same musculature where they literally do not need to warm up whatsoever. As a general rule of thumb, if you want to do like a very quick set for like 10 to 20 seconds where you essentially perform the exercise with a slightly lighter load than your working set just so that you can be like, okay, yeah, this feels fine, and then literally wait a few seconds and just get into your main set, it's something that people sometimes tend to overthink and I think warm-ups for hypertrophy are more on the overrated side than the underrated side, so yeah, that's my experience. Yeah, I think our experience is mirror one another quite closely, almost as though we are in fact podcast co-hosts on muscle and feels and strong minds, and we are effectively of the same mind. Cool, let's put it on to the actual research and there's about six studies that I wanted to break down. I'm not going to go into depth into each one simply because many of them have similar results, and these are some of the most recent studies on lifting and performance. This is quasi systematic review like and the reason for that is there hasn't been a system in my overview on warm-ups for performance in hypertrophy training in quite a while, but effectively we have six studies that have all been conducted over the past three, four years at this stage. So we are getting a fair bit of research in the area as of recently. The most recent study I can think of is a study by Viveros and colleagues from 2024 titled high load and low volume warm-up increases performance in a resistance training session. So as the title implies, they loaded different warm-up strategies and found that the heavier but lower volume or fewer repetitions warm-up was beneficial. They looked specifically at the bench press, the lat pull down and the leg press, and they compared doing a set of five reps with 80% of their max as a warm-up to doing a set of 10 reps with 60% of their max as a warm-up to doing a set of 15 reps with 40% of their max as a warm-up. Following this individual set of different intensities for different number of reps, they then performed three sets of failure with either the bench press, the pull down or leg press. And effectively the high load warm-up was most beneficial, which is to say five reps with 80% of your max. Now that's pretty close to a wax set, but as we'll see in just a moment, generally the higher the load being used during warming up, the more beneficial the effects on performance subsequently seem to be. And this is kind of the general finding of the area of research in warming up that I referred to earlier as post-activation performance enhancement effect, that doing something heavy, heavy being somewhere between 70% to 90% of your max before your high-perfective work sets seems to be beneficial. So in this case, 80% for five reps beat both 60% for 10 reps and 40% for 15 reps. And those latter two approaches were similarly effective in terms of how much were participants able to lift in the subsequent set to failure on bench press, pull down, leg press. So that's the first study. Then we have another study in 2020 by Reburin Kroger.  and morphocomomom, morphocomomom, morphocomomom, morphocomomom, I compared three Walnut Propeaches yet again, and I actually broke this down recently for a short we had on the Stronghold by Science Instagram and YouTube, so go check that out if you haven't already. They compared doing a single set of six repetitions with 40% of your max to doing a single set of six repetitions with 80% of your max, kind of similar to the previous study we just spoke of, or doing both sets, so doing 40% of their max for six, then 80% of their max for six, and then their first black set. They looked at performing three sets of six at 80% of their max as their working sets, and they assessed performance via things like bar velocity, impulse, and other performance-related variables, because importantly in this case, they didn't go to failure on those sets, they simply did three sets of six reps at 80% of their max, which is a bit of a throwback to the percentage-based programming days. But effectively, they observed the best performance in terms of velocity, impulse, and so forth when the world consisted of both a 40% set and an 80% set, so one relatively lighter set and one pretty heavy set. But the performance observed with that approach was actually fairly similar to just doing a set with 80% of your max. 40% was by far the worst in terms of the performance observed. So yet again, it seems like the main thing, and potentially almost the exclusive thing to pay attention to, is doing a heavy set before your main work sets for hypertrophy. Next, we have a study by Susanne Collies from 2023. Following different warm-up approaches, the participants performed three sets on the back squat at 75% of their max for as many reps as they could. The different warm-up approaches that the researchers compared were doing six reps at 40% of their max, their usual warm-up, or three reps at 90% of their max. So a very, very heavy warm-up, and in fact, probably close to a working set, close to failure, as their one warm-up approach. Before they performed these different warm-up interventions, they did all perform a set of eight repetitions at 45% of their max as well, just kind of generally warm. In this case, there were no major differences in performance between the three conditions, but all differences were in favor of the three-rep condition where they performed three reps at 90% of their max in terms of performance in the subsequent sets. So yet again, although it seems like having done a set beforehand, kind of attenuates the benefit a little bit, the heavier set seems to be most beneficial. Next, we have a study by Conrado de Fritos and colleagues from 2021 where they compared two warm-up approaches. In both conditions, they performed 10 body-width squats first. In one condition, they didn't do anything thereafter. So that was their only warm-up, 10 body-width squats, and then they got straight into their four AMRAPs at 70% of their max on the squad. In the other condition, after doing their 10 body-width squats, they also performed a set of two repetitions at 90% of their max. So they jumped straight from body-width squats to 90% of their max. And effectively, the group that actually did a set of two at 90% observed much better performance. So on the first set specifically, the group that did the 90% set got about six extra reps with 70% of their max. So if, for example, in the condition where they didn't warm up or they did just 10 body-width squats, they got 12 reps, they got 18 when they were doing that heavy set beforehand. So specifically on the first set, doing that heavy set beforehand, that post-activation performance enhancement set, seems to be quite beneficial. However, well, first, before we go there, they also tested maximum voluntary isometric contraction, which is just a very unskilled test of strength. And likewise, just like for the squad, they also saw greater performance when doing that really heavy set before moving in. However, when it came to subsequent sets, so as I mentioned, they tested four sets all out with 70% of their max. When it came to subsequent sets after the first set, their performance was effectively the same, whether or not they did any additional warming up past 10 body-width squats. So like I mentioned earlier, from the research, it really does seem like one heavy set is important, but it seems to be primarily important for boosting performance on that first set. And thereafter, it may not matter quite as much anymore. Next, we have a study by others and colleagues from 2021 where they compared two warm-up approaches. In both conditions, they first performed eight repetitions at 50% of their max. In one condition, that was all they did. In the other condition, they also then performed a set of three repetitions at 90% of their max, resting 10 minutes afterwards before going into the first set, so getting plenty of rest. Then they all performed three sets of bench-pressed failure with 75% of their max yet again. Just like for the previous study by Conrado de Freitas and colleagues, on set one and set two, the 90% condition warm-up did see more repetitions performed. So again, it seems like that heavy set really boosts performance on maybe the first set or two, but then by set three, there were no differences in repetitions performed between the two conditions that either did a heavy warm-up or did not. The final study we want to discuss before giving some key takeaways is by Garbisou Hwadain colleagues from 2023. Hope I pronounced that properly. They had two conditions in both conditions. They performed a relatively extensive warm-up protocol consisting of five minutes of cycling, 10 reps with 40% of their max, four reps with 60% of their max, two reps at 70% of their max, and then a single rep at 80% of their max. Following this warm-up routine, both conditions then performed an AMRAP set with 80% of their max, so essentially getting as many reps as possible with 80% of their max. However, in the heavy warm-up condition, they then also performed a single rep at 93% of their max before resting for six minutes and going in for their testing set. So in one condition, they performed a really extensive warm-up up to the weight they were using for their walking set. And for the very heavy warm-up group, they also then performed a single repetition over their working weight at 93% of their max. And as you would expect based on the previous results, adding that single at a very high load of 93% of their max did actually improve performance. So they got more reps on their AMRAP set compared to the condition that just did a very extensive but submaximal and relatively light warm-up. And interestingly, the magnitude of the benefit from doing the additional heavy single was pretty similar to what we see in other studies where doing a heavier warm-up boosts performance. So it seems like that whole very extensive warm-up protocol of doing five minutes of cycling, 10 reps at 40%, four reps at 60%, two reps at 70% and the rep at 80% wasn't sufficient to maximize performance. It seems like what was really needed to boost performance in this regard on an AMRAP set of 80% of their max was simply doing a heavy set. Heavy being somewhere in the wall park of 70 to 90%. One key thing about this study is that they rested for about six minutes before between the last heavy single of 93% and going in for their AMRAP set. And when you look at some of these studies, like a study I mentioned previously, where they rested for 10 minutes between the last heavy set and the first training set by all of us and colleagues, generally it is recommended that a few minutes of rest at least are taken between that heavy warm-up set before your first walking set so that you can get your best performance. And that's the general takeaway from the post-activation performance enhancement effect research because otherwise residual fatigue could play a role in harming your performance if you did a really heavy set right before your walking set. But yeah, from this research, my own personal takeaway is that whether you want to do a lighter set, like let's say with 30 to 70% of your max, is relatively optional for a hypertrophy work, but doing a pretty heavy set before your walking set is probably worth doing. So somewhere in the ballpark of 70 to 90% of your max seems to be beneficial for boosting performance thereafter for hypertrophy style work. Importantly though, the effect seems to be mostly constrained to the first set or two of hypertrophy work rather than being something being something that boosts performance for the rest of the workout. And as a result, maybe if you go relatively heavy for the first exercise of your workout, for instance, like say for example, you do some heavy benching and then you move into some score crushers for higher reps. The fact that you went heavy enough for the bench press might potentially performance thereafter because as we see in these studies, by set three, sometimes even set two, the difference in performance is effectively gone. And so it makes sense that because your set one was already pretty heavy, you don't see any additional benefit that could also carry over from one movement to the next, which to me at least kind of provides a couple of suggestions. One, if you already feel warm and went relatively heavy earlier in the session, you probably don't need to do a ton of going up for exercise number two, three, four, et cetera. And suggestion number two is to probably start your workouts with heavier work to potentially get a slight edge in performance for subsequent work. So you might want to start your session with heavier bench pressing and then move into lighter dumbbell pressing or what have you. So yeah, those are my takeaways, but I am keen to hear what my good co-host, Dr. Pack has to say. I completely disagree. So yeah, no, there's nothing much more that I could possibly add there. I think even the TLDR we said at the beginning, obviously we can just give a TLDR without the appropriate evidence, but the TLDR of a few heavy sets are probably going to do the trick in most cases. And for the majority of people, unless again, you're working on a specific exercise and you're a competitive power lifter and getting some more practice in helps you warm up, things are pretty straightforward. And warming up, if you also look at the previous episode where we talked about injury prevention and in general that warming up does not seem to be some sort of magical tool as far as that goes. Overall, biasing more time towards your actual training I think makes most sense to me. And obviously look the argument for preference and some people will tell you, but I like to get a bit more loose, do some mobility work. If I do a few more warm up sets that then allows me to feel the muscles more, that's always going to be fine. If you wanna take this information and you wanna just know that a warm ups do not appear to be magical, but for you specifically, certain modifications to the recommendations on the back of the literature make your workout better. That's totally fine. We're not by no means telling you that, hey, you should just stick to this and if you do anything more, you are doing something wrong, but rather if you're somebody that feels good after just a couple of hard sets and is ready to go, it's likely that you do not need to overthink warm ups whatsoever. But allow me, sorry, allow me to add that if you're pressed for time and you are in the gym with your main goal being muscle growth and obviously strength increases, the latter will require a bit more time spent on warm ups, but for the former, that's one of the few cases where I would make the argument that, hey, skip that warm up, just get straight into it. You'd rather get two or three extra sets of actual potent hypertrophic stimulus versus doing sometimes maybe 30 or 50% less volume because you're there warming up for each exercise or you're doing a very long channel warm up followed by a specific warm up. Sit down on the first exercise, do a relatively heavy set as your warm up, don't go, you don't need to take that set to failure, give it a minute and then straight into your working set. Yeah, makes sense. I'll give some overall takeaways from the research and warming up for lifting. First one would be that warming up before exercising is a good bet if you want to maximize performance and that likely applies to not just lifting, but all exercise or different sports types. As I mentioned, there are some mechanistic underpinnings as to why we would expect warming up to be beneficial for performance, both physiologically, psychologically, and even neutrally, so that's one thing. That doesn't mean you need to be super extensive, but for lifting specifically, a heavy warm up set appears to be the main thing and it does seem to increase performance in subsequent sets. What I mean by heavy is around 70 to 75 or more percent of your max, like 75 to 90% of your max for one rep or a couple reps seems to be sufficient. A second or third warm up set may not be beneficial, like whether or not you need to do a set of say 10 or eight or whatever at 40% of your max before that, based on the research, not super clear. The main thing by far just seems to be a relatively heavy set before your working sets. The other thing that seems to be a good idea is to take at least a couple of minutes of rest between your potentiation or heavy warm up set and your first working set or until you just feel ready to perform at your best. So if you just did a set of one at 85% of your max, you may not feel ready to go for your working set until in a couple of minutes, just take as long as you need or at least you feel you need to perform your best. For injury prevention, things are pretty unclear. As I mentioned in part one, we don't really have any direct research on lifting injury risk and different warm strategies. That said, what research we do have on warming up and injury risk broadly seems to suggest that some multi-component warm up protocols can help. So for instance, we spoke about the FIFA 11 where you have a wide variety of different modalities, like strength training, eccentric training, plyometrics, agility, mobility, stretching, a variety of things to the point that it makes it difficult to tell what's going on. What is clear from the research is that lifting and strength training in general might be one of the most beneficial interventions for reducing sports injury risk. And so it's tempting to explain the results of interventions like the FIFA 11 by just saying, well, they perform lifting, eccentric exercises and plyometrics, which do seem to have evidence in their favor for reducing injury risk. So it's not super clear even from this research, like the research on the FIFA 11, whether or not warming up will really prevent or reduce injury risk rather. So the final thing I'd say as well, regarding static stretching is that we reviewed the evidence in part one, but it doesn't seem to help prevent injury. So even though static stretching might be one of the most common forms of warming up or parts of a injury risk reduction protocol, whether or not it actually helps you reduce injury risk seems pretty unclear. If there is an effect, it would potentially be for musculoskeletal tenderness injuries. However, there's a good chance that lifting would also cover you in that regard. So yeah, it's one of those things where lifting has relatively low injury rates, as we discussed in episode one. And lifting seems to reduce injury risk in other activities. I'm not sure if we can say too much more from the research at this stage. Pac, can you think of anything else to add on those takeaways? No, I think we've given enough general overview for warmups. I wish it was a bit sexier or a bit more like, hey, do this specific warmup or follow these sort of principles and you're gonna be looking at substantially more muscle growth to the point where somebody warming up with a simple warmup is probably missing out on gains. I'm not sure actually if I'd wish for that, it would be cool if there was some weird trick you could do. But yeah, I think we've warmed up fully. I'm not sure what the verb would be there. I think the correct analogy is, we're sufficiently warmed up to get in some Q and A. Hey, that was nice. Yeah, I'll start us off with Maria LB, Christina Daughter, hope I pronounced this right. From the Facebook group, if you warm up a particular muscle group, but for some reason have to wait in unexpectedly long amount of time between sets or something, how much time can pass between sets you have to warm that muscle group up again for maximum performance. Well, I'd say that obviously I don't think we have a study looking with a study design that would actually mimic that. And I assume that most of us have had to go through at some point in the gym where you're talking to somebody or somebody calls you and then all of a sudden you've rested for 15 minutes. I would say that following the general guidelines we just gave and maybe just performing another warm-up set, a heavy warm-up set, just to be safe if you're feeling extremely cold and you want to ensure that you're maximizing performance, that should cover you. But if you're talking about like 10 to 15 minutes, I'd argue that you are likely to be even more ready to attack the next set and get maximum performance out of it. Obviously we'll depend on the exercise and what's distracting you from actually doing the set. So yeah, Milo? I tend to agree. I think the couple of things to pay attention to are one, in the warm-up research we do have, taking up to five to 10 minutes between the last heavy warm-up set and the first AMRAP is still sufficient to boost performance on the subsequent set. So if it's under five or 10 minutes, I probably wouldn't worry about it, to be honest. The other minor thing to pay attention to is do you feel warm anymore? Like one of the things a good warm-up is supposed to achieve is to increase muscle temperature. If you feel like you're completely cold again, akin to when you first go in the gym or when you left home, if you walk through the gym, if you feel like that again, I mean for one it's probably been more than five or 10 minutes, so it's kind of a catch-twee-into where both criteria are met. But for another, that might be a sign that you do need to repeat some of the warm-up protocol or do something for maximum benefit. And it might just be a matter of, okay, let me do a quick set of one or two with about 75% of max and I can get back into it. Or if you're really cold again, you could do some sort of movement like doing eight to 10 reps at 40% of your max before that. But for very few people and very few cases, will that be necessary? And I think that if it's much less than 10 minutes and or you don't feel cold, you can probably just get straight back into it. Make sense? Yeah, for sure. Cool, let me check up the next question for you in that case. Next question is from Matt Salskins from Facebook. And he says, if I don't get injured, then to what extent does warming up matter? Would I be better served to use a time I would spend warming up doing an extra set? If my wonder of max is 100 pounds and I do a warm-up set of five reps with 50 pounds, might I be better served pushing 50 pounds to failure and calling it a working set? Pack? Mm-hmm. Yeah. If you are so pressed for time to the point where you can't afford that one set, probably yes. It's very difficult to say, because the idea that if I don't get injured, it's not like we can safely predict injury. And as Milo said, warm-up seems to be a good idea overall for performance. So if you are there and on average, you have 10 to 15 minutes to train and you want to absolutely maximize muscle growth in those 10 to 15 minutes or whatever time, then yeah, likely it likely makes a bit more sense to get that set, to turn that set into a working set. However, if you can spare the extra a minute, I'd say it's a good idea to do the couple of warm-up sets so that you can maximize performance for the exercise that you're performing. So yeah, I'm not a huge fan of these sort of extreme scenario questions where it's like, I don't see many people not having that time. As I mentioned, if you are that one person or you have the odd week here and there where you're super limited in terms of time, then fine. But on average, do your best to include some form of warm-up there. Yeah, I mostly agree. I think I'm a bit more amenable to that scenario. I don't think I can make a compelling case at this stage that a lifter who does not warm up for lifting for hypertrophy is really like increasing injury risk or decreasing hypertrophy. So yeah, if you're pretty busy, your warm-up approach might be very minimal. And let's say for example, you're doing an upper body day, right? If you're pretty busy, I would probably just do one or two warm-up sets on your first movement and then just almost get straight into exercise to exercise without warming up for individual exercises. And that would take you like three to five minutes tops warming up, especially if you've walked to the gym and your muscle temperature is somewhat elevated already. But equally, like when I get very busy, I wouldn't mind doing my first set at like 50% of a max as an amrap. Although I'd probably go a bit higher anyways because I don't wanna do 20 reps or more. But yeah, like I don't think it's something to worry about overly. If you're super busy, you can get straight into it for hypertrophy. And if you have any amount of spare time, like even three to five minutes, I would probably just do the warm-up for the first exercise or two or any exercise that you're doing where you don't feel warmed up yet in that area. Like if you start with bench press and then you're moving on to rows, maybe do the same for your rows. Then thereafter, your whole body's pretty warmed up upper body wise and you don't need to worry about doing warm-up sets for your bicep curls, for instance, necessarily. So yeah, like I don't think there are any hard and fast rules as far as like you need to warm up to maximize hypertrophy or we have clear evidence that you need to and you're going to kill your gains if you don't. Yeah, for sure. Big Jonathan Stud from Reddit asks, do you need warm-up sets for an exercise you're doing 20 plus reps per set on? Or would you, or would the earlier reps suffice as a warm-up? So that's something where I think the research is pretty helpful because most of the studies we have on multiple sets of lifting, usually they're looking at like 70 to 80% of your max. So it's not quite a set of 20 reps, but it is like a set of frequently 10 to 15 or maybe even up to 20 sometimes. So it's not a rough ballpark. And in those studies, doing a heavier set before your working set did seem to boost performance at least on the first set and sometimes on the second. Now, whether or not that increase in performance is sufficient to warrant spending an extra five minutes warming up, I don't know. But what I can say is that the earlier reps from that set wouldn't be sufficient because it seems like one of the key things of a warm-up for lifting is to go pretty heavy. And the first couple of reps with your 20 reps max, the weight simply isn't sufficient enough to give you the benefit of warm-up. So as far as the benefit of the warm-up itself goes, performance, no, the earlier reps wouldn't suffice. But whether or not it matters in a grand scheme of things as far as stimulating hypertrophy, I don't really know. I'm not sure it matters all that much. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, I agree because like, I don't know, like looking directly at the evidence that is available at the moment is your best bet and trying to sort of work around it to see if you can incorporate the warm-up in the working set just doesn't make sense as it stands, heavy set, good, then you can do your higher-up set. So. I think that's reasonable. Cool, next up, I will tear this off. We have a question by the high mag on Reddit. And it goes, I think it's some takes and then a question. Well, actually he has one take as he describes. He says, takes and ascending levels of heat brackets, I have just one take. And his take is non-specific warm-ups, stretching, form rolling, agile eight, whatever, are net negative. So let's first respond to that before we move into this question. Pac, what do you think? Yeah, I don't know. I tend to semi-agree because. Middle, respect. Yeah, I'm trying to be as safe as I can here. So obviously context matters, but usually at least from my own experience, stretching, form rolling, agile eight, and a bunch of warm-up protocols often come with a hefty or at least some form of nocebo when it comes to injury and the effect of warm-ups on injury specifically, sprinkled with buzzwords like myofascial release and all sorts of stuff and getting your glutes to fire before a squat and yada, yada, yada. So they are usually, at least from my own experience, presented as game changers for both performance and injury prevention. From a literature standpoint, we see that aside from some increases in range of motion, which can also be achieved with lifting, you're not looking at either performance increases or actual injury prevention. So for a lot of people that buy into a lot of the warm-up tools and techniques that are out there, I feel that one, they're wasting more time because they believe that they're preventing injury and that they're potentiating performance and because they could be spending that time actually lifting. And at the same time, I feel that they reinforce a mindset of being frail and needing to do a bunch of warming-up in order to actually get into your lifting. So I semi-agree with that statement, but again, keep in mind, you can be an evidence-based lifter that says, hey, I know it's not gonna do much for me, but when I foam roll before, I really like how it feels on my hips and my squat feels better when I do it. I know that that's not gonna stop me from getting injured. I'm still managing my workload and stress appropriately because I know that that's what likely matters most. I think that's pretty reasonable. I think when it comes to lifting specifically, unless you're dealing with some sort of prior injury or pain where your medical professionals advise you to, hey, do some stretching or do some foam rolling or Agile-8, with that caveat out the way, I think the lifter who is lacking in flexibility or mobility to achieve their goal is pretty rare. And the lifter who is in that position typically is relatively new to lifting. Such that in due time, they would achieve the required flexibility to maximize their outcome of interest anyways through just lifting. So if you lift with a four-inch of motion for about six months, even though you might have just started lifting and you're not particularly flexible yet, and so you might be worried that, hey, I'm not reaching long enough muscle lengths to maximize hypertrophy, I think that pretty quickly you would be able to through just lifting. The one scenario where I can kind of think of stretching, foam rolling, Agile-8, whatever, being beneficial would be in the context of a strength sport where you're consistently unable to have the required flexibility to optimize your technique. If for example, you are very, very inflexible.  in your thoracic spine. And therefore, you cannot arch on the bench whatsoever power lifting. And you find that stretching or form rolling between more upsets on the bench allows you to get into that position. And by arching, you're able to lift more weight. And by doing that, you're over time able to get your body used to that position and become permanently more flexible and flexible enough to maximize your performance in that sport. I can see a point to that. But I think that's relatively uncommon. And I think that flexibility and mobility in the strength sport specifically have become a bit of a buzzword, where people think they need to maximize and optimize their flexibility and mobility to really be the best power that they can be and spend half an hour in the rest days form rolling because otherwise they'll get stiff and that's a bad thing. I think most people are overly concerned with that. And so I would say in 95% of scenarios, I agree with this hot take. But it is probably in the negative that instead you could be spending more time lifting or time relaxing. The remaining 5%, or effectively, if you enjoy doing it, you do you, King or Queen. And if you're a strength athlete who really thinks they'd be better off doing that before a workout to become more flexible, fair enough, and improve your performance, fair enough. It's about it, though. Yeah, hot take I agree with. Yep, nice. Let me take off the actual question of the high mark. All right, let me beat box. All right, set the beat. Is there any research? With respect to the efficacy of potentially eating the body for higher rep bounce by warming up with a load and excess of the expected working weight, i.e. for a targeted rep max, handling some singles, double struples above that weight before settling in for the rep work. Insert plug for Dr. Pack talking about Dr. Mike, about how to power build the right way, and a brief reference to the potential when you do your strength work before you have particular work. Check out Dr. Pack's channel plug. And yeah, what do you think, Pack? Singles, doubles, struples above the target weight before doing the rep work? I think you are the right person here because the potential effect, I remember, that used to be like a Milo Wolf classic back in the day, the heavy set before the actual work, right? Bro, I've been tapped in with the warm up research for a while, since I was 20 years old or something. Yeah, the potential set has become a bit of a meme amongst the friend group because people would just be like, hey, let's get into your set, we've done the light warm up, let's get into it. And I was like, no, no, no, let me do a quick rep or two with the working weight were a bit above it. And then I get into the set and people used to laugh at me. Now they still laugh at me. So life is sad. But yeah, I think it's based on the research. Again, doing a heavy set with 75% to 90% of your max before your working set for high-perch rep work might boost your performance on the first set or two. Might be a good thing on the wrong one. Not something to obsess over, but it takes literally five seconds. So it might be worth doing. Yeah, I'd say that unless, I mean, look, like you doing a single, double, or triple before, if you have the time to spare, you may be looking at some extra strength gains there and it's not really a big deal. But using that rule as a must versus just handling like a load that is close to your working set, I think for some people can actually lead to more time spend doing stuff that doesn't really align with their goals. So working up to a heavy single on the squad may take a bit more time, may take some psychological preparation depending on your style of lifting. And at the same time, you could have just done, like let's say you're squatting 200 pounds. You could have done a set of three out of 180 pounds before or a set of, yeah, set of three, set of two, whatever, a heavy set with a weight close to your working weight and then do your higher-rep set. So yeah, not a bad idea. You're not gonna be losing gains for sure and you might make some strength gains as well, but at the same time, nothing too crazy. Sounds reasonable to me. Moving on to our final question on Reddit. Four scores and 20 years ago asks, would your recommendations change for someone in their 40s or above? Pack to yourself. No, not really. Unless, again, like obviously evidence-based practice means that we also take the person's preference and unique circumstances in consideration. If that person has had multiple injuries and psychologically helps them to move around a bit more, yada, yada, yada, for some exercises, yes, potentially. And that's just an assumption because I'm biased because I've worked with a lot of master's power lifters who are competing at a high level. So some injuries and pains and aches come with the territory. But for a lifter, just a regular lifter who's 40 and is looking to make solid muscle gains, no, recommendations would be the exact same, obviously with the same disclaimers as well. And hey, just if you wanna do it a bit more or a bit less, up to you. I think that's reasonable. I largely agree. It may be a case of absence of evidence versus evidence of absence, but like none of the research points towards there being a necessity for different recommendations. I think that generally the beliefs of older lifters tend to be more cautious around injury or a bit more wary of them and tend to perceive that lifting has a relatively high injury risk or tend to more readily get injured. If you feel like warming up more is going to safeguard you somewhat, feel free to do it. But just be aware that from the research side of things, there's basically nothing to really suggest it. As long as you're achieving the basic guidelines of you warmed up enough to feel relatively warm and you've done a relatively heavy set before your first walking set for hypertrophy, I couldn't claim that you're missing out on anything or at least there's no evidence to substantiate that claim. So yeah, that's my take. I think we largely see eye to eye on that pack. Yeah, 100%. And yeah, the idea that you are this sort of frail individual at the age of 40, same with some of the more sexist assumptions with women training as well, like you're fine, totally fine. You're not going to break in half and you don't need to warm up for hours and hours and do form rolling and be careful. Just obviously don't yolo it, but that applies for younger people as well. Yeah, I fully agree. And I think in general, if you want good resources for injury prevention advice, quote unquote, things like where people like a lot of things, barbell medicine, strength and evidence physio, no bullshit physio on Instagram, clinical athlete, those types of resources will serve you well. But yeah, at least from the research side of things, and we had a physio look over all this stuff, shout out to strength and evidence physio, at least from the research side of things, I don't think there's anything to worry about. Happy to be refuted, disproven, debunked, you know, but I can't say there's anything. Pac, warm-ups, anything to add from your experience as a coach or an athlete? The for power lifters specifically, don't buy into the hype of the 30 minute warm-up with a corrective exercises and seven different random circuits even for highly trained power lifters, gradually increasing the load on the bar while performing squat, bench or deadlift is likely going to be more than enough. And in some cases, based at least on the current literature, it might be more than you actually need to get you ready for your working set. If you want to do some general warm-up to get your heart rate up, perfectly fine, like some light cycling for five minutes or like walking in client for five minutes, but spending hours and hours doing corrective exercises, not hours, minutes and minutes doing corrective exercises and drills before your SBD or whatever, S or B or D session, IMO doesn't make much sense. And it's more of a cultural thing from my own observation versus something that you actually should be concerned about. Did you just commit the McNamara fallacy? Shout out to McNamara Airport in a terminal. I think it's a terminal? Where is it the airport? Whoever Googles it first. All right, let's see. That is an airport, I'm pretty sure. Oh, that's in Detroit. Let's fucking go. Yeah, it's a terminal. McNamara terminal. Yeah, no, I largely echo what Pac has said. I do think it is more of a cultural thing. And you'll notice that when you actually do real sports for a little while, where, oh, people are doing all sorts of warm-ups that aren't really substantiated and they just do them because they do. And the same goes for power lifting. Power lifting is not that distinct in terms of culture from other sports. The same thing still tend to happen. So yeah, I would say I hope this episode has left listeners with a better understanding and appreciation for what there is and is in evidence for warming up. Yeah, but hey, whatever floats your boat ultimately. And that's real. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for listening to another Stronger by Science podcast. Make sure to check out the website, strongerbyccience.com. And obviously, I'm not gonna redo all the plugs as before, but hey, check out the communities, check out... The coaching. Strongerbyccience.com slash coaching to get an expert coach to handle your training nutrition today. Go there now, sign up. You'll get matched with an excellent coach who can handle all your stuff. Look coaching mode. That was awesome. Yes, my brain there froze. And we will see you guys next time. We're preparing some really cool episodes for the podcast and we look forward to sharing everything with you. From us to you, we bid you adieu. Peace.!

=== FILE: Weak Muscle Growth Beliefs (Episode 140) [A9UBZOgv4hU].txt ===

! Another great episode this time on Week or Tenues, Muscle Growth Beliefs, Slash Ideas. This is the title that we're working with at the moment. It's not fully finalized, but essentially we're going to be talking about things that you often hear presented as game changers for muscle growth, when in reality they are weaker than they may appear. Things that make some intuitive sense, but when you look at their research more closely, there is still space for more research and for more questions to be answered. But before we jump right into the episode, it is the middle of August, one day before arguably the most important day in the world, my birthday. But more specifically, we are now at the stage of writing the infamous full rom verses partials of study. In general, there are a few cool things coming out on the research front. Milo, do you want to touch on that? Yeah, should I speak about the results or do we keep them under wraps for now? I think we keep them under wraps given that this will be out in a couple of weeks. Even in a week, yeah, actually. Yeah, I mean we've got some cool interesting research coming out. I know Pax has been working on a case study on, hey, what happens when a bodybuilder takes steroids in the box for eight weeks? How much muscle growth do you observe? I've been writing up the range of motion study that we described, looking at trained lifters, eight weeks, lengthened partials versus full range of motion, which one grows more muscle using one arm as the full range of motion, training arm and the other arm as the lengthened partials arm. So all training for one arm slash one side was performed with a full range of motion, all training for the other side or other arm was performed with lengthened partials. And I think the results are pretty cool. And it's going to be just a bit of a spoiler. It's going to be a bit of a war shark test wherein you can kind of take away from it what you want to. So yeah, very curious to see how people react to the study. And I think Pax shares some of my excitement. Exactly. This is a study that's been long overdue and it's been so awesome collaborating with obviously the whole team over at the Applied Muscle Development Lab in New York City and actually finishing the study. And now it feels semi surreal that we are just a few weeks before being able to preprint it. We're still, the reason we're being somewhat not secretive, but a bit reluctant to share results just yet is because we're still waiting for a few things to finish in the background to be included on the paper. And we want to do the paper justice and have everybody give feedback before sharing any sort of results or our interpretation of it. And we're specifically waiting for a bunch of participant footage to be fully anonymized. So we're working on that now because we are planning on sharing a lot of video footage of the participants training. We're talking like how many participants would you say? 80 percent? Yeah, just over 80 percent, I think. Yeah, an actual sets of both conditions, full sets from start to finish, where you can clearly see the range of motion, the tempo employed, and obviously the intensity of effort, which we think should slowly start becoming standard practice in the field as you hear a lot of complaints about methods of studies more specifically on how hard participants trained or sometimes it's not clear exactly what they've done, although it's usually described in text and it's supposed to be described to the utmost detail. Sometimes that is not really clear for many people, especially for those that don't know how to create that visual sort of image, if that makes sense. And we've seen that with a range of motion studies quite a bit. Yeah, I think if nothing else, it should provide a bit more transparency in the research process. Many of the critiques people tend to throw at studies they don't like are just grasping in straws. I think that if only to reduce the ammunition of some research haters, showing people how it's actually done, probably a good thing. And for people who do try and interpret research in good faith, I think having that extra level of, oh, this is what happened in the study is helpful. It was back in the day, especially with stricter word limits on journal articles and what have you. The amount of detail involved for the methods was pretty abysmal. And I think we're just slowly trying to shift that narrative a little bit and bring more detail and transparency into the research process. Hopefully videos will help, but we'll see. Indeed. I remember seeing a few papers from a early 2000s, some even older where you'd miss, you didn't have basic information about the training that was carried out or the classic training was carried out as previously described. And then a citation of another paper that cites another paper and so on and so forth. This just reminds me of that infamous melatonin rabbit hunting trip we went on where we heard about a melatonin study where supposedly hundreds of women were given a high dose of melatonin for I think like a year or more straight. And there were essentially no side effects. Those were the reports we heard through the grapevine. And we asked the person who first mentioned it to us to provide the citation and they were like, oh, that's all. Couldn't provide it. Don't know where it is. So then we looked into it. We googled some of the characteristics of the study and we found around like 50 different citations of that study, but we couldn't find the original study. It just probably may not exist. So yeah, that was a bit of a deep rabbit hole to delve into only to realize that study doesn't exist. And I think sometimes when all you do is cite previous research that's done something or said something and you're not citing the actual study, you're often citing a study that's cited as study. It's kind of like a game of, is it called Chinese telephone? Where essentially you say something to someone else. Chinese whispers. There you go. We call it telephone. We agree as well. There you go. Foreigners unite. But eventually you just butcher it entirely and the original study may or may not even exist. So yeah, exactly. The same the same issue. The same realization occurred when I did the placebo video for the SPS channel where I talked about the infamous steroids. Oh, we told people they took steroids and they made insane gains sort of studies where when you look closely, you've heard over the years that there are these, you know, extreme studies that show this and that and the other. But then when we look at the actual methods, you see that the reality of things is much different and much more limited. So I'll do my plugs and I'll do our plugs actually. And then we get right into it. So if you're enjoying the show, please like, rate, subscribe until your friends. It really helps us out. Now if you're interested in hiring a virtual coach to help you with your training or your nutrition, Stronger by Science has a team of excellent coaches that can help you. You can learn more at strongerbyscience.com slash coaching. We've recently finished a bunch of behind the scenes updates in the coaching program, including revised training log sheets alongside other materials that the coaches can use. But overall, if you're interested in solid one-to-one coaching, I think SPS is one of the best places that you can get that. If you want to purchase supplements from a reliable source and support the podcast at the same time, boxsupplements.com with the code SPSPond for a 5% discount. Don't forget to check out the Facebook and subreddit of the Stronger by Science Facebook and subreddit. These are amongst the most active subreddits and Facebook groups that I have personally seen in our niche. So plenty of posts every day, plenty of people commenting and engaging in discussions around training nutrition science, the science of training in nutrition, as well as the odd comment and participation from us as well. I do know that Dr. Mr. Greg Knuckles is fairly active there. There's many instances where I see Greg's typical responses appear. So you never know. You may get that Greg Knuckles TM response to your question. But all that to say that we are active there as well. Check out the newsletter. So this is something that we've been working on for the past few months. We send you high quality informative content, no spamming with a bunch of ads. Sign up at Stronger by Science.com slash newsletter. You can also get a bunch of free programs when you sign up for the first time. And last but not least, if you have any questions that you want to be answered on the podcast, aside from being part of the Facebook and subreddit communities where we ask people to ask questions every time there's a new podcast episode coming, you can also email us and send us a voice note or a voice clip or a voice message, whatever you want to call it at podcast at Stronger by Science.com. All right, so let's get right into it. As I mentioned at the beginning, this is an episode on muscle growth beliefs or ideas that are relatively weak, although they're often presented and often perceived as game changers. We'll start off with forcing advanced periodization for hypertrophy specifically. Now we're talking about pre-planning training in advance in a manner where everything including progression is meticulously planned in a proactive manner. We're talking about lower volume or even lower RPE weeks, deloads when not necessary, pre-plan progression and so on and so forth. So if we look at the current literature on periodization and hypertrophy, we see that as long as volume is equated between two different protocols, regardless of whether they're periodized or not, the outcomes are more or less the same, which makes sense from a literature standpoint. So if you're completing the same amount of heart sets per week and your intensity of effort is similar, it's likely that even if you have a specific periodization plan that undulate volume from week to week or slowly progresses volume over time, if at the end you're performing the same amount of training volume, it's likely that you're not going to be seeing any different gains in hypertrophy. However, aside from focusing only on the research here, we will obviously look at all these ideas from a coach's perspective because the literature on periodization is limited and the reason I say that is that we have a few studies where they've obviously compared different programs lasting for eight to 12 weeks, but in reality, periodization may have some use in some cases where differently planning, training cycle may allow one to be more consistent and may allow one to actually do more volume over time. However, that, in my opinion, falls more under the category of personalized or individualized programming where you take an individual's preferences, schedule, recovery, and consideration and you can create a sort of reactive framework that does have some pre-planning involved, but at the same time is still reactive to their recovery, to their performance in the gym and doesn't necessarily force them to do things, even though those things, for example, a deal of a week after four weeks, so not having them do certain things when they're not needed just because you've agreed or you've pre-planned to do so. Now that was a confusing sentence, I know, but it's meant to keep you on your toes, so now you're like, what did I just hear? So I'll pass it over to Milo to add his two cents for that point and then we'll touch on why we think forcing advanced periodization may be doing a slight disservice to your muscle growth gains, to your muscle growth. Okay, so for mine, there's a few things I want to touch on. First, I think when it comes to periodization, as you mentioned, when you look at all the studies on periodization, different styles of periodization and what have you, whether it's linear periodization versus reverse linear versus daily undulating periodization, all of these different periodization styles that do add a lot of complexity to your training, like usually periodization isn't the first thing that you learn about when you start lifting. It's kind of one of those harder to reach fruits as opposed to the low hanging ones. And so generally, it's very tempting to think increased complexity will mean increased gains, but you really need to think your way through this and that's how you get the best gains. In reality, when you look at the meta-analyses on periodization for hypertrophy specifically, it doesn't seem like there is really a benefit, at least the way we test that periodization. And that brings me to my real point. Do we know that no style of periodization really makes a difference? No. Most studies that look at periodization look at one specific type of periodization. Like even further than just classifying it as linear periodization, they look at certain rep schemes, they look at certain exercises, they look at certain things. So while you are testing the broad concept of periodization and whether or not it impacts muscle growth, the concept itself of periodization is so poorly defined that it's very difficult to test it. And that's why there's been several repapers, one by our PhD supervisors, James Steele and colleagues and one, even older one by John Kiley, which kind of call out to the fact that, hey, periodization is so poorly defined that when we try to operationalize it in the research and experimentally test whether or not it makes a difference for hypertrophy, we don't really have super solid studies to prove, forget the well-proved, to substantiate either way whether it makes a difference or not. So yeah, that's one big issue with periodization research and I think that's why it kind of boils down to an absence of evidence versus evidence of absence for the most part. Like the Ongelmural, the existing research does point towards there not being a big effect, but there is also just not sufficient research on different types of periodization to really tell. So, one example that I know we'll touch on in a little bit, resensitization. There's a few studies by, I want to say, Augusta Warren colleagues or maybe Waka Hara and colleagues, I will give those confused, about resensitization where essentially they have participants train either in one study, for example, for 18 weeks straight and just continue training hard versus in the other group, training hard for six weeks, taking three weeks entirely off, training hard for another six weeks and taking three weeks entirely off again. And they measure muscle growth and strength improvements. And in those couple of studies by these researchers, they find the same muscle growth and strength gains, broadly speaking, between the two groups, despite taking some time off, which points towards one of two things. Resensitization occurring, wherein because you took some time off, when you come back to training, you're more sensitive to training and you make faster gains. Or option two, you're essentially just regaining what you lost during that three week training cessation period. And that's why it's faster. And indeed, the concept of regaining lost gains faster than you first gained them is very consistent in the research. Why muscle memory might be a thing, may or may not have to do mostly with myonuclear domain theory. We have a whole article on the topic on the website, if you want to check it out. But it seems like at least taking a week or a couple weeks or even three weeks off every noun then, probably won't kill your muscle growth. We only have a few studies on the topic and we don't have any very intentional experimental comparisons of a well-designed training cessation involving program versus a well-designed non-training cessation involving program. Like, we don't have a study, and I know that Josh Pelland of Data-Driven Strength is planning on doing a study like this, but we don't currently really have a study that is aiming to test the effects of a well-planned training cessation period and whether or not in the long term that can help you make more gains. So for instance, instead of taking three weeks off entirely and losing muscle in the process, how about just doing like one weekly session so you can maintain your muscle mass but still perform way lower volumes than usual and potentially see the physiological resensitization effect that may or may not be there. We don't have studies like that. So to see that purization is for sure not doing anything is untrue because we haven't experimentally tested it in that many ways and certainly not in the ways that might be most ecologically valid or most valid overall. But this brings me to my next point, which is sort of philosophy of science 101 or essentially just how do you maximize your odds of making good gains, right? Assuming we think science is the best way to get at the truth or at least incrementally closer to it, I think we can view variables in training or just research topics in general and kind of lump them into one of a few categories. For now, I'll just focus on two of these categories. The first one is variables that have an absence of evidence. So purization to me kind of falls into that basket where we do have studies looking at it, but we don't have studies on every type of purization. So if for example, Dr. Pack, Mike Isretel, anyone else tells you, hey, you should try this purization style. It's going to revolutionize your gains. Today involves taking weeks of training off the gym. Might be true. Might not. We just don't know because it's an absence of evidence. However, that brings me to the second basket of variables, which is variables where we do have solid evidence of how they relate to hypertrophy. So when Dr. Pack tells you, hey, take a few weeks off training, it'll make you go more. The truth is, if that lowers your average volume and we do have solid evidence looking at volume longterm in a variety of settings and relating it to muscle hypertrophy, showing that, hey, on average, the more volume you do to a relatively high level, the more hypertrophy you see. If his purization style, which has no evidence behind it yet, suggests lowering your volume, which we do have evidence will likely reduce your hypertrophy, I would err on the side of essentially considering the variables where we do have evidence the most strongly. And the ones where we don't have any evidence, even if it's just absence of evidence, I would be putting in like a very much lower priority style. If you want to purify your training so that you start with lower volumes and then up at higher volumes, like RP style, for example, that's totally fine. If your average volume is the same, at the very worst, we don't have evidence suggesting you make worse gains, because volume seems to be the main thing. But if the purization style that you're trying to employ, which has an absence of evidence behind it, is going to harm any variables that we do know have a consistent and positive relationship with hypertrophy, that's probably putting the cart before the horse, so to speak. So that's how I viewed it for the time being. I think purization is one of those more complex and yet overrated principles for the time being, just because we don't really have clarity on what purization style would be best. And so if you want to experiment, as long as you quote unquote, respect and don't violate the other more substantiated, more important variables, be my guest. But when it comes to really advanced, really complex styles of purization, you may just be shooting yourself in the foot. And at the very least, right now, complexity wise, if you're someone who wants to train and gain muscle, there's a good chance you don't need to worry about purization. That's how I kind of feel about it. Yeah, that's that's spot on. Exactly the same. And the same, you could make the same argument with proximity to failure as well as, you know, many, many sort of popularized periodization approaches for hypertrophy. They aside from ramping up volume over time, they also include weeks where proximity to failure, you're training farther away from failure, and then you're supposed to train harder and harder as time passes. But if you're trying to maximize gains, one could make the argument that being at a closer proximity to failure for the entirety of your training program is likely to yield better muscle growth, especially in the context of, okay, I want to make sure that I'm absolutely taking every sort of box. So if you fall in that, in that category, as as my Lord just said, taking those, making sure those basic principles are addressed, it will be more important than following a program that could theoretically yield more gains, but hasn't been proven to do so yet. You know, in 20 years, if we have a bunch of studies looking at very advanced periodization showing that you're going to get more gains, sure. But do you think, and this is just out of curiosity, do you think that even if we had those studies, what would you say the, what would you predict the outcomes to be? So a very advanced periodization program that ends up at the same volume and same sort of average proximity to failure versus just a traditional, hey, six to 10 reps, RIR, zero to two, same volume, weekend, week out. What would you think we would see there? Yeah, my hunch is that it's mostly average volume, average proximity to failure and those things that matter. I do think there is room from a coaching perspective for adhering to a trainee's personal preference. So for example, they get really bored of doing the same exercises for six months on end. Does changing your exercise every three months really make a difference for hypertrophy? No, probably not. In fact, I think changing exercises too often is a bit overrated for hypertrophy. As long as you have a pretty complete program in the first place, and you're addressing most of the joint functions of a muscle, et cetera, et cetera. But I personally don't think there's going to be a huge difference. There is the potential of certain interesting little things, right? Maybe if your periodization style conforms to your preference very well, you can train harder and thereby make better gains. That's a possibility. But that's more so in the realm of individual differences and preferences and context when it comes to the individual than anything I would recommend on average. Most people prefer this. Otherwise, I could see a potential role for resensitization. So far, the research leads me to think that it's mostly about average volume. And I do suspect the researchers found a benefit to training cessation as far as how quickly you gain strength or muscle thereafter. I think that's mostly related to just regaining lost muscle and strength versus like all of a sudden you're making noob-like gains. And that brings me to deloads, which I know you have on the outline. I'll give you my quick take before you delve into the research. I know you're rearing to go about the research. But when it comes to deloads, I think the approach I take is that oftentimes proactively planning deloads, especially for most people who struggle to spend that much time in the gym in the first place, like they have a busy lifestyle, et cetera, et cetera, proactively planning deloads too frequently, just lowers your average volume. And for many people, recovery is not so much an issue as it is just spending enough time in the gym and being consistent at a relatively high volume. And so I think proactively planning deloads for most trainees or most clients, if you're a coach, doesn't make any sense. If you have a trainee or you're a trainee that spends six days in the gym a week, seven days in the gym a week, maybe even double sessions or what have you, and you do consistently find that your performance takes a hit for a few days at a time when you overdo things slightly in the gym, then yeah, maybe you're one of the rear-lifters who does benefit from a deload more often because you are truly training sufficiently hard, sufficiently much to cause a large amount of fatigue and start struggling with recovery. So you need a deal. But I think for, I'm going to quote a random number, 80 plus percent of lifters. I don't think deloads are a thing you need to worry about too much. I think it's mostly when you're on vacation and you don't have access to the gym or you don't feel like it, or you're trying to spend time with your family or you have a busy time at work or what have you, you have exam season. That is when you take a deload and not every insert ratio every six weeks, every eight weeks, not that rather let your lifestyle dictate it because for many people, never taking a deload might actually cause more growth. That's a hot take, but for many people, I think that is the case. Yeah, I definitely agree there. And I do think there's a heavy dose of nocebo that has followed deloads and the word fatigue in general. And I remember before meeting you that I had some form of nocebo as well when it came to like heavy lifting or deadlifts and the idea that, hey, you have to be like really careful with how much fatigue you get from each workout. And if you overdo it, you then need to take it easy. But in reality, if we look at the research, the very limited research that we have on deloads and I think the one study, which is also the first actual study looking at the concept, so looking at actual deloads, we see that having forcing a deload when it wasn't necessarily needed after four weeks. So two groups of resistance trained individuals, one trained for nine weeks. Consecutively, the other group trained for four weeks to week off and then continue training for four weeks, although they didn't really need that deload. Having that proactive deload there did not make a difference for hypertrophy or strength, although for some measures of strength, strength was slightly reduced actually after taking the week off. But the bit of evidence that we have at the moment shows that forcing the random deload just to force it is not going to harm your gains, which is good for people who may need to take a week off for whatever reason mid-training, but at the same time, as far as recent sitization or any sort of favorable outcomes, it didn't do much. And when we look at data on coaches and well, strength and physique sport coaches at the highest level, they on average seem to favor a more reactive approach to deloads where you essentially take an easy week of training, reducing volume by 30 to 50%, lowering intensity of effort a bit, and just taking it easy for five to seven days. And most people prefer reactive deloads. The issue that you often have with deloads in practice and like forcing the continuous training is that in practice, as you also mentioned, people have other things that come up and having that proactive deload forced or like set there and set in stone may actually lead to that person training less and then having to take another week or two weeks off because of life commitments. So I'm on the same page here. Keeping those for when they're needed is likely going to be fine. I think deloads are one of the most overthought variables when it comes to muscle growth and to a certain extent strength. And I'll let you ramble on about fatigue and knowing whether you're actually fatigued, because that's something we discuss a lot between us ramble a couple of sentences. So people will often say, Oh, I'm feeling very fatigued or this or that or the other. But what would you say are some exalted ways to actually know that you're fatigued? Besides, Oh, I feel fatigued. Yeah. So a few things. One, when you look at the research on overtraining from lifting weights, it is quite rare. Like don't get me wrong. We don't have the best research on overtraining and resistance training. We don't have many studies that use similar protocols as what you would use in practice, typically, but simply put, when you look at the research on lifting that we have, true overtraining syndrome, which implies a reduction in training.  performance lasting longer than a month, and that then takes a long time to reverse out of and get back to how strong you were pre-overtraining. That has almost never happened, if not ever, in the research. And we have put people through some pretty intense protocols, like daily 100 maxes, several 100 maxes a day for a few weeks on end. Like we've put people through some pretty gruesome protocols, never mind the infamous 52-set quad study, right? Like even in that study, they still saw a benefit of that insane volume where on average they were doing 42 weekly sets of quads, right? They still grew more muscle, directionally at least, with 42 sets versus like, I think 32 or 27, right? So, in the research at least, we do observe more growth from pretty high volumes on a per muscle level. We also don't consistently observe over-training being a thing that happens readily at least from the protocols we use in the research. Practically, I think the best way to look at recovery and tell whether or not fatigue is something you need to worry about would be, is your performance consistent or increasing week to week? So, for example, if last week on the deadlift, you were able to hit four or five of five reps. This week, you were able to hit four or five reps again. By definition, in a sports science sense at least, you are recovered. And so, the amount of training you're currently doing and your overall lifestyle and how conducive it is to recovery, those two things are at least matching up, so you're recovering just fine week to week. If, in fact, you improved week to week and you were able to deadlift say four or five or six this week, fatigue is even less of an issue because you weren't fatigued enough to prevent any improvement in performance. The only real time where your performance, which I think should be the main way to track recovery and whether or not it is matching up to how much fatigue you're generating through training, is if you see performance drop for a few workouts in a row. And in fact, when you see performance drop consistently for a few workouts in a row, maybe say a week or maybe two weeks, you enter what is colloquially referred to in sports science as functional or potentially non-functional overreaching. Functional overreaching essentially just refers to when you take a training program and you intentionally train more than you can recover from and create more fatigue than your lifestyle allows you to recover from for like a week or two. With the expectation that by doing so, you are then allowing for super compensation or essentially because you train so much and so hard and you then allow for functional overreaching to occur followed by recovery period, you get more gains than you would had you not trained as much. That's why it's called functional. In the end, you get more gains from it. And that typically involves a period of one to two weeks where your performance is worse than usual, right? Nearly no one I've ever spoken to has actually achieved this like even this lowest tier of quote unquote over training. Then you get into non-functional overreaching, which is your performance has taken hit for a few weeks in a row. It's called non-functional because the excessive amount of fatigue has lasted for so long that any potential gains that you're seeing are being outweighed by muscle damage or whatever non-descript factors. Keep in mind, this is more of a conceptual model than anything that we have a ton of research on anyways. But that is also something I've not really seen anywhere chief, a prolonged decrease in performance lasting two weeks or more. And then if you go even further than that and you see a reduction in performance over a month or more, that is when you reach quote unquote over training syndrome. And that reduction in performance then is supposed to take several weeks to reverse out of and get back to your previous levels. Now in practice as a coach who's coached at this point hundreds of clients, I've seen people potentially functionally overreach for a few days. I don't think I've ever seen anyone non-functionally overreach and I've certainly never seen anyone over train. So anecdotally, it's just not a common thing. I think performance is by far your best gauge of whether or not you're recovering. Performance can be influenced by a variety of things. Like I'm sure you've experienced this, if you had a really bad night of sleep or a few, you might feel like your performance took a hit, right? And that's probably because of that impact to performance. So even lifestyle factors that correlate and cause better or worse recovery, those are taken into consideration when you look at performance. Really bad night of sleep, you might perform worse. And that is kind of a negative of, hey, your recovery wasn't as good. Really stressed with exams, you might perform worse. If you've been really blasting the volume recently and you did 20 sets of likes yesterday and you try and squat again today, maybe you see that your performance took a hit because hey, guess what? You didn't properly recover from yesterday. But with everything I've said, if your performance is consistent week to week or improving, recovery probably is an issue. And even if you have a bad workout or even two, there's a good chance that could just be a fluctuation. Like you'll always have fluctuations in your readiness from day to day. That doesn't necessarily mean that as a whole, your training program is excessive for how much you can recover from. So what I would look for as a coach and as someone who trains is if for a week or more-ish, or at least a few workouts in a row, I see a reduction in performance on most exercises. Or at least on most exercises for a muscle group because you can definitely locally overreach as well. Like if your bicep curls all take a hit for a whole week, yeah, maybe your recovery isn't adding up to how much bicep training you're doing. But that happens really rarely. Far more commonly do people have lifestyle constraints that cause them to need to de-load. Whether it's, hey, I feel really stressed from exams and I feel like adding in training on top of it might make me more stressed personally. Sure, that's a valid reason to de-load. Yes, exercise is good for managing stress, but that can be a valid reason to de-load. Or I'm on holidays and I don't have a nice gym and I don't really enjoy training on holidays. That's a valid reason to de-load. But purely fatigue related reasons to de-load, like as in you're struggling to recover, as gauge of high performance, that is quite rare. It does happen, but it's quite rare. And I think most of the time for most clients, de-loads should be taken as your lifestyle dictates versus it being something you need to do to prevent the boogeyman of I'm going to over-train. You don't just over-train. Over-training is very noticeable when it occurs typically as via a reduction in performance last days and days. You know? So yeah, I think over-training is something I was a lot more worried about when I got into training, but it's not really something that you accidentally get into. You need to be spending a lot of time in the gym typically to even achieve that or have extremely poor recovery, which again, you can tell if your performance is getting worse session to session. Rumble over. That was a really nice ramble. And yeah, just a very quick two cents before we go to the next thing. From my coaching experience, there's often, you often get a client who says a bad week, performance wasn't great this week. I lost a couple of reps versus last week and I feel fatigued in general, but in many cases, I am a bit reluctant to instantly trigger a de-load and I rather go, okay, let's give it a few more days, see if this trend continues. Obviously, you know, obviously the absence of any extreme symptoms. Like if somebody says I went to the gym and nearly fainted or whatever, I only managed to exercise out of the usual eight. Yeah, that's different. But in many cases, you have the sort of week to week fluctuations and then all of a sudden, oh, you know, what do you know? Another three weeks of continuous training, everything feels fine. So triggering that de-load, the moment you see a regression in performance as some people are, you know, just looking for, you know, the fatigued bogeyman and they're like, okay, but yeah, I dropped off and I did one rep less than last week and I had to decrease weight a bit. Like the co-founders there from lifestyle factors, as you mentioned, are so great that I'd say, give it a bit of time, unless something extreme is happening and it's likely that you may be able to go for a bit longer before you need an actual easy week of training. Awesome. Also the idea that training complexity needs to severely increase with training status or training age is something that I don't heavily buy unless you have an insanely complex lifestyle schedule. Yeah, then you may need to play around with variables a bit more, but the classic, I don't know if you remember the starting strength graph where it was like beginner and then as you go on more advanced, things had to be super complex, intuitively does make some sense, but even volume recommendations wise, I'd say, you know, things don't really have to change much even for people that have been training for 10 to 20 years. Cool. The other sort of weak muscle growth belief that we have is training primarily in the 12 to 20 rep range. Now, this is something that you often see when talking about hypertrophy training and you often see mentioned in strength training cycles where there's this idea that, okay, you're doing hypertrophy training, now you have to be doing higher reps and the idea that higher reps are somewhat more hypertrophic than lower reps, even if lower reps means, you know, being in the five to 10 rep range. Now, this aside from the belief that different rep ranges will cause massive differences in muscle growth, which if we look at the reexamination of the strength and endurance continuum, we see that you could do lower reps, you could do three, four, five reps, you could do 10 reps, you could do 20 reps, as long as you're close to failure, you're likely going to see similar increases in muscle growth. However, if we then look at the proximity to failure research and more specifically the famous by now, Halperin et al, exploratory meta analysis, we see that things become a bit iffy after 12 reps when it comes to people gauging their proximity to failure. And anecdotally, this is something that I've seen in practice quite a bit. So although for some people listening, let's say including ourselves, we are relatively confident, we train very close failure or too failure for the majority of times. So even if we do a 12 to 20 rep set, it's likely that it's fine because we are actually hitting failure at the end. But for many trainees that I've worked with, once you go above that 12 rep range, things become a bit more difficult and you see people having a harder time gauging how close they are to failure, which is also supported by the literature. And we have been big proponents of, and that's just between us for our own training and for client training, of not shying away from heavy sets for hypertrophy, talking in the five to eight rep range for the majority of things and essentially forcing those heavy sets. And just, we did a joke video called the full stack method where we try to do the full stack on every stack loaded machine in the gym. But in reality, sort of forcing those heavy sets, one, you're getting the same muscle growth benefits. It's not like you're getting less as long as you're at the five plus rep range. Plus your ability to gauge, to continue to failure becomes much easier, especially if you are just at the bottom of that range every week. So yeah, from my point of view, the idea that hypertrophy training needs to be higher rep or higher rep than tradition, higher rep than five to eight reps, I think that's a relatively weak belief that may be costing some people some gains. For sure, I think I have a slightly different stance on things, but I'll take you through it. First, I think there is a kernel of truth to, hey, do somewhat higher reps for hypertrophy. Because if you look through research on sets of much less than about five reps, you do see that on a set per set basis, they cause less growth. In a classic study by, oh man, Matt Dixon colleagues, I got it, Matt Dixon colleagues, they compare doing sets of single reps or essentially practicing one of maxes to doing actual hypertrophy training of I think 10 reps per set. And that was in untrained lifters using the within participant design with one arm trained with the one of maxes and one arm trained with the sets of hypertrophy training. And essentially even untrained lifters doing those sets of one rep weren't sufficient to cause any hypertrophy. And in fact, pre-deposed, they actually lost a bit of muscle in that limb. Whereas the arm doing the traditional hypertrophy training of say 10 reps did grow some muscle. And when you zoom out and look at other studies that are similar in nature, where they compare sets of like less than five reps to sets of more than five reps, do you do generally see more hypertrophy with sets of more than five reps? So I do think you can go too low, right? That's for sure. You can probably also go too high. So we have a few studies looking at more moderate intensity training of say doing sets of 10 to 15 technically, or even six to eight, compared to doing really high reps sets with say between 10 to 40% of your max. And essentially, if you look at those studies, you see that the studies that use less than about 20 or 30% of your max on a set per set basis, those sets that you're doing for a ton of reps with really lightweight are less beneficial. You grow less muscle from them. But the studies that use at least 20 to 30% of your max, which by the way is equivalent to about 50 reps, if not a bit more per set, at least on the first set, you do see the same growth as say a set of eight. Provided you go to failure. Additionally, there is some research around using a variety of rep ranges, right? This has been summarized in an in-house meta analysis by Zach Robinson over on the website. But basically, there's some preliminary evidence that when you combine a variety of rep ranges, so you do some heavier work in the 5 to 10 rep range, some more moderate work in the 10 to 20 rep range, and maybe some lighter work as well. That might lead to a bit more high perch fee, not by a big amount than just doing one rep range, like always staying heavy 5 to 10, what have you. That being said, there are some confounders there, like there's just not that many studies, some of the study designs are a bit iffy, but it's probably worth a try if you're trying to optimize that perch fee. So those are kind of like the caveats to that statement. Now, would I still recommend training primarily in the 12 to 20 rep range? No, I think most of your training for hyper perch fee should take place in the 5 to 12 rep range. As I mentioned, you can go too heavy, get below 5 reps, no idea of hyper perch fee. But as Pac mentioned, we did perform with our own lab, shout out to Halper and colleagues, a meta regression on how close to failure people are as you change the repetition target. And essentially, up until around 12 reps per set, people are pretty accurate. They underestimate how many reps they can do by less than one. So on average, they're less than one rep off how close to failure they think they are. People do tend to underestimate themselves. So if they think they have one more rep in the tank and they're doing a set of eight say, on average, they're closer to about two more reps in the tank. So as a general heuristic, if you're trying to train for hyper perch fee and you want to be accurate in how close to failure you train, train one rep harder than you think you should. But when you get above 12 reps, that discrepancy starts growing quite rapidly. And although there are fewer studies there, by the time you get to like 20, 25 reps, you're often talking about underestimating yourself by five reps. So we're talking about a much bigger discrepancy, which could meaningfully impact how much hyper perch fee you see. For that reason alone, and alongside the fact that most people find higher rep training quite uncomfortable in the research and in practice, doing like 50 to 80% of your training in the five to 10, maybe 10 to 15 rep range is probably worth doing. Doing most of your work in those rep ranges is gonna allow you to train sufficiently close to failure to maximize hyper perch fee, right? Now you might rebut. What about rep speed? I can tell how close to failure I am because I look at rep speed. And if it's slow enough, I know that I'm close to failure. On the one hand, I agree. The average concentric velocity of a rep. So essentially on average, how fast was your rep during the concentric phase or a lifting phase is generally a very good predictor of how close to failure you are. That is assuming you're being explosive and forceful and intentional during that lifting phase, which you probably should be for both strength and hyper perch fee anyways. That is a pretty good predictor of proximity to failure, but there is one caveat, which is that for higher upsets specifically, the last rep before you reach failure tends to be a bit faster than if you're doing low rep work. So if for example, you're doing a set of three to failure, your last rep on the bench might have an average concentric velocity of say 0.15 or 0.2 meters per second. If you say did a set of 20 on bench, your last rep before failure might be at like 0.3 instead. So it can look fairly different when you're going for higher upsets versus lower upsets in terms of how your rep speed correlates to how close to failure you are. So you can definitely use rep speed and I think it's a better metric than nearly anything else, but it's worth keeping in mind that it can be different from lower upsets and higher upsets. And importantly, your perception of rep speed, although there is some research now showing that it's a decent proxy for actual rep speed, I do suspect with higher upsets as was kind of shown in our meta regression because of how uncomfortable it is. Even if you're paying attention to rep speed, you do still tend to undershoot because ultimately you're perceiving rep speed. Unless you're measuring it, you're just perceiving it and your perception of things can definitely be moderated by, oh, I'm doing my extensions for a set of 20, my quads are burning, I'm not a breath, I don't wanna be here. You might feel like your rep is pretty slow, but in reality it was pretty fast. And that certainly adds up with my coaching experience where if I tell a client to go to failure on five to eight reps, they'll do it no problem. I tell them to do it on 20 reps, usually we need to add some more load typically. So yeah, all that to say, I agree, I think most of your training should take place in the five to eight rep range, five to 15, whatever, but there's some benefits and limitations to some higher rep work. I don't think most training should take place on the 12th to 20 rep range like you mentioned. Awesome, yeah. The Romanian deadlift and variations of the squad are notorious for those sets where, like you know from experience as well, especially if you wear a belt that, oh, even if you're like at a eight RIR or something, at some point Romanian deadlifts start feeling horrible and then you look back at the video even of yourself and you're like, oh, that looked like the warmup set. This is something that we grew up hearing quite a bit, is the idea that you have to get strong in order to get big, that you have to focus on strength in order to become as big as possible with things like success leaves clues being quoted and look at the biggest bodybuilders, they are usually also the strongest and if you get your insert traditional barbell lift up to whatever, you are going to be massive and that's where your focus should be. Now, we're not gonna spend a ton of time on this, but we are going to look at the idea that focusing on strength is the best way to maximize hypertrophy where, if we look at the volume recommendations for strength and maximizing strength alongside the proximity to failure recommendations for strength, if you take a route where you are trying to see the numbers on the bar go up, you can do so very effectively and arguably in an optimal quote unquote manner, while at the same time being in a suboptimal environment for muscle growth. So looking at the Robinson et al. meta analysis on proximity to failure and strength and hypertrophy, being further away from failure will allow you to probably make better strength gains at the same time when it comes to volume recommendations, you need much less volume before you hit a plateau as far as strength gains go. So if you're trying to really get your deadlift, your squat, your bench press up, you and you simply focus on that, you're likely going to take an approach that is not gonna be optimal for muscle growth. However, there is, and there was, they believe that, oh, you should get stronger before training for hypertrophy in order to handle more load so that you can potentially have more mechanical tension among other sort of points that were brought up in order to then maximize hypertrophy. And there was actually a study published relatively recently, so in 2021 by Carvalho et al. is stronger or better influence of a strength phase followed by hypertrophy phase on muscular adaptations in resistance-trained men. Now, here they essentially had a three-week strength period where they did sets of one to three reps before having a five-week hypertrophy oriented period where they did sets of eight to 12 reps or just a hypertrophy sort of period that the other group just did hypertrophy work for the entirety of the study where they did just four to eight reps for eight weeks. And actually the group that did the strength work before the hypertrophy work did see greater gains in muscle growth and muscle strength. Now, what do you think of these results? Actually, do you want me to add my two cents first? Sure, cool. So interesting study and maybe there is something to varying rep ranges. However, just the inclusion of a three-week strength training period in a study where we have 26 individuals, so sample size as per usual in our field is not that great. I would interpret those results with some caution. I think three weeks is not nearly enough time to really draw strong inferences from the fact that they did see more muscle growth over the long term. It's interesting that they did one to three reps, but I assume because they were training heavy because they were supposed to be training to a repetition maximum, they were also training very close to failure. So it may have been just the case of, yeah, hey, these were two groups that were both training very close to failure, performing similar exercises and over eight weeks, the group that did the strength work ended up getting more strength in hypertrophy gains because they trained heavier and they also trained maybe a bit closer to failure. At the same time, I wouldn't put a whole lot of stock on this as a study to support the idea that you need to have a distinct strength phase before your hypertrophy work, but rather as evidence in support of ensuring that you're varying rep ranges and you do include some lower rep range training in your training, which shouldn't necessarily be one to three reps, but in general, having exercises that you are performing with a heavier load at lower reps just for the sake of ensuring that you're taking any sort of box that may need to be ticked for maximizing muscle growth. But I would not necessarily, based on the current literature, looking at high versus low load resistance training, I wouldn't put a whole lot of stock on the idea that you have to dedicate multiple weeks of strength training before a hypertrophy phase in order to absolutely maximize gains, because you could just, just by varying your repetition ranges and doing some heavy sets for some of your training, some higher rep ranges, as we just said, I think that takes all those boxes pretty effectively. And you could run the risk, at least in practice, if you put out this information, or at least you make a big deal out of strength phases being super important before a hypertrophy phase, where people spin their wheels for much longer than needed, they get strong, obviously they'll get bigger as well, because training close to failure, even with low reps will lead to some muscle growth. But I think overall, in the long term, having distinct strength phases may result in less growth than having just a program that includes a variety of rep ranges and you're ensuring that you're doing enough volume and training very close to failure. Yeah, this is an interesting argument to me, because it's almost dynamically opposite to power building is killing your gains. So on the one hand, you have people who say power building is killing your gains. When in reality, as we expressed in a previous episode on power building, you can make great size strength gains at the same time. On the diametrically opposite side of things, you have people saying you need to get strong to get big. So if you just get your squat to four plates, your legs will be massive. And indeed, when you look around, people who can squat four plates, they certainly have bigger legs on average than people who can squat two plates, right? So at face value, it seems kind of true and interesting. Not to belabor the point, I went into this in the power building episode, but there are a number of differences between how to best train for strength and how to best train for hypertrophy, such that whenever you try and increase how much of one you're getting, you're going to be training off some amount of the other. I think it's less than people commonly assume. I think you can get maybe 80% or something of your strength gains, your potential strength gains, while getting say around 80% of your potential hypertrophy gains. But just to give a quick rundown of the factors, proximity to failure is different between ideal strength training, ideal hypertrophy training. Ideal hypertrophy training, probably closer to failure, seems to yield more muscle growth, whereas farther from failure, seems to yield the same strength gains for probably less fatigue. Volume, as Pac mentioned, some behind the scenes research and existing research union suggests that around 10 sets a week per lift, you might see roughly your best strength gains, whereas for hypertrophy, we haven't really found an upper ceiling yet even as far as 20, 30, 40 sets a week per muscle. So quite a big discrepancy there. So we have progressive overload, for strength training, you're probably best off adding weight to the bar week to week, whereas for hypertrophy, it's more flexible. So at the very least, you have to make a choice there. Then you have to exercise variation versus specificity. If you're trying to get stronger, you'll need to be a bit more specific. So if someone just tells you, hey, get strong to get big and you chase that two-play bench, three-play bench, four-play bench, you will be probably more specific than is ideal to get big. We have a meta analysis on exercise variation by Cassiano or Nunes and colleagues, I believe, where essentially using some degree of exercise variation is superior for reducing muscle hypertrophy adaptations. Next, we have rep range specificity versus variation. As I mentioned earlier for hypertrophy, there might be a slight benefit to varying rep ranges, right? Whereas for strength, you mostly want to be specific and train in the rep range of your target strength improvement. If you're trying to improve your max, you should mostly be doing sets of close to one rep, right? Likewise, the rep ranges that are best for building muscle versus strength are not the same. As I just mentioned, for strength, close to your rep target is where you should be, whereas for hypertrophy, anywhere between five and 50 is beneficial. So for most people, when they're getting strong, if they're getting strong, it's heavy weights. So doing sets of mostly one to three, no ideal. Next, we have range of motion specificity. So based on my own meta analysis, there does seem to be a specificity component for range of motion. So if you want to get stronger or better through a certain range of motion, you'll see your best gains if you train through that specific range of motion. So for a palovta who's going to parallel, squatting to parallel is mostly what they should be doing. For hypertrophy, on the other hand, the stretch seems important. So again, there is a divergence of approaches there. Next, we have exercise selection. Again, specificity for palovtas versus just picking exercise that will load the length and position a bit more, get you into more length and position, potentially more stable, essentially not needing to be as specific and considering more hypertrophy related factors. And finally, we have rest times. For strength, you probably want to rest a bit longer, whereas for hypertrophy, reason that analysis by our research group suggests that one to two minutes of rest between sets is a great starting place and will potentially maximize hypertrophy. All I have to say, there's like 10 different factors where optimal strength training and hypertrophy training practices differ. Now, back in 2020, I believe, when the Corvallo study came out, it did cost some hype. We're essentially proceeding a hypertrophy phase with a strength phase led to greater hypertrophy gains than just training for hypertrophy the whole time. So essentially getting stronger first and then doing hypertrophy training was better for overall muscle building. The reason I'm not entirely sold is twofold. One, the sample size, when you divide it across two groups as it was, is 13 per group, which not a whole lot, no ideal, not very well-powered. Second, and arguably more importantly, given also that it's a small sample size, this is the one of the only or if not the only study I'm aware of that has these sort of findings. And when you consider all the...  individual bodies of research on rep ranges, proximity failure, volume, excise variation, range of motion specificity, rest times, excise selection, showing that there is a divergence, the general idea of focusing on getting strong to get big just seems very misguided. There are just too many things that are conflicting for you to say that, yep, just get stronger and you'll get your biggest. There are just too many things that don't add up, and ultimately saying that stronger people are bigger is very informative, but it would be a lot more informative, for example, if the strong person had trained one arm to get stronger and one arm for hypertrophy, and then it turned out that the arm they trained to get stronger was actually also bigger. But in reality what we see is that the strongest people are also quite big, but that could be due to a variety of factors that have nothing to do with their training, whether it's PD use, whether it's great genetics, whether it's great nutrition, getting a lot of the basics right, so don't get me wrong, you can focus on getting strong and it'll get you pretty big, but if you want to get your biggest, getting strong isn't the way there. So. Mic drop, disconnect the mic and slam it on the wall. Yeah, definitely agree. Nice, that was very wholesome. Last but not least, and we'll just briefly touch on this because we've talked about this at length before, I don't know if there was a pun there, length, you know, long-lasting, am I right? So not paying attention to some. Length and partials are my life. It's as evident by whoever listens to that song, it sticks with them, it's a solid song, respect to you and Josh for making it. Anyways, the idea of not paying attention to exercise selection, now you may be like, hey, Pac, who preaches that? Like, is that really a belief? And yes, it is in the same sort of category as, oh, you got to get strong to get big, it's the idea that, oh, stop over complicating things, pick five exercises or like five of the basics, just do those, and that's all you need to maximize muscle growth. But as we previously touched on, exercise selection can play a role for those looking to absolutely maximize gains. More specifically, we had our study where we looked at exercise selection and lower body regional hypertrophy, seeing that, hey, the leg extension preferentially targeted directly more and more than the leg press and the seated calf raise was worse for overall calf growth than the straight leg calf raise. Similarly, tricep work performed overhead may lead to greater overall tricep hypertrophy. But in general, the idea that all you need to absolutely maximize muscle growth is just a handful of exercises that you like, a handful of compound exercises, and you don't need to overthink things is not entirely true and is more of the weak belief side of things. Now, keep in mind, you can get pretty jacked and getting jacked is different from maximizing muscle growth. A rugby player or an American football player for the listeners will look absolutely jacked, but they may have not necessarily absolutely maximized the hypertrophy of their, I don't know, triceps or leg extensions. They may still have big legs because they can squat a lot and so on and so forth. So yeah, just very briefly touching on that. I don't think we need to get into a whole lot of detail here, as we've done in the past. Anything you want to add there? I disagree. It's time for detail. Let's do it. So first touch on the football player example, rugby player. I think that on average, the people who are drawn to simplicity and just do a few basic lifts and get jacked. It's kind of a survivorship bias situation where, oh, start lifting was told to folks on the basics, did the basics, got jacked, life is good, don't need to worry about it versus people who do that just get fat, aka me, and then realize, oh, maybe that wasn't the best approach. And then they're actually quote unquote forced to seek out a bit more of an intellectual approach to training. So there's several studies that just run counter to this idea entirely. I think as I mentioned earlier, there is an analysis by Nunes or Cassiano and colleagues on exercise variation where varying your exercises a little bit at least, not a ton, but at least a little bit is better for overall hypertrophy. There's also one study by Brandao and colleagues where essentially they compared four conditions, just doing the school pressure and just doing the bench press, doing the school pressure and the bench press in that order. So school pressure first, then the bench. And finally doing the bench, then the school pressure. So essentially doing either of the exercises on their own or combining them in a certain order, either starting with isolation, then compound or doing compound and isolation. And basically they measured cross sectional area of the triceps, all three heads and a pectoralis major. And when it comes to hypertrophy of the different muscles, as you'd expect just doing the school pressure, then go to pecs. Whereas if you go to the bench, you grew your pecs. So at least just another facetious level, you need some variation if you want to target certain muscles, because if you don't target the joint functions, you're not going to grow them. So some variation is required just on a fundamental level, obviously. But then if you look at the increase in triceps size, for example, the group that just did school crushers saw a decent increase in triceps size of about 10% or so pre or post. Whereas the group just doing bench press saw about a 5% increase in their triceps size. So off the mat, if someone told you, Hey, just bench, you'll get your upper body training and taking care of, then just do some pull ups and you're good. Based on this study, your triceps wouldn't be growing as much as possible. And in fact, then they looked at combining the bench press and school pressure in either order. In both of those cases, they saw an additional sort of like compared to just doing school crushers, an additional two to 5% extra growth. So instead of 10% growth, pre or post around 12 to 13 ish thereabouts. And specifically, it seemed like certain heads responded better to the school crusher versus the bench press. So at the very least, you want some degree of exercise variation, even when it comes to just the triceps. And I think as a general heuristic, doing at least two exercises per muscle group up to four for certain muscle groups that are more complex, like your back involving your lats upper back, etc. is a wise decision. Like most of the studies on the topic point to that there's very few studies I'm aware of, if any, that find greater hypertrophy when just doing one exercise and focusing on the basics versus doing a variety of exercises with the same volume, same relative intensity, they generally find more growth approach. So as tempting as it is, and as adequate as it might be for beginner, you probably will see more growth if you don't just focus on the big lifts or just do the basics, you know. Yep. Yeah, survival should be a really good point. Yeah. Thank you for just tearing down my argument and destroying it. I think it's time to touch on some audience questions now on the topic starting off with an absolute Milo Wolf patent question. Not really though, but that's something that you recently covered. So Randy 718 from Reddit says, I feel like there's a lot of emphasis on movements which load the stretch position in hypertrophy training these days. Thank you Milo. But is there any benefit to just straight up stretching after a hard set? Like say I do a bunch of overhead tricep extension and then just sit there and let the cable pull down on my tricep. Does that accomplish anything? What if I just do a bunch of leg extensions and then just do a standing quad stretch after? Yeah, so there is some research looking at the idea of interset stretching. To my knowledge, that research has taken place mostly in the calves, quads and pecs, if I'm not mistaken. The results are relatively favorable, but there's remarkably few studies and importantly, they're generally not volume equated. So it's unclear whether or not you could just do an extra set and get the same sort of benefits. For the time being, there's just not enough research for me to endorse the idea fully. That's kind of my stance on it. But yeah, who knows in the future maybe that's kind of my stance on interset stretching for the time being for muscle hypertrophy. Anything to add? Weilowmolf? I would just add to not necessarily like yeah, if you want to do it as a whatever. If you like it, if you like the way it feels, sure do it. But I wouldn't sort of change the basics of training very close to failure and then and substituting that with okay, I did five reps and I had five reps in reserve and then I just sat and stretched during an overhead tricep extension. So yeah, you can add it as sort of like a hi, I'm playing around with this thing. There's very limited research showing maybe there is something to it, but I will not treat it as an actual training approach. Then Mila Highlife from Reddit says soreness is a heuristic for recovery and growth, such as the statement, if you aren't sore all the next day, you should do more work next session. If you're still sore when it's time to hit that muscle again, you've done too much iron recovery and should do less. Dr. Mike says something like this a lot, which seemingly against the grain of the conventional wisdom on the topic. Now you've had a bunch of chat with Dr. Mike himself and I think you have reached a middle ground in the sense that soreness is not necessarily the best predictor for muscle growth or recovery per se as in like, especially from session to session or like from day to day, but it can still give you some idea if you account for other variables like training performance and just overall feeling and sort of guide your training. So if you're insanely sore and performance has been dropping off and you're feeling very fatigue, yes, you can triangulate that data and probably come to the conclusion that cool, you got to take a step back. However, the idea that's just being sore means that, oh, you've absolutely entered the non-recovery zone or, you know, there's alarm bells going on and you're going off in your body and you have to take it easy the next session. I don't necessarily think there's much evidence to support that. Pretty much. I think for one exercise induced muscle damage or EIMD, as it's often called in research, is relatively poorly understood as a phenomenon. So we have a whole video on the topic on the SPS channel. Check it out with Dr. Mike. But first of all, it's relatively poorly understood as to what exactly it is correlated with. And when it comes to soreness specifically as a means of predicting muscle damage, the evidence isn't all that compelling. So we have a study by Nusaka and colleagues, for example, from 2005, where they attempted to see whether or not delayed onset muscle soreness from e-semptory contractions in the arms were correlated with physiological markers of muscle damage and even performance. So for example, creating kinase concentrations, performance in the next few days thereafter, whether or not soreness was at least associated with those markers of muscle damage. And to make a long story short, they were at best weakly correlated with it. And importantly, the way in which soreness was assessed did seem to matter. So they assessed soreness in one of three ways, either relaxed while flexing the arm, so full flexion of the elbow, or while extending it. So a few different positions and sorry, palpation, extension, flexion, those were the three. So either being palpated by a researcher, having your arm extended or having it flexed and seeing how much of a soreness response you had on a visual scale that you rated, and then seeing whether or not those ratings, one correlated with each other and two with markers of muscle damage. For one, the method in which soreness was assessed seemed to matter such that soreness ratings in different positions and different methods, so either arm and extension, flexion, or elbow, palpated, correlated to each other relatively weakly at around only I think 0.30, 0.4, if I recall correctly, which is pretty weak. So certainly the way in which you assess soreness seems to matter a whole lot if you're going to use it as a predictive means of am I recovered, am I growing, etc. So like that's already an issue, because whenever I see soreness being recommended as a heuristic, I don't really see a standardized way of implementing it. I don't see people saying, all right, always do it while relaxed or always do it while warming up or always do it in this. And that can really impact how sore you feel as it turns out by these measurements only being correlated pretty weakly. So if these measurements are already correlated that weakly, and there are no theory guidelines given by practitioners on how to assess soreness, to then thereby predict muscle growth or recovery, that's a huge issue in my book. The second issue is when it came to correlations or associations between that and measures of muscle damage, such as creating kinase, the correlations were almost all non-significant and very weak, like in the realm of like 0.1 to 0.3, I think, if I recall correctly. And finally, when it came to performance, which is kind of like the crux of the argument to an extent, as I mentioned earlier, I think performance is the best metric for assessing recovery from a walkout. If you're performing well in all likelihood, you have nothing to worry about. When it came to performance, soreness was actually positively correlated with performance as measured by asymmetric force, which is kind of like a very unskilled test of strength. So, when participants were more sore, they were able to produce more force. Not by a lot, it was a super weak correlation, but just to indicate that even the directionality of the relationship was the opposite of what was expected. So, when you combine the fact that the different ratings of soreness correlate with each other quite poorly, and the fact that soreness, no matter which way you assess it, didn't really correlate with muscle damage or performance very well, it just seems like a very, very weak predictor of recovery at all. And so, I wouldn't, personally, I don't even really try and triangulate it much. Like, yeah, if you're incredibly sore to the point that you can barely walk, and when you try and train in the gym, you can perform like shit, maybe that's something to worry about, right? Like, certainly at that point. But equally, that is, I said, you perform poorly, you know? Like, oftentimes, you can be pretty sore, and then when you get to the gym, you perform just fine. Likewise, I don't think we have really any strong evidence suggesting that soreness, one, is related to muscle damage, and two, muscle damage is clearly like always a good thing for hypertrophy, and we know exactly that relationship. In fact, we have an article going very in depth on the stimuli and mechanisms of hypertrophy coming out in the next couple months. They'll be able to check out. But when it comes to how weakly soreness predicts muscle damage, and then how many question marks remain between muscle damage and hypertrophy, there's just too many leaps of faith for me to tell you this is a good thing. That's how I feel about it. So, Nick Jospovic on Facebook asks, women can tone muscle with light weights and higher reps. Past a certain age, you can't grow muscle anymore. Heavy compound lifts will build more muscle since they raise your testosterone levels. Let's take these one by one. There are three different statements. We can start with women can tone muscle with light weights and higher reps. Yeah. So the idea of toning is an idea that I'm not sure exactly where the word toning started from. It does make some intuitive sense if you have no idea about muscle growth or muscle physiology whatsoever, but you cannot really tone a muscle. You can make a muscle bigger and you can lose fat and show that muscle. Toning usually refers to fat loss and revealing one's muscle definition, but it is sometimes presented as an additional approach to training. So you'll see people claim that, oh, I offer services that will allow you to build muscle, lose fat, and tone as well. And back in the day, people thought that you can sort of manipulate the shape of the muscle and how much you can see it by doing different sort of trainings and by doing higher reps to sort of sculpt it more, but heavy weights make it thicker. A lot of hearsay. Now, the idea that women need to train differently than men is an idea that is not really evidence-based. There are some minor adjustments that one could make as it pertains to volume, but when it comes to proximity to failure, exercise selection, and in general, basic training principles, women should be training almost exactly the same as men without any major differences. The idea that women are, you know, more frail or whatever, and they have to do like super light weights and do the, you know, the typical pink dumbbell workout is BS. And it's an idea that needs to be sort of abolished. If you are a woman who wants to build an appreciable level of muscle mass, you need to be lifting weights close to failure, doing enough training volume, not fear that, you know, not fear heavy weights or that you're going to all of a sudden break. Obviously, the absolute loads handled from women will likely be lower to those on average handled by men, but relatively speaking, you should be lifting as heavy. And if you want to lose fat and quote, unquote, tone, principle of being in a calorie deficit applies there. Anything you want to add? No, nothing that's pretty reasonable. I'll hit you up with the next one. Past a certain age, you can't grow muscle anymore. Yeah, now I think this falls in this sort of nocebo, nocebo feeling that comes with age where people think that as you get older, your body goes to absolute shit. Your metabolism massively slows down. It's very difficult to make muscle gains. And, you know, if you haven't done so in your 20s, you have, you know, lost your chance. When in reality, both for muscle growth and strength, if we look at powerlifting data now, keep in mind, I am talking about, you know, people in their 40s and 40s to 60s, I guess, you can still build an appreciable level of muscle mass and an appreciable level of muscle strength. Obviously, by that time, there may be more to your lifestyle that makes it a bit more difficult to adhere to higher volumes. And if you're not really conditioned and you haven't been training for a while, it may take a bit more time to get used to things. But there's no reason why you shouldn't build a ton of muscle mass. Do we know for sure that you're going to build the exact amount muscle mass if you had started 20 years earlier? No, but then you can make the argument that, hey, if you're looking at an individual who's been training for 20, 30 years versus somebody who's been training for 10 years, it does make sense that the person who trained for 30 years may have built a bit more muscle. But your age shouldn't detract you from engaging in resistance training. Even if on paper, you are able to build 10% less muscle, you can still get pretty jacked, pretty strong and reap all the health benefits of resistance training. And this with your metabolism, for example, because that's something that's mentioned alongside sometimes when we look at long term data on age and metabolism, things don't change much. Usually what happens is as people get older, they move less, they have more stressors in their lives, families, jobs, other commitments, they haven't built the necessary habits to have long term success with resistance training. And that makes the whole process a bit more tedious and creates this sort of illusion that, oh, when I was younger, I was able to build more muscle mass because physiologically, a lot of things were massively different. Obviously, I'm making certain assumptions here that hormonally things are fine, and your health is fine. But there's no reason to no see by yourself say that you can't grow muscle anymore. Yeah, pretty much agree. I think people are always very quick to jump to assumptions about their age as well. Where it's like, oh, I'm 35. My recovery must have taken a huge hit. And I'm no longer in my 20s, and I can no longer build muscle. And it's like, many of the, especially if you're lifting weights consistently, and just being generally physically active, many of the age related consequences on recovery and muscle loss are essentially null and void until you get much, much older. And even then it's not as though you can't build muscle anymore. It's just that as was outlined in a review paper by some authors that I'm forgetting the name of right now that I'll link in the description in 2024. Basically, as you age, part of the reason for natural limit is anabolic resistance does rise. But especially if you've not been training for that long, even if you're 60, 70, even 80, plus, if you've not been training very long, you can still build muscle. It just becomes a bit incrementally harder. And if by the time you get to your 50s, say if you've been training for 35 years, really hard, really consistently really well, that is going to be more of an obstacle than just your age. Like your training age probably is a greater barrier to making meaningful gains than your actual age, to a large extent. Obviously, once you get very, very old, that is different. But yeah, I think people over over estimate the impact of age on gains generally. And it's a big no see. Yeah, 100%. Last one, let me cheer you up. Heavy compound lifts will build more muscle since they raise your testosterone levels. Classic. I remember having that argument with a guy back in the old school version of Spartans gym here in Southampton anyways, hardcore bodybuilding gym. And a guy was telling us, yeah, you I'm doing squats because they raise testosterone and grow hormone and that will grow my upper body. And when sort of rebutted with the literature, they said, hey, I'm a personal trainer. I know better, which is true. And they did know better. And I'm joking. The idea that heavy compound lifts, which are always thought of as free weight compound lifts will result in the hormone increases that will then result to more muscle mass is not really the case. Although there is some evidence showing that you may get a greater spike and testosterone after performing some compound lifts close to failure. Overall, if you are training close to failure and performing a bunch of lifts, it's not like you're going to be seeing any sort of difference in muscle growth simply because your body's like, oh, you did a squat. Let me just release a bunch of hormones and grow your body altogether. This falls back into this sort of you got to get strong to to get big a category where a lot of focus was placed on the free weight barbell lifts because they were presented as game changers because of how much they get the whole body to grow, even if there's no actual physiological rationale for squats growing your biceps and triceps. So heavy compound lifts, whatever that means, will not necessarily build more muscle than I don't know, moderate load, compound lifts or isolation lifts, obviously, depending on the musculature that you're looking at. Yeah, broadly agree. Generally, and I've reviewed this in an article on stretch media hypertrophy on the website. Some literature suggests that certain types of training will cause greater acute elevations in hormones like testosterone growth hormone, etc. IGF-1 even. And generally, those are things like taking short rest times, higher volumes of resistance training as in volume load, like higher reps, higher number of sets, etc. Generally, the larger the amount of muscle mass involved, the greater the elevation. However, these acute short lived spikes in hormone levels aren't sufficient to cause any difference in hypertrophy. And there's a good review article by think at all called the role of hormones in muscle hypertrophy, where hey, if all you do is read the abstract, one of the sentences is acute resistance training induced hormonal elevations seem not to be directly correlated with muscle growth. So in general, the idea that short rest times or big compound lifts, or really anything else is going to drastically increase non local muscle growth, like as in if you're training your legs, Elgaria upper body or vice versa, just doesn't seem to have much research backing whatsoever at this point. And oftentimes the suggestions being made to increase those acute spikes in hormones are directly counterproductive to hypertrophy, like for example, taking super short rest times, probably no ideal for hypertrophy, like less than 30 seconds or 30 seconds will have you. So yeah, just not really any foundation as far as training goes. It's very, it's very reductionist to you. It's kind of like the thing you mentioned with, I think we talked about tension at some point, we talked about getting strong to get big and how that might increase tension because you're able to lift more. This kind of falls in the same category where it's a very reductionist line of thinking where it's like hormone like testosterone good muscle growth type of thinking and more tension good. And it's like, yeah, okay, tension is definitely one of the stimuli for hypertrophy, but it doesn't operate in a vacuum and there are other ones. So yeah, just not really anything to it from the literature side of things. Yeah, the same is observed with like test boosters and stuff, which we covered in a recent video where sure you may see a slight increase, but that's not enough to actually make any meaningful difference to muscle growth. Cool. That is it for today. Thank you so much for tuning in. More episodes coming, cool articles coming, more videos are coming, a lot of stuff is coming, including that infamous hypertrophy mechanisms article that we're finalizing at the moment. So from all of us here, have a great day, great week, and we will see you guys next time. Peace.

=== FILE: What Are The Best Exercises to Build Muscle？ (Science Explained) [Qita1t8ZjnE].txt ===

 roungale, let's break down with the best exercises for building muscle lore, according to the science. Welcome back, Dr. Madele Wolf here today, with Stronger by Science, breaking down the research on what exercises are best for building muscle in your physique. Let me give you the bad news first. And the bad news is that we don't have a ton of studies directly comparing different exercises. If you're not super familiar with exercise science, you might think we have studies comparing the dumbbell fly and the cable fly, and the cable fly to the cable crossover, determining which one is best. And as much as I would love to say that's the case, we just don't have those. Research studies are a ton of work, and so we don't get research studies on every topic ever. However, through the findings and different studies, we're often able to piece them together and create a puzzle that roughly approximates a bad analogy for scientific principles to base our exercise selection off of. But before we come to those, I will discuss a few studies we do actually have comparing individual exercises to see which one tends to be better. And maybe that can tell us something, but which exercises more broadly tend to be best for hypertrophy. Throughout my PhD and my whole education and a recent search on the topic, here were all the studies I was able to find comparing different exercises and seeing which one is better for building muscle. First, we have a couple of studies comparing the overhead extension exercise to the cable pushdown. And that's a study by myoen colleagues and a study by Stacionaki colleagues. In the study by myoen colleagues, they found better overall tricep hypertrophy in all three ads, doing the overhead extension over the cable pushdown. Conversely, in the Stacionaki study, they compared the overhead extension to the pushdown as well, in a smaller sample size, measuring only tricep along that hypertrophy. Broadly finding similar hypertrophy whether participants were doing the cable pushdown or the overhead extension. Specifically at the more proximal side of measurement, closer to the shoulder, the pushdown had a slight edge. Meanwhile, at the more distal measurement side, closer to the elbow, the overhead extension had a slight edge. And so when you take these two studies together, overhead extensions are likely the slightly better choice for tricep hypertrophy. And specifically, when you consider the long head of the tricep, it does make sense. In the overhead extension, you're lengthening or stretching that part of the triceps more, which, based on some other research, seems beneficial for hypertrophy. The second comparison we have is a comparison of the incline curl and the preacher curl. And that's a study by Zabalita Kodain colleagues. They measured hypertrophy of all the elbow flexor musculature, and generally, at all sides measured, found better hypertrophy in the preacher curl group compared to the incline curl group. Looking a bit more closely at the results, the differences were largest in favor of the preacher curl at the more distal measurement sides, closer to the elbow. And that is another one of the findings from the long versus shorter muscle length training research. In this case, you're comparing an exercise that is most challenging in the length and position, but that doesn't place a huge stretch on the target muscle, that is the preacher curl, to an exercise that has a bit more of a stretch but has less tension in that length and position, and that is the incline curl. And based on this study and a couple of other findings, it might be the case that in any exercise that is productive for hypertrophy, we generally want to prioritize both the stretch position and tension, but more specifically, tension in that length and position over just purely getting a deeper stretch in the muscle. Staying in the upper body now, we have another comparison of the skull crusher and the bench press exercise by Brandon and Caldees. They loaded a variety of factors, including exercise order, but one of their comparisons in the study was a group that only did skull crushers to a group that only did the bench press, measuring pectoralis major hypertrophy and trisop hypertrophy. When it came to pectoralis major or chest growth, the skull crusher group didn't really grow any muscle. However, the bench press group did. And when you look at the other conditions, it seems like including the bench is the main thing. And then as far as the triceps are concerned, there are a few findings. First, with regards to the long head, which is a biarticular muscle, responsible for both shoulder extension and elbow extension, skull crushers were far more effective at growing that muscle. Likewise, when it came to the medial head of the triceps, the skull crusher was a bit more effective than the bench press. And finally, with the lateral head of the triceps, the bench press was slightly more effective than the skull crusher. Interestingly, there are a few findings we should pay attention to here. Number one, in a biarticular muscle, like the long head, we generally want to isolate one of its functions or perform both of its functions at the same time. If we're shortening the target muscle at one joint while lengthening it at the other joint during a compound movement, there's some research suggesting that's no ideal for growth. For example, another study by Kubo and colleagues in the rectus femoris and the hamstrings, both of these muscles experienced this effect during the squat. They also found very poor hypertrophy. And so in biarticular muscles, like the long head of the triceps, the tricep isolation movement is probably a better choice. But specifically, the skull crusher was better than the bench press for the long head and the medial head, whereas the bench press was better for the lateral head. And in fact, in a group that included both the skull crusher and the bench press, they saw the best overall tricep hypertrophy. So some variety in your exercise selection is a wise thing to do. Isolation movements tend to work better for biarticular muscles and different movements might target different areas of the muscle. Next up, we have two studies, one unpublished by our own lab at Lehman College with Brad Schoenfeld, and one published by Hinochita and colleagues comparing the seated calf raises to the standing calf raises and measuring gastrocnemius and soleus growth. To make a long story short, the results in both of these studies are very similar. That is to say standing calf raises lead to more gastrocnemius growth than seated calf raises, and seated calf raises seem to lead to similar or maybe, if you look very closely, slightly greater growth than standing calf raises in the soleus. But this effect is very marginal if there is one compared to the difference in hypertrophy and the gastroc. So for overall hypertrophy, most, if not all of your training should likely just be standing calf raises. There are two potential interpretations for these two studies. The first is that in the standing calf raise, we saw more hypertrophy of the gastroc because it is more stretched in that movement. So in line with other research, it would just be the case that lengthening a muscle more during training is beneficial for hypertrophy. The second interpretation is that during standing calf raises because the gastrocnemius is a biarticular muscle and you're shortening it at the knee, you're placing it into active insufficiency, reducing its ability to produce tension, and therefore it's hypertrophic stimulus. I'm personally impartial to the first interpretation, but take it as you will. Next, we have a couple of studies comparing the Smith machine squat to the leg extension exercise. Broadly speaking, hypertrophy is relatively similar. It leans slightly in favor of the leg extension over the Smith machine squat. Importantly, the results as far as the exact distribution of a hypertrophy, like for example, whether or not leg extensions are better for the rectus femoris than a squat, are relatively inconsistent between these two studies. So maybe leg extensions are slightly better overall for quad hypertrophy, but it's by a small margin. And importantly, this is in the context of the squat depth being quite limited in both of these studies. So if you're able to squat deeper than participants in this study, with the stretch being an important factor for hypertrophy, there's a good chance that the squat would be more hypertrophic for the quads overall. Next, we have a study comparing the hip thrust to the squat exercise, which is better for lower body growth. In the study by the Plotkin and colleagues, they looked at gluteus hypertrophy, adductor hypertrophy, hamstring hypertrophy, and quadricep hypertrophy. They found similar gluteus hypertrophy, but they found substantially more quadricep hypertrophy and substantially more adductor hypertrophy from the squat compared to the hip thrust. Meanwhile, since the hamstrings are a biarticular muscle, I wouldn't expect them to grow much from either of these exercises, and indeed, the growth in those was relatively small. What this study seems to suggest is that muscle length isn't as important as we thought. So a squat is relatively challenging close to the stretch position, and allows more people to get deeper and get into a deeper stretch for their glutes, whereas the hip thrust is essentially a portion range of motion at tour muscle lengths, and is hardest in that peak squeeze position. So what gives? Well, if you actually look at how deep the participants were squatting, on average, they were squatting a little bit above parallel, so their depth might have been contributing to the results of it. So what we can say from this study is that if you're not squatting particularly deep, as far as just the glutes go, the hip thrust and the squat are probably similarly effective for inducing hypertrophy in the glutes. Though when it comes to the quads and outers, the squat has an edge, and neither of these two exercises is particularly effective hypertrophy in the hamstrings. Next, we have another study by myo-ing colleagues that compared the seated leg curl to the lying leg curl. In the seated leg curl, the biarticular hamstrings are more lengthened, whereas in the lying leg curl, the biarticular hamstrings are more shortened. Additionally, they also measured gracilis and sartorius hypertrophy. Specifically, the sartorius is a bariticular muscle that is responsible for hip flexion. The opposite of the hamstrings. So in this case, it was more lengthened during the lying leg curl than the seated leg curl. And just as you'd expect, based on the muscle in the research I've been mentioning so far, in the seated leg curl, they observed more hypertrophy in all three of the biarticular hamstrings than the lying leg curl. And the lying leg curl, they observed more hypertrophy of the sartorius muscle than in the seated leg curl. So essentially, across these two exercises, when a muscle was being more stretched, it experienced more growth. And otherwise, there were no differences, because ultimately, both of these things are leg curl variations. Importantly, the range of motion was equated for here between the seated and lying leg curl. And so this study is also in support of the idea that if you're looking for a good exercise for hypertrophy, the stretch is a big thing you should be looking for. To round off the direct comparisons, we have two more studies. Both of these studies compared the bicep curl with dumbbells to different back exercises. One of them compared to the pull down exercise. When they measured bicep hypertrophy at only one site, they found similar bicep hypertrophy from the pull down to the dumbbell curl. And so the pull down seems like a decent option to grow the biceps. Conversely, when another study compared the bicep curl to an underhand dumbbell row, they found around twice as much hypertrophy from the dumbbell curl compared to the underhand dumbbell row. And so certain back movements may be a little bit better when it comes to stimulating hypertrophy of the biceps than others. Specifically, it might be the case, based on only these two studies, so it is very preliminary, but it might be the case that vertical pulling is better for your biceps compared to horizontal pulling. And that about wraps it up for all of the direct studies we have comparing different exercises. So based on this research, could you go and write a program using only the most effective exercises from direct comparisons of different exercises in the studies? No. For instance, if you wanted to grow your abs, we don't have any research to my knowledge comparing the effectiveness of different ad exercises and actually measuring ab hypertrophy. So instead, you're going to have to rely to some extent on these generalizable principles that seem to emerge if you look at these studies together in combination. So what other principles can we arrive at from the research? Well, for one, we have a couple of metanalsies comparing machine versus free weight exercises, finding that they're basically the same for hypertrophy. So just because a movement is machine-based or free weight based doesn't make it any better inherently. Similarly, a metanalsis of single versus multi-joint training found similar hypertrophy, whether you're doing compound movements only or isolation movements only or a combination. With that being said, single joint movements do add a theoretical edge, and that they make it more likely that the toriate muscle group is the limiting factor. If you're doing something like a deadlift for quad hypertrophy, there's a lot of other things that could give out before your quads do, resulting in your quads not being taken all the way to muscular failure. However, when it comes to something like a leg extension, where the quads are the only muscles capable of extending your knee, if you take a set to failure, your quads will be at failure as well. And so generally on principle, more isolation movements are going to be preferable for individual muscle groups. And importantly, my whole PhD was on the effects of range of motion during training on hypertrophy and strength. And one of the findings I've kept coming back to throughout this video in these comparisons of different exercises is that getting a deep stretch in the toriate muscle group under tension is important when it comes to selecting the right exercise for hypertrophy. Without further ado, let me break down what I think the principles for exercise selection are based on all of this research. First, like I just mentioned, a really good hypertrophy exercise will have the toriate muscle group placed in a stretch position, placed under plenty of tension in a stress position, and the exercise will allow you to safely do length and partials. For example, on a free weight squat, you may not want to do partials in the stretch position. However, on something like a leg press, you might be able to do so more safely. Next, whatever exercise you pick should target one of the functions of the toriate muscle group. To go back to the Brian Dallow study, if all you did was skull crushers, you would never actually grow your chest very much because the skull crusher doesn't target one of the functions of the pecs. And ideally across your whole exercise selection, you would make sure to cover a variety of functions of each muscle to make sure you're getting as much overall hypertrophy as possible. Next, as I mentioned earlier, the fewer non-toriate muscle limiting factors there are or things that could essentially prevent the target muscle from being a limiting factor, the better. What this means is that, for example, you want to pick the right exercise for the right rep range. If you do squats for sets of 20, you might find you get out of breath before your quads reach anywhere close to failure. And so the best exercise for hypertrophy is also rep range specific. But more importantly, what this means is that if you really want to grow your triceps, isolation movements are probably better than compound movements. And this was evidenced in the Brandao study, for example, where the skull crusher did result in better overall tricep hypertrophy by some margin than the bench press. And finally, a good hypertrophy exercise will also be reasonably stable, be reasonably loadable, so that you can get somewhere in the five to 50 rep range. You need to be able to add enough load to make it to within that rep range. And that's about it. To maximize muscle building, if you consider these four or five factors, you'll make excellent choices. Let me give you a few more criteria if you're pressed for time as well. First, the squat at the bench, the deadlift, and even the overpress. As much as many people love them, myself included, they tend not to be very time efficient. For most people, it just takes a ton of time. So if you're going for muscle growth, consider exercises that are a bit more time efficient. For example, dumbbell based, staccatoid machines, those tend to just be the easiest and the fastest because you don't need to set up the barbell, you don't need to load the barbell. They just tend to be a bit more time efficient all as being equal. Similarly, body weight exercises are great. Next, super settable or drop settable exercises We have research on antagonistic paired supersets or essentially pairing two exercises with no overlap in terms of the muscular being involved, generally not compromising performance, which if you can superset two exercises and cut your training time in half and get the same stimulus, that is good news. Likewise, when it comes to drop sets, we had a metanalysis by Coleman and colleagues comparing traditional set training to drop set training, finding similar hypertrophy. With the caveat that in the drop set training groups, they took about 50 to 70% less time to train. And so exercises, predominantly stacked loaded machine exercises that easily allow you to drop set or create as well. On the other hand, if for example, you're looking for an easy chest and back super set, consider it the inclandumbal press and the inclandumbal rope. And finally, although it's a very minor component of making it an exercise more time efficient, bilateral exercises where you're training both legural limbs at the same time, for example, doing a barbell squat versus a barbell split squat, the barbell squat will be a tiny bit more time efficient on account of just needing to do one versus two sets. If you want a whole video on how to make your training more time efficient, it'll be published soon, so stay tuned. That's the video. I broke down all of the research on what exercises are best for hypertrophy, both from the direct research and from the generalizable principles we're able to get at from exercise science as a whole. When you're selecting your exercises for hypertrophy, consider these principles or don't. And instead, get a qualified coach to do the work for you. We have a qualified team of coaches at strongbyescience.com slash coaching who would love to take care of your training, nutrition, or even just have a consultation with you to be able to answer your questions. If you're looking for similar information delivered to you for free every couple of weeks in your email inbox, check out the newsletter below. If there's anything else you'd like to see us cover over here at the strongbyescience channel, leave a comment down below and we'll get to it. That is the video. Have a fantastic day and we'll see you guys next time. Peace.

=== FILE: What Happens to Excessive Protein After a Meal？ [AJtz49BNbRA].txt ===

 ascidenticilus. The first 20 grams of protein very clearly you have like a linear anabolic response. Then the next 20 so from 20 to 40 you get a little bit of additional value but it's diminishing gains. About 40 it seems to not really do that much. But recently we kind of shoved that principle completely from the table because in my opinion those studies kind of missed something. That's Professor Jorm Traumelin, researcher in protein metabolism at Maastricht University in the Netherlands. When you consume high doses of protein in a single meal, the thinking used to go that anything in excess of 40 grams of protein would just be burned off or oxidized. As a result, the thinking would go that you would spread out your protein intake over multiple meals a day to make sure each meal had less than 40 grams of protein. Making each gram of protein be utilized more effectively for muscle growth. However, that changed recently. Just last year, Jorm and his colleagues published a study comparing ingesting 25 grams of milk protein to 100 grams of milk protein. Why 100 grams? Well, they determined that most people wouldn't really be able to have more than around 100 grams in a single sitting, just practically speaking. That is a lot of protein. They had participants perform a lifting session after which they ingested either 25 or 100 grams of protein. In contrast to previous studies, they looked up to 12 hours after that protein ingestion. Specifically, where did the protein consumed go? How did it get metabolized and used up in various tissues across the body? There are four steps for your body to use protein that you're ingesting. First, there's ingestion. In the first step, your teeth are responsible for mechanical digestion. Specifically, they break down the food into smaller food particles to increase the surface area that enzymes are able to act on in the next few steps. The food will then enter your digestive tract, where it first enters the stomach. In the stomach, gastric glands are responsible for secreting hydrochloric acid. Hydrochloric acid unravels the protein bonds, making it easier for future digestive steps to access the peptide bones. Likewise, the enzyme pepsin breaks down proteins into smaller peptide chains. Next, the food will enter your small intestine, where it finalizes the digestive process. At this point, three amino acids are absorbed through the wall of the small intestine and released into your blood circulation. And finally, in step four, the amino acids from protein are transported around the body for one of two uses, either being used by different tissues for protein synthesis or being oxidized or burnt for energy. Many different tissues across your body can use amino acids for protein synthesis. In fact, not just your muscle. Your muscle has a pretty low protein turnover rate compared to other tissues, like hair, for example. However, protein can also be burnt or oxidized for energy. Here's what happens. First, the amination needs to occur in the liver, which is the removal of the amino group. From here, this creates keto acid. Keto acid can then be used for a variety of things, including gluconeogenesis, which is creating glucose from protein. From here, keto acids can be used for a variety of purposes in energy metabolism, such as creating glucose from scratch, which is a process called gluconeogenesis. Keto acids can also be converted into ATP via the Krebs cycle or the citric acid cycle. However, protein isn't your body's preferred form of fuel. Chloride weights and fats are much preferred. That's because there's many steps in the process of turning protein to energy. Now that you understand how protein traverses your body, we can better understand the results of your study. What happened? Did excessive protein really just get burnt off? Wouldn't 100 grams of protein just get wasted? Here's what they did. The night before participants came into the lab, they stopped eating at 10 p.m. At 7.45 in the morning, participants arrived in the lab. To examine protein metabolism, blood samples and muscle biopsies were taken throughout the day at various points. Participants first performed a lifting session with 60 minutes of full-body training. Following this immediately, they consumed either 25 or 100 grams of milk protein. Notably, milk protein is fairly slow-digesting. By using a new novel isotope tracer technology, the researchers were able to look at a longer time frame than previous studies, up to 12 hours after participants consumed protein. And here are the results. Far more amino acids reached into the circulation with 100 grams of protein versus 25. In fact, as you'd expect, I run four times as many amino acids. So, at the very least, proportionately, the same amount of amino acids successfully made it through the digestive process and actually reached circulation, even with 100 grams of protein. Not much additional protein was actually oxidized when consuming 100 versus 25 grams of protein. All types of protein enrichment, meaning taking amino acids from the bloodstream and adding them to tissues, were substantially higher when consuming 100 grams of protein versus 25. But what about the protein use we actually care about? Which is to say, myofibrillar protein synthesis, adding new proteins into your myofibrils or muscle fibers. Well, in the 0-4 hour time frame, the 100 gram condition had 20% higher protein synthesis rates compared to the 25 gram condition. In the 4-12 hour time frame, the 100 gram condition had 40% greater protein synthesis compared to the 25 gram condition. And in fact, that wasn't the only difference. Release of amino acids into the bloodstream or into the circulation hadn't even ended by the time the 12 hours were up when consuming 100 grams of protein. In contrast, when consuming only 25 grams, release into the circulation had effectively ended after around 4 hours. So no, even 100 grams of protein in a single sitting wasn't wasting protein. Even over 12 hours after ingesting 100 grams, protein was still being released into circulation. And likewise, substantially more protein was being used for increasing myofibrillar protein synthesis, aka muscle growth. Additionally, substantially more amino acids went towards increasing myofibrillar protein synthesis with 100 grams of protein compared to 25. But why did your studies specifically have different findings than studies before it? Was it just a fluke? Or is there something else that can explain it? The studies that looked at that they just gave a single meal and then they measured the anabolic response over a period of four to five hours, which is not crazy when you think about it because you have breakfast and then for five hours you have your next meal, you have lunch and for five hours you have your next meal, then you have dinner and for five hours later you go to bed. So it kind of makes sense. But the simple reality is, is if you consume a large amount of protein, you simply need more time to digest it. So you can very easily test this out, have like five hamburgers or steaks at a barbecue, wake up in the middle of the night to pee and you'll just feel you have a lot of meat still in your gut. You're still digesting. You were also mentioned that previous studies didn't quite have the results that people thought they had. When you look at that data you see like I have it higher protein intakes. It seems like the amount of protein that you burn for energy or you oxidize, yes it goes up. But if you actually calculate that back to how many grams of protein am I burning, it's almost nothing. So if you say I go from 40 to 60 grams and I burn an additional two grams, I'm like that leaves 18 grams of protein for anabolism. I'll take that deal. So having too much protein in a single meal really isn't an issue. Does that mean we can just throw protein distribution out the window altogether? So just for context, I was originally more in the protein distribution camp so to speak. I thought, okay maybe there's not that much evidence from long-term studies that protein distribution has an added benefit, but those studies are horrible to do. Like who wants to sign up and then be allocated? Please eat this pattern for 12 weeks. Thyme restricted feeding, intermittent fasting became more and more popular. There was more research on that and from a protein distribution point of view, most horrible thing you can do. They intentionally try to fast as many hours in the day. So it's the worst protein distribution. But then meta-analysis on intermittent fasting show that it doesn't really, it's not really detrimental for muscle mass as long as it's nitrogen matched with the other conditions of course. Protein timing just doesn't seem to matter all that much. There are studies in intermittent fasting, having more or fewer meals per day, all generally finding pretty similar increases in lean body mass in the long run when also following a lifting routine. But do we have any better recommendations? What's my recommendation? For athletes I would still say I would aim for four meals a day because that's extremely simple. That is like breakfast, lunch, dinner, just the most socially desired meal pattern. Then take an extra meal prior to sleep. That is like if you add an extra meal, which point of the day will best increase your distribution. It would be prior to sleep. Do I think all of that will make much difference? No, but it's so easy. Just do it and you don't have to worry about it anymore. This formula approach recommended by Jorn can also be a great way to make sure you're getting enough total protein in. If you enjoyed the video, please make sure you like the video, subscribe and comment. If you like this video, you'll probably like our newsletter. Go to strongbytescience.com slash newsletter to receive free bi-weekly research breakdowns. Likewise, if you're looking for a coach, our team of coaches has you covered. Go to strongbytescience.com slash coaching to store your training and nutrition with an expert coach today. Jorn, you absolutely killed it. You put out some of the most interesting research consistently. Where can people find you, your lab, your research, everything? On most social media, I post on their nutrition tactics. Don't worry, there's an occasional exercise study in there as well. So nutrition tactics on most platforms and from there you can find most of my stuff. Strong by Science, Dr. Mayer Wolfe. Until next time.

=== FILE: What is Muscle Memory？ (Science Explained) [wYCzjuiPtgs].txt ===

 a group of scientists in Japan conducted a series of experiments where they uncovered something shocking. In their studies they compared the muscle growth of two groups, a continuous training group who continuously performed resistance training throughout the course of the study. The intermittent training group, on the other hand, would train for a while then take 2-3 weeks completely off before resuming training again. By the end of the study, both groups ended up gaining similar amounts of muscle mass. This alone is pretty interesting, but that is not the shocking bit. When the intermittent training group took some time off training, as you'd expect, they lost some of the muscle they gained. However, when they returned to training, they gained muscle up to four times faster than the continuous training group. But why? It probably has to do with one of your body's secret abilities, muscle memory. What is muscle memory? There are two definitions people use. The first has to do with your nervous system and motor learning. Your body has the ability to remember how to perform a skill and coordinate your movement long after you first learned that skill or long after you last performed it. For example, the classic example of riding a bike. The second definition of muscle memory relates to muscle physiology. I think in the context of the research that I do and that others in the skeletal muscle field specifically are looking at it is the idea that within the cells of your muscle, there's a molecular memory. It's the idea that if you were to stress your muscle with resistance exercise, resistance training or something like that, then you were to stop training for any number of reasons. Maybe it was because you got injured, maybe it was a worldwide pandemic. Any number of reasons why you might stop training. But then later down the road, you were to go back to exercising again, that you would recover the muscle mass you previously gained more quickly. The thought process there is that there is some sort of molecular memory mechanism in your cells probably related to something going on with your DNA and probably your epigenetics, which I can explain. That would allow for you to then train again and gain back that muscle and gain back that strength more quickly than the first time you gained it. And so so that's sort of the in broad strokes the concept of muscle memory. That's Professor Kevin Murak, researcher in muscle physiology, muscle memory and much more. The phenomenon of muscle memory is very well documented. Anecdotally, athletes have to take some time away from training, because they get injured, they go on a long holiday or what have you do tend to regain muscle mass much more quickly than how long it took them to gain it in the first place. Likewise, when it comes to empirical studies, we have quite a few studies and animals showing that muscle memory really does exist. Where if you expose them to training first, but then have them take some time off, and then re expose them to training, any muscle they lost during that training cessation or loading cessation period is regained much more quickly. Likewise, in humans, there is some empirical research suggesting that you can regain muscle more quickly than when you first gained it. As an example, here are three studies by star and colleagues, taffin colleagues and seaborn colleagues. But let's focus on the one by star and colleagues in their study, participants first started by training for 20 weeks, then they detrained for 30 to 32 weeks. Finally, they trained for an additional six weeks. They initially gained muscle and strength during the first 20 weeks of training, as you would expect. During those 32 weeks, they effectively lost all the muscle and strength they'd gained in those first 20 training weeks. However, in that final six week retraining phase, they regained all the muscle mass and strength, they lost over 32 weeks. In other words, they regained muscle and strength around three times faster than how long it took them to gain the first place. That is muscle memory. However, that's not to say all studies are like this. There are studies where muscle memory doesn't really seem to be playing much of a role. A study by Cylander and colleagues in 2019 had 19 participants train only one of their legs. For 10 weeks, these participants only trained one leg. And as you'd expect, they gained some muscle and strength. Then for 20 weeks, they didn't perform any training with either leg. Finally, they performed another five weeks of training at the end to see whether the previously trained leg would previously been bigger and stronger would gain more muscle and strength over those five weeks than the control leg who didn't have muscle memory playing in its favor. And both legs gained the same amount of muscle and strength over those five weeks. This study has a very robust design. By using a within participant study design, you're controlling for differences in genetics, nutrition, sleep and stress that other studies usually don't control. Interestingly, a later reanalysis by another group of researchers found that the participants who had gained myonuclei during that first 10 weeks of training in their trained leg actually lost all of the myonuclei they had gained over those 20 weeks of detraining. What this suggests is that perhaps muscle memory only really acts if you've been training for a while. Perhaps 10 weeks just wasn't enough to really activate the phenomenon of muscle memory. But importantly, myonuclei seemed to play a role in the concept of muscle memory. But how? Why does muscle memory exist? Like any other cell, muscle cells or muscle fibers have a nucleus. However, muscle fibers are different in that they have hundreds or sometimes thousands of a nuclei. And these are called myonuclei. Myo means muscle, nucleus means nucleus. You get the idea. A muscle cell is kind of like a long cylindrical tube. We have hundreds or thousands of myonuclei. Myonuclei enable long term growth of muscle fibers. They effectively contain the blueprints of muscle growth. These myonuclei seem to play a central role when it comes to the concept of muscle memory. There are two leading theories First is myonuclei addition theory. The second is myonuclear epigenetic modification theory. Myonuclei addition theory postulates that muscle memory acts by adding nuclei when you train, but then those nuclei remain around when you detrain facilitating further growth. To understand this, you also need to understand myonuclear domain theory. Each myonucleus in your muscle can only overview so much muscle growth and so much transcription at a time. So in order to keep growing your muscle fiber overall, you need to add new myonuclei over time. Otherwise, there is a cap to how big your muscle fiber can get. Lifting weights both increases fiber size, but also activates stem cells around the muscle that eventually fuse together to donate a new nucleus to the muscle fiber, allowing it to grow long term. The idea is that when you stop lifting your muscle fibers themselves atrophy or shrink, but your myonuclei stay around for some length of time. And then when you retrain, even though your muscle fiber is smaller, the myonucleide that facilitate growth are still around, accelerating the regrowth process. Or myonucleic permanent? Would you say like if you had to give a yes or no answer, would you say no? Yes. It depends so much on the context. We just don't know enough about it. You know, like, I assume you're talking within the context of resistance training, not just like redevelopment and the cost. So if I resistance train, then I stopped Would those nuclei gain from my initial period of getting buff? Be there forever? We don't know the answer to the question. Eileen, no. Eileen, we probably get rid of them over time. I don't think it would make much sense to keep them around for longer than they needed to be. But are we talking like months, years, decades until they start kind of creeping away mostly? Probably and humans probably in the order of months to years. And it probably is pretty context dependent may depend on the muscle that you're exercising may depend on how old you are when you started whole variety of different factors probably affect that mechanism. So that's the myonuclear addition or permanence theory. The other theory of epigenetic modifications to existing myonucleide being central to the concept of muscle memory has to do not with adding or having a greater number of myonucleide, but simply making each myonucleus better at growing muscle effectively improving each myonucleus's ability to grow muscle in the future and thereby to regrow lost muscle in the future to the other quote unquote school thought I guess is that there are changes that go on within the nuclei that are already there in the muscle fiber to begin with. And so it's this idea that genetics so when you break that word down, it means above genetics. And so basically the idea of epigenetics is how do you control the expression of the genes that you have. So we all have essentially the same set of genes. But how they get controlled and accessed and expressed can change based on the different layers of control above the DNA. So things like DNA methylation or histone modifications are all these things that are related to more the structural component of how DNA is organized that can be modified that allows genes to be expressed in different ways. And so the thought process with epigenetics is that you may epigenetically change the nuclei that you have so that when you go to exercise again after a long layoff, that the genes that were important for growth first time are easier to access and can cause you to grow again more quickly when you start retraining. And so that the muscle memory hypothesis from a cellular molecular biology perspective comes from probably those those two different sort of ideas which aren't necessarily competing. I mean, both things can be happening at once. And so could be any of those combination of those things in one capacity or another. But yeah, I think in broad strokes from like a cell biology perspective, that's how we think of muscle memory from from like a more molecular perspective. Yeah. So which of these two theories appears more likely at the current moment? Is one of these really playing more of a role than the other? Is it my unclear addition? Or is it epigenetic modification from a gut feeling? Which of these two hypotheses do you think is more play? It sounds like they might both be a play or somewhat compatible in a way. And they're both the current at the same time. But what do you think is happening? I think it probably has a there's probably a timing component here. So I think in the shorter term, maybe it could have to do with the fact that you don't lose the nuclei right away, you maintain some of them. So if you're to retain over a shorter period of time, after a shorter layoff that that might be contributing potentially more heavily, I don't know. I think over a longer periods, it maybe he could have something to do more with the changes, the inherent changes to the epigenetics of the DNA and the muscle nuclei that you have. But what does all this mean for you? Well, there are a few cases where muscle memory can really be important for your health and muscle growth. The first one is exercising earlier in your life. Most adults, especially when they age and get into their 70s, 80s and 90s, tend to lose their independence. Having sufficient muscle mass and strength can help delay this by a long, long time, increasing your quote unquote, health span. If you exercise earlier in life, grow muscle, make those modifications to your mind nuclei and gain a greater number of my nuclei, you could feasibly more easily regain lost muscle and strength later in your life, even if you have a layoff and training that causes your muscle fibers to shrink temporarily. You know, there's studies that show that, you know, if you exercise early in life that that can have impacts much, much later in life. And so it might be when we're long lasting, then we could ever appreciate. So, yeah, I don't know the answer to that question. I think it's probably, maybe there's an answer out there, but need more evidence to kind of pin that down. I think it probably my default answer, probably like, I think the long lasting effects of exercise are probably underappreciated. A big risk factor, especially as you get older for you losing your independence, and not being able to kind of get back to your lifestyle is, you know, you go through these phases of, you know, maybe you're healthy, but then you get sick and you're really inactive, and then you get healthy again. But the deleterious effects of that time of being injured or being, you know, less active than you would be can compound over time and really exacerbate, you know, the problems that you seem to experience musculoskeletally as you get older. So if you had been exercising when you were younger, though, it could be that maybe you would just recover more quickly from some of those things happening. And then if you were to even do some moderate exercise to try and get back to where you were, that that might facilitate you getting back to them quickly and having less likelihood of having another event that would cause you to get injured or have to be bedridden or whatever the case may be. Effectively, exercising earlier in your life could help you be healthier at an older age, even if you have a long time off. Another application for muscle memory is for athletes who have to take some time off from their sport or from lifting. If you have to take some time off because of injury or because of other lifestyle issues, you will find that you're able to regain lost muscle and strength much more quickly than how long it took you to gain in the first place. And this is great news for anyone whose lifestyle is forcing them to take some time off in a similar vein. Going on holidays won't kill your gains, even if you lose some muscle over a few week holiday, or even a few months. The good news is that you'll be able to regain that lost muscle between two to four times faster, potentially, which is great. You don't need to worry too much about lifting a lot while you're on holidays. The final controversial implication of muscle memory and its physiology has to do with anabolic steroids. And I mean, there's evidence, you know, of course, and like people that had been taking tons and tons of anabolic steroids and lifting super heavily. And then you look at them later in their lives after they're not on steroids or not as big as they used to be that they have, you know, nuclei, more nuclei in their muscle fibers. Okay. Yeah, maybe that's an instance where they do stick around. But you're also conflating that with the fact that you took super physiological doses of a hormone that was, you know, super highly expressed during development. And it's having kind of a different effect. Do you think that taking anabolic androgenic steroids confers you a permanent advantage or so quasi permanent advantage in terms of my nuclei? Yeah, yeah, that's that is the question. I mean, I know there's implications for that when it comes to Olympic sport and things of that nature. Again, I don't think we have enough evidence to suggest that to be true. You know, I don't think we should be making policy based on preclinical studies that have shown that a few times. You know, I think in order to truly answer that question, we're going to need some high quality, you know, clinical trial sort of studies to get at that that question. And I mean, there's some smaller studies that suggest it could be the case. But I'm not comfortable. I would not feel comfortable making policy on that on what on the literature that exists already. In conclusion, if you have to take some time off from lifting, or you want to take some time off from lifting, and you're worried that it will ruin your physique and strength in the long term, and even your health as you age, do not worry too much. And no likelihood muscle memory has your back. When you return to lifting, you'll be able to regain lost muscle and strength two to four times faster than when you initially gained it. This should be great news to anyone whose lifestyle is forcing them to take some time off, whether due to injury or other lifestyle commitments. If you're looking for a coach, go to strongbyescience.com slash coaching to match with an experienced educated coach today. If you want to biweekly email newsletters about the latest research sent directly to your inbox for free, go to strongbyescience.com slash newsletter. Dr. Michael Wolf with strong by science muscle memory. Have a great day and until next time.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.374232Z ===
