Hey guys, Greg Knuckles here with string theory.com. Uh back in the second installment of our daily Q&A series. Uh so 2 days in, still uh still every day. So that's uh that's a good start, I would say. Uh question today is um do I need to train different muscles differently? Should I train them in different rep ranges uh based on fiber type breakdown? Um I thought this was a good question because uh I I see this get asked a lot. I think this is a common idea out there that uh particular muscles are either predominantly type one muscle fibers, type two muscle fibers. Uh and because of that you should train them differently. Uh I am not really on board with this idea for three main reasons. Uh the first is that um kind of in general uh just as a starting point, most muscles don't really have one predominant fiber type. Um some notable exceptions there, your solius, one of the muscles in your calves. Um they are typically 85% plus slow twitch type one fibers. Um and some of your eye muscles uh and also forearm muscles uh finger extensors um some of those are 80 90% plus type 2 muscle fibers but the majority of the muscles in your body uh are essentially pretty close to A-50/50 mix of type 1 and type two muscle fibers. Um now there is some interindividual variation there. Um, some people are very very fast twitch dominant, some people are very very slow twitch dominant in general. Um, but when kind of dealing with averages, so if you're giving typical advice like most people should train hamstrings with low reps because they're predominantly fast twitch, that's something I hear a lot. Uh, there's really not good evidence to support that. Hamstrings, pecs, delts, lats, um, there's quads. There are multiple studies looking at uh fiber types in those muscles. Um and a a page with a breakdown of all of those studies will be linked in the description of this video. And uh what you'll see is that uh you know some studies it may be uh 6535 something like that. But the the majority of studies for the majority of muscles do kind of cluster around a pretty even mix of type 1 and type two muscle fibers. So, um that's that's my first problem with this idea. One, uh most muscles aren't really predominantly type one or type two in general. Um now the second thing is uh people have this idea that you can test your muscles to see if they are predominantly type one or type two um by taking a particular percentage of your one rep max and taking it to failure. So maybe 80% for as many reps as possible. If you get fewer than eight reps, it's probably mostly fast twitch fibers uh because it gave out faster. If you can get more than eight reps, and it's probably predominantly slow twitch fibers. Um, that's that's a test I see uh some people recommending to determine what your predominant fiber type in a particular muscle is. Uh, but there's a problem with this as well. This has been studied uh twice. I I would need to look for these papers again. One of them though um found no significant correlation whatsoever between uh predominant muscle fiber type and how many reps people could get with a given percentage of their one rep max. The other one did find a significant correlation. Uh but if memory serves the correlation coefficient was like 04.5 um which means the R squar the uh um coefficient of determination was like6 to 0.25 something like that. So in other words, less than a quarter of the variation in number of reps people could get um was explained by fiber type itself. So uh there there very likely is some relationship uh between the predominant fiber type in a muscle and how many reps you could get with a given percentage of your one rep max if if you wanted to try to test it like that. Uh but it's not a very sensitive or accurate test. Um so you know odds odds would be pretty good that unless you were just on the very extreme end of the spectrum. So you know maybe if you were comparing uh your your finger extensors to your solius very very predominantly fast twitch versus very very predominantly slow twitch muscle. um you know that very well may be a meaningful difference, but um for pretty much every other muscle in your body, that test would pick up a lot more noise than signal. So um there's there's not really a good practical way uh to know if if one of your muscles or multiple of your muscles are predominantly one fiber type or not. Uh the only way to know for sure is uh actually to get muscle biopsies. And if you want to go to a lab and have people stick big needles in all of your muscles and rip out little chunks of your flesh all over your body, uh then you can know what your predominant fiber type is in each muscle. Um but most most people aren't going to do that. Uh so first problem just in general, most muscles are a pretty even mix of fiber types. two. Uh if you're if you're concerned for yourself that you know maybe some of your muscles are predominantly type one or type two, which can certainly happen, uh there's no easy test for it. Um simply seeing how many reps you can get with a given percentage of your one rep max. Um that may that may be that is probably correlated with fiber type to some degree, but it's just not a very good test. It's not a very sensitive test. picks up a lot more noise than signal. And uh the last thing is even if you did know that one particular um muscle was say much more type one dominance whatever like let's say you go to a lab um you get your quads biopsied and normal person's quads would be about 50/50 type 1 and type two. Let's say yours are 80% type two. Uh, does that mean that your best bet would be to train your quads heavy, explosively, you know, type types of things that you would think would would be better for type 2 fiber growth. Uh, and here's here's the real issue. There's really not uh good evidence that that would make a meaningful difference. Um, studies are all over the place here. For the most part, what you tend to see is regardless of rep range used, type one or type two fibers tend to grow uh between 50 and 75% more than type one muscle fibers do really with almost any rep range. Uh there are some studies that that could be used to argue uh preferential type one versus type two fiber growth. Um, but they're they come out on on both sides of the issue. So, one by I know I'm going to butcher this researcher's name, but Schwink I believe um actually found that u high rep training that people would tend to think would be better for type one fiber growth um caused growth of type two fibers but not type one fibers whereas lower rep training caused growth of both types of fibers. to that that would lead you to believe that if you want type one fibers to grow uh those slow twitch fibers, you would need heavy training for that and that lighter training is ineffective for that. Uh which would run kind of counter to this theory. the but then there was another study by Mitchell um that was comparing working with 80% versus 30% uh and found that overall muscle growth was the same but that there was a lot more uh type one muscle fiber growth slow twitch muscle fiber growth um with the uh lighter higher rep training which would kind of be in line with this theory. So, um, evidence evidence is mixed and it's really really inconclusive whether lighter higher rep training is actually more beneficial for type 1 slow twitch muscle fiber growth and whether heavier more explosive training would be better for type two um fast twitch muscle fiber growth. So, uh, just kind of to recap, I don't think when So, okay, assuming that your primary goal is just hypertrophy to get as jacked as possible, um, your best bet across the board is probably just to train uh, with a variety of rep ranges regardless of what muscle you're talking about. Uh, the idea that you should train different muscles differently uh, based on fiber type breakdown probably doesn't hold much water. uh that doesn't necessarily mean that you do have to train every muscle exactly the same. That doesn't mean that there aren't other factors that may influence how you train particular muscles, but to base a lot of how you're training a muscle on what its predominant fiber type is. Uh, in my opinion, that doesn't hold very much water because one, most muscles that you'd be dealing with, except maybe your solus are probably going to be a pretty even mix of type one and type two muscle fibers in the first place. Two, um, there's not a good easy test to that that has much predictive power uh to to get a good idea of whether a particular muscle is type 1 or type two fiber dominant. And the last thing is even if you could know that um the evidence at this point is very very mixed uh very unclear about whether high or low rep training can specifically target a particular fiber type. So, um, in short, I think I think it's an interesting idea and, um, I think it's a ripe area for research that, um, you know, may either, uh, kind of rain on this parade a little bit more or validate it a bit more in the future. Uh, we'll just see as things move forward. But at this point um when planning a training program I don't really think um again for hypertrophy specifically. So this is not about endurance training. This is not about power training. This is just simply about trying to get jacked because this is where this idea is typically applied uh for hypertrophy training. I don't really think uh this is this is something you should really be using um as as a main guiding principle for program design. Um for most people most of the time uh your best bet is just going to be to use a variety of rep ranges regardless. All right guys, so that is the video. If you liked it, please like and subscribe. Uh if you have training questions that you want answered, uh ask them below and I will pick my favorite one and answer it tomorrow. Uh and until then enjoy your training and I will see you in that next