Hey guys, have some training footage from my first real workout back from Asia. Was over there doing some seminars in Koala Lumpur, Malaysia and in Singapore. Um, so back in the States now and uh serious training is resuming once again. This is 495 on a triple for squats. I did two sets here. My program moving forward for the next few months is uh is going to be kind of built around pushing the volume and frequency. Um trying to get some work capacity back because it's absolutely terrible right now. Uh so, you know, I need to to build back up that base before I can uh do the type of training I need to do to keep moving forward. Uh my wife's on the same program as I am. There she was demonstrating darn near flawless squat form. And this is 305 for four on bench. Fairly close grip, not very much leg drive. Uh trying to, you know, get a robust training effect without beating my body up with heavy weights. Did four sets there. Uh and then moved on and finished with some pretty light deadlifts. Just trying to get my groove back there. It's been pretty inconsistent lately. Uh, the program I'm on now, I'll be putting it in an Excel sheet pretty soon and uh, it will be available to download for free. I'll let you guys know when that's ready. Here's my dog, Oswald. If you follow me on Instagram or Facebook, I'm sure you've seen a lot of this little guy before. He's the best dog in the world. Uh, this has nothing to do with training. just just thought you should be aware that my dog is much better than yours and is probably the thing I missed most while I was in Asia. But now getting to the really important part of this video, these beers. Uh the guy you see across the table, that's my dear friend Kevin. Uh he was visiting from out of town and we were actually splitting two beers. Um we had the Latrap Quad on tap. It's good in the bottle, but it's one of my favorite beers to drink on tap. Uh, and there the uh the black hole you see in the middle of the table creating its own gravitational field sucking everything else into it. That is the heavyweight champion barrel-aged stout. It was fantastic. Uh, there to the left you see the Isidor Belgian strong pale ale. Lindsay was drinking that. Then Kevin's girlfriend was drinking some gluten-free beer. I honestly don't remember the name, but yeah, that was uh those were the beers and that was the training. And thank you for watching. Don't forget to like and subscribe. Thanks, guys. Bye.