! It is common in the lifting world to look for the next testosterone booster, the next supplement that will massively boost testosterone. But what is testosterone? Testosterone is a hormone found in both men and women, but it's more abundant in men. It helps develop male characteristics, boosts sex drive, and maintains muscle and bone strength. Low testosterone can cause fatigue, mood changes, reduced muscle mass, and levels naturally decline with age, but can be maintained with proper exercise, diet, as well as stress management. Although what I just said is pretty straightforward, misconceptions exist around testosterone levels. Some men stress about below average levels, or even just normal testosterone levels, while some women aren't aware of the actual functions of testosterone. Testosterone has also become a bit of a buzzword in the world of lifting, in the world of self-improvement, specifically for men. You often hear about things that will boost your testosterone, or the fact that testosterone is lower in men than it was years ago, and practices, and routines that you can do in the morning, and exercises that will specifically boost your testosterone, and therefore will allow you to get stronger, more muscular, and will potentially improve your health. Focusing solely on testosterone numbers can be misleading. And overall, health and well-being are more important than testosterone levels. As it stands, there are plenty of supplements on the market, promising huge gains in testosterone, and promising that those gains in testosterone, aside from being real, will also translate into extreme muscle growth and muscle gain. From dodgy supplements with weird labels and names that claim all sorts of stuff, and have questionable substances in them, to regular supplements that are not necessarily marketed for bodybuilders or muscle growth enthusiasts, but are still promoted as testosterone boosting. In certain circles, testosterone boosters have existed for quite a while now. And in certain circles, especially the pseudo-deep-dive self-improvement circles, there are certain supplements that are still coming up as science-based and as effective for boosting testosterone meaningfully to the point where once life quality and potentially muscle mass and strength will be improved. But let's have a look at the supplements that currently exist that are claimed to boost testosterone, and what the literature actually has to say. Obviously, keep in mind, we won't be doing an absolute deep dive in every single supplement. But we will be looking at the overall state of the literature, and whether there's actually something out there that you can take and see significant increases in testosterone, which will then translate to more gains in and outside the gym. As far as promising supplements, we have zinc, an essential mineral for various bodily functions. Zinc is effective in boosting testosterone for those with a zinc deficiency. Somewhere around 40 mg per day will be enough to cover the deficiency. But overall, in terms of zinc being able to take your testosterone to a level where you're going to be experiencing super physiological testosterone levels or getting more gains out of your testosterone levels if you're within a healthy range, that evidence is currently not there. So yes, if you are somebody with a zinc deficiency and you're not getting enough zinc from your diet, supplementing with zinc may help in actually boosting your testosterone. However, it's important to note that that increase in testosterone may not necessarily increase your muscle mass in the way that some people presented or some people expected to. People often hear testosterone boost and hear an increase in testosterone and assume that all of a sudden that increase in testosterone will be physically noticeable in and outside the gym and all of a sudden their gains will skyrocket. Moving on to asragandha. Now, asragandha is a shrub mainly from India known for its anxiolytic effects. The current literature on asragandha and its effects on stress and anxiety is there. It is a promising supplement that can help you manage stress better and potentially reduce anxiety for individuals who may have issues with anxiety. However, lately, and you may have seen asragandha being mentioned in many big platforms and by big names in the self-improvement world and even in the muscle building and fitness world, asragandha has been promoted as a testosterone booster based on three studies that exist out there. Now, if we look at these studies, we have a study that was conducted on untrained individuals who were literally untrained to the point where their starting 1RM benchpress was around 80 pounds and over the course of a few weeks they supplemented with asragandha while also resistance training and the group that took asragandha saw greater testosterone increases than the group that didn't. Now, keep in mind we're talking about untrained individuals who were engaging in resistance training while also when we look at their testosterone levels pre and post they already had high testosterone, pretty high as far as the natural healthy range of testosterone goes and what happened was their testosterone went from already high to slightly higher likely not enough of an increase to actually see any meaningful changes as far as muscle mass and strength goes. Similarly, in a different study where they had individuals who were overweight with 20% of them working night shifts or working at mines, they supplemented with asragandha over a certain period of time and saw some increases in testosterone, but again, we're talking about increases that were likely not going to result in any meaningful changes in muscle mass and strength. It is also important to note that in that study that is often referenced the individuals that took part in the study, their diet, their training, their physical activity, sleep, none of that was controlled and it's important to note that in that study specifically individuals collected their own saliva samples by themselves which is how testosterone was assessed. Overall, the literature on asragandha testosterone is at best very slightly tiny bit promising, but as it stands claims that present asragandha as a game changing testosterone boosters are not evidence-based. Asragandha is a great anxiolytic supplement and I recommend it based on the current scientific evidence for those that want to take a supplement to better manage stress and anxiety. However, as a testosterone booster, there is still much more research needed in order for us to say anything in a conclusive manner. Another supplement that is often presented along asragandha for its testosterone boosting effects is Tongad Ali which has shown a tiny bit of promise in men with low testosterone, but it does not appear to have any benefit in men with normal testosterone. So yes, in conjunction with improvements in diet, stress and obviously engaging in resistance training, supplementation of Tongad Ali based on the limited evidence as highlighted by a recent review may have something to offer for those that have a low testosterone, but as a testosterone booster for those with normal testosterone or a supplement that you can take to further increase your testosterone and see better gains in the gym, the evidence as it stands is very limited. Although asragandha and Tongad Ali do have some at least weak evidence as it stands to show that they may be among the quote unquote somewhat promising supplements as far as testosterone boosting goes, more research is needed. But we have a bunch of supplements that are often presented as testosterone boosters that as it stands don't even have that level of promising evidence to support them as part of a testosterone boosting stack. Starting with boron, a mineral that is sometimes recommended for postmen or postmen with low hormone levels, evidence of its effect on testosterone is very mixed and unreliable. The same goes with deaspatic acid and amino acid that has been believed to increase testosterone, although mixed results in trials do not really give us much confidence. Some trials have shown a bit of promise while others have shown absolutely nothing. Maka, a route with a reputation to increase virility, though there is no convincing evidence for boosting testosterone. Evidence on libido may be misrepresented sometimes as testosterone increasing and that's what you may often hear about some of these supplements where essentially they assess libido and sex drive via the use of questionnaires and other forms and often people will use that data in order to claim that a supplement is also effective in boosting testosterone which is a bit of a big leap of faith. So yeah, for Maka the evidence as far as testosterone boosting is not really there. Magnesium, an essential mineral involved in many bodily functions including testosterone production, there is insufficient evidence in humans that the supplementation of magnesium will sufficiently increase testosterone. I know I'm sounding like a broken record but you'd rather hear me be a broken record and save your money and lower your expectations and focus on what actually matters for testosterone boosting versus not listening to me sounding like a broken record. I guess I digress though. An ingredient of many testosterone boosters that I'm sure many especially old school lifters have heard trivilus terrestris, a herb that is common in testosterone boosting supplements but does not have enough evidence behind it. Effective in some contexts where testosterone is very low but overall the current scientific evidence does not support its use for increasing testosterone especially in those that are already within the normal range of testosterone. Another supplement that you may have heard being mentioned when talking about testosterone boosting is ginger. Limited human trials with methodological issues and overall insufficient evidence to confirm its efficacy so unfortunately as a ginger man I have to say ginger is bad. No it's not bad but for testosterone boosting purposes not that great aka not recommended. Vitamin D has been presented as the supplement for everything. It is essential for bone health and immune function but when it comes to testosterone the evidence that exists is mixed at best. Vitamin D supplementation is recommended for those that live in countries where they don't see the sun very often but even for its health promoting sort of hype that it got a few years back questions arise even for that but that's that's for another stronger by science video. However as a testosterone booster assuming you're not deficient in vitamin D you are likely fine and supplementing with more vitamin D is not magically going to boost your testosterone. Last but definitely not least you may also hear that creatine can boost testosterone and although it's solid for muscle gain and excess performance it is not advised for testosterone boosting there's not enough evidence to support that and overall if you're going to take creatine take creatine for its strength boosting effects and also for the potential increase in muscle gain that you may see from creatine versus looking for creatine as a testosterone booster. However even if you placebo yourself to take it as a testosterone booster the fact that you likely see some gains from the effects of creatine on muscle gain and strength you may actually get what you wanted out of it but for different reasons and not because it all of a sudden boosted your testosterone and made you superhuman. So where does this leave us? As it stands there are no magic supplements for testosterone boosting assuming that you're consuming plenty of whole foods you're exercising regularly and more specifically performing resistance training and doing your best to manage stress and sleep six to eight hours regularly every night it is very likely that your testosterone is not going to be affected much by any supplement or that you're missing out on gains because of not taking that one testosterone supplement that everybody's now fully hyped about. As it stands the current literature is pointing at a couple of supplements that may have a tiny bit of promise but take that with a huge grain of salt because the evidence at the moment is very weak at best and a lot of companies and especially a lot of supplement companies that want to sell you the next magic pill that will take your gains to the next level will tell you oh look there were studies where people took this and they saw a boost in testosterone without mentioning all the fine print for example the fact that their testosterone went from good to still good and it just increased while they also resistance trained as untrained individuals and a lot of terms and conditions that are often not mentioned. If you have symptoms of low testosterone and you're worried that you may actually have low testosterone which can impact your life much more than just not making you a superhuman in terms of gains and strength consult a medical professional actually get tested and get help from a medical professional. If you're somebody who's living a healthy lifestyle exercises regularly sleeps relatively well lifts weights and you feel good which is the main thing and there's there are no symptoms of low testosterone you're likely wasting your money by buying all sorts of supplements in hoping that they will magically boost your gains your testosterone or whatever unfortunately as much as I would have loved to and it would have been great for the channel to tell you this is it the latest science and throw a bunch of buzzwords and graphs in your face showing you the latest supplement as it stands the current literature does not support the idea of any supplement being a game changer for testosterone boosting. Thank you so much for watching don't forget to like subscribe and hit the notification icon I have been Dr. Pack it has been stronger by science we'll see you guys next time