 guessing вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам for all of you today. But yeah, just before we get into it, how's it going guys? All good. The summer from hell is officially over. 11 flights in three months, multiple trips to the States. We are finally done with the infamous, soon to be famous, just kidding. Full ROM versus partial study. This, which will be pre-printed in the next two to three weeks. Today is September the fifth. So by the time you're listening to this podcast, you'll be mere days out from the big reveal of the results. Very excited to share that with the world. Other than that, it was great spending time with you in person, in Ireland, in Limerick, and in Southampton and Bristol. Lots of hugging and other things that we will not disclose here. But I mean, I didn't say what things, so thanks for assuming things listener. But yeah, that's me, all good. 100%, same thing here. 20th of September might be the provisional release date for the pre-print, if people want to be in the know. But yeah, all good. Happy to have seen the Knuckles household recently in the UK, it's been phenomenal. And looking forward to talking about warm-ups today. So, Greg, how are you? Oh, I can't complain, I can't complain. Yeah, it was good being over in the Isles, seeing everyone in Ireland going to EPC, and yeah, hanging out with you guys over in the UK. And seeing Stonehenge, when our travel day, for the listener, our travel day between Southampton and Bristol, we didn't really have anything in particular planned. And I just looked at a map and I was like, oh, I don't know if these would be the fastest roads, but Stonehenge is smack dab in the middle of these two places, have you ever been? And Pac, you were like, no, I don't think so, which to me, wild, like big old rocks, how did the Druids do it? I have no idea, but yeah, yeah, I've always wanted to see Stonehenge as well, so that was very cool. And the experience of seeing Stonehenge was also, I think the UK does it right in a way that America wouldn't, in that it was just big old rocks out in nature, at least one assumes, I don't think there's any archeology suggesting that there was a big city or whatever built up around it. And you definitely still get that, whereas I feel like if it was a thing in the US, it would be kind of like overly commercialized and there would just be like a, like the Stonehenge experience for some shit. But yeah, like to get there, there's like a parking lot and then you just like walk through a cow field and it's like, ah, here are the rocks. And I loved it, I loved it, that's exactly how I would want it to go. But today, we're not talking about rocks, we're not talking about pre-printing studies, we're not talking about meeting dear friends in person over in Ireland and the UK. We are in fact talking about warm-ups. But before we do that, just some quick plugs up top and then we'll get into the episode. So if you listen to the show, you like it, you enjoy it, and you haven't done any of these things yet, consider liking, rating, or subscribing on your preferred podcast listening platform and tell your friends, it really helps us out. Second, if you're interested in hiring a coach to work with, you should check out the Stronger by Science coaching program. That's if you have goals related to either training or nutrition, and our coaches are great. So you can learn more at strongerbycicience.com slash coaching. If you'd like to get some supplements from a reliable source that also has good prices and you want those prices to be even better, you can go to balksupplements.com and use code SBSpod at checkout for a massive 5% discount, truly, truly wild. If you want to stay up to date with all of the goings on in the Stronger by Science Extended Universe, check us out on Facebook and Reddit. That's Stronger by Science Community on Facebook and reddit.com slash r slash Stronger by Science. And last but not least, if you want a more convenient way to get a bunch of our best content sent right to your inbox without getting spanned with a bunch of ads and other associated bullshit, check out our newsletter where we send you high quality, informative content every couple of weeks, it's good stuff. You can do that at strongerbycicience.com slash newsletter. Let's get into it. Usually, I have an admittedly very low effort opening question to start a podcast and it's mostly just like, what do you think about or do you have experience with this thing? And this one is so obvious, it's very stupid and therefore I have to do it. So, hey guys, what's your experience with warm-ups? Have you done warm-ups? Do you like it? So, I have indeed. And the thing with warm-ups is coming up as a strength trainee and semi-powered lifter at some point. I was under the impression that, hey, we gotta do the dynamic stretching, the McGill Big Three or whatever they're called, the bird dog, the dog bird, the mobility drill, and then the specific warm-up. And then as I slowly got more familiar with the literature, things became much more minimal. And since, let's say 2021 or so, when I switched to like 95 to 98% hypertrophy-oriented training, warm-ups for anything that is not a barbell exercise that has a bit more of a skill component, have been the simplest thing ever. Go to the gym sometimes in jeans, bang out a couple of easy sets on an exercise, and just get to it. So yeah, my experience with warm-ups and my overall feeling with warm-ups, but we'll get to the details right after Milo Scherzi's own experience with warm-ups. So, what about you, pal? Yeah, it goes all the way back to, I wanna say Christmas 2015, perhaps, which incidentally is also the year I asked for the art and science of lifting for Christmas. But alongside that, I also requested several things I am not as proud to admit, specifically a foam roller, a lacrosse ball, and some voodoo floss band. Keep in mind, upon no real physical medical advice or anything, I was just like, I need these things for warming-up purposes. And I tried using them, and more than behold, besides getting some pain while foam rolling, as anyone does, I didn't really get much out of it in all likelihood. But yeah, I think gradually my warm-ups have become a lot more streamlined over the years. Nowadays, with hypertrophy training specifically, it's maximum two warm-upsets, and sometimes one warm-up set, and sometimes no warm-upsets. So it's somewhere between two and zero, consistently. Which, based on the research, as we'll get into in this episode, I think might not be a bad approach for hypertrophy training, whereas for strength, I usually do a bit more than that. Maybe just getting some heavier weights, working up slowly until I get to my target weight. But that's essentially it. I don't really do much of anything. I guess I walk through the gym, which raises body temperature at least a little bit, and that's about it, really. Greg, how about yourself? How do you warm-up? Yeah, so my... Like, I grew up playing sports, and so I was exposed to a lot of different styles of warming up with that, just because I think there were at least, at least in the US, just different kind of old-school conventions about how to warm-up for different sports. So like, two examples are for football. Every team that I was on had like a, God, probably like 10 to 15 minute, at least, if not 20, like kind of calisthenics-based warm-up before every practice, every game. Like, the idea of needing to do a very thorough dynamic warm-up was very deeply ingrained in football culture. And then the very next season is basketball, where warm-ups are just like, yeah, we're gonna run lay-up lines for like three minutes, and then it's time to practice or play. So, yeah, yeah, so I was exposed to either you can warm-up forever, or you can basically not warm-up, and whatever, athletes in both sports would do those things, and everyone more or less seemed to be okay. When I got into lifting, I came from like a sports background, like I was working with someone for like improving my sports performance, and then whatever, like transition into powerlifting. So I do think early on, I still had kind of a, kind of like sportsy, like fairly long dynamic warm-up, like doing the type of stuff, like the types of things one might do to make, like to theoretically reduce their risk of a hamstring strain if they're running sprints. You know, we'll talk about injury risk in this episode, but that was the intention of like a lot of this stuff. And then I realized like, wait a second, this is a bench press workout. Like I don't need to do stuff to reduce my risk of a hamstring strain here. So yeah, I think much like you guys, over the years my approach to warming up has gotten progressively more minimal. To the point now where it is just maybe a set with the bar with my first, like for my first lift of the day, maybe two more warm-up sets going up if it's more of a strength workout. And that's it. And then by the time I get to my second exercise of the day, I'm warm enough from the first exercise that I basically don't need to warm up for it. The only exception there is, is if it's like a full body workout. And you know, if my first thing is squats, my second thing is deadlifts. And my working sets for deadlifts is like somewhere in the fives or sixes. Like I'm not gonna jump straight to that. Like I'm still gonna do some stuff to build up there. But if it's like, yeah, my first thing is bench press. And my second thing is like chest supported rows. I know, like my body generally is warm enough after benching. I'm just gonna put my working weight on the chest supported rows and I'm good to go. So yeah, yeah, much, much more minimal these days. I think cutting down on warm up times can appreciably reduce workout times too. Like especially if you're currently spending 20, 30, even more minutes sometimes warming up, cutting it down to five to 10, can really allow you to do a lot more work in your session like additional five sets will have you. It can really add up. So there's something to stay care with good warm ups I guess. I will say in a consistent experience I've had is like if I feel like I need a longer warm up, the real cause is just, I've just been sitting around like a knot on the log in day to day life. So if I've been sedentary for 23 hours per day for the last like four days, then yeah, like I feel like I need a bit of a longer work, a bit of a longer warm up just to kind of get everything going. And I do wonder if that's why some people feel like they need longer warm ups, but yeah, I think for a lot of stuff, I think if that is a feeling you have, you could take a longer warm up, which then might make your sessions feel like they take a little longer, or like my experiences when I kind of get into those modes sometimes, just carving out like 10 minutes in the evening to just kind of like stretch and like move around a little bit helps a lot. And then when I go to the gym, I don't need quite as long of like a dedicated warm up time before workouts. Man, we're five minutes in and I'm already in non sequitur mode. Cool, but yeah, yeah, so in general, I agree. You can constrain workout times quite a bit if you don't have to warm up for quite as long. So what is a warm up supposed to achieve? We actually have a review paper by McGowan and colleagues from 2015 that is titled warm up strategies for sport and exercise, mechanisms and applications. And essentially this is a pretty big review paper that aim to look at all the things that might make a warm up effective for enhancing performance in a variety of physical tasks. So as far as performance goes, what are the mechanisms that might help you perform better after warming up, which can then help inform us as to, hey, what might a good warm up look like to boost your performance? And there's a few things. Warm ups generally can enhance performance via different effects and there's kind of more proximal effects and more downstream effects. So for instance, warm ups have thought to influence excess performance via increases in ATP turnover, muscle cross, bridge cycling and oxygen up to kinetics, which all enhance muscular function. So those three things occurring downstream then enhance muscular function, but even upstream of that, for example, physiologically, most organisms tend to be more metabolically efficient at higher temperatures. So one of the things a warm up is supposed to do is just to raise your body temperature a little bit in order to make, for example, glycogen availability increase a little bit, improve oxygen kinetics, whether it's delivery of oxygen via your bloodstream or extraction from the bloodstream into your muscles. It can even increase modern recruitment. So essentially how well is your nervous system able to activate motor units and muscle fibers that are attached to it? So there's a variety of physiological effects that occur, but many of them physiologically at least seem to be linked to an increase in temperature. And many other things happen downstream of that. One of the most proximal things physiologically, increase in temperature, downstream from that, a variety of things like muscle glycogen availability, blood flow, oxygen kinetics, all that sort of stuff. However, physiological mechanisms aren't the only things that may be involved. So for instance, one area of research that's been emerging a lot more recently is around neuro mechanisms. One specifically that's been termed as a number of term, the post activation performance enhancement effect or PAPE for short. And as we'll delve into later into this episode when we're talking performance, there's been quite a lot of research finding that doing certain warm up tasks can thereafter increase strength performance, whether it's strength endurance or even potentially maximal strength. And that's what's been termed the post activation performance enhancement effect. However, it's potentially not just physiological or even neural, it could also be psychological. So certain strategies like visualization, using certain Q-wads, like focusing on certain Qs or being given certain Q-wads. Having a certain attentional focus, such as like psyching up before you exercise, which can be considered part of a warm up. Those things have sometimes been shown to increase performance as part of a warm up routine. And they're generally thought to do so via narrowing your attentional focus on the task you're supposed to be doing. And as a quick aside, I noticed some research around, for example, using social media between sets reducing performance. I could see this kind of being somewhat in the same vein of, hey, if a warm up allows you to get your head in the game a little bit, it might increase performance a little bit. However, from like a bird's eye view, I think there's a few things to keep in mind for a good warm up and what it's supposed to achieve. First, when it comes to increasing muscle temperature, which is probably the main thing to pay attention to physiologically, that seems to occur around, like your muscle temperature seems to reach a peak or equilibrium that you kind of wanna reach after around 10 to 20 minutes of moderate intensity exercise. So if you're just doing moderate intensity exercise, 10 to 20 minutes seems like a roughly decent ballpark. Obviously that might be different if, for example, you're walking to the gym, wherein you're increasing body temperature and muscle temperature via the activity of walking, which is in itself, moderate intensity exercise. By the way, most people define it. So yeah, just some consideration there of the rough duration that has been shown to enhance performance by different mechanisms. But it has a variety of mechanisms through which it can act, the most proximal ones are muscle temperature, post-activation performance enhancement, nearly, and then finally, a potential psychological benefit, although there's a bit less robust research on this potentially compared to physiological mechanisms, like increases in muscle temperature and the post-activation performance enhancement effect, which we do now have a fair amount of research in favor of as we'll discuss later in the episode. But that's kind of the bird's eye view of what a warmup is supposed to do, which is to say, warm me up, oddly enough, wasn't obvious from the name, potentially give you that post-activation performance enhancement effect, and finally, maybe allow you to narrow your attentional focus a little bit on the task at hand, which might help as well. Greg, pack any objections, comments on this paper? No objections for me. That is, yeah, that is all of the stuff that I kind of assumed you were supposed to get out of a warmup. I do truly think that just the fact that it's called a warmup really does point in the right direction of what it's supposed to achieve, and I do think that that is often missed on people. Yeah, it's supposed to raise the muscle temperature, a lot of those enzymes and whatnot do function better at a slightly elevated temperature, and so, yeah, there are potentially other mechanisms in play and other things you accomplish with it, but really and truly, warming up helps warm you up, and warming up physically, like elevating temperature, good thing, state you wanna be in pre-exercise, so yeah, yeah, that's fully what I expected to hear. Pack? It also lets people know that you're super serious and you're like an actual athlete, so especially for lifters, like, if the rest of the gym is not seeing you there, doing stuff that they are not really familiar with and seeing you spend at least 30 minutes doing easy things, then you run the risk of being looked down upon as just a mere lifter and not some, like, potential Olympic athlete, in terms of, this is applied, Olympic athlete, not included. That is true, that is true. Yeah, oh man, I, that is one of my favorite gym people, like, especially some guy who you know doesn't compete in any sports, like it's someone who probably has a desk job and recently really got into a particular type of training content and yeah, whoever they're following really convinced them that a full 30 minute dynamic warm up is critical. And so you're just like, I'm in Gold's gym, there's really no dedicated place to do any of this and this guy's trying to do some bounding and everyone else in the gym is looking at him and I'm like, ah, you'll figure it out one day and for the time being, I just hope you're having fun. That is one of my favorite gym characters for sure. We've talked about what warm ups are supposed to achieve so now let's talk a little bit about, do they actually achieve them? So let's start with injury prevention. That's a big reason why people warm up. Does it work? Does it work? Is your injury risk reduced by doing a thorough warm up or some specific type of warm up? What does the research have to say about that? Yeah, so before we get into the segment, I wanna make clear none of this is medical advice. This is just the research that appears to be available out there and in putting together the segment, I did consult with physiotherapist as well, just to make sure I wasn't too off base in any of my interpretation and this is just the rough takeaways from the research. If you have injuries or if you're worried about them, don't take advice from us, we are not physiotherapists or medical professionals. So the first issue in trying to understand whether or not warming up will prevent injury from lifting is that we don't have much if any research on injuries from lifting and moral protocols. Turns out conducting a study where you're exposing two groups, one to a warm up protocol and the other to no warm protocol, I think a lot of ethics boards have some degree of trepidation with allowing that study to pass in the first place just because there is a deeply ingrained belief in people's minds, including ethics boards that warm ups do prevent injury. That therefore, if you're exposing one group to no warming up before exercising, you are potentially gonna harm them. So that's one of the reasons. Other reason, I think most people don't care about lifting and the money is not in lifting necessarily, like as we'll soon find out, there is a fair amount of research in other sports. So for example, in football or soccer in America, well, we do have a fair bit of research, but when it comes to lifting, not very much. A few other things about lifting specifically that make it somewhat different from many other sports or activities. For one, lifting generally has very low injury rates. So compared to sports like running, right? Running has relatively high rates of injury per 10,000 hours. I think last I checked, it's around 10 to 20 per 10,000 hours. If I'm not mistaken, or a thousand hours actually. Whereas lifting is more in the realm of one to five, depending on the specific sports you're looking at, sometimes even lower. So bodybuilding typically has the lowest injury rates, followed by powerlifting and crossfit and weightlifting, usually followed with strongman being highest in terms of injury rates of the kind of strength sports. Greg? What sport did you say had injury rates that high? Running? No, no, no, no. I mean, it depends, like there are levels to running, obviously. I think that there are, God, I haven't looked at this research in a while, but my memory is that like elite level competitive running has higher injury rates. But you know, like to kind of compare apples to apples there because the research looking at say injury rates and powerlifters are just people participating in powerlifting, not necessarily people who are placing like top 10 at IPF Worlds or whatever. My memory is that injury rates for recreational runners were also somewhere in the neighborhood of like three per thousand hours, like around where you see strength sports. I could be misremembering that, but yeah, I kind of thought it was somewhere there the two to five range and the higher rates were for, I think like the very highest competitive levels of running or super long distance running, one of the two. So just a quick search, the stuff I'm finding, like for example, a paper titled, incidents of running related injuries per thousand hours of running in different types of runners, a systematic review and meta analysis. The ballpark estimate seems to be closer to 10 to 20, like it's injury rate of 17.8 in recreational runners and 7.7 in, sorry, 17.8 in novice runners, so new runners and 7.7 in recreational runners. So it is more so like maybe not as much as I suspected, but I do think it's a fair bit higher than most strength sports. Yeah, at the very least I suspect there may be slightly more injuries occurring in running than strength sports. Yeah, that could be the case. That could be the case. Yeah, like I said, I remember digging into this a while back and it was the case at that time, if memory serves that the paper, like the papers reporting the very highest injury rates were the ones that got cited the most.  and because a lot of people are trying to make the case that, like, oh, running is, like, not the people doing the original research, but the people citing wanted to have a reason to say, like, oh, running is dangerous, and here's a way to prevent injury rates, kind of secondary research that would be citing the papers. But yeah, yeah, I mean, it very well could be that I'm misremembering, either way, not a, not a major thing for this particular episode. Rebranding to faster by science, let's go. All right. So, lifting has relatively low injury rates compared to many sports, and certainly bodybuilding, for example, seems to have lower injury rates than strength sports, but that is just some thing to keep in mind when looking at this research, given that the research is not on lifting oftentimes. So, instead, we'll need to make some inferences from other research, but you may expect the results to be a little bit smaller in lifting versus other sports for a few reasons, some of which we'll come across in a little bit. The first paper I'd like to cover is a paper by Fratkin and Hollies from 2006 titled, Does Warming Up Prevent Injury in Sport? The evidence from randomized controlled trials? And you may infer from the question marks in the title of the paper that there wasn't all that much evidence out there yet in 2006. There were five studies that they found that were randomized controlled trials, specifically in American football, in runners, in handball, and in specifically male army recruits. The effects were somewhat inconsistent, but generally in favor of warming up being beneficial. Out of five studies, three noted a significant reduction in injury risk for warming up, whereas two found no effect, or rather no significant effect. One study that found an effect was in handball players, where they observed as a relative risk six times lower injury rates in handball players warming up versus not warming up. One study in American football players found half the injuries in when warming up versus not warming up. And finally, the third one, again, in handball, found no difference in overall number of injuries. They had one outcome where they did find a difference, but the other outcomes they measured weren't significantly different between warming up and not warming up. The two remaining studies that didn't find an effect were one, a study in runners, and two, the study in military male recruits I mentioned earlier, though it's worth mentioning that oftentimes within these studies, and particularly in the study in the military, as in the runners, you do observe relatively poor compliance rates wherein people, especially with extensive warm protocols, especially if they're not being supervised to actually do them, tend not to stick very well to long, extensive warm protocols. And that's anecdotally been my experience whenever I've tried to stick to, like, I mean, it's the same as many health related habits that you might try to implement. But if you're trying to implement like a very structured, long warm up routine, you might find that you struggle to stick to it a little bit, just in terms of finding the time for it and it attracting from other things and what have you. But anyways, their conclusion from looking at these five studies was there is insufficient evidence to endorse or discontinue routine warm up prior to physical activity to prevent injury among sport participants. However, the weight of evidence is in favor of a decreased risk of injury. Further, well conducted random mass control trials are needed to determine the role of warming up prior to exercise in relation to injury prevention. So basically around 2006, despite how widespread warm recommendations might have already been them, at least from my limited experience on the earth by then, there wasn't actually that much evidence of warming up yet, like looking at actual injury rates, such that the review paper at that time didn't really have much confidence in what they were able to say. Pack, Greg, any thoughts on this one paper? I think it's the case with a lot of things that we grew up taking as gospel and as insanely well established, similarly with things like weather. Resistance training really improves sport performance, like when you look behind the curtain, you see that things are actually not as clear cut. And yeah, if you had asked me a few years ago, I'd be like, yep, injury risk and warm ups, especially in the condos you just presented is probably like set in stone to an extreme extent. But hey, another similarly to the myth busting that we did on the sleep episode series, where we're like, hey, just exercise and sleep three hours a day, baby, you're going to be good to go. Just kidding. That wasn't the takeaway, but a lot of things that you may often hear were not really true. I think this may be a similar sort of episode, but stick around to find out. Hey, you like that? How build that tension there? Yeah, no, for sure. Yeah, my take and just there are a lot of topics in our field that people have ingrained beliefs about. And those beliefs are often presented as like, hey, this is the science evidence based thing, blah, blah, blah, whatever. And the impression that leaves people with is that there is a large body of research that in multiple populations been replicated a bunch of times like blah, blah, blah, showing the same thing. And we're like really confident in this stuff. And then a lot of times you look into it and you're like, oh, no, there's like two papers here, maybe. There's slightly more than two papers here, but not that many more than two papers. And it's, yeah, I think this is a topic where the first time I looked into it, I was surprised by just how little research there is. And I think most people would just kind of assume that there's more research on the topic than there actually is in terms of whether not on warmups in general, but just whether or not warmups affect injury risk. Yeah, I think people expect that to be a super well supported thing. And presently it's not so much. But I will note, you can't necessarily, you can't and shouldn't conflate absence of evidence with evidence of absence. Because I think that that is a easy direction to go here. Just be like, ah, it's debunked, it's fake news, there's actually not strong evidence for this. It very well could be the case that thorough well designed warmup reduces injury rates quite a bit. Like I'm very open to that. And I do think that like from having previously done a bit of coaching in the world of like high level athletics, like a lot of things where there are like really strong and non-negotiable kind of conventions that people fall into. A lot of them do sort of fall under the umbrella of being risk averse. Because if you're working with like really high level athletes, folks who are just kind of like genetic freaks, you're always considering the risk versus reward of any training you're doing or at least you should be. And the upside is I think a lot smaller than a lot of coaches would want to admit, but they know deep down is the case. Like the people you're working with are already freaks. And if you're a really good trainer, yeah, you can improve their performance. But whether they work with you or not, they're still going to be awesome. Like there is a limited amount that you can improve them. But you can hurt them. And that's bad. Like you always have to keep that in mind. Like top of mind is don't hurt the athlete. And so yeah, there are a lot of conventions just kind of like built around that, you know, because the risk to reward ratio is kind of like so skewed there. And so I like the importance and value of warmups is like super ingrained in that culture. And I suspect that there's like I could see that going one of two ways either. It's like if you don't do a thorough warmup and an athlete gets hurt because everyone believes that it's so important, your your ass is on the line, you know, because it's like, oh, there's this like really obvious thing you could have done to prevent this and like you didn't. So like you're stupid and an idiot. Or it could be that like, even though there's not a ton of research on it, just coaches found hey, if we do this thorough warmup, my athletes get hurt less frequently in the subsequent training sessions or practices. And so then you just kind of have conventions built up around that. My hunch is that it's a little bit of both. Like I do think that the perception of warmups for reducing injury risk is probably a little inflated. Like I don't I wouldn't be at all surprised if they're not quite as effective for reducing injury risk and like your subsequent training session or practice or whatever. I wouldn't be surprised if they're slightly less effective than folks would assume. But I would also be quite surprised if once more research is done, if they don't turn out to be effective to some degree. That's that's kind of my assumption. But I also think it probably depends a lot on the type of injury you're talking about. And I've already I've already mentioned this previously, but like hamstring strains. It's a big thing in a lot of sports. Like we're not really thinking about that in like a powerlifting or bodybuilding context because we're not really sprinting. But like, yeah, you sprint. Sometimes you strain a hamstring and a lot of that comes down to like eccentric strength reserve, blah, blah, blah, whatever. But like I do. I do think a lot of it. My suspicion is to some degree, a lot of that just depends on like how how warm are you before you're getting into this? Like, I don't know. I've I've seen I've seen several athletes throughout the years. Papa Hammy myself included, I've strained my hamstring sprinting a few times. Every time I did, it was when I didn't warm up thoroughly. And like teammates or whatever, like I I can vividly remember two teammates, like straining hamstrings during practices. And it was like, and like this was this was during the football times. And they were people who were had gotten in trouble and they had like a touch of after school, after school detention, and then just had to like roll up to football practice as soon as they got out of detention. So they didn't warm up and just like second drill, take off in a sprint, strain a hammy. So like, I think I think it probably is effective, but I do also think it, you know, shouldn't paint with too broad of a brush. Like it I suspect the sorts of things that it likely prevents is more targeted rather than just injury kind of big picture. Like, I think that I think that there would probably be like particular types of injury that if it does prove to be effective with more research, etc. I think I don't think that it would be the same risk reduction for all types of injury across the board. Like I do think in particular hamstring strains are would be much more heavily influenced than most things. Yeah. Hamstrings specifically, like even one of James's James Steel, shout out, old, previous students, his entire thesis was on the effect of lumber extensor fatigue and how it impacts hamstring strain injuries. Like that was his entire doctoral thesis. Yeah. I mean, there's there's a reason that like when you dig into injury literature, like a very disproportionate amount of it is just hamstring strains and ACL injuries. And we always talk about how like, you know, hypertrophy research, there's not as much of it as we would like. And a lot of it is like smaller sample sizes, not as long of duration, blah, blah, blah. And like a lot of that just comes down to funding. Like there's not money in it. But boy, howdy, there is money in hamstring strain and non contact ACL injury research because that's that's what's getting the real athletes, you know. And if if a star, a star football player, American or European football, whatever, doesn't matter if a star football player that you just signed for like three hundred and fifty million dollars in the offseason has a has a hamstring strain when they're warming up and miss like six weeks of action. That's bad. People lose a lot of money as a result. Therefore, there's a lot of money into looking at those two things in particular, like hamstring stuff, ACL stuff, a lot of research there. General injury risk prevention for resistance training workouts. Yeah, there's there's not as much there's not as much money that gets lost by big money guys. If someone strains a pack in a bench press workout, getting ready for IPF worlds. So yeah, less little, a little bit less research funding there to know specifics. But let me ask though, the stretching help reduce injury risk is like stretching your hamstrings. That's something we see a lot of people do. Well, it's funny you should ask that because that's exactly the next topic we're going to touch on. We're looking at a review paper by small and colleagues from 2008 looking at the effect of static stretching. So the sort of stretching most people think of as stretching, meaning like, hey, for example, you go up to a wall and do a calf stretch, and you just statically hold that stretch, or you're stretching your hamstrings by doing the sit and reach test. I think that's the one that's called those sorts of stretches are what we refer to as static stretching because the muscle length is supposedly remaining the same or what have you. Specifically, they looked at seven studies, including randomized control trials and controlled clinical trials. Broadly speaking, across these seven studies, static stretching failed to reduce injury risk. But there was one potential exception, and that was muscular tenderness injury risk. So specifically things like Greg mentioned hamstring strains. The evidence wasn't super strong. And in fact, the potential effect of static stretching for muscular tenderness injury risk was described as there may be some preliminary evidence to suggest a relationship between static stretching and the prevention of muscle tenderness and ligaments sprain type injuries, even if not all injuries. This may be due to static stretching improving the flexibility of ligaments and muscle tenderness units by facilitating connective tissue plastic elongation, thereby promoting muscle relaxation and therefore further stretch and range of motion around the joint, which is believed to help reduce injury risk. So static stretching probably doesn't meaningfully help with injury risk overall, although this relatively early research, again 2008, only a couple of years after that first review paper, seemed to suggest that maybe there's something here for reducing muscular tenderness injury risk. Greg, since you're an avid defender of victims of hamstring strains, any thoughts on this? Yes, yeah. Yeah, I do think stretching is another one of those things where people assume that the impact of stretching on injury risk, they just assume there's a lot more research on the topic than there is. But yeah, yeah, there's not a ton of research. A lot of the research that has been done is smaller scale than you would necessarily like it to be. And so yeah, it is one of those things that is still like a little murky, couple things kind of like leaning in favor of stretching, a lot of null results. So it's just kind of like who knows. But if it is effective, it is probably less effective than your coaches told you 15 years ago when people were all aboard the stretching train. I do think that a warm up, like actually warming up, is likely going to do more for hamstring strains in particular than stretching will. Like there is actually, I guess this is contested now as well. Not that long ago, it was a relatively uncontroversial claim to say that some interventions that seem to chronically increase hamstrings muscle length, like Nordic curls, reduce hamstring injury, hamstring strain risk. Although I think a reanalysis of some of that research suggests that like, yeah, that's a little bit weaker than we previously thought. But I wouldn't be surprised at all, honestly, if there's kind of like a threshold type of system there where, you know, if you're taking an athlete who does a lot of sprints, either because they're a sprinter or they're sprinting for their sport, they are being exposed to quite a bit of eccentric strain at long muscle lengths for that. And that's probably going to get their muscle length kind of to where you'd like it to be. But if it's an athlete for the same sport and it's the first day back from the offseason and they weren't doing a ton of sprinting or anything to kind of maintain their muscle length in the offseason, I wouldn't be surprised at all if some things to increase muscle length again, like doing some Nordic curls, ended up being mechanistically beneficial there. Anyway, but yeah, there's a difference between doing things to actually like chronically lengthen the muscle versus just like doing some stretching pre-exercise. And yeah, so I do think that like the warm up, like the actual warming up portion of the warm up is probably doing more than just like doing some hamstring strains before you go out and sprint personally. Like I suspect that that's the case. And yeah, as I love stretching in general, I think it's great. But just purely on a hedonic level, I just like it. And there are a lot of benefits you get from stretching. I do think stretching as a whole is a bit too poo-pooed by a lot of evidence-based lifting people. And we've talked about it. Do what? I'm curious. What benefits are you talking of? I'm curious though. I mean, I don't know how long, like how much we want to derail this. But yeah, I mean, I don't think that it is something you want to do. So like the reasons that people stretched, if you go back like 10 years, they'd say, ah, I'm doing this for injury prevention. Like we're talking about here. Evidence there is, I think not as strong as people would have previously assumed. And the stuff of it that exists suggests that like, yeah, maybe not all that effective. Like that's kind of where the current stuff is leaning. And the second is, yeah, people did it before exercise for like, you know, something related to performance enhancement. And it seems that if static stretching is doing anything for you, it might reduce like maximal power output or whatever. So yeah, I don't think it's doing much for you in those regards. But I do think that one, there, like when, especially the research suggesting that it might acutely reduce maximal performance came out, I do think that there was like a pretty big pendulum shift where people landed on the position. They went from me like stretching is basically good for everything all the time to stretching is basically a waste of time and does nothing for anyone ever. And neither of those two positions is correct, I don't think. So like stretching interventions, if applied consistently and with enough volume intensity, whatever, do, do the main thing they're supposed to do, which is increase muscle length and range of motion, like a common, a common claim you still do what? You said do do. Oh, yeah. Got my ass. But yeah, like a common claim you'll encounter is that all static stretching does is increase like kind of neurological compliance and like people, people's nervous systems feeling safe, relaxing into a stretch, but it doesn't actually like chronically increase muscle length or range of motion and like, that's just not true. And the research people cite to back that up is like relatively short term, non intense short duration per stretch interventions. But yeah, like you, if you stretch and you're consistent with it and get after it when you're stretching, yeah, you can like significantly increase range of motion. That's something you're trying to do. Stretching can do that for you. And for lifters in particular, for people like interested in kind of like strength or performance based outcomes, the research looking at like chronic stretching interventions on muscular performance, there was a systematic review on this in, I don't know, maybe like 2018 2019. Like a bulk of a bulk of the research suggests that like chronic stretching interventions either in isolation or when combined with lifting do tend to help like increase measures of muscular performance over time as well. It could just be that it's like a small additional stimulus. Who knows, but that has that has been my experience with it personally, like when I when I do a consistent job of like stretching at night between workouts like my performance tends to be better in my sessions and my performance tends to improve faster. Yeah, like I think I think it's a good thing to be doing. I think that it doesn't I think it does less than people previously expected. If it's like a major part of your warm up like pre-workout routine. But I think it I think just kind of across the board for basically everything it has like neutral to positive effects, if done pretty much any other time of the day. So yeah, I'm AI'm a big fan of it like I do you stretch. Yeah, I love stretching. Like a dedicated stretching times. Yeah, dog. It's like I. Know this. Do what? Do people know this? I've I've got knuckles is a big stretch and joy. Yeah, I mean, we all do some form of stretching here and there's something, you know, I've mentioned it quite quite a few times before. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know like my my personal experience with it is like it to me also as well. Like I do I do think it like I'm very confident that it's doing some things for me physically that I just talked about. But also I find it to be like a helpful like almost meditative practice. You know, like a lot of people do like the like lower intensity yoga for kind of the same purpose. But yeah, just like at the end of the day, like stressed in my head about stuff and go down to the basement and just get into like a nice three to five minute hamstring stretch. And it brings me just very, very into the moment because I'm focusing on my breathing and like kind of tense a little bit when I breathe in relax when I breathe out, like really focused on like this. Sensation that I feel as I as I'm doing it. And yeah, it's it's great. Like I I end most days with at least like if I'm kind of like in a rush and like I just need to get in bed. It might be like 1015 minutes just like in the shower. But if if I have time like I love carving out like 45 minutes to an hour just for for dedicated stretching. And it's great. I love it. If you love it so much name it every stretch. No, fine. If you don't even if you could like you're the one person on earth that we could we finally beat the aspartame episode in terms of length and it's five hours of that is just me listing existing stretches. That's awesome. But in all seriousness, can you name like some of your top stretches? I mean, people that. People that are people to actually give a go or like a stretching routine like the Greg Knuckles stretching routine product soon launching. I mean, most of what I focus on is just like I have the desk job. So like what's tight at the end of the day. And that's most like it's primarily lower body stuff like I'll I'll throw some pecker bicep stretching in sometimes but for the most part it's. Hamstrings sometimes sometimes like adductors but. Have you guys seen me do do a split before? I think you have pack. Yeah, I I rarely do any adductor stretching. I just have child bearing hips and they open right up like that. So we all remember the squats. Yeah, yeah. So I'll. If I've recently had a squat workout and my hips feel a little janky, I'll be like, ah, let's.  for the sake of thoroughness, throw the adductors in, but usually not all that much for the adductors. But yeah, like hamstrings, piriformis, like glute medius, low back, both flexion and lateral flexion, hip flexors, quads, calves, that's kind of what I go through. And I don't do any crazy stretches that no one would ever think of. Like for hamstrings, it's a nice, standard forward fold, and then one leg at a time. So either one leg elevated on a bench or feet slightly wider than shoulder width apart and going down to each leg, just kind of feeling out both of those and just seeing which one feels better for the day. Piriformis stretch, you know, just one foot up on the other knee and pushing the knee down and hinging forward into it. A lot of times that's done seated. I prefer to do it standing just because I can move my hips around a little bit more to feel what really helps me get deep into it. Lumbar stretching is lumbar stretching, you know, just intentionally going into lumbar flexion. Some old Jefferson curls, lateral flexion, just kind of like side bends, but not for reps. Like I'll usually grab a kettlebell just to help like pull me down a little bit and just kind of play around with how forward or back I want to be, or do I want to get a little rotation into it just to feel where the stretch feels the best? Yeah, quad stretch, back foot up on a bench, lean back into it, try to push my hips forward, tense my glutes straighten up, really get in with the rec-fim as well. Like my Vastire never tight. When I say quad stretch, it's like a rectus femoris stretch basically. Yeah, like I don't know, just like normal stretches for those muscle groups. But like any not going through the motions type of way, like I know what muscles I'm trying to stretch, I know how I want them to feel and I'm very like tuned in and engaged and kind of like making small adjustments to the positioning of my body and like what I'm tensing, what I'm relaxing in order to like feel the deepest kind of like purist stretch possible in those muscles. But yeah, like it's nothing fancy, like it's just stretching. And I do it in like part of this is like I'm a low back pain guy, you know, like got to do a bit of maintenance for that. Like it's not exclusively about performance with me. But yeah, when I'm when I'm staying on top of my stretching, like the chronic low back pain I deal with is way better. Like it helps tremendously with that as well. At least for me personally, don't take that as medical advice results may vary, etc. etc. Unfortunately, I took it as medical advice right before you said this claimers. You'll be hearing that from my lawyers, but hey. But yeah, this is this. Oh, go ahead. I was going to ask one question on the topic of stretching, which was. I was actually asked this question, I think a couple days ago by Jeff Nippard. Don't you find that those long stretching durations fatigue you to a similar extent is lifting? I think. Man. I think. Most. I think most topic like most kind of discussions of. Muscular fatigue in a in a lifting context, not talking about like within session, but like kind of fatigue as it relates to recovery and whatnot. I think almost all of that is is blown way out of proportion. And it's not something most people need to think about. Most of the time. Unless the topic is just like, hey, you know how what's like the highest level of per week training volume I can handle per muscle group. I think. So. We've we've talked. I forget. I forget what episode it is, but I know I've had occasion to discuss this study on the podcast before. I think I think with you guys on it. But. You take someone who's completely untrained, you expose them to really intense. E-centric exercise, like. I believe the study I had in mind and. I'm just going off the dome here. I forget the author's name. I'll. Try to remember to look this up and put it in the show notes. But yeah, I if memory serves study five sets of. 10 maximal either eccentric or concentric reps on a isokinetic dynamometer. One group doing eccentric when one group doing concentric concentric training causes quite a bit less muscle damage and fatigue than eccentric. And if you take untrained folks and have them do 50 maximal eccentric reps, they're going to be fucked like that's. A lot of muscle damage lot to recover from. And so this study, if memory serves, it was eight weeks. They were doing that workout either like five sets of 10 maximal concentric or five sets of 10 maximal eccentric reps once per week for eight weeks. And by the end of eight weeks. So by the end of eight workouts and previously untrained lifters, you were seeing like. No discernible elevations and markers of muscle damage. So that included like performance decrements 2448 hours post elevations and inflammatory biomarkers. Soreness like yeah, like it's like I'm sure that there was some muscle damage still, but like there there. Weren't any like clinical signs that there was like crazy intense muscle damage going on. And so that's again, like 50 maximal eccentric reps. That is rough. Like I haven't been doing any like dedicated eccentric training. If I did that today, I would be walking like I had for I'd be walking around like a baby giraffe for the next two days or three days, maybe four days. Who knows? Like that's a lot. But so I do think that I think that most things that are like I think that we have. An impoverished view of recovery kinetics just because like most studies don't do that. Like most of what we know about fatigue and recovery is like one session in either untrained individuals or people with some training experience. But like the actual like exercise belt done for the study is novel. Like, you know, maybe maybe you do some squats. But like this the first time you're doing the squat protocol used to test fatigue is like, you know, the one time you come into the lab to do it. And in much the same way, you know, like if you do a bunch of low rep training and you do like sets of 10 for a day, like, ah, you're going to be really sore. But you do the sets of 10 for like five weeks straight won't be sore anymore. You know, yes, I think I think most of what we see in the literature for a lot of that stuff is just like, Hey, what what do fatigue kinetics look like for relatively novel and accustomed exercise? And there's a lot less research on what do fatigue kinetics look like when people are being exposed to a stimulus that they're relatively habituated to. Um, and so in the case of stretching, yeah, like if I haven't been stretching, like if I go on vacation, this comes to mind immediately. Like I was recently in Ireland in the UK, like we talked about doing a lot of stuff. Most days, didn't like when when me and Lindsay would get back to the hotel room at night. I didn't want to be like, Hey, babe, like you go do your thing. I'm going to be in the same room, but I'm going to spend the next like 60 minutes doing like a big stretching thing. Like, no, fuck that. Like so I didn't stretch for like a week, like week and a half. Um, very stiff from from the plane rides. And so like my first time getting back into it, like when I say I get after it, when I stretch, I mean, I get after it. Like I get rather sore from a stretching like workout if if I haven't done it in a while. Um, so yeah, yeah, when I'm somewhat unaccustomed to it, it's causing fatigue. When I'm doing it every day, it doesn't like it's something I've habituated to. So yeah, like I think in a vacuum, sure. I think if you do it consistently, no, like that's that's kind of my take. Like I think when I'm doing it like consistently every day, something that was previously like a significant enough stress stressor to cause like quite a bit of soreness the next day. I think reaches the point where it's basically just kind of like active recovery almost like it's stimulating some blood flow feels nice. And I feel like looser, less fatigued and just better like ready to go the next day after I do it. Nice. That makes sense. I've never incorporated stretching that much in my routine and mostly putting aside the potential injury prevention effects. So curious as to why you're implementing it. Yeah. Yeah. I'm most most of it. Honestly, just to reiterate this is just I like it. Like I think I enjoy how it feels. Anecdotal returns for me have been quite positive. And yeah, like I like I said up top when you asked when I started by doing the nerd the nerd shit and talking about research, the research does broadly suggest that it does good things like it improves. It increases like it on a longitudinal basis. It increases range of motion as long as volume and intensity are sufficient. And the research that relates to like longitudinal muscular performance is broadly positive. So yeah, there is that. But for me, again, the main thing is I just like it. I think it feels good. What about health? Because obviously like range of motion is one thing, but I never heard anything about health. Like I know people tend to poo poo stretching when it comes to comparing it to other forms of activity for health. Do you know? Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like I think I think a lot of that comes from a bit of an ROI perspective where if you take someone who has no consistent exercise habit and if you look at kind of like self reports of barriers to entry to exercise like lack of time is a major one people report. And so if you're coming into it with the assumption that hey, this this person I'm working with, maybe they can only carve out 30 minutes a day or they can carve out like an hour twice a week or whatever. And you're like, okay, what's what's going to be the best thing for Buck that they can do during that time? I am struggling to immediately think of a situation where the answer would be like, oh yeah, like they should they should get on stretching like. No, you're probably going to want to do either either or both some dedicated aerobic training or some dedicated resistance training. One of the two or both. Because just in terms of the panoply of benefits you would get from it relative to the time you. Damn. Hey, hey, you know how the DJs wheel it up. What was that word? Did you say panoply? Panoply. Yeah. Oh, I bet that's. I bet that's Greek in origin. Yeah, it's if I'm not mistaken, it means the armor. A full set of armor. Yes, it does actually. And it also means a splendid display or an extensive or impressive collection. The Google dictionary definition is a complete or impressive collection of things, which I think is a way to describe the types of benefits that one would get from resistance or aerobic training. A lot of benefits. Anyway, so just kind of like minute for minute. I think you get way less from stretching than either of those options. And so if you assume someone's time for exercises severely constrained, then like, yeah, the stretching is not the the direction you're going to recommend. But that again, doesn't therefore imply that it's not beneficial. It's just like not as beneficial on a minute for minute basis as other options, you know, sure. Well, since we're talking about substituting different things, I think we need to touch on what should be part of a map. It sounds like static stretching may not have a ton of applicability for general injury prevention, at least based on the research in that review paper. So the next question is what should be a part of a warmup to prevent injury? What is their evidence for actually helping as part of a month? And some more recent evidence by Lawson and colleagues from 2014, basically a metanalysis entitled the effectiveness of exercise interventions to prevent sports injuries, a systematic review and the analysis of randomized control trials. They did something a bit different from what we've spoken about thus far, which is that they compare different modalities and their respective impacts on injury risk in athletes specifically, so sports injuries, including in military recruits, soccer players, basketball players and other sports too. And when you looked at different interventions, there's a few things that jumped out. The main one is that strength training reduced sports injury risk by the most of any intervention, followed by proprioception training and studies that specifically combine different interventions, like for example, strength training plus proprioception training. Finally, stretching on the other hand, like static stretching, like we just mentioned, once again had little to no effect on injury risk. And to kind of zoom out a little bit and spoil the rest of the research a little bit, lifting seems to potentially prevent injury risk from other sports, like sports injuries. And it is unclear whether or not these things like strength training, like proprioception training or even stretching would need to be part of the warmup to prevent injury. So one thing we'll come to a bit later is that there's certain warmup protocols tend to include quite a variety of things, like for example, some strength training, some proprioception training, even some static stretching, some dynamic stretching. It becomes difficult to parse out which is causing what, like whether or not one specific component is responsible for reducing injury risk, but it seems like strength training is helpful for that for sports. But that there may not be a need for that to be the warmup, that it may just be something you want to incorporate overall for preventing injury. So yeah, I think it's just like it's positive news for pretty much anyone listening to this podcast that, hey, lifting might help prevent injury overall. So yeah, that's kind of my reading of that study. But Greg, I feel like you might have slightly divergent opinions. Yeah, I'll be completely honest with you right now. I heard you were talking about like, lifting seems to help prevent injuries. I was like, okay, I'm on board with that. So I can divert my attention slightly to quickly find those two papers that I was alluding to for the last section just to make sure I could put them in. The outline so they can be linked in the show notes. And if there was anything you said that I would disagree with, I think I wasn't paying attention quite closely enough to clock it. Just, hey man, just be just being honest here. 100% the TLDR is met analysis found that strength training reduced sport injury risk by the most followed by proprioception training and seemingly stretching interventions didn't seem to have much of an effect. And so my takeaway was, hey, strength training and lifting is a good thing for preventing injury overall. But I'm not sure whether that needs to be a part of the warmup or can just be done in general. Oh, yeah, yeah, I don't think that would necessarily imply it needs to be part of the warmup. I think the question you need to ask yourself is like, hey, if something is preventing injury risk, why? And if something isn't preventing injury risk or reducing injury risk, why? And like, I don't know, there's a lot of types of injuries. One of the things that is like a bit difficult is kind of like ascribing causality to anything because most of these are just observational studies. And specifically, there's like a lot of sports have injuries that one could sustain that have not a goddamn thing to do with most of the interventions you'd be testing to see. Like, is this reducing injury risk like concussions are a big thing in a lot of sports and like neck training might reduce your risk of concussions. But like stretching, I don't think so. Or like other forms of resistance training. I don't think so. Warmups. I don't think so. You know, like you get your bell rung, you get your bell rung. So there is, you know, it kind of depends like what is the study just looking at all injuries or just like specific injury types. But yeah, going back to the idea of kind of like mechanism of injury and and cause. I think that it's relatively unsurprising that resistance training helps reduce injury risk for a couple reasons. One is most resistance training you would do is going to have a relatively challenging eccentric component and some research on like muscle strains and muscle strains kind of big, big genre of things that of like common athletic injuries, specifically hamstring strains, but like other types of muscle muscle strains as well. You you help like build build up eccentric strength by doing strength training. And that's a good thing. Like that should help reduce injury risk, but you don't need to strength train immediately before like a practice or game in order to reap that benefit. Like it's a it's a chronic thing over time. Or as with stretching the hypothesis there, like if if it were to kind of like causally reduce injury risk, it is like the kind of mental model you'd be working with is you have like a particular range of motion that this muscle can safely go through and produce force. While you're still kind of like in the plastic region of the like length strain curve and then due to the muscle being too short, too tight, you get into the you know, the oh, what's it called the part of that curve where like, you know, further increases in length are causing like actual damage and not just you don't you don't just snap back. And so therefore if you stretch, you can increase kind of the operating length of the muscle and have a have a lower risk of like getting to muscle links where where you would be straining. And yeah, like I think that that my understanding is that that would be sort of the kind of like causal effect for a relatively small minority of injuries that athletes would be getting. Like my understanding is that a lot of it just has to do with like not having enough eccentric strength to do what you need to do like you're like just sprinting itself. There's like pretty high eccentric force demands, you know, landing from a jump and then quickly trying to change directions like trying to decelerate rapidly change directions like there's there's a lot of things in sports that require high levels of each eccentric strength and power in multiple different directions being able to do that dynamically. And oftentimes it's not necessarily strains occurring in like absolute max muscle length where just like if your muscle length was a little bit longer because you've been doing some stretching it would make a big difference like it. A lot of it does seem to have more to do with just your your eccentric strength. And again, like I don't want to be too myopic about it. I do think that there are like I find it very plausible that if an athlete is like to like quote unquote tight like if if you have an athlete coming back after an offseason, they haven't been doing anything. And maybe like their their muscle link characteristics are now such that like oh their hamstrings have just gotten shorter and like now they're going to immediately get into sprint like I could see that being being the case but like I do think that doing your sport tends to get you to kind of like the muscle length characteristics that you would likely need for your sport just like you're you're doing the thing you know. And so just having like greater range of motion for the sake of having greater range of motion than you strictly need. I can't think of a good reason why one would necessarily expect that to reduce injury risk. So yeah, like I'm I'm not surprised that the that there's not like great research showing that like acute stretching reduces injury risk. Also not that surprised that there's not good research suggesting that chronic stretching reduces injury risk like it's like that. That doesn't surprise me because like this stuff the the reason that people previously thought that stretching would reduce injury risk as we've learned about the mechanisms and causes of injury. We're learning that like hey the things causing these injuries don't actually seem to be the things that like stretching would be helping with like most. Sports injuries don't seem to be caused by the muscle just being too short. And like I said like not to not to be too myopic I'm sure that there there are I would not be surprised at all if there are a small minority of sports injuries that are caused by like an athlete's muscle being too short. But and in those cases like I may be stretching would have helped prevent that injury but like that's just not the vast majority of injuries that athletes would be getting. So yeah, in the aggregate I'm not surprised that it doesn't make much of a difference. Yeah, I think it makes a ton of sense. You can even somewhat conceptualize stretching as lifting in some regards in terms of it does still provide some hypertrophy and strength benefits but usually quite a bit lower than lifting. And so if your mental map is that hey getting stronger especially at certain muscle lengths is part of the benefit of lifting for injury prevention. It makes sense that stretching would confer that but potentially lesser extent as like an intervention. So yeah, I think it makes sense personally. However, that wasn't the only study that looked at different interventions and their effects on injury risk. We have a slightly more niche or targeted systematic review by our Southern colleagues from 2022 on ACL injuries specifically. So that's anterior cruciate ligament and the knee injuries. Again, it's one of those injuries like Rick mentioned for hamstring strains that do tend to be relatively common in athletes and cost a lot of money and a lot of money being spent on trying to prevent. And specifically in this case, they looked at injury prevention programs that included plyometric exercises and looked at whether or not those reduced the incidence of ACL injuries. And broadly speaking, including plyometric exercises in your routine seemed to reduce the incidence of ACL injuries but it didn't need to be part of the warm up. It could just be part of the overall routine. And so yet again, it's kind of the same. I don't know. Personally, I would put it into. I think you can interpret this in one of two ways. One, yet again, like strength training, just including it somewhere in the routine and allowing you to be stronger through a variety of ranges of motion and preparing you for sport is a good thing. And you could read it that way. Or you could read it as a slightly more specific argument where, hey, practicing these plyometrics in relatively controlled environments allows you to develop good quote unquote technique, which then could help with injury prevention long term. I don't know that I buy into that quite as heavily. I think it probably has more so to do with getting stronger and providing some of the same benefits to lifting. And that would lead me to believe like, ah, it probably doesn't matter when you do this as long as you do some of it in your routine if you're particularly worried about ACL injuries. But that's my reading. Greg, thoughts? Yeah, I think that I, I, I, I think, I think some of it could be general strength development benefits of, of plyometrics or more so, I guess, like specific strength development characteristics. Like, you know, you're not necessarily doing high speed, high speed, like e-centrics and plyometric type stuff in the weight room most of the time. So, you know, do some specific plyometrics that would be a more kind of like direct stimulus for, you know, muscular performance in those like speed power ranges, I guess. So I could see that. I do, I do find it plausible that part of it does just come down to practice and improving landing mechanics. Like, this, this is one of those things where I'll, I'll admit I could be getting out over my skis. Like this is a lot of stuff. Like I have been told things by PTs that I think are quite bright and up with the research, but like I haven't necessarily done a deep dive myself. But if memory serves one of the arguments in favor of like, oh, this might be helpful with landing mechanics is most of, most, not all certainly, like not even close, but like most of the athletes getting non-contact ACL injuries. And that, that is like a very important distinction because, you know, if, if you're playing American football and some, you're running at full speed and someone like grabs your lower leg and pulls it at a weird angle pops your ACL, not much, you can really do about that. You know what I mean? But if you're just landing from a jump.  tarinacl, or trying to change directions, tarinacl, like, you look at that and you're like, ah, that should probably be preventable, one would think. And so for non-contact ACL injuries, that does seem, there does seem to be like a higher risk for female athletes and male athletes. And there, I think this is like contested, but there is still some, like the assumption, or like there's some research supporting the contention that a predictor of non-contact ACL injury risk is functional knee valgus when landing or cutting. And also like the risk of non-contact ACL injury seems to scale a bit with just like jumping exposure or like change of direction exposure, where like, you don't see that many in sprinters, but you see a lot in like volleyball players or soccer players or whatever. And this is like a slightly different sport, well, it's a very different sport in that it's much more controlled, but it does often involve a lot of jumping. And that is ballet. So like ballerinas tend to have like very low rates of ACL injuries, but they're doing a lot of jumping and specifically jumping where they're landing on one leg, which is often when it happens. And when you get them in the lab, they tend to have like impeccable landing mechanics, not necessarily because they're going out of their way to try to prevent ACL injuries, but because like ballet is an art and landing on one leg and your knee caving in, that doesn't give you the smooth aesthetic lines that you're looking for in a ballet performance. And so, that's not like the most direct evidence, it's not like an intervention showing that like, interventions to help athletes have mechanics more similar to ballerinas reduces their ACL injury risk, but like there is kind of that line of thinking there. And but yeah, yeah, yeah. So I could see part of it just being a practice thing. Like if you have an athlete who just like naturally lands a particular way, like if you're doing a depth jump and you can just like cue them, cue them, cue them, like, hey, keep your knees out, keep your knees out, like whatever, I couldn't see that being a thing. Like you're just practicing moving in a particular way that exposes this tissue to lestering. Like I am still open to that being a possibility, but I don't suspect that that is the dominant thing going on there. I think the dominant thing is that it's, I guess this is like kind of a practice thing, but it's a almost like just kind of a improving motor skill type of thing, kind of independent of if you're practicing like particular landing mechanics like what angles are your bones and joints at here? You're also exposing your nervous system to plyometrics. And like a lot of like the muscular activity going on in plyometrics is like conscious obviously, but like a decent bit of it is should be based on just like reflex arcs as well. Like you land like rapid eccentric lengthening, reflex arc activates, increase contraction and explode powerfully in the opposite direction. Like, and like the, there's, there is my understanding is that there's a fair bit of evidence suggesting that just kind of like poor neuromuscular control of the tissue surrounding the knee contributes to risk of non-contact ACL injuries. And like there's like several lines of evidence here, but I think the one that's like maybe the easiest to understand is that, so like when you tear an ACL, your lifetime risk of re-tearing the ACL is quite high. Like I think the number one predictor of non-contact ACL injury is have you previously had a non-contact ACL injury in the same knee? And part of that could just be kind of reverse causation. Like athletes who, you know, athletes who moved in such a way to increase their risk of having one, probably like you're basically like selecting to then subsequently study athletes who for whatever reason were doing something that calls them to have a non-contact ACL injury. But another thing you see is that you do typically observe some like differences in muscle activation after a ACL replacement. Like it seems like some of those reflex arcs don't work quite as well anymore. And like I'm not sure how much like quadriceps to hamstring strength ratio is quite as big of a deal for ACL risk as like people used to think. I think the evidence has like shifted on that a little bit. And it's more so about like when you land or cut or whatever is like something in like a plyometric context does just kind of like both a combination of like your conscious muscle activation and reflex arcs that would be kind of like kicking your hamstrings into gear is all of that working fast enough to like provide your tibia with like the anterior, the like posterior restraint force it needs to not be exposing your ACL to high loads. And it does appear that a lot of that stuff just like it doesn't work as well after your first ACL tear such that like your risk remains elevated. Anyway, so like regardless of being able to train and just like practice landing technique or whatever, I also wouldn't be at all surprised if plyometric training helps with just those like super early phase like zero to 50 millisecond like muscle recruitment characteristics that seem to like be beneficial for reducing your risk of an ACL injury. So yeah, I'm not surprised that there's some evidence showing that plyometrics might be helpful. And I think there are a few ways in which they could be helpful. Again, all standard disclaimers apply, not a physical therapist. This is my understanding of some of that research after slightly looking into it. But yeah, I think there are like a few things going on there. For sure, it's just interesting to realize that some of the interventions where we probably have the strongest evidence for them preventing injury aren't necessarily warmups or things you need to do as warmups. Which is I think the opposite what people tend to think. People tend to think if you don't work for lifting 100 millisecond of snappy shit, whereas it might be that other things are a bit more important. Cool, I think the last paper we wanted to cover for warming up and injury prevention, this time tackles dynamic stretching. So we've covered static stretching, we've covered even plyometrics, strength training, all manner of things that may not necessarily have to do with a warmup, let's put it that way. The last one is about dynamic stretching before exercise. It's a narrative review by Ben and colleagues from 2023 entitled potential effects of dynamic stretching on injury incidents of athletes, a narrative review of risk factors. Now, unfortunately, this narrative review only included two studies, because there have only been two studies looking at the impact of dynamic stretching on injury incidents so far. So not a whole lot of evidence there in much the same vein as many of the papers covered thus far. You know, if most of the review papers on injury incidents to date include a single digit number of studies, that might suggest that we don't have a ton of confidence in many things about warming up yet and injury prevention. They looked at a variety of forms of warming up, not just dynamic stretching, but the most frequent elements of a multifaceted training program were a combination of strength, balance, plyometric, and dynamic warmup and stretching exercises, which tended to have the best outcomes for injury prevention, like as part of an injury prevention program. Within the current literature, there did seem to be a conflict regarding the effect of impaired or restricted flexibility on injury rate, which kind of runs counter to the hypothesis that static stretching increases range of motion, which is like a hugely beneficial thing for injury rate. And it kind of jives with the observational data and random mass control trials on the effect of static stretching on injury rates, which is to say, it might be an effect, might not be a big effect if there is one. The one thing that tended to jump out was that an increased ability of the muscle tendon complex to absorb forces or torques, especially along muscle lengths, might have been what helped prevent injury as a result of static stretching interventions, for example. So it might not so much have been the increase in range of motion, but more so have been the strengthening of the individual in those ranges of motion, like, for example, at very low muscle lengths, which would kind of jive with some of the older school thinking of, hey, Nordic curls allow you to become stronger at those low muscle lengths, which helps with injury prevention or what have you. In general, the paradigm shift in the last decade or so that Greg mentioned earlier, from more static stretching to more dynamic stretching, partly because of the supposed performance detriments you see with static stretching before exercising or before high-force production workouts, is generally attributed to dynamic stretching causing improvements in range of motion while not causing potential detriments in performance. And if anything, dynamic stretching, like, for example, performing arm circles, bodyweight squats, a variety of different movements, can potentially give you the increase in muscle temperature that we want from a lot without giving you that reduction in force production that some people are concerned over with static stretching. Unfortunately, though, as I mentioned, only two studies have looked at the effects of dynamic stretching on injury. But it turns out there is a relatively extensive body of literature looking at multi-component or multi-modality interventions, like activity programs, before exercising. Specifically, there is a fairly large body of evidence on the P511. As I mentioned earlier, there's a fair bit of literature on warming up in soccer, okay, football in Europe. The P511 is essentially a relatively complex warm-up routine. I think it's called P511 because there's 11 different activities involved. These activities involve things like dynamic stretches, but also things that would more traditionally be considered like strength training. So I think typically like some Nordic curls, some push-ups even, so a variety of strength training exercises, some plyometric exercises as well, some static stretches as well, and even some proprioception training if alone-staken. So effectively, amongst all the interventions we've discussed so far, you kind of have the Avengers meetup of everything is being thrown together here to the point that you don't really know what is contributing to the success of it. But the research we do have seems to suggest that doing the P511, which incorporates some strength training, some plyometrics, and some other stuff, seems to be at least fairly efficacious at reducing injury risk, like the studies that we do have seem to suggest that. I think you can kind of take one of two stances on those findings. Stance number one. Since these protocols involve strength training and plyometrics and things that seem to consistently reduce injury rates, that's probably the thing at play. It's not so much maybe the static stretching or even the dynamic stretching or what have you. It could mostly be explained by just doing some strength training and doing some plyometrics, and it might not even have to be part of your warm-up routine. It could just be at some point in your strength and conditioning program or just in your lifestyle. The second stance is, hey, maybe there is an additive benefit here, but we just don't have the research to confirm or substantiate whether that would be the case. I am personally partial to that first stance, just because we don't have the classic absence of evidence versus evidence of absence conundrum. I do think in this case we have some evidence suggesting, hey, static stretching probably doesn't do that much for injury prevention. I am inclined to think most of the benefits are explained by strength training and plyometric exercises as part of the routine, but I am open to there being something that might be attributable to static stretching, dynamic stretching or what have you. That's my stance and we are not exactly dealing with a wealth of evidence here that we can draw upon. It's more like, these things seem to generally help and be all nuts. You kind of grasp your control to try to piecemeal stuff together. Greg? Yeah, now I find that to be an agreeable take. And I do think we're also, I think we're at a point in the literature where anything we think works probably doesn't work as well as we think. Just because we live in a world where publication bias exists and the file drawer effect exists and most studies aren't pre-registered, so there's some researcher degrees of freedom to kind of tweak things, whatever, like try to make your, whatever you're studying, either like get below the threshold for significance or increase that effect size as much as possible, even without necessarily trying to do anything shady, like, hey, now that I think about it, I do think this is the right way to run these numbers. Anyway, a lot of that ends up hopefully washing out over time with more research, better methodology, more pre-registration, whatever. Yeah, like for a lot of these things, there's not a ton of research yet, and oftentimes when you're dealing with a relatively small body of research on a particular topic, once you get like 30, 40 studies in, the effect size, like the pool effect size of everything, why is it being a little bit smaller than what you see from the first few studies that get published? Yeah, I think that, I suspect that this stuff we think works, like resistance training at long muscle lengths, generally warming up, dynamic exercise, like all of that stuff, like, yeah, I have no reason to think it probably isn't like somewhat helpful for reducing injury risk, and like we talked about up top, the benefits of warm-ups generally, things that get you moving, increased muscle temperature, that helps performance as well. So, you know, a lot of good stuff going on, but things that currently look ineffective, like static stretching, I suspect as more research is published, they'll probably, I suspect in most cases, look even more ineffective. And thinking, again, just like kind of mechanistically, the things that one would get from static stretching, if your goal is reducing injury risk, I, again, out of PT, all standard caveats apply. But I do think nothing is immediately coming to mind that you would get from static stretching that you couldn't get better from some more sort of dynamic exercise, whether that be something plyometric or more realistically, some sort of like strength training thing, like, you know, if you're comparing just stretching your hamstrings versus RDLs, you're kind of doing the same thing, but one of them is also building up your eccentric strength reserve through that added range of motion that you're getting. I think, you know, like I'm sure that there are instances, like, for certain sports that do just require crazy range of motion, like ballet, or like gymnastics, or like certain martial arts, there are certain joint angles you can get into where you're just like, I'm not really sure how, like, what a resistance training intervention at this joint at this joint angle would look like. So, yeah, maybe, maybe stretching is just what you got to do there. But yeah, for, for the most part, I think, yeah, for, I agree with your take Milo. Yeah, it does, it does seem like the more dynamic stuff is what at this, at this time appears to be the most effective, though, again, like I said, up top. Yeah, I assume it's effective, and I assume we get 20 years down the line and we'll still say it's effective and have a smaller confidence interval for precisely estimating the effect, but I suspect the pooled effect that we wind up with will be probably a bit smaller than, than it is now, like an unfortunate thing when we're talking about like injury risk is like, a lot of injuries are kind of just random. And a lot of injuries come from the fact that like sports are hard. Like, you know, another thing, like talked about kind of the some of the neural stuff that might be impacting ACL injury risk, but like muscle strains as well. You, you tend to see muscle strains happening one of two times, which is like immediately like like very, very early on in a game or practice, which I do think just comes from like a, you know, not not trying to say like one to one causation, but I think that's like heavily influenced by doing an insufficient warm up, not like the specific characteristics of the warm up were insufficient, but just like, you probably just didn't get warm enough like, kind of it is what it is. So yeah, you see, you see like hamstring strains early on in like a practice or game and you tend to see them also late in the game when fatigue has accumulated and your neuromuscular control decreases because like your nervous system isn't just coordinating force output in terms of like how much force does this muscle need to produce for the task demands, whatever. It's also like more kind of on a more kind of like nuanced level determining like where that force needs to come from and making sure it's like distributed throughout a muscle such that like the tissue isn't exceeding its loading capacity to the point that it would strain like your your nervous system is doing a lot of work to simultaneously facilitate performance but also like protect you from your muscles contracting hard enough that they hurt themselves like that's that's something that does and as as fatigue increases it gets worse at that. And so yeah, I think I think a lot of those kind of like fatigue related injuries are like basically unpreventable and it's late it's late enough in a game that like whatever you did as a warm up is done like it's it's gone it's having no effect anymore. You know you got you got 10 minutes left in a football match and like I don't I don't care what you did to warm up before a game like the thing that's affecting your physiology at that moment is you just played a whole football match like, you know, I think I think the warm up the warm ups have a lot more to do with like, hey what what can we do to make sure that people aren't getting hurt in the first like 10 minutes of a game or practice. Yeah, 10 minutes might be too short but let's say like 20 minutes whatever but like. A lot of injuries occur late in games and practices when people are fatigued and at that point whatever you did to warm up. I don't think is doing much for you at all anymore like. So I do I do think that if you're talking about like warm ups preventing injuries. A lot of the types of injuries people get are things that just you just kind of can't do too much about honestly. Yeah, those are those are my general thoughts. I agree. I think one other thing that's slightly. This concerning, I guess, or sad is that just having had a an injury and a joint or specific injury before. Does quite substantially of it your risk typically and like. Exercise or existing risks injury. You know, like there's just a built in level of risk and certainly those things you can do to reduce it. But there's also things that predispose you to it, whether you can control them or not. And there's always some risk. So yeah, it's. My reading is essentially there are some things you can do. Doing something before exercising quite vigorously is a good idea. Doing some strength training is good idea. Doing some plyometrics might be helpful as well. And that's kind of mostly it, at least from the research side of things. Which makes for relatively simple recommendations in the end. Pack anything else to mention on the injury front? Yeah, there's this somewhat. There's this misconception that you can perfectly control and manage everything to the best of your abilities. But it's likely that if you're taking those few basic boxes, you're doing the majority of the work and some things, especially in a sporting environment, some things are going to be so random and unpredictable that. It wasn't your warm up. It wasn't your recovery things just go wrong sometimes, especially if you're somebody who's training very hard. And if you're an athlete who's training multitude and multitude of athletic qualities and you're doing lifting, you're doing agility work, you're doing your sport specific training, even if you are a professional athlete with the best sort of recovery resources available to you as people are aware. They are seeing that even the best, the best of the best with an infinite amount of money allocated to them being fit, they are still getting injured, they're still experiencing career ending or career threatening injuries. So let's say do not fall in the trap of trying to find the next sexy thing or the next stretch or warm up that will prevent injury for good. Make sure that you're taking the basic boxes and yeah, just be be a bit mindful when people trying to sell you the idea that you can perfectly control for those things. Yeah, for sure. For sure. I do think, yeah, I think I think they're, I understand why. Like I think I think for a lot of competitive athletes, like one of their biggest fears is is injury. And so I, I understand the inclination to find it convincing when someone is making like really confident statements about like, Oh, this thing is like definitely going to reduce your injury risk by a lot or the one that that really gets under like good pts and researchers skins is saying this thing will prevent injuries. Yeah, that's in most cases a pretty pretty unjustifiable thing. But yeah, I can understand why anything in that genre would be appealing to athletes and coaches like you're an athlete, you definitely don't want to get hurt. Coach you definitely don't want your athletes to get hurt. And so I think there's, I can see how there can be a desire to look for confident statements about like, Oh yeah, this thing. It's going to make a big difference because you really want it to but yeah, yeah, the research to this point suggests that a lot of the stuff that works is like pretty basic. And there's really no magic bullet. And yeah, it is what it is. Very, very quick parenthesis. There's also slight misconception around lifting weights being more injures which as we alluded to at the beginning of the podcast. By looking when you look at like Olympic weightlifting or actually powerlifting and bodybuilding specifically injury rates are pretty low. But I find that it's the opposite when you look at sports and injury people will go out and play basketball without you know any any great preparation for that and do things that they're not really used to but then they will fear lifting in a controlled environment which they may have been doing for quite some time. So yeah, just wanted to point that out. I was having a discussion with somebody in a gym in Greece a few weeks ago because he was worried about hurting his lower back. But when I asked him, Hey, do you play sports randomly here and there? He was like, Yeah, of course. So yeah, that's another thing that I do see quite a bit. Myle. Myle. Nah, that's pretty much it. Greg, play yourself. Yeah, you can do the honors. You got it. I don't know how to do this. I'll do it. Okay, yeah. Yes. Pack. Yeah, you got it. Pack. Guys, thank you so much for listening to another stronger by science podcast. Do not forget to check out stronger by science.com for amazing articles stronger by science.com slash coaching for coaching and make sure that you're subscribed to the YouTube channel where we be where we're putting out a lot of content on a bunch of stuff lifting related with plenty of cool guests. To be featured in future videos. That is it from us. Thank you so much for listening. And we'll catch you guys next time. Peace. You