 a group of scientists in Japan conducted a series of experiments where they uncovered something shocking. In their studies they compared the muscle growth of two groups, a continuous training group who continuously performed resistance training throughout the course of the study. The intermittent training group, on the other hand, would train for a while then take 2-3 weeks completely off before resuming training again. By the end of the study, both groups ended up gaining similar amounts of muscle mass. This alone is pretty interesting, but that is not the shocking bit. When the intermittent training group took some time off training, as you'd expect, they lost some of the muscle they gained. However, when they returned to training, they gained muscle up to four times faster than the continuous training group. But why? It probably has to do with one of your body's secret abilities, muscle memory. What is muscle memory? There are two definitions people use. The first has to do with your nervous system and motor learning. Your body has the ability to remember how to perform a skill and coordinate your movement long after you first learned that skill or long after you last performed it. For example, the classic example of riding a bike. The second definition of muscle memory relates to muscle physiology. I think in the context of the research that I do and that others in the skeletal muscle field specifically are looking at it is the idea that within the cells of your muscle, there's a molecular memory. It's the idea that if you were to stress your muscle with resistance exercise, resistance training or something like that, then you were to stop training for any number of reasons. Maybe it was because you got injured, maybe it was a worldwide pandemic. Any number of reasons why you might stop training. But then later down the road, you were to go back to exercising again, that you would recover the muscle mass you previously gained more quickly. The thought process there is that there is some sort of molecular memory mechanism in your cells probably related to something going on with your DNA and probably your epigenetics, which I can explain. That would allow for you to then train again and gain back that muscle and gain back that strength more quickly than the first time you gained it. And so so that's sort of the in broad strokes the concept of muscle memory. That's Professor Kevin Murak, researcher in muscle physiology, muscle memory and much more. The phenomenon of muscle memory is very well documented. Anecdotally, athletes have to take some time away from training, because they get injured, they go on a long holiday or what have you do tend to regain muscle mass much more quickly than how long it took them to gain it in the first place. Likewise, when it comes to empirical studies, we have quite a few studies and animals showing that muscle memory really does exist. Where if you expose them to training first, but then have them take some time off, and then re expose them to training, any muscle they lost during that training cessation or loading cessation period is regained much more quickly. Likewise, in humans, there is some empirical research suggesting that you can regain muscle more quickly than when you first gained it. As an example, here are three studies by star and colleagues, taffin colleagues and seaborn colleagues. But let's focus on the one by star and colleagues in their study, participants first started by training for 20 weeks, then they detrained for 30 to 32 weeks. Finally, they trained for an additional six weeks. They initially gained muscle and strength during the first 20 weeks of training, as you would expect. During those 32 weeks, they effectively lost all the muscle and strength they'd gained in those first 20 training weeks. However, in that final six week retraining phase, they regained all the muscle mass and strength, they lost over 32 weeks. In other words, they regained muscle and strength around three times faster than how long it took them to gain the first place. That is muscle memory. However, that's not to say all studies are like this. There are studies where muscle memory doesn't really seem to be playing much of a role. A study by Cylander and colleagues in 2019 had 19 participants train only one of their legs. For 10 weeks, these participants only trained one leg. And as you'd expect, they gained some muscle and strength. Then for 20 weeks, they didn't perform any training with either leg. Finally, they performed another five weeks of training at the end to see whether the previously trained leg would previously been bigger and stronger would gain more muscle and strength over those five weeks than the control leg who didn't have muscle memory playing in its favor. And both legs gained the same amount of muscle and strength over those five weeks. This study has a very robust design. By using a within participant study design, you're controlling for differences in genetics, nutrition, sleep and stress that other studies usually don't control. Interestingly, a later reanalysis by another group of researchers found that the participants who had gained myonuclei during that first 10 weeks of training in their trained leg actually lost all of the myonuclei they had gained over those 20 weeks of detraining. What this suggests is that perhaps muscle memory only really acts if you've been training for a while. Perhaps 10 weeks just wasn't enough to really activate the phenomenon of muscle memory. But importantly, myonuclei seemed to play a role in the concept of muscle memory. But how? Why does muscle memory exist? Like any other cell, muscle cells or muscle fibers have a nucleus. However, muscle fibers are different in that they have hundreds or sometimes thousands of a nuclei. And these are called myonuclei. Myo means muscle, nucleus means nucleus. You get the idea. A muscle cell is kind of like a long cylindrical tube. We have hundreds or thousands of myonuclei. Myonuclei enable long term growth of muscle fibers. They effectively contain the blueprints of muscle growth. These myonuclei seem to play a central role when it comes to the concept of muscle memory. There are two leading theories First is myonuclei addition theory. The second is myonuclear epigenetic modification theory. Myonuclei addition theory postulates that muscle memory acts by adding nuclei when you train, but then those nuclei remain around when you detrain facilitating further growth. To understand this, you also need to understand myonuclear domain theory. Each myonucleus in your muscle can only overview so much muscle growth and so much transcription at a time. So in order to keep growing your muscle fiber overall, you need to add new myonuclei over time. Otherwise, there is a cap to how big your muscle fiber can get. Lifting weights both increases fiber size, but also activates stem cells around the muscle that eventually fuse together to donate a new nucleus to the muscle fiber, allowing it to grow long term. The idea is that when you stop lifting your muscle fibers themselves atrophy or shrink, but your myonuclei stay around for some length of time. And then when you retrain, even though your muscle fiber is smaller, the myonucleide that facilitate growth are still around, accelerating the regrowth process. Or myonucleic permanent? Would you say like if you had to give a yes or no answer, would you say no? Yes. It depends so much on the context. We just don't know enough about it. You know, like, I assume you're talking within the context of resistance training, not just like redevelopment and the cost. So if I resistance train, then I stopped Would those nuclei gain from my initial period of getting buff? Be there forever? We don't know the answer to the question. Eileen, no. Eileen, we probably get rid of them over time. I don't think it would make much sense to keep them around for longer than they needed to be. But are we talking like months, years, decades until they start kind of creeping away mostly? Probably and humans probably in the order of months to years. And it probably is pretty context dependent may depend on the muscle that you're exercising may depend on how old you are when you started whole variety of different factors probably affect that mechanism. So that's the myonuclear addition or permanence theory. The other theory of epigenetic modifications to existing myonucleide being central to the concept of muscle memory has to do not with adding or having a greater number of myonucleide, but simply making each myonucleus better at growing muscle effectively improving each myonucleus's ability to grow muscle in the future and thereby to regrow lost muscle in the future to the other quote unquote school thought I guess is that there are changes that go on within the nuclei that are already there in the muscle fiber to begin with. And so it's this idea that genetics so when you break that word down, it means above genetics. And so basically the idea of epigenetics is how do you control the expression of the genes that you have. So we all have essentially the same set of genes. But how they get controlled and accessed and expressed can change based on the different layers of control above the DNA. So things like DNA methylation or histone modifications are all these things that are related to more the structural component of how DNA is organized that can be modified that allows genes to be expressed in different ways. And so the thought process with epigenetics is that you may epigenetically change the nuclei that you have so that when you go to exercise again after a long layoff, that the genes that were important for growth first time are easier to access and can cause you to grow again more quickly when you start retraining. And so that the muscle memory hypothesis from a cellular molecular biology perspective comes from probably those those two different sort of ideas which aren't necessarily competing. I mean, both things can be happening at once. And so could be any of those combination of those things in one capacity or another. But yeah, I think in broad strokes from like a cell biology perspective, that's how we think of muscle memory from from like a more molecular perspective. Yeah. So which of these two theories appears more likely at the current moment? Is one of these really playing more of a role than the other? Is it my unclear addition? Or is it epigenetic modification from a gut feeling? Which of these two hypotheses do you think is more play? It sounds like they might both be a play or somewhat compatible in a way. And they're both the current at the same time. But what do you think is happening? I think it probably has a there's probably a timing component here. So I think in the shorter term, maybe it could have to do with the fact that you don't lose the nuclei right away, you maintain some of them. So if you're to retain over a shorter period of time, after a shorter layoff that that might be contributing potentially more heavily, I don't know. I think over a longer periods, it maybe he could have something to do more with the changes, the inherent changes to the epigenetics of the DNA and the muscle nuclei that you have. But what does all this mean for you? Well, there are a few cases where muscle memory can really be important for your health and muscle growth. The first one is exercising earlier in your life. Most adults, especially when they age and get into their 70s, 80s and 90s, tend to lose their independence. Having sufficient muscle mass and strength can help delay this by a long, long time, increasing your quote unquote, health span. If you exercise earlier in life, grow muscle, make those modifications to your mind nuclei and gain a greater number of my nuclei, you could feasibly more easily regain lost muscle and strength later in your life, even if you have a layoff and training that causes your muscle fibers to shrink temporarily. You know, there's studies that show that, you know, if you exercise early in life that that can have impacts much, much later in life. And so it might be when we're long lasting, then we could ever appreciate. So, yeah, I don't know the answer to that question. I think it's probably, maybe there's an answer out there, but need more evidence to kind of pin that down. I think it probably my default answer, probably like, I think the long lasting effects of exercise are probably underappreciated. A big risk factor, especially as you get older for you losing your independence, and not being able to kind of get back to your lifestyle is, you know, you go through these phases of, you know, maybe you're healthy, but then you get sick and you're really inactive, and then you get healthy again. But the deleterious effects of that time of being injured or being, you know, less active than you would be can compound over time and really exacerbate, you know, the problems that you seem to experience musculoskeletally as you get older. So if you had been exercising when you were younger, though, it could be that maybe you would just recover more quickly from some of those things happening. And then if you were to even do some moderate exercise to try and get back to where you were, that that might facilitate you getting back to them quickly and having less likelihood of having another event that would cause you to get injured or have to be bedridden or whatever the case may be. Effectively, exercising earlier in your life could help you be healthier at an older age, even if you have a long time off. Another application for muscle memory is for athletes who have to take some time off from their sport or from lifting. If you have to take some time off because of injury or because of other lifestyle issues, you will find that you're able to regain lost muscle and strength much more quickly than how long it took you to gain in the first place. And this is great news for anyone whose lifestyle is forcing them to take some time off in a similar vein. Going on holidays won't kill your gains, even if you lose some muscle over a few week holiday, or even a few months. The good news is that you'll be able to regain that lost muscle between two to four times faster, potentially, which is great. You don't need to worry too much about lifting a lot while you're on holidays. The final controversial implication of muscle memory and its physiology has to do with anabolic steroids. And I mean, there's evidence, you know, of course, and like people that had been taking tons and tons of anabolic steroids and lifting super heavily. And then you look at them later in their lives after they're not on steroids or not as big as they used to be that they have, you know, nuclei, more nuclei in their muscle fibers. Okay. Yeah, maybe that's an instance where they do stick around. But you're also conflating that with the fact that you took super physiological doses of a hormone that was, you know, super highly expressed during development. And it's having kind of a different effect. Do you think that taking anabolic androgenic steroids confers you a permanent advantage or so quasi permanent advantage in terms of my nuclei? Yeah, yeah, that's that is the question. I mean, I know there's implications for that when it comes to Olympic sport and things of that nature. Again, I don't think we have enough evidence to suggest that to be true. You know, I don't think we should be making policy based on preclinical studies that have shown that a few times. You know, I think in order to truly answer that question, we're going to need some high quality, you know, clinical trial sort of studies to get at that that question. And I mean, there's some smaller studies that suggest it could be the case. But I'm not comfortable. I would not feel comfortable making policy on that on what on the literature that exists already. In conclusion, if you have to take some time off from lifting, or you want to take some time off from lifting, and you're worried that it will ruin your physique and strength in the long term, and even your health as you age, do not worry too much. And no likelihood muscle memory has your back. When you return to lifting, you'll be able to regain lost muscle and strength two to four times faster than when you initially gained it. This should be great news to anyone whose lifestyle is forcing them to take some time off, whether due to injury or other lifestyle commitments. If you're looking for a coach, go to strongbyescience.com slash coaching to match with an experienced educated coach today. If you want to biweekly email newsletters about the latest research sent directly to your inbox for free, go to strongbyescience.com slash newsletter. Dr. Michael Wolf with strong by science muscle memory. Have a great day and until next time.