 What's going on guys, this episode is brought to you by manscaped.com and I want to show you the smooth package that they have. This has the exfoliating gel, the shaving gel, and it has the razor, the razor, you open it up, looks like that, you open it up, looks like that, listen, it's for the guys that want to use the trimmer to get close, and then the razor to get even closer, so you can get smooth as possible. Now, they also have body spray and body wash, which are two things I use all the time. They're my favorites to smell great, feel clean, I don't feel oily and all that after I use the body wash, it's got a nice clean feel to it. If you go to the website, check it out, they got all their other products. Go to manscaped.com forward slash RBP. Check out all the different stuff they have. Check out all the different stuff they have. Check out all the different stuff they have for men's hygiene. They have cologne, obviously the Lawn Mower 4.0 trimmer. They have boxers now. They have all these different deodorants and lip balms, everything you could possibly need. So get to manscaped.com forward slash RBP or use code RBP at checkout for 20% off plus free shipping. What's going on, Ian? Not much here. Okay. Live election results. Yeah, here, I'll send you the one I was watching. It was good. No, this is good. It's got everything right here. Yeah, this one, he was going to like the live update state by state and stuff. Yeah. Look, he's crushing her, man. He's up by a million and a half votes. The poly market like betting odds right now have Trump at about 68% chance to win and her about 33. I mean, that sounds reasonable. That's like the betting odds, you know, I don't know. Everybody, everybody's kind of in their own bubble. So everybody I'm sure around their own friends thinks like, Oh, everybody I know thinks Harris is going to win or everybody I know thinks Trump is going to win. But I don't know, man. I just can't, I can't imagine a world where she's president. I have no idea, man. It's going to be a lot of it'll be wrapping up as we're on the podcast. No, it's not. Well, yeah, because it's the East coast is closing at 8pm. No, I know. But like states like Nevada are going to be counting votes for like the next four days. Yeah, no, I know what I'm saying. All the polls will close like all the time. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So we'll have more accurate numbers than we do right now. But no, they won't be closed for another few days for sure. If you, hey, can Chris vote? Or is it like he's got to be a citizen to vote? Because I know like can't like illegal immigrants vote. So like, I don't know, can Chris vote? It's a good question. I mean, technically, I guess I could vote if Chris could vote. Yeah, like if you have a visa, right? Why? Because you need a US address? Really? Really what? What's Melissa saying? She's saying she doesn't think you can. Oh, okay. Yeah, I didn't. I don't know if you can, because don't isn't it like I don't know if that's I don't know if I'm accurate in saying that. But can like, can illegal immigrants vote? I don't think so. Well, I'm going to type it is illegal for non citizens to vote in federal state elections in the United States. Yeah, that makes sense. So Chris can't vote. I don't know. I don't believe so. So why do, again, for anybody watching who's like a political, like aficionado, don't, don't fucking at me in the fucking comment section. Don't at me, bro. I'm like a, I'm like a, I'm like a junk food political watcher. I don't really know all the details. Anyway, what's the whole thing with like Republicans always saying like, oh, they're flooding the country with illegal immigrants so they can vote for Democrats. If they're not allowed to vote, if they're not allowed to vote anyway. Maybe they're voting illegally. I'm not really sure. Or are they saying like they're bringing them in and then trying to naturalize them and then they think they're going to vote for Democrats? I don't know the answer to that. Oh, okay. So you're, you're as like, Oh, I'm less than you. I know nothing about politics. I don't give a fuck about politics. I do. I mean, it's fun. Maybe Seth will know. It's fun to watch on like elections and when there's the fucking farce of what's going on in the world. I like, I find it fascinating to watch. But I'm not like so plugged in that I like, I know the inner workings of how voting law works or anything like that. So, but like on a regular, Seth as an American will know a better answer to this. I thought I was going to ask, but before, hi Seth, how are you? Good day. So on a regular basis though, Ian, are you like, do you watch the news at all? Like, do you follow like politics? No. Well, when I see the news, I mean more politics. Like, like, for example, like I watch Patrick, but David, or I'll watch like Jimmy Dore or I'll watch Matt Walsh or I'll watch like even some like left leaning outlets just to see what's going on. Do you watch? Yeah. Like I get obviously some on YouTube that I watch just as entertainment. Right. But how accurate that is in the depiction of the United States versus like being heavily right wing propaganda that I would get fed as someone like me. You know, you just want to soak it up. You're like, yes, it's just the YouTube algorithm knows that I'm one of them. You know, you're like feed me more red meat. That's why. So it just fucking feeds me all that bullshit. So like, I'm, I'm, I'm one of those people that you described at the beginning. That's in the bubble of not knowing. You know what I mean? So you don't, so you don't, you won't watch like the other side of things just to see what they're saying. Uh, I don't watch any of it unless it's presented to me. I don't seek out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. In any regard. Like, you know, I've watched like Matt Walsh stuff. I'll definitely watch that, but I'm watching that for, he's right. He's right leaning in. He's entertaining. I'm watching that for entertainment, like him argue with liberals at like school campuses. And I like just sit and laugh. Like that's the best I find entertaining. You know, but, uh, you know, who's really good at that? Michael Knowles. I don't know that. He's, he's like, yeah, he always wins an argument and he's always so calm about it. I want to watch the new, uh, am I a racist? I know. I want to see it's on. What is a woman was fucking amazing. I know. I want to watch him. I racist. I heard they're really good. I've never watched him. Oh, dude, you got to watch what is a woman. It's hilarious. What is a woman is so fucking hilarious. It's just such a, like Ian said, it's such a farce. Like there's so, there's so many backwards ass ways of thinking that when you watch these people try and actually explain it, you're like, wow, they don't even know what their fucking, they don't even know what their ideology is. They're just like all over the fucking place. That's why I have such a hard time watching left-leaning news. Well, listen, I don't watch left-leaning news because I'm like, I believe everything you're saying. I want, I try and watch a broad stroke of news just so I can understand. I want to try and understand where the other side's coming from. Sure. You want to, but then you watch it and you're like, okay, but wait a second. What do we, we got to be specific. If we're talking about like social things, like, you know, transgender stuff and like, you know, those kinds of like, okay, I don't need to know all that. I kind of get it. I mean, like, what is the democratic policy on healthcare or on, on their economic policies? I kind of want to know, like, what is their side of the aisle? I'll think the, all the other stuff is, is kind of like junk food for the brain. Right. Builders are inherently conservative. Yeah. Why is that? Like you'd be hard pressed to find like a hardcore bodybuilder. That's like a hard liberal. It's very hard to find. I don't know if it's hard. I don't know if it's hard to find, but it's definitely few and far between. Yeah. It's, it's very much the minority. Yeah. I wonder if it's because like, those are quite right wing, you know, I wonder if it's because bodybuilders are usually jocks or what do you think, Seth? Why, why are bodybuilders more right leaning? I mean, if you go back, like, if we start like 20 years ago, 30 years ago, the, the right wing side was like the pull your, pull yourself up by your bootstraps. Right. Do the work and shut the fuck up. Right. So like our entire existence as bodybuilders, as do the work, shortcuts, you got to do the work, you got to grind it out. That mentality is generally a right wing concept. I get it. But I mean, I think from a standpoint of where the country is now or at least where everything is now, it's like, dude, I don't think anybody, the general population, I mean, they've, they pushed everybody to the extreme side. Right. Right. It's like, everybody can generally say like, I'd like to pay less for healthcare. I'd like to be able to take care of my family. Everybody's, you know, it's funny. Dana White said it best. He said, somebody asked him if he was left or right. And he said, I'm for common sense. That's what I mean. Like if you, if you, if you remove politics and just talk about family topics about how to make sure you can afford this, take care of this, do this. Like it's an American way of life. However, the news and social media and everybody and what they do is they get them all riled up to push views, to push everything, just like our, the bodybuilding industry on the internet to these extreme sides and divides everything by the dumbest shit. And I'm like, but there are some like, there are some, uh, core beliefs that are very different. So like the, you're going to, you're, I'm going to tell you something that might upset you, but 10 years ago, I probably would have voted Democrat. Listen, but every fucking, you could have taken a Democrat. I know 20 fucking years ago. I know put him in today and they'd be a hardcore conservative. And you're like, what the fuck are you talking about? Well, because, because if you think about the democratic party, like 20 years ago, they were like no wars. They were like all, you know what I mean? Like they were kind of like a lot of the stuff that were public and they were for the worker, blah, blah, blah. Now it's almost like that's what Republicans have become. They're like for the worker. Don't waste money on wars. Don't send our troops over blah, blah, blah. And then I'm like, okay, like, meanwhile, we just sent over $80 billion to fucking Ukraine to fund a war. And it's kind of like, Hey, I know what's going on. This is kind of freaking me the fuck out. We have a hurricane and they didn't even take care of them. Like they took care of everybody overseas. And it's like, this is getting really weird guys. I know. I know. So it's like, even if you would have taken a Democrat from the eighties, Democrats from the eighties are conservative today. A hundred percent. A hundred percent. And it's, but it's like Dana White. And that's the majority of everybody. It's common sense. Yeah. Very common sense. But, but, but that's what I was saying about, sorry to interrupt you. That's what I was saying about core, core values. Like I had, uh, and this is something I don't really know about cause I'm not American. So it's kind of like looking from the outside in, but like when I had, um, Steve Kuklo on the podcast, we got into politics a little bit and he's hardcore into it. Yeah. And I was asking about, um, Medicare for all because like we have a government run healthcare. It's not great, but at the same time I don't have to pay for shit. Like if I break my leg, I don't have to pay for anything. And you do in a sense, because I pay me, Ian, Mike, we pay a ton of taxes. Which cover, which covers that right. Where in America, you guys pay for your plans monthly. So I guess it's a six of one, half a dozen of the other, but here's the thing, either way you're paying. Right. But the, the, the, the, the, Mike of Ray, Hey Mike. Sorry. So the pinnacles of our economy are built on some of these topics, right? Healthcare is a pinnacle of our economy. Yes. Like think of how much money. So to transition or change that, you're going to change the entire landscape of an economy. The amount of money that is invested in the healthcare is fucking astronomical. Sure. So it is a massive monopoly. I, I don't think it'll ever occur because there's too much money. And if it does, it is going to be a massive drastic switch in how we do business in America. I'm listening. I'm not saying it should, I'm not, I don't, to be honest with you, I don't know what I'm a proponent of. It's almost like if you're really fucking poor, you probably want government healthcare. If you're pretty well off, you probably like, I like my private healthcare. So it's almost like maybe a blend of the two is the best where, and I don't know how that works, but. We pay at, at, whenever we started our company, my dad always paid a hundred percent of every employee's healthcare. Yeah. And then if the family wanted to come on, you could bring your, you could bring it onto a family plan and you could pay for your family. That's how he did it his whole life. So we do that here with us. And so we have, we pay for full, full healthcare for all of our employees. Dude, we sell out. Fuck over 10 grand a month, just in healthcare for our employees. Yeah. It's, but it's, it's, it's a huge cost, but it's a huge part of our economy. Right. Right. Right. So, but I mean, I think they said we make up for, I just saw a statistic 60, 60 or 70, 60% of revenue for all pharmacology. Yeah. In the entire world is the United States. Yeah. I can believe that. So I have a question, but I don't want to make this a political podcast because people hate fucking politics and they didn't, they don't tune into our shit for politics. But before we get off this, just a question. Do you watch both sides of the news or do you just kind of stick to your kind of favorite people? Hey, you, you, you, I don't watch the news period. No, no, I can't do it anymore. I stopped doing it years ago just because I'm like, it's, they're just, all they're doing is polarizing the entire conversation for whichever side. And it's like, Hey, I always said when I was younger, when I was really into politics and I was in college and I'm like, all right, let's take a step back here and look at this. It seems like whoever is in office, they just want to find a way to make the money their way. Right. You know, it's like right wing, left wing, but it's the same bird. Right. So whoever got in office for four years, they would make money this way. The Democrats made money this way. The Republicans made money this way. And from a Republican standpoint, I mean, I've always voted right wing just because I'm like, those are, those are the values that I stand on, have my entire life. So it's, it's how I feel. And everything that's become radicalized today, I'm like, Holy fuck. This is nuts. But let's back up for one sec. When I say, watch the news, I'm not talking about like mainstream news. Cause I agree with you. That's all just bullshit, but you can find specific podcasters or independent YouTube channels that actually give you some substance behind the shit you're watching. Ian, you're muted. Even a lot of them like have their own agendas of being left. Yeah. They have, they have their own bias for sure. But like, I like watching Russell brand. I was just going to say Russell brand. Mike, you're fucking totally tuned out from all this shit, right? You think it's all bullshit, which I don't, I don't disagree with you, but the media, the news, the like, like just watching the news and getting a sense of what's going on. I wouldn't watch the second of the news. I kind of, I kind of knew that was going on. Well, just for, just for shits and giggles, we have the, uh, live election results. Uh, Oh, we got some more input here. Still up by, it's past eight o'clock. So we're going to, we're going to keep checking in to see who went Mike. Do you want Trump wins? Yeah. When Trump wins, we'll celebrate when he, when Trump wins. Should we stay on here all night until the elections are closed? Yeah. Yeah. When Trump wins and then he gets shot tomorrow and we'll, uh, or some massive collapse of the economy happens in the next week. Yeah. When he takes office before he actually takes office. Yeah. Before. Yeah. Hmm. Fuck. Anyways, enough politics. Uh, we do have, we do have some shows to cover. Uh, I got, I got Romania in here. Yep. Uh, Romania. I don't have everybody in there, but I have some of the, I don't even know who this guy is. Want me to get the list and we can add the rest? I have the list, but there's nobody really in here that we know who it is. So like, I don't know if there's a point and adding every single person. Uh, so yeah, here we go. Got a list. I have a dark, dark horse in there. You never know. Well, I'll just pull it. I'll pull it up here. I think, uh, bodybuilders of the borders. Yeah, I have it here. Has it up? Uh, here it is right here. I got it right here. Yeah. So this is all the people. I think most of the notables are in here, but if there's anybody else you guys see in here that I need to add, like, I don't know who Mike, who Lucy is. I don't know. I know Michael Lucy. He's, he's not bad. I mean, you could throw him on the list. I don't know. Are we going to do top five or top 10? It's usually top five for smaller shows, but I mean, we're probably fine, but I mean, admin just to be respectful, you know? Well, then we're disrespecting everybody else. Mark Joyce. I don't know if Mark Joyce is awesome or not. Like, I apologize to these guys. I don't, I don't know everybody who's got a pro card. I like how he's even called horse. You don't know Arbor X. Malari. That guy's great. Malbania. I shouldn't say that. He's going to fuck me up now. Malbanians are crazy. Plus he's probably watching and be like incredible. Yeah. Okay. What's going on, everybody? It's weird. Now that I'm doing more podcasts, I kind of like miss you guys. Cause now I'm like, you're like, I'm talking to other people. So now I come on and I'm like, it's a refreshing. Fucking constantly cheating on us. It's fine. I'm trying to get the people. You're such a slut bro. You're all over the place. I'm trying to give the people what they want, Mike. I'm trying to give the people what they want. They want, they want variety. Um, what's going on, Ian? What's new? Not much. How's your hair looking? Let me see the back. Oh, still missing. Okay. Yeah. Pull right to the back. I go to Turkey next Tuesday. Do you really? Yeah. A week today. A week. He's going to get more hair. I'm not getting more hair. Why not? You're going to be there. Just get more. I want to do that fucking procedure again, man. Fuck that shit. Was it, was it really that rough? It's not even that the procedure is rough. It's just like, I don't want to deal with like having a shaved head, like letting it grow again. Like, fuck that. You know, like I will, I will do another one at some point. Like I do think it works well. And I, I like those guys a lot. And that's where I'm going back to with my, my mom's husband's doing his hair. My, my stepdad's like, I said, Cody and Cody and Cody and hit up. Now we're going to use Cody and. Yeah. Free. Yeah. Free. Three lines of hair. Rock from a rock from Jim Reapers. Yeah. Hit me up. And he's like, Hey, I just watched your YouTube video. He's like, I saw you promoting Jim Reapers and code Ian. Would you like your own code? And I'm like, I was like, Ian's my friend. I appreciate that. Thank you. That's hilarious. Um, okay. So, uh, what else are you going to Turkey next week? That's for stem cells for your, what? I'm going to Turkey for a vacation. Partly. Okay. Um, like the, the now hair time guys like set it up, set us up with like a full itinerized vacation, which is really nice. Going to see some. And then we're going to go from there to Prague to watch Chris. So we're going to go to Prague for three days, watch Chris, and then we're going to come back to Turkey. And my mom's husband's going to do his hair on like the 21st or something. I'm getting some stem cells just for shits and gigs and then, uh, come back. Cool. I want to go to Prague. Yeah. It's going to be. I heard it's beautiful. Well, I don't care about that. I want to see Chris at 270 pounds. I don't think he's going to be 270. That'd be fucking awesome. If you guys, I just saw his, I watched his most recent YouTube video. He said, or whatever, a clip of him and Martin, he's two 60. I'm like, what the fuck? I think in the morning right now, he's two 51. Yeah. Yeah. So I think in that video, when he was a couple of meals deep with like shoes and clothes on, he was two 60. I'm excited to see what I like. I know. I think it'll end up being like two 50 to two 52 on stage. So like eight, eight pounds heavier. I'm trying to measure my expectations, but. I think he's going to be better than I, than I, we think. That's what I'm saying. I'm trying to measure my expectations, but then I think to myself, when somebody is completely full, it's almost a totally different look. I did see some pictures of him for maybe a couple of days ago. He sent and, uh, doing a front lat spread and a back double. And the back looked dramatically different to me. Really? That's the one thing I noticed. This Olympia was like a little lacking a bit of pop when he was a touch on the flat side. Um, his back looked really good. Like the fullness and like pop to the back and the arms and delts and, uh, looked really, really good. And his conditioning was still like really, really good. And he said he was like two 52 in that. So, um, so yeah, I mean, I think he'll be good. I mean, I think it's, I think it's going to be a very close competition between him and Martin. I mean, I think it'll be, it'll be good. But you're kind of overlooking a team. Do you think? I think a team isn't strong enough from the back to stand next to Chris and Martin. He's only missing one pose. Yeah. Well, yeah. I mean, one, his back lat spread is good. His back lat spread is okay. It's not good, but let's take a look at that. It's a bit, it's a bit, it's a bit funky looking. I think he's got a lot of muscle, um, but it doesn't like his insertions are really high. So it's a bit, it's not beautiful, but it's, I think he'll, I think he can beat Chris maybe in a back lat or be close to a crystal back lat. I think Chris beats him handily in a back double. Look at this. Yeah. It's a bit weird, but I'm not saying it's, it's, it's good. I think it's good. Okay. But it's not like, it's like how he hits it. His hands are really low. He's kind of pulling it forward. He's trying to compensate for those really low lats. And I think it works a bit, but it's still like a, it's not like, he's obviously way stronger from the front of the side. Right. I agree. Okay. So let me ask you this. I know you're talking about Chris's back, but I think my hesitation, if I'm going to predict something, by the way, it seems not even on the list for that show yet. I know I'm, I keep assuming he's doing it. I'm just, I'm, I'm hoping, let's just say I'm hopeful that him and Raphael show up. I don't know why they wouldn't. Well, if say if a team wins Romania, then I, do you think he would still do the next one? Or do you think then Raphael, if he loses, then would go do. If I, if I was, if I was either one of those guys or anybody, or anybody who is in shape, who has a chance to stand in a first call out with Chris, I'm doing it. I agree. Just because. We're also already in Romania, like, and they're a week apart shows, like fucking rip out a dog, you know? That's why I keep assuming that they're doing it. I'm like, you'd be stupid not to. You're already in shape. You're already overseas. You're already in Europe. And it's, can I ask a question? Do you, do you think that, do you think that they're afraid that they'll give Chris a better placing because of politics and who Chris is? No, I don't think so. I know. It's just, no, no, I know it's a, it's I've, I've seen people say that I personally don't think, look, in my opinion, for what it's worth, I, this is going to sound so stupid to you guys, but I kind of may draw the similarity between this and cars. And I'm going to explain myself. So, so, like Porsche has a nine 11 GT three RS. Porsche makes a GT four. They almost won't ever make the GT four better than the GT three RS because they are separate. So in my opinion, when it comes to the league, they are not trying to make Chris better than the open guys. Cause I agree. It fucks everything up. I don't think that they're caring either way. I don't, no, no, I don't, I don't, I don't think they're like purposely going to make them lose. I'm not saying that. No, but they're going to be like, they're going to be. Yeah. I agree. I guess what I'm trying to say is this. It doesn't help them. To have Chris win. To have Chris win and beat all the open guys. So I don't think that's in their best interest for them. Especially if Chris isn't going to continue doing the open, which I don't think he will. And where Martin will be. And Martin just came forth. Like if anything, then it's like killing a bit of Martin's buzz for next year and not continuing with the Chris buzz. So I think I'll judge it very fairly. I don't think anyone's going to get a leg up. And like you said, I don't think it serves anybody to like have Chris win. Cause it's not like it's protecting his name in classic. It's a separate class. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. He can be the best guy in classic ever. Right. He can go to men's open and come 10th in a show. Like it can still happen. It's irrelevant. You know what I mean? Just like when, you know, if you put Sean Clarita in this lineup, he's a Mr. Olympia too, in a different class. It doesn't mean that he's going to win or be better. You know, it's like, well, I think that's a different, I think that's a different. I think it's different because Chris is Chris, but yes, I agree with the sentiment. Yeah. I think. You think they don't want to stand next to him? Like if Raphael stands next to him. No, they do. You think they do. I mean, if they don't, they're making a, they're dumb. I think so. I think they should do it. Even if you don't beat him. If God was 10 weeks away, I'd do it. Yeah. I'd be fucking, let's go. I mean, I think there's nothing to lose by getting up there. Cause like, if you lose to him, it's like, oh, well, he's six times. He's the fun of the fucking goats of the sport. And he was, you know, no way cap now looked better. He was awesome. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. He's one of the greatest. Yeah. You have you. So it's like, it's no, it's nothing against you. Even if Martin loses to Chris, I don't think it's a knock on Martin. It's like, he still came forth in the Olympia two weeks ago. It means nothing. You're actually, for other guys like Raphael and Akeem, I don't think it does anything to them. Yeah. You're absolutely right. You lose nothing. In your personal stock by losing to Chris, because Chris is seen as like the fucking Arnold of our day. So it's like, if he's filled out 10 pounds heavier and he beats you, he's got, he's got a freaky fucking physique. So it's like, it doesn't, I don't think it makes Akeem, Raphael, Martin, anybody look any worse. Not at all. So, and like we talked about before, I think to be part of the media circus, that will be this show. I think is beneficial no matter what. So like, if you're a Raphael or Akeem and you get in that first call out, Chris is going to be posting pictures from that. Martin will. There'll be lots of, you know, the show itself sold out in like 24 hours after Chris announced it. Their pay-per-view numbers are going to be comparable to the Olympia, if not higher, which I got the numbers on, by the way. Um, and so I don't know. I don't think, you know, I think it's going to be always beneficial to do the show. If you're someone that's like at that level. And even if you're not, you know, I, um, I think even if you're not speaking as speaking as the old guy, who's retired, even if it's not about the fanfare or just being seen, just being able to, just being able to say like 10 years after you're done, I stood on stage with fucking Chris. And it was like, and I know maybe that doesn't seem like a big deal now, but it will 10 years from now. Well, exactly. It's like, you know, it's one of those cool things to like, you know, when you're retired and you're talking about your career with your fucking kids or your grandkids or whatever, and be like, they'll know who C bum is in 50 fucking years from now. And you'd be like, yeah, this is me on stage with that fucker. You know, you're like, I beat that fucking guy. Yeah. I beat that guy. Or he what my fucking ass. And the thing is too, Chris is a good guy and it's going to be a lot of fun. Like this is a fun show. I like, I like Chris has got like, uh, from what I see, obviously I don't know him. Like, you know, me, but from what I see online, he has like quiet confidence, but also humility. So like when I watch his video and he's like, yeah, I don't think I'm going to win. I just want to go have fun. Yeah. I think he's kind of bullshitting. Like I know he wants to win, but at the same time, but at the same time he's being genuine. Yeah. There's, I think there's a difference. I think he wants to win. Of course. Yeah. He doesn't want to lose. He's a, he's a competitor and a champion competitor. He hasn't lost a show in like seven years, you know, he only does one show a year. He's lost nothing in 90% of his career. You know? Right. I mean, I think he's only in his entire professional career lost two shows really. And they were, well, no, sorry, three, but two of them were Olympias, you know, second in those two. So like every show he's done in the last 10 years has been Olympias. And he was first for six of them. Second for two of them. You know what? You know what though? It's funny. If you think of Phil Heath, he can say something similar too. Cause I think Phil's only lost like four shows. Yeah. Like you, you know, there was like an Arnold. It was one or one Arnold or two Olympia, a couple Olympias, two Olympias, maybe. I think there was more than two. Was there a night of champions? No, he won that. No, he won a night of champions. I think he only lost like four shows in his whole career. I think he's not many for sure. Yeah. I think he lost one Arnold. Yeah. Here we go. I have four. Okay. He lost three. Sorry. He lost five Olympias. Oh, wow. I didn't know that. Yeah. Because he came. Well, the last one and I didn't, I forgot about that. Yeah. So 2008, he came third, 2009, he came fifth, 2010, he came second. Then he won seven in a row and then he lost 2018. And then he took a year off. He came back in 2020 and came third. He's got how many losses? Six. So five Olympia losses. And then he has an, he lost on Arnold. I know that. Two Arnold's three Arnold's. So he's got seven losses, eight losses, man. He's shit. He's lost more shows than me. They made a documentary about that guy. Um, but regular season shows. He's won all of them. It was just Arnold's Olympias that he wasn't winning. No, I don't think that's true. You have his record. Yeah. Didn't he lose like the Colorado show or something to Darren Charles. Um, like when it was very first, Colorado pro 2006 first, New York pro 2006 first, Arnold. Okay. Seven, fifth, 2008 Ironman first. Okay. I thought that he did. Oh, that he did a screw classic. He won a couple of times. I thought that, uh, I thought the one in the very first one, 2006, I thought he was second place, but I, yeah, he won one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 13 shows, seven of which were Olympias. How many did you win? 13. No, how many did you win? Zero Olympias, six shows. You won six shows. Yeah. So me and Phil won the same amount of shows. I'm basically Phil Heath. Regular season shows, but then he won seven Olympias. He won't count them. I've won more pro shows than Chris. Like sec, you got a, you got a couple of pro wins. Don't you have one pro win? One pro win. That's right. It was your, it wasn't that your debut. Yep. You're about to have another pro win. Is it going to be, we'll see the question I want to ask you though, is, is it going to be open or two 12? Uh, don't, don't do two 12. Come on. I don't know. We're going to find out open. We're going to find out. Dude, even if you're, even if you're 210 pounds, you still can stand with the open guys. Well, that's what we're, that's what I want to find out. I want to find out what I'm, where, where my body will go in the next like 10 weeks from now. What do you, what do you weigh right now? Uh, two 23.8 this month. No, you're not even going to make two 12. Are you fucking kidding me? You're already peeled. Grow to the show. You, I mean, you could make two 12, but then you're going to fucking strip away a couple pounds of muscle and you're going to look stringy. I'm going to, I'm right. Like I said, all I'm doing, I'm just going to train, eat, do my thing for the next 12 weeks. I'm going to give honey a call here, see if he wants to hang out and then have him like, kind of take the reins and be like, Hey, so honey's going to, so honey's going to coach you into the show. I don't know. I gotta, I gotta ask him. I have to, he's going to coach you. He's a crazy guy, dude. He's, he's yeah, but I know honey and he's going to be like, he wants to ride that fucking train. Yeah. Let's get him on the line. Let's get him on the line. Call him up. Put him on the spot right now. Ask him right now. Call him right now. He's, I know he's, he's, he's waiting patiently. He's going to just fucking be like, what are you, why didn't you fucking call me? Why didn't you call me? He's going to be mad at you. He's going to be like, why'd you, why'd you wait till eight weeks out? Yeah. Tell him that I'm coaching you instead. I'm going to go with Ian. Yeah. Just, just, just say to him that I, you know, I was looking back at Chris's pictures and I think he was a little better with the packages with Ian. He'll fucking hang up on you immediately. He will. Oh, I love that guy. It's very much untrue. Love that guy. Okay. Mike. Yes. How are you? I'm good. How have you been? Been pretty good. I know. I noticed, I noticed you, uh, haven't been on Instagram. What happened? Yeah. I was removed. I was removed. You're removed. You're naughty. You're removed for being naughty. I was removed by, uh, let's leave it there. A gaggle, a gaggle of, a gaggle of, a gaggle of, a gaggle of gooses, a gaggle of, a gaggle of over, over, over reported my account for fake harassment. And, got me taken down. So, I went and created that, that spot at sky. No, free bird. Free bird. Sorry. Free bird. Yeah. What a fucking trip that place is. Eh? Yeah. It's great. I felt like I was in a fucking acid trip being in that gym. Because all the colors and shit and the, like wild colors, like fucking swords on the walls. There's a Harley fucking in the middle of the gym. Like, that's right. It's hilarious. Yeah. That's somebody who made the gym their own. Yeah. I don't respect that. Um, Seth, how was your predictions for the show? We just got off the topic. Okay. One second. I know we got off the topic. All right, man. Let's fucking wrap this. Bring it back around. Let's wrap up the podcast already. I got election shit to watch. Questions? Questions? Okay. Let's go. Seth, how was the next, the last week of prep? Uh, I mean, I'm just, I'm eating and training. I am having so much fun training. I'm having a ball. Fuck you, man. Stop being so fucking, give me something. Uh, give me some juice. Not literally. I was going to ask Ian about the juice. I got serious. I'm coming in. I was pumped about that. I've never taken it before. This is the first time I'll be able to. No, I've never. Why? What do you take normally? Uh, like the gentropin, the Pfizer. Oh no, you're going to, you're going to explode now. Oh, really? Different types of GH do different stuff. This fucking GH. Now you're going to fucking burst with fucking. You like, you like the Saros better. Okay. I listen, I know we're making, you guys are making fun of me, but I'm being serious. My Saros are my favorite. Yeah. I actually tried the, I tried the genotropin. I didn't really like them. The humotrope. I like the Eli, the Eli lilies. Yeah. Jenna, Jenna, Jenna. I hope I didn't like that much. Sarah, Sarah, Sarah, Sarah, the Canadian Saros are my favorite. Canadian. Nootropin is pretty good too. Yeah. I haven't tried that one. That's a Canadian one as well. Did you get the American Sarah or the Canadian? American. Oh, you're fucked. It's not the same. I'm going to give it back to him and tell him I want my money back. Say, give me the Canadian, give me the Canadian one. Important shit. So you're starting Sarah's thing this week. Yeah. When it comes in, I'm going to be excited. I've never taken it. Cause I just, I was like, it's expensive. I like the gentropin pens. And you know, now that you've told people that from the podcast, everybody, every time you post something, everyone's just going to be like, Oh, the Sarah was working. The Sarah was working. Yeah. People, people think I'm sauced out of my mind. Now I'm like, no, dude, not yet. You'll know. Trust me. You'll know. What do you mean? You'll know. Look at this. This is so that you are so wild. This is your, this is sauced out of your mind. Fuck you. No, it's not. Not yet. Okay. Well, wait a minute. Sauced out of your mind is a relative term. Hmm. Okay. If we're saying like six, a day is not. They're just little white pills, man. They don't do that. Like, like sauce out of your mind for set is not sauced out of your mind for like another person. It's I'm test primo and growth right now. Yeah. But lots. No, not. But like three grams. Between six and 800 a week. And then of test and then 450 primo. Okay. That's modest. That's modest. That's like TRT plus. Plus, plus, plus, plus. Okay. So wait, uh, 800 tests, 450 primo. And then what else? Mastro? No, just growth. How much growth? Three, four, five, five. I use. Five. I use. Yeah. Interesting number. I always had to go decimals like two, four, six. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I always do that too. Why, why, why the odd number? That's the, that's the key. Maybe that's the secret. That's what I did wrong. I was thinking too much. That's my secret. Funny secrets right there. Five. That's not true. I work with honey. It was way. No, I'm just joking. Um, what else? Did you change any of your food yet? Are you eating more, eating less? Are you eating the same? Eating more. I finally, I'm, I'm up to, so I start the morning with overnight oats. So I do, Hannah makes overnight oats and they're delicious. Cause I just wanted to stop snacking. Yeah. The big part was I was like, I gotta stop. I'm a huge snacker. I'm like, I need to get in the food that like, I want things to taste good. I want things to taste good, but then I'm all, I don't want to go to snacking. So I was like, um, uh, I start with overnight oats. They're delicious. And then after the overnight oats, I go to, um, uh, chicken, rice. Yeah. I don't think I have any, no, I go chicken and rice. I do one beef meal a day, one potato meal. Um, and then she makes a, uh, like a chicken bowl for me every night, chicken, rice, uh, like, wait a minute. I have to back you up a bit. Your wife makes you breakfast and dinner every day. Just dinner. Just dinner. Yeah. But you said you have overnight oats. Yeah. She makes, she does like a, like she makes them in little containers and does it three day. One, she makes three or four at a time. Yeah. That's breakfast. Yeah. It's like a half a meal. So I have that. And then like an hour and a half later, I have my first meal. So she makes you 1.5 meals a day, every day, every day. Oh my God. It must be nice. I know. Right. Mike, what the fuck am I doing wrong over here? It also makes every single meal. You hear that? Get at it. Ian. Better hear those pots clanking around pretty soon. Ian, you get every meal made every day. I would say in a week of 35 meals, I might cook three of those. You know, you don't deserve that, right? Wow. Yeah. I hope you know that. Okay. Hold on. Okay. Hold on. That's better. He's like, he's like, you think you're up here. That's your opinion. No, no, no. Let's back this up a little bit. Okay. I just want to say this. When you were a professional bodybuilder, I could see the wife supporting you. Now you're just a fucking retired guy. So she's still looking for you. No reason. I'm still the breadwinner, you know, he's retired. Yeah. But you just sit there. You don't do anything. That's what I did as a bodybuilder too. Yeah. But you were actually like competing. Now you just literally sit there and do nothing. I do literally everything the exact same other than get on stage like three times a year. Yeah. But that's the whole point. Do you really? Is that, is it, is your life still that regimented with everything? I'm back to like pretty much the same. I'm not pushing food as hard. I'm eating five meals a day that are like decent size. So like maybe 35 to 4,000 calories a day, like in five meals. And I eat the same meals pretty much every day. And I train the same as I did when I was competing every day. Can I just say. You're still in it, dude. You're still trying to hold on to everything I can at this point. Cause I'm fucking off everything. Yeah. Can I just say really? It's just my jealousy is coming out in a negative way. Yeah. Well, I mean, your wife, I have, I have zero meals made for me every day. Zero, not half, not one, zero. Somebody feel bad for me. Somebody. You're a poor guy. Sorry. Mike, do you have zero meals made or do you have some? I make all my meals. Sometimes I get rice made for me. Yeah. That's a rice cooker. In the rice cooker. Yeah, but it's okay. It's funny how, it's funny how like when you're used to getting zero meals made, even the rice is like, Oh, I got the rice made. I'll give myself at least a little bit of feather in my cap that I do assemble the meals. Well, there you go. Assembled by Ian. He cooks all the chicken. You're the sous chef. You're the sous chef. Yeah. There'll be like potatoes or rice or like chicken or beef in the fridge. Put it on the plate. And then I'll go put the scale. I'll weigh it all. And I'll microwave it. Oh, you're so lucky. That's it. I'm, I'm, I am very well taken care of. Like I always have. Well, listen, in, in my wife's defense, she works her fucking ass off for the company. For the company. So I don't want to make her sound like she just sitting there doing nothing. I know there's a time coming soon when Melissa will be working more where I will not have that benefit. Yeah. What are you going to do? I'm milking it till the end. You know, you're totally going to get fat. Watch, watch, watch, I'll get skinny. No, you're going to get fat because you're going to want to eat, but you're too lazy to cook. So you're going to Uber eats like me. No, I'll just not eat. So you're just going to get, you're going to turn into like a run. I'll just be like skinny ripped, you know, if you ever get skinny ripped, I'm going to fucking laugh my ass off. It's going to be great. Um, okay. Let's take a look at the show and do some predictions. Finally. Sorry, Ian. I didn't know you, I didn't know you were in a fucking rush. Ian's like, let's pick and get off the show already. Okay. Uh, let's take a look at some people. Rafa, does Rafa have anything recent posted? Uh, I think he posted something last week. That one there. Yeah. Yeah. This looks actually pretty good. Like I know it's in the gym. It's in the gym. You can't really tell and stuff, but it looks crisper. Yeah. It just needs the condition to be improved from the Olympia to like stand a real chance. But I mean, his quads are always peeled. So I don't know. Like, I don't think they were like that at the O though. Yeah. That's a fucking serious, serious feathering there. He's got some serious fucking quads on him. They're gnarly. Yeah. Yeah. So round. Like, I don't think we've, have we ever seen Rafa like shredded, shredded? Not really. Not like if, you know, he looks lean. I wonder, you ever wonder though, Seth, like sometimes, you know, I'm sure you guys have experienced this. Like when you're getting close to, you know, low single digits body fat, it's like, you know, you drank whatever amount of liters of water. You took your pre-workout. You've had a couple of meals. You trained, you have a serious fucking pump and everything looks perfect, but you can never replicate that on stage. Exactly. You get as close to it as you can, but it's like the gym is always like a better, you know what I mean? Like you sweat, he did your workout. So there's no subcutaneous water. It's like, it's not quite enough detailed look for stage, but it's definitely a sick look. Yeah. No, no. But you know what I'm saying, Ian? Like the way, the way, the way you peak, if we call it a peak, the way you peak post-workout is hard to replicate because you've had an hour long workout. Your blood's all flowing. Everything's pumped. You sweat. So all the water's gone from the top of the top layer of fucking underneath the skin and everything looks phenomenal. I've been at shows where guys have, I've seen guys like get backstage. I know. I've seen that too. I, who was it? There was a very, no shit. It was somebody really popular, like Rami or fucking Kai. Somebody did like cardio or workout, like the morning of, or the night before something. I think it was like the morning of, I can't remember who it was, but somebody did like a fucking workout and they said, that's what made them look the way they looked on stage. I've seen some pretty, like some of the guy, like those early two thousands, late nineties guys that like I competed with late, early in my career, get backstage and like workout, pump up for an hour. Yeah. I saw Sergio do it at the Arnold once. He trained like hard for like 45 minutes. Yeah. I mean, it's scary to try that though. So if you're not, you have a lot of water, like if you're depleted, even just a hair, yeah, you're fucked. You're yeah. If you start sweating and dry and flatten out a bit, you're fucked. Yeah. Hmm. So, okay, let's go to, uh, if we're talking about Romania, we got Rafa, we've seen, Akeem is looking fucking phenomenal. It does look incredible. Uh, if I go back here and then I go Akeem, actually, I don't have to do that. I got this plugged into the fucking thing. Now, if we go to Akeem, Oh my God. Oh wait, no, I can't do that. Wait, I can do that. I know I can do that. There's something here where I can. Shit. Wait, I think, Oh yeah, there we go. Boom. Oh yeah, there it is. Nice. We already looked at Rafa. Rafa's got 1.7 million on Instagram. That's what I was, I just saw that. They're all Brazilian. That's crazy. Those fucking Brazilian fans are nuts, man. They love their people. Uh, and then we got, uh, let's see what Marcelo is. He posted anything. Yeah. He just posted something. I think today. I hope he looks like this. I hope he looks like this. Next one down right under it. This one. Yep. 1.1 million. Holy shit. He does too. Yeah. I, I'm weary of horse. I really, I really, really hope he brings it, but I'm, I need to see it on stage. I don't think he can beat Rafa or Akeem, but I think he's close after that. One second. Can you specify something? What? If he's in the best condition of his life, can he beat Rafa and Akeem? I disagree. How, what, in what poses is he beating them? I think he has better legs than both. I don't think he has better legs than Rafa. I do. They're different shape. I think they sweep better. Than Rafa? Personally, I think so. Yeah. I don't know. Here, look, let's take, let's, let's take a look. Rafa's are big. Rafa's are really big, but it's a different shape. Like, look at this fucking quad, dude. Like, this is a sweep. that photo was crazy, but I think you could go on Rafa's profile and find some pretty nutty pictures like that too. Yeah, but like, even on stage, like the sweep on this fucking guy. No, you're right. They look pretty nuts, yeah. Like, look at that. I think, I think that he just needs to, like, look at the side leg here. Like, this is, you know what I mean? Like, Akeem, Akeem probably has thicker legs than both of them, to be honest, but. I mean. No, those, those might be bigger legs than Rafa's. I still think Rafa's legs are better though. Well, only because he's more, like, here's him and Samson. Like, look at the thickness of that fucking leg. Yeah, no, you're right. And then that's from the front. Like, look at that. But this is what I'm saying. Like, if this is peeled, like, he's not peeled. Like, if this gets peeled, he's a big guy. Well, I think the thing that hurts him the most is his, like, his waistline's a bit weird. I agree with you. And his back is not as developed as the front. Um, but. You're right. Those are, those are bigger legs than Rafa's. I do agree. If you look at the overall structure of him though, he's just a very big guy. That's why I'm like, I'd love to see what he looks like. Shredded, shredded. What was Rafa though? You think so? I don't think of Rafa as a big guy. I saw Rafa in person at the Olympia and saw a horse at the, in person at the Olympia. I didn't think that horse was bigger to, in person than Rafa. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think you're right. In person. Yeah. I think in pictures though, he doesn't look as big as he is. They're both like a bit taller than me. They're both like probably in that two 60 range on stage, you know, he's just really nasty physique. He's really well put together. Yeah. Yeah. Of course, definitely does have bigger legs. You're right. This is, um, yeah. I mean, the thing is Rafa is much more balanced. Like he's got better overall body parts. I think good midsection development, small waist, good X frame, good chest projection, you know? So you think even if Marcello's peeled, Rafa can still take him. I don't think Marcello is going to be as peeled as we'd all like him to be. No, no, I know. I'm just playing a stupid game. I'm just, I'm just playing a stupid game. Cause I'm a big fan of, of horse. Yeah. Yeah. But I think Raphael is incredible. So, well, the thing I worry about most with horses, his upper body is not as developed. So if he gets peeled, peeled, then does his chest and back look really flat? I don't, I didn't think Rafa was great at the Olympia and he was still top 10 at the Olympia. I don't think that horse is a top 10 Olympia guy. Yeah. I think I could agree with that. I think Rafa will be better at this show than he was at the Olympia. So I think it'll be right. I don't think he'll be. Okay. So Marcello, no matter where he is, probably is can't handle where the fuck is Akeem here. Here's Akeem. Akeem's most recent photos are really like have me pumped. Like this is, I mean, some of those most musculos look really good too. I just, you know, I can honestly, like, I know the back is an issue, but it's only an issue in the back double for me. Like, look at his fucking arms, man. Yeah. His arms are ridiculous. But I mean, even if like, okay, Akeem's considered a mass monster. Like he's a big fucking guy, but look at his aesthetics. Like he's got a small waist. Like he's got nice shape. Like there's, there's no reason why he can't win. I don't think one pose is enough to, to cause him to lose. You guys ever use this fucking Kinesio tape shit? No. What? Once in my life did nothing for me. Um, that's crazy, man. Gnarly. Can he beat Raphael? He could. He was what? Two places behind him at the Olympia. Right. I think, I think, I think he can. I don't think he will. Um, look at the mirror shot. The mirror shots always. One thing with the show though is, Oh no, sorry. Frog is, I don't know about Romania. He is sorry. Frog is a two day show. Um, I know he's always like Mr. Second day, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's take a look at him on stage. Yeah. I mean, if he shows up like he did on Saturday night at the Olympia, can he beat, can he beat Raphael? Yes, he can. Yes. Will, I think it'll be between those two. I think Rapha will beat him though. I agree. Do you think a dark or do you think a dark horse, like, and, uh, Christian Wolski or an Amir can stand with these guys or they just not, not completed all out on the outside. I don't think they could beat the beat. Here's Christian Wolski. Wolski's great, but I don't think. Oh, what's this? Please add their IG. Oh fuck. That one's not added. Okay. Let's go here and go. Christian. Wolski. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, he has some nice body parts, but I don't know if he's put together well enough to break quads, nice lines. Yeah. Yeah. Very well balanced. I think he's great when he's on, he looks really good and can stand next to anyone, but I don't think he's, I think he could maybe beat horse maybe, but I don't think so. Okay. I'm going to ask you to do some education right now for people watching. Cause not everybody that's watching is a hardcore bodybuilder. So you say great balance, which I agree with, but we also say it's not a pretty enough shape to stand or put together well enough to stand with Raphael and Hakeem. So can you break that down for somebody as to what the fuck that means? Because you're saying he's balanced, but he's also not put together well or well enough. So, okay. Well, I said that. Imagine you did. Imagine. Well, no, do you, do you, okay. Then, okay. Then I'll rephrase the question. He's very balanced, but not good enough to beat Hakeem or Raphael. Why? I think he's not big enough for one. I think he's probably significantly lighter on stage than these guys. I mean, I don't think he's, you know, you can even see there just the total tissue. I think he looks more like a two 12 guy that moved up than a full size open guy yet. I mean, I can hold his own in some shots for sure. I think he's got great legs. I think overall, like I said, he flows pretty well. I just don't think he's quite big enough. You know, I think it's specific body parts though. Like when I look at his physique, like it's like the quads are amazing. The chest is amazing, but then it's like the arms maybe aren't big enough and the back is maybe not big enough. So it's like, it's balanced, but not necessarily a hundred percent. It's balanced top to bottom, side to side, but not necessarily balanced in terms of like proportion, but balanced is then like, I agree that there's still some body. No, I was sorry. I just want to phrase it properly. I was going to say not balanced in terms of proportion because not all the muscles are the same size, but the overall structure of his physique is balanced. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm just saying, I'm phrasing it part by part. Like when you look at it as a whole picture, proportionately, it all kind of works together. Right. Right. I think when you break it down part by part, it's like, okay, you know, but I mean, you could say the same thing about Chris. It's like, yeah, Chris is very balanced overall and like flows very well, but no, he does need a lot more arms and he needs it. Like, you know what I mean? Like, you know, it's weird about that though. And I really, I really looked at his physique after we had that debate about the side chest and stuff. And I'm like, no, I actually still disagree with you. I don't, I definitely actually, you've come around, haven't you? After the podcast, I actually, I disagree with you more than we did, but no, but what I was going to say is even though his arms aren't like 24 inch arms, they actually are kind of proportionate with his legs. Cause his quads are big, but their overall 3d dimension is not really, really thick. Not from the front. No, but like from any side, like side, the side and the back, I think his legs are very big. He's got huge adductors and hamstrings. I think the back, I think his quads over the years, just from like, you know, small injuries and age, I think his quads are comparing cardio. Yeah. I mean, if you look at his, what his quads used to look like in 2017, 18, I mean, you can see the, you know, the loss of the sweep a bit there, especially on the right leg, you know? But I think what, but I think what I'm saying though, Ian is like, when you look at this leg from hip to toe, yeah, it matches the arm. Yeah. In certain shots, I think in a front double, you can still see that his arms are a weakness a little bit for sure. All right. Let me see here. I don't know. It looks proportionate to me. That doesn't look super disproportionate. I don't, I agree, but I mean, you can see his arms. Because like, you know what, you know what, you know why? When I look at his side chest there, I don't see that. Oh, hold on. You know, when I look at like an open bodybuilder, like this shallowness right here makes the arm work. If he had, if he had open bodybuilder legs where they were like, well, he might put any, probably will pose. And like, this is like a little side tilt. See, I think his legs from the side are awesome. Yeah. Yeah. They are. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I think for the back, they're awesome. But I see that. That is fuck too. Yeah. I mean, his arms. It's to me, to me, I don't think they're a big issue, but to me, I think like, here's a front, like, look, see the gap here in his legs. Yeah. To me, that's what makes this all work with his arms because it looks, the proportions all look equal. Yeah. I see it more there that he's lost a bit of the sweep on his quads, not the adductor. Yeah. Like this is on the outside. There's a little bit of volume lost more on that right quad than the left. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But you know. Yeah. And from the back, I still think the same thing. Like, I know you say it's big from the back, but like, this is a big gap here. Right. So I think that, I think that's what makes it work with the arms. See there, I think it looks there. There I can. Yeah. The adductor's a bit more, you know? Yeah. Yeah. There. I feel like it's a disproportionate, like these legs look too big. Yeah. But that's what I said, when I said earlier that I thought his back was the one noticed the flatness the most. And you can see it in that shot. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So going back to Wolski then, uh, where, where the fuck were we? How do I get back there? Oh, there he is. Okay. So we're, that's what we're saying. I'm saying the overall structure is balanced, but muscle to muscle proportion is not necessarily as even as it needs to be. Okay. Yeah. No, I think there's still some areas like up top, you know, that needs a little more shoulder. The shoulders throw me off a bit too. Cause he's got a good chest and I don't feel like there's enough cap on the delts. No, the shoulders a little narrow to match it, you know? Yeah. Like I need, I need more like of a cap here. Yeah. Um, but anyway, he's a notable, he's definitely going to be good. Uh, going back. Yon Turek. I don't have him either. Yon. Yon, Yon, Yon. Where the fuck is he? Yon Turek. Yon Turek. Uh, let's see. Is he going to be big enough? Thick enough? No. Who said no? Me. Yeah. He is. Well, yeah, he definitely could use more size. Uh, going back a mirror. That's what I want to see. Cause a mirror always brings the fucking nutty conditioning, which kind of overtakes some people. I always, when I say his name, say a mirror. Oh, magic. I know. I do the same thing. He just gets nasty peels. Are we saying, are we going to say, Ian, go ahead. I'm not going to assume what you're going to say. Where, what do you think his downfall is going to be? I think his downfall is his quads for sure. Like you need more leg to match. He's got a lot of dents. Like you can see his chest is fucking dense. Like he's got some good muscle up top. Yeah. Um, I think the legs still are a little thin on the sweep there on them. Yeah. I, I see a, a kind of a torso dominant bodybuilder. They look not bad there, but you can still see that there he's heavier up top. Like the density in the muscle up top is actually pretty good. It's not, it's, it's not just up top though. It's just, it's torso versus limbs. Yes. I feel like his limbs are, are a little bit thin. Yeah. You know, through the arm and the leg versus his torso is a little bit wider. Yeah. And his arms there in the front double, you can definitely see. Yeah. I don't think his arms at the side chest. They, they looked actually pretty good. And that one you looked above, they actually looked really big or in that side tricep there. Where are this one? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, everybody can hide that. Yeah. But that's, it matters what you see. So I think in a side chest or side try, I think they're great. And I think, but I think in a, I know, but you, but you would agree when you're judging the shots that expose you the most are front and back doubles. I would agree there. Yeah. That's kind of, you're judged, even though it's probably wrong to say, you're probably judged heavily, more heavily on those poses. And you're, and you're front relaxed. Yeah. Yeah. Cause it's like, you can't really hide much in those shots. When you stand in your front, relaxed a lot in the comparisons that in the front double. And also when they do the initial round, they'll usually do like front relaxed quarter turn or front double bicep, quarter turn back double bicep, quarter turn to the front. And then they'll move guys after, and then they'll do the full brown. So, yeah, I mean, just right there, it's indicative that they're judging that more potentially at those levels. Yeah. Let's take a look. Uh, who is this? Alexandru. Oh, this guy. Okay. We saw him earlier this year. No. Oh yeah. The one we saw him, there was a show. We saw him at. Fuck man. Those are stupid shoulders. Legs thick too. I think he's a, what was this? A two 12 guy that moved up. I don't know. His legs look really good. His legs are big enough. I don't know if the upper body's big enough to stand with these guys, but it's. Yeah. I'm going to keep going. All right. Let's see. How the back looks. I think there was a post of, of him on another channel today. Yeah. That's a little thin back there, but it's proportionate. It's just not like you said, like his legs are definitely a strong point. Yeah. He's still a little light. I think. Yeah. There go to those four. Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty, that's pretty nice. That's a big improvement though. Look at that. Yeah, I know. It's 24. That's a huge improvement. That side chest looks fucking sick in that bottom. Is this one, is this one year? Is this one year? It is one. Holy fuck. One, and one show is four to five days out. And one'S-23 days. You know what happened there, Seth? Yeah. Canadian, Canadian Sarah. Did you do it myself? I shouldn't say that. I know you shouldn't say that. I'm not a drug dealer. I'm not a drug dealer. I love you, mom. Look at this. Look at this, look at this fucking shot, man. That's nice. Biceps are crazy. This whole thing, like the vacuum and everything, it fucking looks great. I just, yeah, he's probably going to give up. Oh my God. Okay. I got to watch this. Sorry, guys. I got to see what the fuck is going on here. He's not just going to do a handstand on his fucking. Oh, it's his pro debut. Is that Romania? It says one second. I got to see this. Wait. Oh, I thought he's going to do a handstand. Conditioning definitely needs to be better here, but he's guest posing. He's guest posing. He's guest posing. I got to see this fucking handstand. I'm going to, I'm sorry, everybody. You have to watch this. I'm sorry, everybody. You have to watch this. Well, it's kind of like dead air, but I want to see, I don't know if I could wear a thong when I go on. I mean, I know sometimes your trunks go in your ass, but like, I don't want them to start there. How long ago is this from? This is four weeks ago or edited four weeks ago. I don't know what it's from. Exactly. Come on, man. Handstand this shit already. Let's see it. Okay. Here we go. Okay. He did the cross. He's going to make sure he doesn't fall. Okay. Focused. High green shit. Oh, imagine that guy who stood there the whole time. Oh my God. He's doing a fucking press too. Oh, what the fuck? That's impressive. Oh, that was worth the wait. He's doing reps, dude. What the fuck? Okay. I have a question. That was super impressive. How much money, or is there any amount of money that somebody could pay you and you'd be able to do that? Seth. This is physically impossible. Well, you got, you have fucking shoulder surgery. You're not doing it. Seth. I don't know if I could. That's a, that's a lot. With like no wall, just balance. With the wall, with the wall, you know, with the wall, you could do it. No wall. Ian, you think you could do that? If you, if somebody, if somebody said, I'll give you a hundred thousand dollars, but you have to do it in a month. I can do it. You can do it. No, dude. Yeah. No. Mike's like, you know, I can, I can walk on my hands, but I don't think I, the pushups, I would need to practice. You can't walk on your hands. You can, I used to be able to, no problem. You can tip yourself over and walk until you fall. That's not walking on your hands. Exactly what that is. No. Walking on your hands is stopping and then walking and stopping again. So if I'm standing upright and I tip forward and start running, am I not running? It's not the same. You know what I'm saying? Why? Cause you're just using momentum to walk on your hands. That's not the same. That's what it is. I can do that. I can. No, you absolutely can. I can 100% do that. I'll personally give you, I'll personally give you a thousand dollars. If you do that, if you can walk five steps on your hands, I'll give you a thousand bucks. Do my feet have to be straight up or can they bend? It can bend. Okay. I can do it. Five steps. I'm taking your money. I'm taking your money. You know that, right? Three, four, five. Yeah. Then you have to hold at five. No, no, no. It's like a gymnast. When they dismount, you can't fuck up the dismount. Fuck that. I want Ian's money. I'm walking five steps. I'm taking your money. I expected my PayPal account. You know my PayPal. You know it. Send it over. Are you still riding Ian or no? I rode once this week. Yeah. It's a lot colder. It's still nice. What's the Celsius? What is it up there? It's been like. 10, eight. Oh, less than that. Yeah. Oh, really? We're still, we're still like today was 24 here, which. It was 19. It was 19 here today, but it was raining in the morning. Yeah. I think 24 is like what? 80 Fahrenheit, 75 Fahrenheit, something like that. Tomorrow's supposed to be 20 though. And, and just cloudy. So did you buy another, did you buy another bike? You said you were going shopping. I looked at two. Yeah. Seth, you got to see the bike. This guy wants. It's like literally for a toddler. I'm like, don't buy that bike. This is just like, this is small. No, it's fucking tiny. Even Ben said that was a fucking sick bike and I should get it. Ben loves tiny bikes. Yeah, but I don't want a fucking big Harley. I want, I'm not saying get a big Harley, but this. Then what, what's the next step up? Like my sport bike's not small. Yeah, but I don't want a bike that big. You're not. I don't want a child. I don't want a 200 horsepower bike yet. I know, but you're going to look like an ape on a tricycle. No, I'm not. Oh my God, dude. Look at this bike, Seth. Look how small it's the bike. Look how small. The bike isn't small. Look how small this fucking bike is. Okay. Any bike is going to look small in a picture. No, this is a small bike. Look at this thing. It's like a dinky car. Look at this fucking car. No, this isn't what it looks like. It is. That's exactly. But yeah, they're a lot bigger than you think. I know what they look like. It's not a big bike. Okay. This is it. Like that. You're going to see 260 fucking pound Ian with four foot fucking wide wingspan and shoulders on this tricycle. No, it doesn't look, it doesn't look weird when I sit on it. I don't know anything about bikes, so I can't be a judge of it. I can't. I don't. Looks like a Tom Cruise. Like, I don't think it's that much smaller than like, I don't think it's that small as you think. I looked at the DFL, which I really liked. The only reason I didn't want to get it is because the back tire on it is like the same size as the one in your low rider. Okay. Look, look at that. I don't want something with a tire that big. So I know the handling's not going to be great. Look at this guy. That's a fucking Grom, bro. Look at this guy. This is a fucking Ducati. Okay. Look at this guy. This guy. His posture is so good. Listen, this guy weighs 190 pounds and he looks too big for this bike. That's, that's a small looking bike. That's not right. That's the fucking bike, dude. Ducati monster. And I looked at this in the street triple as well. What's really like, dude, this is the bike you get. Watch. Yeah. But the DFL has a fucking like 40 fucking. So what? I don't want to drive something with that big of a back tire. Why? Because it's not great for handling. I want something like God. Here we go. What Moto GP guy did you talk to that told you that you're not racing the fucking thing, dude. You just, it's huge, man. It's like fucking the size of your low riders tire. And you even said you're low rider. You notice the difference of how much poorly handled. There's a difference. My low rider has a very low profile tire. That's why that doesn't, you're going to have your handling is gonna be just fine. And it's a way better bike. And I promise you a year from now, you're not going to be like, I need something better. If you get the, I'll test drive all of them. See how it, you know what this is like, Seth, you won't look like a bear riding a tracycle. Seth, can I tell you, can I tell you something? I'm ready. This happens to everybody when they get a night, a brand new, but when they're brand new to riding, it happened to me. I was just going to say, did you do it? Yes. My friend who has been riding for a long time, I told him the bike I wanted to get. He's like, don't get that bike. You're going to get rid of it in like a week. I'm like, no, no, I got to get something small. I got to get used to. So I get this bike. Literally. Just let me tell you, literally Seth, literally one week later, I went and got my Harley. Because the bike was slow. Not because it was small feeling to you. No, it was tiny. And I looked retarded on it. Yeah. Because a rebel is small as fuck and slow. Okay. All right. I'm just going to do one more story. I'm just going to tell you this, Seth. We go to fucking Las Vegas and we're renting bikes. Yeah. That bike was too small. This fucking, this fucking guy goes to me. I picked my bike and I show him. I'm like, I'm getting this Harley. He's like, okay. He's like, this is the one I'm going to get. He gets this triumph bobber. Okay. I'm going to show you a picture of what it looks like. Um, and I'm like, I'll, I'll say the monster or the street triple are way bigger than the bobber. Listen, Seth, this is, this is, this is the point of the story. I told him don't get the fucking bobber. You're going to regret it. He's like, no, I'll be fine. Don't worry about it. I'm like, okay. The fucking guy gets it half an hour into our fucking ride. He's like, this bike sucks. It's way too small. I'm like, I fucking told you, I told you it was too small. You don't fucking listen. This is what he, this is what he rented. I didn't think the bike was bad because it was too small. I thought it was bad because the seat was like sitting on a fucking piece of plywood. Oh, all right. Well, if the seat was super comfortable, I would have been fine on the bike. It was not the size that bothered me. It was the seat that bothered. Okay. I'm just going to do this. If there's anybody in the, in the, in the, the watching this YouTube video that rides motorcycles, comment below whether Ian should get a Diavel or a monster. What's the other than the Diavel? Well, then what would you go to? Sorry. Other than the Diavel, what, what else would you go to? Is it Diavel or Diavel? I don't know what, I don't know how to say it. I would, I would, that's the bike I would get. Cause I don't really like naked bikes, but you do. And this is my favorite naked bike. Yeah. I mean, I'm going to get a windscreen to put on any of them. If I'm going to tour on it. Like this is like, this is fucking awesome. It's fast. It's big. It's like, you're going to have it for five years and not get sick of it. Like, look how fucking nice this fucking thing is. Yeah. They're sick for sure. Look at that. God damn. It looks super cool. Like it's fucking awesome looking. I'm terrified of that bike. Yeah. I'm not worried about being too much bike for me. Power wise. It's definitely not. No, I don't, I don't think I'm like 160 horsepower, which I'll be fine on. You know what? Ben said it best when people are like, Oh, there's too much power in that, but it's only how it's how much power you use. It's not like you're fucking. Yeah. I'm not, I'm not worried about that. I just want to bite that. Like, I don't feel like it's laborious to drive. You're not going to feel that way on that bike. I'm a hundred percent positive. I think, aren't you allowed to test drive them? Yeah. That's what I said. I'm going to test drive all before I buy it. Test drive it. And then, then we'll talk. I think you're going to. It's like the monster at 0% financing. So I can buy it and just not worry about it. So you're just being cheap. That's what I'm saying. He's a roll. Buy a new bike and not worry about it. Because that new DFL is like 40 grand and I don't want to buy a $40,000 bike yet. But the way I look at it is this, let's say it's 30 grand. And if you spend a 30 grand, you're going to have it for, you won't get sick of that bike five years from now. I agree with that. Whereas the monster is like 15 or 20 or whatever it is, but you're going to get rid of it in a year or two. I care. Look, this is on, this is, this is being recorded. Let's just come back to it in a year. I care more about how fast the bike is. And I think the monster or the street triple will still be fast. Yeah, they will. All right. Moving back. Where are we? Okay. Let's do some predictions. James, who had Martin Roman guy, ad player. Great new player. Ronnie Coleman. Ronnie Coleman. I'm not going to put your last name. Create. Great new player. Ian. Create. Great new player. Mike. Create. Okay. Are they there? No, they didn't go there. What the fuck? Why didn't you do that? I don't know. I have this problem before. There we go. There we go. Okay. Mike. Already on there. Now you have them doubles. Yeah, I know. Fuck it. Whatever. Ian. Ian. Seth. Okay. Add players. There you are. Okay. Seth, you go first. Rafa. Rafa. Rafa. Akeem. Where is he? Akeem. You can't see the drop down menu, can you? Oh, but you can see that. You can see the names right here. You want to skip in? You're going to skip to the next. I can bang it. My five. Go ahead. Rafa. Yeah. Akeem. Yeah. Horse. Horse. Amir. Amir. Wolski. Could I just copy that? Okay. Mike. Akeem. Rafa. Akeem. Rafa. Amir. Horse. Amir. I like Mike's picks. Horse. And Wolski. Yeah, that's pretty good. Seth, you want me to go or you want to go? No, I'm good. I got Rafa. I'm going to go with horse. And third. Horse. Okay. I'm going to go. I want to go Akeem really badly, but I'm going to play it safe. Rafa. What's your heart? It's not my heart. I like both guys equally. I just, I really like Akeem's physique. I want to see him. I feel like if he's like a hundred percent peeled, he can win, but I just don't know if that's going to happen. Uh, I'm going to put Wolski. Horse. Actually. I think Amir. And then horse. And for people wondering why I'm doing that, I'm worried about horses conditioning. Seth. Amir. Amir. Wolski. Yeah. That's tricky. Fuck. Marcelo's like, got the third best physique, but not if it's not peeled. I think he's going to be better than he was at the last show that he, that he was at, but I don't think he's going to be full blown peeled. Like he's been in the past. You know what I'm worried about? The travel. I'm worried that it'll fucking, he'll be watery from traveling. It all might be. Yeah. Yeah. But some guys, like when guys have issues with their conditioning, that shit usually affects them more. I mean, based on that, that video we just saw, I don't think he is peeled out of his mind. No. So it, it might affect him. But that's why I say things like Amir. Like I said, that at the very start of this, Amir beats guys because he gets fucking so peeled that he's hard to overlook. Nasty. So I'm like, but Marcello has a better physique. So it's like, it just depends how far off Marcello is. If he's off. Yeah. Okay. Let's go back. And we'll take a look at Prague. I got to put you guys in. They. Yeah. Announce who's the list for Prague yet. No, but we have some people there. And we can change these. We won't lock these in yet. Seth. Add players. Okay. Ian, you want to go first? Where are you? Oh, Ian's gone. Mike, you want to go first? These are the guys here that we have so far. I go. But I'm going to go. I go. Umstead. Bizzwater. Rafa. Akeem. You just picked Akeem to beat Rafa at the last show. That's okay. I think you're going to get better. He's mixing him up. Yeah. Who is fifth? Clarita. Clarita. Okay. Ian. And then horse. Oh, wait, we're going to do six. Okay. Horse. Ian. I'm at a, a crossroad here. Oh, just shut up and pick. He's like, he's my brother, but I think Martin's going to win. Pick your fucking brother-in-law, dude. Don't be a douche. I'm going to pick him. Okay. I just want you to lose. Chris. Mark. I'm going to pick the exact same as Mike. Martin. Raphael. Akeem. Clarita. Okay. Oh, and then horse. Sorry. Seth. Man, that's going to be wild to see Akeem next to Clarita. Yeah. That is going to be a fucking. You didn't get together before now? No. No, he was. I don't think they. Akeem and, Akeem and Kamal stood next to each other. Kamal. Do you want me to go, Seth, or are you going to go? You can go. All right. I'm going to go. Hostile for the victory. I'm going to go. Raphael. Hmm. Chris. Akeem. No, wait. Sean Clarita. Akeem. My, my finger's still on the button. I haven't picked yet. Don't laugh, Mike. In the box. I'm trying. No, I'm in the box. You can't see that. You put it in the box. My finger's on the button still. My finger's on the button. Who would be losing it? Losing it. Who would be losing it? Paul. It's in the box, man. It's in the box, dude. Okay. Okay. It's in the box. Fuck you guys. But it's not, it's not the final week though. We got, we still got. Oh yeah. We still got next to you. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Go ahead, Seth. We're good. All right. I'm going to go. I'm going to go Fitz. Yeah. Chris. Yeah. I think, I mean, whoever wins in Romania, I don't think does Prague, but I think Rafa or Akeem will do it. But let's assume they're both doing it, even though we don't know they are. Yeah. I'm just, I'm thinking in my head. Well, you just picked Rafa to win. I know. How is this a tough decision? Akeem gets better. Rafa might. I think, I think that's going to be the opposite. I think, I think Akeem is going to be on for the first show and be off for the next one. And Rafa will get better. I think I agree with Seth. I think Rafa will be worse the second show. I think so. Okay. Fuck up the first show and not to come back for the second. Okay. What are you doing? What are you doing here? Martin, Chris, I'm going to put Akeem, Rafa, and then Clarita and horse. Clarita is going to be so mad at you. Listen, if that fucking guy was six inches taller, he'd be top five at the end. Bro, God damn it. Motherfucker. Okay. All right. Let's do some questions. Isn't that crazy about Clarita though? What? Like how far he's come as an, as a competitor. Like the dude's full blown at that, at that fucking size. Okay. But hold on. I'm going to give you the unpopular opinion. Uh-huh. It's way easier to fill out a four foot eight frame. Well, I get it. But what I'm saying is, is it don't get mad at me, Sean. I'm sorry. But, but if you're, if you're six, six, it's a lot harder to fill your frame than if you're five, one. Yeah. But I'm saying how far, like, I mean, dude, that dude was not only was he short, but he was not filled out. Wait a minute. I'm not taking anything away from his accomplishments. The guy's a fucking Mr. Olympia. It's incredible. So all I'm saying, and I'm not saying, look, I'm being kind of an asshole. But when I say that he's incredible and he's got great body parts and a great physique, but you have to admit. Oh yeah. Jamie, Jamie Joe hall is going to have a much tougher time filling out his physique than Sean Clarita. I'm saying if he was five, five or five, six, even then it would be, I think he would. Yeah. But if he would, but wait a minute, let's take a look at that. If Clarita was five, five, let's take a look. I'm going to, I'm going to try and be as objective. As objective as possible. Cause I have nothing against Sean Clarita. I just want to ask you something, Sean. Is it you or W? You. Oh wait, why am I Google? What the fuck am I doing here? Go back here. Go here. Sean. Clarita. Okay. So let's take a look at Sean. I'm just curious about, this isn't like, I'm not making a statement. I'm just asking a question. Sure. Uh, let's assume he's five inches taller, six inches taller, whatever you, whatever you want to say. Yeah. I don't think Sean has a tiny waist. So I'm like, if he's taller and his limbs aren't as filled out, does the waist actually hurt him more? Or it might be more elongated. So it looks like this, like this is what I'm talking about. Right? Like right here, he's got perfect proportions. His waist is not tiny, but it's not big. He's only leg light, but if he's, if he's stretched out, does it actually make him look worse than better? I just think it's an interesting thing. Cause people do this all the time. You're like, well, if he was five inches taller, he would look like this. I'm like, but Woody, it's kind of like when they say that about Chris, if Chris was 30 pounds heavier, you'd be Mr. Olympia. I'm like, wait a minute. We've seen a lot of guys, Ian being one of them on this fucking show, that were extremely crisp and extremely detailed, extremely striated. And as they got bigger, blurred some of those lines. He wasn't good. No, no, no. Ian, it started off well for you. And then it fell off, you know, you always want to break it. You know what I'm saying? You've said this yourself. You're good. You listen, your, your glutes, your glutes and your first four shows, five shows, whatever. First half of your career. We're strided and stripped out. As you got bigger, that muscle starts to compress the striations. It doesn't look the same. So you can't say like, if Chris was 30 pounds heavier, 20 pounds heavier, because you don't know if Chris is going to look like that. You don't know if his waist is going to get thicker. You don't know if the detail is still going to be there. You don't know. Like I agree. Yeah. We're living, we're living in fantasy land right now though. No, no. And it's, it's fun to do that, but I'm just trying to like educate. Hmm. Cause people say that stuff. And I'm like, there are a lot of things that happen in a physique as it gets bigger. Once you start, once you start pushing food, once you start doing some different types of trainings, there are going to be things that get bigger. There are going to be things that become inconsistent in your physique. Think about the symmetrical. It's going to happen. Think about this, Seth. If you asked, I bet you, if you asked 10, if you asked a hundred professional bodybuilders, I bet you, if you asked them, what was your prettiest physique? They would say before they got huge. Yeah. It's like to a T you could ask like out of a hundred, the more you're going to push out and blur those lines for out of, out of a hundred guys, you get 90 that say, well, when I turned pro, that was my favorite look as far as like pretty, as far as pretty, some things that still did get better. Like my quads never lost that. And they got better and more detailed as I got more muscle on them, but certain things like as they got bigger and kind of pushed out, I lost a bit of, I would always get the really dry grainy, but like you, like you said, when I was younger, my glutes would be like Derek Lunsford glutes. Right. As I got bigger and bigger, they like were peeled, but like, they weren't quite as deep inset, no matter how lean I got. Really? Yeah. Yeah. So, and that's the Seth. That's like we've talked about. I wasn't picking on Ian. We've talked about this before. Like how. It's okay. A little bit, but it's okay. I take my shots. You chose your friend. I take my shots where I can. Um, but yeah, I don't know. It's, it's fun to imagine though. Like if, if you, if you could keep this exactly the same, but it was the same height as Keon. Yeah. Do you think he's better than Keon? Cause I still think Keon's better. Well, Keon is coming into his own where I think that Keon is literally going to like over the next several years become one of the greatest bodybuilders that we see. Yeah. He's pretty fucking phenomenal. Like unbelievable. It's really hard to ignore how perfect his physique. I saw someone. Look at that. Look at that. This isn't even fucking real, man. Like the, the way his lap. Look at this. Fuck. This is look at his quads. Like, it's like even, even Dexter Jackson. Like he even commented, he's like, this is one of the greatest physiques of all time. It is. Look at this. This isn't like, this is something we never, ever see this level of perfection. Like, look at the sweep on these fucking lats. It's ridiculous. There's like a very few other than like the, maybe the little bit of gap in his abs. You can't make any real critiques on this physique. No. And now that he's working with Patrick and they've nailed, they figured out his conditioning. Who the fuck is going to beat this? No one. No one. So then that actually brings me to a comparison there of the years. Yeah. It brings me to a question. I actually was wondering the other day, because I think Flex Lewis posted something and I was like, is Keon better than Flex Lewis? I think that, I think that Keon is going to continue to get better. I don't think we've seen the best of Keon. So like, as he progresses into it, like I said, I think it's going to turn out to be one of the best physiques we've ever seen. This is just insane, man. I mean, dude, watch when he, watch when you, I saw this when he was guest posing once. I couldn't believe when he, look at the way he just, he just opens up into that. And it like, his waist just shrinks by like 10 inches. Yeah. but it's funny because the big, the higher his arms go, like the bigger his lats get, like, look at this. Just watch it again. Watch his arms come up and his lats just keep going out and out and out. There. Now it's fully fucking, it's like, what the fuck? Built for it. Born for the shit, dude. Born for it. Yeah, exactly. Okay. Um, let's do some questions. Mike's favorite part. Very shine. By the way, I've gotten hundreds of DMS from dog shower people. So fuck you, Ian. You tell yourself that. Hundreds, hundreds. What was the results on your poll? Hundreds of emails. What was the poll results? Well, out of like 10,000, it wasn't great, but a hundred. Well, yeah, the poll is hacked. It was hacked. What was the poll results though? The poll results were 99 one. No, it was 20% of people. So 80, 20. No, because there was, yes, okay. This, this, there's a caveat to this, by the way, that somebody alerted me to, if you have a tub, you're probably not going to do it. But if you have a walk-in shower, then it makes sense. You have a tub though. No, I know, but I walk in my shower and then I open the door. The dog walks in. It's a walk-in shower. It just makes it easy. He just walks in. I'm telling you. Then you get naked. I'm already naked. I don't wait until he gets in. Then I take my pants off. You get naked. And then let him in the shower. Like you would your wife. Come on. Come on. I can't, I can't wait to be naked and pick him up and put him in my tub. Come here, buddy. Listen, I don't care. You guys are weird for thinking. I know you don't care. That's even worse. You're weird for thinking it's weird. That's the problem. Yeah. You're, you're weird for thinking it's sexual. That's how I feel about it. I don't think it's sexual. I think it's weird. Yeah. Because you're attributing a sexual component to it. No, I think that you're dangling your fucking dick in your dog's face. You don't listen when a dog, when a, when a dog is in the shower, the dog's not like you said, frolicking the dog sits down and waits till he's done. Cause he doesn't really want to be in there. Yeah. He doesn't want your fucking dick in his face. This guy's fucking naked again. He's wishing you could call the fucking, fucking cops on you. No, cause he comes in without me. He just invites, like if I open the door, he'll just come in without me asking to. Yeah, sure. Oh, now it's, he just comes in by himself. You're in here again. Okay. I don't feel bad. I don't feel bad about it. I don't really give a shit. You know what? I'm going to shower with him tonight after the podcast. You should. You should bath with him naked next. No, listen, that's where I draw the line. Okay. Would you rather give up cheat meals for a year or lose one pound of muscle a month for a year? That's a lot of fucking muscle, man. No cheat meals for sure. 12 fucking pounds. That's your whole year. You might as well not even work out. Okay. In the last year, I have lost more than 12 pounds of muscle. So I guess it would be silly to not take that option. Yeah, but you did it on purpose. Semi on purpose. Yeah. Yeah. I did it on purpose for six months and then I tried to gain it back, but I came off steroids. So I continued to lose, you know, uh, reminisce on one of the craziest workouts you've ever done. Would love to hear from each of you. I don't know. Every day, bro. Yeah. They're all hard balls to the wall. What do you mean? One stands out. They should all be fucking hardcore. Seth, do you have one? I feel, I feel like Seth has one that is head. What about the one? You know what? I remember one for Seth. What about the time you trained with Kevin Lavrony and he made you do like fucking, what did you do? Squats? And then you did, I, I trained back with Phil and Jay. That was it. That was it. And then afterwards I trained legs with Kevin. It was horrible, but it was the same day. That's literally back to back. That might be the dumbest and most hardcore thing. I'm like, Phil Heath, Phil Heath's looking at me and he's like, Hey, you know, you're fucking stupid for doing this. And I'm like, Phil, you're Phil Heath, the gift. I'm Seth Ferocci. Nobody knows who I am. I was like, I need to do this. And plus Kevin Lavrony wants to train with me. So I'm going to train with Kevin. Yeah. You can't say no to Kevin Lavrony. What are you going to say? Oh, I just trained back. I can't bro. You would certainly say no to me, but fuck this guy. Who the fuck is this guy? Fuck him. I don't have a crazy workout. We used to do railroads. I've talked about railroads before. Those get kind of nasty. What's a railroad? A railroad. I got that from Eric Fankhauser. Cause I was trying to figure out how to get my legs to grow. And Eric was all about heavyweight plus volume. Yes. But one of the, well, cause a lot of people don't believe in the two, the either heavy or volume. And a lot of the guys, a lot of the, yeah. Right. A lot of the guys with the biggest legs would be like, go as heavy as you can for 15 to 20 reps on shit. Right. One of the things Eric told me was to do railroads, which was you get on a leg press. You start with one plate, you know, one plate for one plate aside, right? One plate for 10, two plates for 20, three plates for 30, all the way up to a hundred. I didn't know that's what he called a railroad. That's what he called a railroad. Yeah. Yeah. And then when you get to a hundred, then you go back down nine plates for 90, eight plates for, and you're fucking the highest I've gotten is like 80 or 90. And is that the whole workout? No, that's the start of the workout. So you would still fucking do other shit after that. We used, we've done that. We've done that a number of times. And then we would go squat after, and then hack squat. When I was young, I remember I was, I didn't quite understand working out yet. And I Googled like ways to train. And I found German volume training, you know, what's wrong with that? Well, the 10 sets of 10. Yeah. I love that. Yeah. But when you do German volume training, they do like one exercise. Yeah, I know. Yeah. So I would do, I would do my entire workout of 10 sets of 10. Oh no. Cause I didn't quite understand the idea of their like one exercise. I'm like, that makes no sense. You can't just do 10. So you did 10 sets of 10 leg breasts. 10 sets of 10 squats. That's like, Oh my God. I did that on all my workouts for like probably three months. Best legs in the game. Who was it? I was talking, who was I talking to on a podcast that told me about, I think I was asking him why they're so, why they get so shredded. I don't know. Was it you? And they were saying that it was because they were a runner and they had conditioned their legs to be like, do you guys think that's a thing? Like, can you train a muscle or a body part in a certain way to a point where maybe there's less fat cells on? I know this is stupid. I'm just completely asking a question. Like, cause I was talking to somebody, I can't remember who the fuck it was. It was just like peeled lower body. And he was expressing to me that he thought it was from his running past. Could have been me saying that. I mean, even now, like where I'm holding more fat up top and like in my midsection, stuff like that, my legs are still like, I still have like cross-rated quads, you know? Right, right, right. Yeah. Anyway, just a thought. Mike, what do you think about that? Is that a thing? Or is it just like the genetics? Like if you, if you, if you, especially if you're coming from a background of sprinting or a sport with your, you're running like crazy, I could see how that would carry over. But yeah, because your, your muscle endurance would be also through the roof. So like your being, your ability to push through high volume workouts would probably be way, way better than the average person's in the sense that you're, you're not going to fatigue as early and the legs are conditioned to like actually pound away and take damage. So as well, even when I've not like now I could train my legs once every fucking two months and they don't really change a whole lot. Or if I don't train, you mean size wise or conditioning or what? Size and strength. Like I trained my legs like once in the last two months and I went back like the next day and I hacked while like eight plates for 10 reps. Like it was like, I wonder what that is. I wonder why more guys, sorry. No, no, go ahead, Mike. Sorry. That's why I wonder why more guys who aren't leg dominant don't just fucking chill out. Yeah. Like it's. Oh, you mean like it's not, it's not, it's not going to go away anyway. Yeah. Yeah. Like it's not going anywhere guys. Let that, let that, let that nutrients and that energy put somewhere else. Put that fucking effort and that extra, maybe even slight, slight overtraining into like your upper body or the parts that are lacking, which is probably your upper body and, and really give that all of your effort and all your nutrients and all your fucking gear, all this stuff's going towards building that area. Cause like, obviously your body is naturally choosing to select the lower tissue. Right. So it's like, let's just completely shut down that pathway and use our legs to walk around and do stuff and be mobile. But like, let's fucking kill. Are you talking, are you talking to Seth right now? Is that what you're doing? No, I heard it. There's like, there's like guys I've trained in the past and like, it's like, I wanted to tell them like, they have great, they have great fucking legs, like fantastic fucking legs. Like it's like, and they, they have very subpar upper bodies, especially like their back or wherever it might be. It's like, you need to put the effort that you've put into those legs into that back. It's the same. but they would say, I am putting the effort. You're just saying, but I need to, I need to let your body. Yeah. You need to double up that effort. So whatever effort you're going to, you would spend for the legs. Right. Don't waste that energy there. Put it back into the, like thing, understand that you're on juice and you're on all these calories, all this stuff. You're in it. You're creating an environment for growth, whether you believe it or not. Yeah. So why allocate resources to something that doesn't need resources? It's like, why am I building a dam when the dam is already forged? I'm still adding to the dam. It's like, no, go fix the other leak. Right. Come back to that later. The dam's good. I think it's a, I think it's a mental block, Mike. Cause like, if you said that to me, not that I had, not that I had any like outstanding body parts that didn't need work, but like, I, even if I did and you said, don't train that body, I couldn't do it. Yeah. The thing is, cause you, cause you've developed such a mental connection to that. And it's, and it's hard to tell someone don't train the one thing you're really good at. Yeah. Cause you get so much satisfaction. You get so much satisfaction out of that as well, because you see the fruits of your labors. So it's like, man, I see my legs. I know they're dominant. I want to keep them dominant. Right. But I don't think that's always it, Mike. Like for me, it wouldn't be like, Oh, I want to train it. Cause I'm good at it. I would just be like almost, uh, OCD about it. Like I have to train it or else it's going to disappear. Yeah. That's, I mean, they, it's irrational. They think it's going to disappear. Like, yeah, yeah. But it's not. And even if it did you turning the switch back on, they go right back to where they were. Like Ian said, like I got two months without a leg workout. I went to their, holy shit. They're like, yeah, yeah. It's like, I just trained them last week. Right. So I wonder if it's cause it's a bigger, bigger muscle group. And cause my, out of all my body parts, my legs have held up the most. Maybe out of everything else. What were you going to say? You were going to say, I had a guy that was extremely lower body dominant that I used to train like extremely lower body, like way on over like unbalanced. And we had them for a while training legs, like every two, three weeks, like to try and allocate that time and energy elsewhere, you know? Yeah. Yeah. What do you think of the frequency when it comes to training? Like if you do, I have a, I have a theory in my head about prioritization schedules, but like, say someone has a lagging body part, how quickly do you think they could train it? Like if they like, if they were doing bro split, according to Brad Schoenfeld, and if those people don't know him, he's a, he's written books on the topic. Uh, he's a, I don't know if he's a strength conditioning coach. I don't know what his exact title is. PhD. I don't know what, um, he says that frequency is one of the biggest factors in muscle growth and that you can train a muscle if it's sore, as long as it's not impeding your performance. Uh, so he likes to do three times a week. That's what I'm thinking. Cause back in the day, my leg days, my legs were so fucked. I couldn't, I don't know if his three times a week is your three times. Yeah. That's kind of what that intensity might be a little lower there. Yeah. That's like a moderate. Let's not listen to Brad Schoenfeld or any. Okay. Okay. Go ahead. Ask your question. Ask your question again. Sorry. Let's go back. Like just straight bro signs, your anecdotal experiences of how you would train. Like if you were like, Hey, I think like you're having some trouble with your arms, right? Your arms aren't really picking up. Like you're growing, your arms are growing, but they're not growing enough. You need to get in front of this. Right. How like, and we're talking like balls out training, bro split. How often would you have them train them? Like, what would you be like? What would you. I'd pair them with a body part that makes sense. And I'd have their, have them have their own day of it. That's what I did. I would like for my, my hamstrings, for example, I needed them to grow. So I would do a leg day, but then I would do hamstrings again on my back day. Exactly. On back. Arms. I would do like chest and thighs, back and thighs, and then an arm day. Yeah. I, I think twice a week is a good. See this, I was going to say, there's a little bit of a caveat to it. I had to learn. John Meadows taught me and my physique actually got better. He was like, you can't dig a hole so deep that it takes a week to get out of. So like I used to train my legs so hard. It literally like they wouldn't feel better until like the seventh day. Yeah. So he was like, look, let's just scale back your volume a bit. Keep the intensity the same. That way your soreness has gone in four days and you can train them a second time in the week. So I've, I've had this thing that I've been doing for like a priority. I've had this thing that I've been doing for like a prioritization schedule on a bro split. Yeah. Where it's like, you pick like a, like a say like four weeks or six weeks or whatever it would be. And like every fifth day you train that body part. Right. I feel like no matter what you're supposed to do on that fifth day, if you're like, whatever it is, like I'm a three on one off that three days on one day off guy. Yeah. Yeah. So it's like, so it's like whenever that fifth day hits, you're training arms again. Whatever. Say you're supposed to, it's like arms back chest. Okay. But can I, can I ask you a question though? Do you think that's as beneficial as pairing it with something that is already influencing it? Well, again, that's kind of why I was like, I wanted your guys's opinion on this because me, like that's how I prioritize. Like that's how I've done it. Cause like whenever I put it on back day, if I do buy, if I do arms, what's the, what's the body part you're trying to prioritize? No, no, no. Just in general. Oh, okay. Okay. Yeah. In general overall. Like for anybody, like the listeners, they're like, I'm on bro split, but I'm trying to do this. And I'd be, I would tell them like every fifth day, just train that body part, whatever it is that you were supposed to do on that, that day train arms or Mike, what's Mike, what's your thought on that? There's multiple different ways. You could do it. I've done back to back leg days where I've like, like I told you guys before I was, the volume was down on both days, but the intensity was just as high on both days and focusing on different things. But I mean, I would, it's like almost if you pair, like if you take back and biceps, it's like, if you, if you're going to do back and biceps together, I would do your back. And then I would do biceps in terms of like, I've already kind of smoked them in the sense that they've been working so hard to do the back workout. Why don't I just be highly isolation movement based when I do the bicep after the back, like literally like 20 pound dumbbell curls, like supinated, like over a fucking bench, like hanging or like whatever it might be that you feel your bicep the most. So like we already have a lot of recruitment in that area and blood. So why don't we just like really hammer home? Right. And then on the arm day, that's, I guess when you could like, I would, I would still keep that focusing on like understanding that that's a body part that's lagging. I would be more concerned about how I'm performing these exercises. And I'd up the volume on those days for both parts of my arm. I would just like, so, but on a hammer that. Yeah. I would just hammer that part. Hammer the arm on the arm day and just have it be like, I don't want to leave the gym until I can't like physically scratch my head. Okay. Mike. So sorry. And I know there's a million ways to do it. So we're not saying any one way is best, but in your opinion for you, would you have someone does it is Seth's method of like every fifth day, no matter what more in line with what you would do, or is it more in line to pair it with a body part that's connecting with it already? No, I would, like I said, I would just do, I would do the body part that appears with and give it its own day. And I would just have that. I would just have that, that own day of whatever it is I'm prioritizing. I'd have that be highlighted in my split, whether that's after, after rest day or that's what I do. Yeah. What happens if it's a big body part, like legs or back? Yeah. Like I said, I, I did back to back leg days when I was competing. And I also, when I was training a certain individual who were made nameless, uh, did back to back, back days with that individual when they're back, started getting improving. Right. Just like we're working different angles. Like that's why it's hard when you say like a big body part, like back, it's like, yeah, well we can train back and we can change like, like, like Ian can even attest to, like you can train, like erector strength, or you could like do like a heavy pulls on one day. The next day you do all light, like lat isolation movements. So it's not, we're not incorporating, like people think of back as one body part, which is incorrect. Right. It is, it is your back, but there's many moving parts to your back and there's easy, it's easy to isolate on just lats. There's plenty of stuff to do. And there's also stuff like mid back traps or whatever it is that you're lagging. So a lot of these guys are, are lagging in their lower lat and their mid back because they're just not doing exercises that are like fundamentally sound that are going to hit those areas. So I would just have like a day where it's like, I'm balls to the wall, like training hard on that body part. And then I like, I take a back day where it's like, are my lats shit? Then I need to just do lats today. And even if that ends up being like one arm cables, like dumbbell rows, but super, like super hunched and isolated on my lat, like things like that, where I'm, I'm consciously thinking of like, what's my weakness and how I'm attacking it without losing my intensity and my overall weight that I'm lifting and like pushing myself. But there has to be a point where we have to like start sniper rifling. Like I have to target in on what's the problem. I can't just keep saying, train my thing harder. It's like, what sucks about your legs or hamstrings? Like I did them twice because I knew it was my hamstrings, not my quads. Right. Seth, when you say back in, let's say, take your example of back and legs. Does that person have, let's assume it's person a, we're talking about. Does he have a weak back and weak legs? No, just one. One or the other. So, I mean, I think Mike's, I'm, I'm kind of in a hundred percent agreement with Mike is like, I would give, if my quads are my, like I would do a hamstring dominant day. And a quad dominant day. That's kind of when I was really trying to build my legs. That's how I did it. So like my quad dominant day was like super heavy fucking pressing, super heavy compound movements. And then I would finish with like maybe some lying leg curls, or I would do two hamstring movements, but they would be maybe machines. And then on a hamstring dominant day, I would do three or four hamstring exercises, but I would do the heavier compounds, like the stiff leg deadlifts, shit like that. And I would do maybe one or two quad exercises that were like machine based, like leg extension, walking lunge, something like that. So you think, do you think like, I, I, I completely understand what you're saying. Right. Do you think that that's too intricate for someone to be able to do because, uh, they're not, they're not able to do that without a coach, like explaining it to him? No, I, it's, you know, what's very simple to do. This is the easiest way to explain it. Let's say you have lagging legs. I would say, look, take your quad dominant day, do all your quad compound movements on that day and do your hamstring isolation movements on that day. And then on your fucking hamstring dominant day, do your hamstring compounds and your quad isolations. Then you're kind of set. That's the easiest way to explain it. And basically the person's going to go, Oh, okay. So I'm going to do the heaviest fucking shit on the dominant on that dominant day. Sure. Right. So that's Ian. What do you think? You have a further explanation or a more nuanced approach to it? I agree. Okay. Move on. Let's clip that right there. Let's clip that. Yes. Uh, can we get a bro chat gym playlist? I actually want to do this. Let's go around a circle two or three times to get some music. Go, go Seth. I just, I'm big on the, uh, Parkway drive right now. What's Parkway drive? Parkway drive. Uh, one song. It hit for me. What is, I've never, am I like that old? Is it, is this a new band? I don't think so. I'm just out of touch. Parkway drive. The void. Parkway drive. The void. I can't play it or else I'll get, uh, demonetized. You're gonna make no money. Yeah. I gotta make my money. I can't do that. Yeah. No, but yeah, it's a decent song. Okay. Parkway drive. I gotta look them up after we're done. Okay. Ian. I've been big on, I've listened to like a, a bench seven fold lately. Okay. I like that. Uh, I like hail to the king. Shepherds of fire, hail to the king. Like something else. Uh, Mike, you're a music guy. You know, it came on my fucking playlist today and it fucking made my fucking day. And it brought me back. Cause when we saw Shane Gillis, Ian, he came out to money for nothing, dire straits. Yeah. That fucking song, man. That song is fucking sick. Uh, let me see. I don't even know what, I just want to go to my fucking playlist real quick, just so I can fucking see. I'm very stuck. Like all my, like, uh, rap and hip hop that I listened to, do is like, yeah, pre 2000. Yeah. I'm stuck in high school still. Like, like fucking exhibit. Uh, I'm all Lloyd banks, job. Yeah. Dude. I'm so a lot of Lloyd banks for sure. My shit's all obvious, man. It's like Metallica, Lincoln park, Wu-Tang clan, fucking God smack. It's all like the obvious shit. You're like rock driving music though. Like that, like light rock that we listen to when we drive. Yeah. Is like the best though. Every time I'm not, when I get out and I'm like driving, I'm sitting there trying to remember what we listened to when we're driving for a long time. And I can't remember any, and it makes me mad. That's why I have my phone out in case anybody drops a knowledge. He has the best, like chill vibes, like driving music of all time. For sure. Who does? You. I do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah, I got a fucking, a whole bunch of ones. They're, they're a lot of the obvious ones though. I got Rob zombie, uh, dead city radio and, and the gods. Yeah, that's a good one. Uh, Mike, you have another one. I got, I got sound. I like meek mill. I got a Diddy song here. I like, no, I'm just joking. Jadakiss. Honestly, I think I'm just going to go overall. My favorite workout music is probably Metallica. I can never, never, ever go wrong. I'm like, I'm going to Metallica on and I train. I'm like, okay, I'm good. King. Nothing. I go through Moots too where I live my youth and I go like on straight, like Lincoln park. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like hybrid theory, Lincoln park. And I'll listen to that like for a week. Um, did Mike crush his sales goal for the drop? Very well. Is my royalty check in the mail or what? Yeah. So not having Instagram, what actually? You know what? I got to tell you, Mike, I got to tell you, and hopefully this is not an omen because somebody is going to like hijack my shit, but I'm kind of jealous. That I got hacked? No. Just unplugged. Just that you're unplugged forcefully. Like you're just. Well, I'm still, I'm still on because my business page is still up. Like my merch page, we get to you is still up, but I'm just like interacting sparingly on there. It's just, it's nice to just kind of fucking. Like this would, this would horrify me, but I feel like if I lost my phone for a week, I would probably be a happier person. Yeah. All this is done. All this is done. Honestly, has made me, has confirmed in my mind that I'm going to, I'm going to a service that has a paywall and I'm just going on there. Like I'm not dealing with like Instagram and YouTube and all this shit. I'm going to Patreon or something where it's like, you want to bust my balls. You don't have to pay to do it. If you had to work a 12 hour day, 14 on seven off. Do you think you could still have gone pro when you did given the work schedule? 14 hour day. Yeah. 12 hour day. I mean, you can do it. I'm going to, I'm, I'm personally for myself going to say no. I literally quit a job. I had this, I remember when I was 23, I got this job at a factory working midnights and in the working midnights was fucking up my sleep schedule. And my eating schedule. Cause when I was tired, I couldn't eat. Yep. I quit like three weeks in. I was like, I was going to say, you could do it. I dropped out of college. Sorry. Go ahead, Seth. No, go ahead. No, you were finished. Go finish. I was just going to say you could do it, but it, you'd probably be one of the very few people that could. Right. And I dropped out of college with like three weeks to go because I thought it was impeding my bodybuilding. I was like two and a half years. I was like two and a half years deep. I'd like half a semester. And I'm like, I'm done. What the fuck is wrong? I mean, it made no difference. You're right. It wouldn't have gone. I couldn't get more now. You know, if health markers are in check, is there a need to come off a cycle? There's never a need to come off at that point. You know, Mike's like, never stop. Always, always stay on. If you never come off, you never have to worry. My friend, create, create that new normal in your body. Okay. I'm going to say something that's completely, bro science. I think you should just because you should. And I have no reason why other than it can't be healthy to be on gear 24, seven, three 65. I think you're coming down to HR. I was, I was joking too. Don't fucking take me seriously. You fucking soft ass motherfuckers. I think there's benefits for certain things. It comes coming off, but in terms of overall health, I don't know if going down to an HRT dose, like a real proper, like to bring you, you know, between 600 and 800, a thousand, you know, is negative. Um, you just might deal with the ramifications after bodybuilding that you will have to continue on that. Obviously. Do you, I think if you want to obviously maintain fertility, then I would at least be when you're coming down to HRT, which I've obviously learned, I would be doing like your. HCG periodically throughout the year, definitely on the time that you come down. Uh, but other than that, I don't think there's a massive health benefit to coming off. And there's probably a negative mental health ramification of coming off. I got to tell you, I can't imagine any person ever be, be on a proper cycle. I don't mean like TRT be on a proper cycle. Who's some marker in their blood work somewhere is not elevated, like inflammatory markers on a cycle. I a hundred percent agree. No, but that's what he's saying. So I'm like, it's kind of like the hypothetical doesn't really work. I'm saying like, I'm saying, yeah, if you did a four to five month cycle and then you went on HRT dose for three months and then you, you know what I mean? No, no, he's what I'm saying to you is he's saying if you're on a cycle and everything is perfect, do you have to come off? And I'm like, it's kind of like an unrealistic. And this is one thing is I think people are go very like baseline with their panels. We're like testing like six. Like I get guys on Instagram all the time. Be like, Hey, can you look over my blood work? They send me one sheet with like nine things on it. I'm like, what, what is this? They got like their basic blood count done. And then like one kidney, one liver marker. I'm like, that's why, that's why. And again, I don't care. Merrick code. Merrick health code. Ian is fine. I don't care. The point is, the point I'm trying to, the point I was going to make is if you get your blood work done at Merrick, listen, it's a hundred bucks, first of all, and you get like 80 fucking different markers. It's so worth it. You're like, people don't know this, but you're kidding me. That's all it is. It's a hundred bucks. It's only a hundred bucks. A hundred and a hundred with my code or Ian's code. It's $108. Yeah. And you get like fucking 65 or 75 different markers checked. Listen, the thing I'm trying to say to you is this. What people don't realize is they're like, I checked my kidneys. What people don't understand is when you go to a proper blood work facility, or they're doing a proper blood panel, there's like six different markers just for your kidneys. At least it's not my full panel with them. I drew 18 vials of blood. Yeah, dude, I ran so much. They had to fucking reach out my veins. They're like, we ran out of blood. I'm like, use this arm. And they fucking did it again because they took so many vials. Now that obviously costs more than 108 bucks. You can get like 300 fucking panels, blood panels done, blood markers done. But what I'm trying to express is. It's not like I checked my thyroid. There's like six different things for thyroid. There's like 10 different things for kidney. There's like thyroid enzyme things, your TSH, T3, T4, T3, you know, secreted gods. I mean, there's a million different things. So that's why I'm saying like, this is kind of an unrealistic question because there's not really a possible way that all of those markers are going to be good. If you're on a proper cycle, if they are called a cycle, if they are, then if they are, then keep going, buddy. Uh, favorite ice cream toppings. Oreo. Score. What'd you say, What'd you say, Seth? No, he said, Mike, Mike, what'd you say? You said score. What did Mike say? Cookie dough. Cookie does a good one. What did you say, Ian? Score. They don't have that. They don't have that in the U S. No, I thought it was like, uh, it's like chocolate covered hard caramel. Uh, chocolate tastes like cock a little bit. It's like brittle. Like you could snap it. It tastes a lot. It tastes a lot like dick. Is that what your dog tells you your dick tastes like? No, that's it. No, it tastes like a score bar. Oh, this is. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. I know. I know what these are. Fucking amazing. Butter toffee. It's talking. Yeah. I was just going to say, that's not amazing. Score sucks, dude. Score is shit. You can chip your teeth on those fucking days. See, listen to Mike. Wait, you need to just score a bar. I think is good. Not great, but score as a top. You know what? You know what? Can I, listen, can I tell you what score is like, you know, when like glass, like a punishment, when you shatter glass and it's like, obsidian. That's like fucking chewing a, chewing a meth bar. Your mouth, your mouth gets all fucked up and shit. I'm like, wait, when you're eating a full bar, I agree, but as a topping, when you have like soft ice cream with a good, like toffee crunch in there of a score, it's fucking good. Don't listen to him. Or McFlurry is fucking goaded for sure. Oreo is the be all. I love Oreo. So I won't fight you on that, but I think that's great. I was just going to repeat what you said. So score is good too. M&Ms. Reese's pieces. Reese's pieces. Reese's pieces for sure. Seth, what's yours? You haven't said anything yet. I'm actually like, like I like strawberry blizzards, like a regular strawberry blizzard. You mean you're gay a little bit. He's a fucking fruity asshole. 60% bro. It's a, it's butterfingers. No, seriously. What do you, you said strawberries and what else? Like I like banana split lizards. Okay. I love it. You're like you and Paul, you and Paul would enjoy your desserts together. Paul's a fruit. But, um, like when the kids get, you know, but, uh, butterfingers. I like butterfingers. I wonder if it's a dad thing where you like that before you had kids. Uh, yeah, I guess. I don't know. Like I like whenever I eat ice cream, cause I don't eat it often. Like dude, my stomach can handle it. Yeah. And, uh, but when I do, I'm like, I like banana splits. Is it because it feels healthy? Cause there's fruit in it. I don't know. I like, I I'm not big on like, I'm not crazy about chocolate shit, dude. Oh, cause it's big on high potassium desserts. He loves them. Is it because, is it because the chocolate's too sweet? I, I don't know. Like I like, when it comes to chips, if I'm at like a party and there's chips there, I'm like, Ooh, yeah, I go through, I go through phases. Yeah. But you know, it's funny. I kind of have to have both. Yeah. But see, I'm a real fat guy. Like this is the thing. They actually did studies that said you could eat more. Listen, listen, hold on. Scientifically, I'm a fat ass. Mike, this is scientifically proven. You can eat more if you switch back and forth between salty and sweet. Oh yeah. I believe that your, your body will handle more food. Yeah. So you have to eat a bag of chips and then a pint, and then a pint of ice cream. What if you just, what if you have a bag of chips and you just pour Oreos in it? So you don't know what you're going to get. Have best of both worlds. No, it's gotta be. You're constantly confusing your body. It doesn't know what to do. It's gotta be one, then the other, and then back and forth. It's gotta, what if you just take shots of maple syrup and then keep eating the chips, keeping chips. Yeah. That's what I need. I need Canadian seer stim and maple syrup. Yeah. It actually sounds delicious. Chips, regular chips with maple syrup drizzled on them. It does sound good. I'm going to try it tonight. Or dip it like a nugget. Uh, let's see here. Best cycle for you. Whatever Seth's taking. Cause he's shredded. Um, it'll look exactly like him if you take it. exactly. Uh, what blue collar job would each of you choose and why? I want to be a demolition guy. Yeah. I want to, I want to, I want to drive one of those just massive fucking rigs that just smashes shit. That's it. That's all I want to do. Let your anger out. So I, I love, I love cutting grass. Cutting grass on a reticulating mower. The standing, the standing ones or the sitting down with the reticulator. They just move around. Zero turns. Like a zero. Like in a massive field. We used to, they used to do that for a job when I was after college, like soccer fields and just fucking. Okay. I can see that. Seth. Uh, I'm going to go ahead and say something like Mike with, with, like you said, with, I love landscaping. I fucking love it. You're a dad. You're a dad. You have to. A little bit of grass cutting and a little bit of hardscapes. I always wanted to learn how to do really good hardscapes. Like sidewalks and decks and things like that with, uh, with brick. How do you feel about the robot lawnmowers? Are you annoyed by that or happy about it? Yeah. Yeah. A little bit, but at the same time I get it. I just started learning about AI and all what AI can do. Chat GPT perplexity, claim all these fucking crazy AIs. It's insane. Okay. But if I bought you a, if I bought you a robotic lawnmower for Christmas, there's something, there's something relaxing about cutting grass, man. I love it. Fuck that, man. I got a guy who comes to my house, cuts my grass. No, I'm talking about like a big area. Oh yeah. Well, I used to, my last house, we had, uh, we had a field behind the house that kind of had to maintain. So I had a Ron riding lawnmower. It was fucking awesome. That I love. Yeah. But I don't want to push around a fucking mower. No, fuck that. Ian blue collar job. You're not doing any blue collar jobs. I can just fucking chill the most during, I mean, I would like, yeah, mowing, like doing landscaping like that as long, like I, I worked landscaping, like very manual landscaping, like fucking doing, you know, out of all the blue collar jobs, you all pick landscaping. What about like, well, I don't want, I don't want to do like hard manual labor landscaping, but I would like to cutting grass is like a very high level of satisfaction. I agree with that. I want to weld. When I grew up, my dad, like we had a big property and we had a big like tractor tractor with like a big mower behind it or like a big snow plow behind it in the winter. Like that's fucking fun to do, you know? And when it's all done, you look back at it and you're like, fuck yeah, that was good. Yeah. I'd rather learn how to fabricate shit. Hmm. Like make, make shit out of metal. For sure. That'd be cool too. Like some of these motorcycle guys, they could make their own fucking parts. I'm like blown away by it. I guess I, I guess I'm having trouble thinking of all the blue collar jobs, you know? Yeah. I mean, like I also, like I grew up doing cabinets, grew up doing cabinets, kitchens, bathrooms, home remodels like that. But I just, I'm, I find fascination in concrete Mason work, uh, uh, hardscapes, things like that. I just, I've never done it. So I'm like, I want to learn how to do it. Yeah. Yeah. Um, like each that guy or something, you know, that too. Yeah. Okay. Brandy, Brandy and, or sorry, Brandy love. Hey, Brandy. Lisa. Sorry. And remember the guy who came to Shane Gillis with us, the older guy who has the bike shop. Yeah. He, he fabricates bikes. You should look up. You're going to beat him when you come down in December, but his Instagram after, if you want to look at solid cycles, his name is Frank. Good. I want to get some shit made. He makes like, he makes fucking crazy bikes, but all he does is there's a garage out back and people just pull it in all day. Like, like a chopping, proper making guy. Like what kind of, he's everything. He's fucking sweet. Yeah. I'll look him up. I could buy a DFL and then get him to fucking just pimp it the fuck out. You know, that's right. Um, okay. Brandy love Lisa, Ann or Kendra lust. I don't know who these people are. We're going old porn stars here, right? Is that who that is? I don't know. Mom porn stars, like milfs from 10 years ago, porn stars. So are we supposed to pick between them? Let's go. Be careful in your Googleage here. Let's find out here who these people are. I have no. We're going from school. I would probably Google them with this closed first. I'm totally, totally clueless as to who these people are. I've never heard. Oh, I recognize her. Your mom porn stars, bro. I recognize. she's, she's familiar. I've never seen this person in my life. Who are these people? Okay. That's a good one. It's not here. Okay. I like that. That's what it's like in this one. I go, okay. I like that. You're hired. Okay. Seth, can you put them in order? Are we rank? Are we ranking them? Yeah. First of all, Kendra, Lisa, then the first one. Yeah. I'm in the same. No, I think. I'm Lisa Kendra. I've seen one or two of Lisa Ann's videos. I think I'm going to go Lisa Kendra and the other one. I've never seen any of them. So I'm just going with their looks. Mike's like frequent, sir. Fucking website. Okay. Seth. Probably go with, uh, what was it? Kendra, Lisa, Brandy. Yeah. Okay. Uh, did Ian use his camel pack a lot? I did. No, you didn't. You did. Fuck you. In Vegas, I used it every day. Motherfucker. You did on purpose. Just to fucking irritate me. You know what's funny? I left it in the garage of that lady. It's still. Did you, did you really? I forgot it there. One day I took it off. Remember it was leaking that one day and I took it off and left it in the garage. I just left it on that shelf in the side. Cause it's useless. That's why. Yeah. Wow. Uh, how many Splenda packets per day is too much? There's never enough. I don't fucking know. I use a ton of that shit. Uh, let's see how many, no, what are we getting? What are we getting? A wives episode? Never, ever, ever. Uh, would you guys drive 40 minutes each way to, to a gym to train every day? If it had better equipment than the gym close to your house, probably the gym I'm talking about is American. When I was competing, yes. Now, no, now, no. I, when I was competing, I did actually many times. I was going to say, I did that every day till I got banned. I used to drive to, I used to drive to new body to train with a guy and it's about 35 minutes, 40 minutes. I mean, where I live, all the gyms are about 25 minutes anyway. So, I mean, yeah, it's a 15 minutes extra. It's not a big fucking deal to me. Like, um, Seth, would you drive to go train? I was going to say, well, you could probably, I mean, he could prioritize like certain body parts, but if whenever competing, yes, not competing. No. Uh, especially like if you need to fit at your life, you just pick those days. You figure it out. Like you can still do some serious work with, you know, mediocre or lesser equipment. Actually, you're right, Seth. There was actually, I, there was a period of time where I would go to a specific gym if I was training a specific body part. Yeah, dude, you can, you can crush arms and shoulders. Yeah. Some pretty simple shit. Yeah. Well, you could, man, there was a period of time where I was training at the gym I have now before the equipment was there. We'd have fuck all. We had a lap pull down, a squat rack and a bunch of dumbbells and a cable stack. That was it. I mean, I've trained all, I put a real up about this. I've trained almost my entire career at good life. Yeah. I just can't, you know, the only thing, it's not that good life is a bad gym. I just always, the atmosphere matters to me. Yeah. See, I don't mind the good life atmosphere, especially if like I'm trained with a buddy and stuff and they're kind of busy, which I kind of like, like, but not, but not all good lives are the same. Like I've trained at some. What I've trained at now is very good. Yeah. Yeah. Some, there's some good lives I've trained at that are like a little bit harder feeling. Yeah. And there's others that I've trained at that are like two family for me. Yeah. I agree. Let's see who, who are each of your current past bodybuilding man crushes pro bodybuilder, any division who you are most attracted to or find most attractive. Chris Bumstead. Yeah. Sure. Let's just all, let's just all agree on that one. Okay. Uh, is Ian still gay since retiring? Am I more gay or less gay since retiring? I'm not sure. More, I think. Well, wait a minute. There's two ways to look at it. Oh, I'm off the sauce. I'm a little less gay. I think you're, you're more, you're less. Wait a second. You're less hardcore. So that makes you more gay. Yeah. But you're also not in a thong oil up on stage. So that makes you also, so it's like, it's kind of like, and I ride motorcycles now. That can be considered gay though, depending on the motorcycle. If it's a Ducati monster, it's pretty fucking gay. Uh, is it weirder to shower with a boy dog or a girl dog? It's weird. It's weird. It's weird. It's weird. It's weird. It's weird. No, it's way weirder. If I have a female dog, I don't want to, I don't want to look at it. My dick. My boys got one. So it's like, we both got one. I think, I think you're right. I actually, I know I'm right. It's more gay to shower with, but it's not gay. It's just not gay. It's more inappropriate. It's more inappropriate to shower with a girl. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Because if I think of it now with my three dogs, two of them are girls, I would feel less weird showing Doug. You know, I'm, you know, I'm just joking, right? You're an idiot. It doesn't matter. It's a dog. You named your dog, Doug. Yeah. Man, dude, what a fucking name. That's awesome. And he's very much a Doug. Don't you have another dog with a normal name like that? Beatrice. My Bob, my business partner, he, uh, growing up, his dad's, one of his dad's friends, he would get one, he'd have one dog at a time, and he named them all bill. No, really? Every single dog was named bill. That's hilarious. That's hilarious. Dog died. Get a new bill. There. What's the gayest thing you've ever done, Seth? Me? Yeah. He's asking you. Dick. Pretty close. All this one. You decide sucking that dick? Like, it was, it was right there, and I was like, I don't know. Showering, showering with my dog. If you took your dog to the groomer, would you be okay if they were naked while washing your dog? Yeah. That's a great, of course. That's a great question. Of course, I do it at home all the time. It's no big deal. No, I'd be fucking mortified. That's somebody else, though. That's somebody else. No, but they're naked with my dog. It's fucked up. That's a great question. Who would most likely secretly be a hitman? Seth. Secretly, then it's going to be Seth. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Where would Ian place at a natural show if he was allowed to in three months from now? Could you think, do you think you get your natural pro card? So if I have three months to prep for a show from now and like do an amateur natural show? Are you allowed? Are you allowed to do a natural? Dude, you should do it. Get your natural pro card. I was going to say, this is starting to turn into a fun conversation. Well, I, I, I, I don't know. Don't you have to be away from steroids? Is there a natural pro card still an IFBB pro card? I already have one. I couldn't get it. I know, but I want you to actually win the natural shows. Yeah. I mean, I think you, I think you have to be on steroids for two years or something like that before you can compete as a natural athlete, which is completely ludicrous because you still have all the muscle. I'm coming up. I'll be two, I'll be two years retired in June. So then we'll fucking pump one out. Yeah. Can I prep you for it? Go and punk all day. Yeah. Let's all do a natural show and you can prep you for it. That would be funny. We can, we should actually do that before I get back on after I conceive, then I'll fucking, we'll prep me for a natural show. Okay. I was actually thinking of trying to get as peeled as I could naturally to see what I look like, but I'm like, I'll just be small, you know, I'm just going to feed you nothing. I want you to try to, I love it. I'd be surprised. This guy wants to know all our body counts. All the what? Body counts. Three. Never. Four. One. My wife. Yes. Only one that counted. Only one. I married. Why are 20 year olds claiming they need TRT nowadays? Cause they're fucking idiots. And okay. Wait, I need to rephrase that. Not all 20 year olds. No, no, no, wait, wait, wait, there are some normal, there are some normal 20 year olds. Well, there's always outliers, but in general, you know, honestly, this question just makes me angry because I feel like. The water, bro. It's the water. It's certainly the frogs gay. It's not the water. You know what it is? It's tick tock and influencers and people saying things. And then people that aren't necessarily educated enough or know enough buying into it. I agree with you. But I also in that sentiment think that we are in a declining testosterone era. Yeah. But I think it's being promoted is what I'm saying. 100%. I agree with that. But I'm saying if like, if you're, if it wasn't being promoted and we still took a total of people's testosterone levels now versus 30, 40, 50 years ago. I agree. But let me ask you this. There was a period of time where if you were, just hold on a minute. If you were, if there was a period. Yeah. If you listen, if you said you're 20 and I want to take steroids, it'd be like, cool. That they can mask that. If you're 20 and say, you say you're on TRT. I'm like, what are you fucking doing? Either do it or don't do it. TRT plus plus. No, but I think what I was going to say is there was a period of time where if you were like considered a man's man, like you were rough around the edges and you were a little fucked up and like. Yeah. Mowing lawns. You mowed lawns and like wore wife beaters. Big cabinets. And mowed lawns. Yeah. Smalls buildings. But you were, that you were considered a man. And it was usually like a kind of a good thing. Now. It's like wrong. Don't be a man. Don't ever be a man anymore. All right. I'm not going to go off. I'm not going to get on my, I'm not going to get on my soapbox. I'm just, I feel like there's too many influencers pushing really dumb. I, I, I, the, the, the, I, I, I think that the, the problem today, a lot of these people are using TRT. Like we used to say blasting and cruising. Yeah. And now TRT is like the new phrase to use with it on. It's like, guys, no, no, no. TRT stands for testosterone replacement therapy. There needs to be no testosterone to replace it with. That's, that's what has to occur. Oh, so you're saying, so you're saying instead of cruising, they're saying I'm on TRT. Yeah. I just think it's a way for people to, to stay there, take, to take steroids without saying they're taking steroids. That's or to, or to justify it. Like, Oh, yeah. Yeah. I, I got it done and I, you know, had this and it's like, guys, it's okay to, to say this. It's just the, the mainstream side of things is these kids, these influencers are in their early twenties and a lot of their followers are 16 years old. Right. And it's like the, we're talking about people that are, they're not, they're not stupid. They're just young. They're uneducated. That's what I said. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So it's like, as they progress, like think of how many things we did when we were younger. We're like, man, I was, that was a little iffy. And it's like, they're, they're just going at it at a, at this age where, I mean, dude, these kids. Hold on a, but hold on a minute, Seth. It's kind of like, it's kind of a bullshit. Like, okay. I did a lot of dumb things. A hundred percent agree, but this is one thing I didn't do when I was doing steroids. I was like, I'm doing steroids and I was willing to. But what I'm saying is the influences are influenced by their followers. The influencers aren't only influencing your followers. The followers are also influencing the influencers by like, like they don't want to completely say I'm taking steroids. So I'm going to say the safe word and say TRT. You know what I mean? They're really, really, they weren't a really bad spot. That's yes, we are because we're talking about very undeveloped minds that are into lifting weights and excited. But now they're, everybody's just trying these to work around it rather than just, just address it face forward and say, yes, I take steroids. This is my life. I'm going to do with what I want. This is my choice to do what I'm doing. And they want to please their influencer to please the followers. So they don't come in waves and just attack them and overtake their entire following because they're making a fuckload of money and they don't want that fuckload of money to disappear. Can I, can I actually touch on that for one second? Just because I've learned something new in the course of the last three weeks. There was a period of time and I'm sure Ian can probably attest to this. Mike can probably attest to this. I've had conversations with each of them where social media backlash was a scary concept to me. You got to say the right thing. You got to do the right thing or else they're going to write. And I'm just talking along the lines of what you're saying, right? Yeah. There's something I fucking learned in the last three weeks. It's all fucking bullshit. Yeah. It's all fucking bullshit. The people that like you, it's like, I look at Donald Trump and Kamal Harris kind of thing. And I, and I see the same thing. It's almost like Donald Trump is Donald Trump. Like you get what you get. He's going to say whatever he's going to say, even if like half the country's like, you're a fucking psychopath. And I'm not saying it's okay to be retarded, but what I am saying is like, it's I'm relating this back to what you were saying in a sense that if you are one of these influencers, if you are like, if you have a lot of influence and like you said, you're scared of backlash or people bombarding your comment sections or whatever, it's all fucking bullshit. Yeah. The people, the real world, the people who like you are going to fucking like you regardless. They're not going to go, well, he said steroids instead of TRT and they're all going to leave. No, maybe some will leave. Maybe some will talk shit, but you're going to gain more people out of respect for being a real person. But you got to remember we're talking, you, we are all grown men. I know that Seth, I know that. I just, I just, I just said to you, there was a number of years I'm agreeing with you. Yeah. It was, there was a number I'm 46 years old. Social media has been a burr in my ass for 10 fucking years. I just learned that everybody can fuck off. This is who I am. Yeah. Take it or leave it. This is who I am. Yeah. And, and you know, that's, that's why you've had the success. You've had, especially like you've just, you've always had the podcast like this, you know, that we've all been ourselves in these regards. And like, that's why, like I look around and like, you were like, man, we're in a different, we're in a really, we might be in a bad spot in it. And I think, I think like, that's one of the things that I'd love to see change is like, guys, it's okay. Like be yourself. Yeah. Go ahead. Talk about it. Be you. You can, you're no one's perfect. And when you're young, you know, these young kids, like they hear, like I'm talking about like the young 15, 16, 17, 18, even early twenties there, they, you know, they think like, if you do one thing wrong, like all of a sudden, like you're not perfect. And they're perfect. Cause they haven't made any big mistakes. Cause they haven't even been faced with adversity or faced with anything difficult yet. And it's like, they may have, but to an extent we're like, listen, I'm going to give you, I'm going to give you a couple examples. Yeah. And I didn't realize this until after my own kind of awakening for whatever the fucking lack of a better word. Yeah. There are people in our lives that everybody knows that are extremely popular more so than all of their counterparts. And the one thing they have that their counterparts don't have is authenticity. Look at, I'll give you a couple of examples. Look at Dana White. Why is Dana White so fucking popular? It's not just because he is the owner of the UFC. It's because he goes on podcasts after podcast after podcast and says things that aren't necessarily popular, but it's the real him. I'll bring it back to our scale. Look at Sam Sulik. Why the fuck is Sam Sulik so popular? It's because the motherfuckers eating, eating cereal and drinking a gallon of milk and then going to squat four plates. And he's showing you what's real, even though he's got hundreds of people going, you're a fucking idiot. You're a fucking retard. Dozens and dozens of videos going, you're a fucking moron. He's like, Hey, this is what I'm doing. And instead of everybody leaving him, what people should take from watching someone like Sam is, Hey, you might get some backlash, but the more real you are, the more fucking people are going to gravitate towards you. Sure. So it's like, I'm kind of relating to what you're saying is I wish a lot of these young influencers, they want to be like Sam, but they're not willing to do what Sam's doing. And I hear them say it. I want to be like, listen, I get guys message me all the time. They're like, I'm 19. I'm like, Sam, I got a good physique. Will you sponsor me? And I'm like, you're not like Sam. Sam is putting him sucking fucking self out there and showing the good and the bad. And that's why he's popular. It's not because he's got the best physique in the world. It's because he's a real fucking person. Yeah. So anyway, um, okay, we're over. Okay. We're over. Let's do one or two more and we'll go. Um, we already covered it. Why do you think the majority of bodybuilding would vote for world would vote for Trump? Oh, you don't really have an answer for that. Right now. Trump's fucking run away with it. Yeah. Is he? We have to check the numbers. Yeah. The, uh, the betting market, he's like 88% to win now. Really? Yeah. 88. 12 is the poly market. Like for betting. I trust the betting markets more than I trust. Well, it was sick. It was 66 to 33, like less than two hours ago. So he's up by 5 million votes. Yeah. Yeah. Fuck me. And not that I know the popular vote doesn't matter, but I'm just like, California obviously will be a big one. Cause they're like 54 electoral things. And that's usually, but I mean, even if she wins all of that, all 54, I mean, it's still, he's fucking run away with it. Ohio. He's crushing in Ohio. Eh? Pennsylvania is pretty close. What's Michigan at? That's what I was just going to check. All in Kamala's up. That's surprising actually. We have 20, 20% reporting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. How much reporting? Oh, 20% reporting. 20%. Uh, what other, what are, what are the other, like, um, important States? We'll go over to Oregon and Washington. Uh, results. Click there. How many would send there? Yeah. Washington's not there yet either. Okay. Yeah. They'll start coming in at like 11 for those West coast. Are we doing a, are we doing a live, uh, watch party for the election and stay on? Yeah. When they, when they announce it, we'll, we'll all get live together. We'll stay on for four. Actually, I want to ask you guys, I want to do, well, you're going to be in Prague already. Seth, if you want to come on, I want to do a live watch party for the Prague show. Yeah. It's a 16, 17th. I'll zoom in live. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Mike, if you want, I know you're not a big like bodybuilding analyst, fan, but if you want, we're going to say him. God damn. You know, any bets I've won this year? If you don't think I know of my shit, I can beat all you at the Olympia. So you're rigged the fucking vote against me. I listen. I just happen to win the entire season. It's not bad. Come on. If you don't win the final game, then it doesn't matter. How many game seven you won the regular season, Ian, that doesn't mean anything. How did you, I'll come on for the watch party. If you're asking. Okay. What time does it start? Uh, it starts at 9am and it goes till 9pm. We're going to be on for the full 12 hours. Get the fuck out of here. Hmm. Pack a lunch. What does it really start? Pack a lunch. I'm going to jerk off in his living room in the middle. Yeah. It's not going to take a pause break. Go to my couch. Why is the camera moving up and down so hard? Uh, does Fouad believe bestiality should be legal? Yes. Yes. Clearly. Clearly. Yeah. Uh, what's wrong with you fucking people? It's not that big a deal. It's a pretty big deal. Uh, what is the go-to snack that will never get old? Pizza. Is pizza a snack? Is there a pizza snack? Doritos. Why are you laughing, Seth? Doritos. Doritos. 100%. 100%. OG fucking nacho. No. Cool Ranch. Cool Ranch. I'll give you that. Cool Ranch is amazing. I got to tell you, the Doritos, the Doritos dill pickle are fucking awesome. Those are good too. Hmm. I haven't had those. Oh, they're good. I really like the, uh, like the crispy mini chip ones. I like those too. Like the cheddar. You mean the rice? The rice cake ones? Yeah, but they're like a triangle chip. Not the circle. Oh no, I haven't. I haven't had that. The circle ones aren't as crunchy. I don't like them as much. I used to buy the circle ones, the little mini rice cake things. Yeah. I would buy like when I was bodybuilding, I'd buy like 10 bags. I'd be like, okay, this is going to be like the carb portion of my meal. And I would go home from the grocery store and I'd eat all fucking 10 bags in one night. They're so easy to eat. The chip ones are better. The tortilla ones are better because they're crunchier. Those ones are a little fluffier, but. All right. I can't find a good question here. Uh, Fuad, if Paul identified as a dog, would you shower with him? Yes. This is so crazy. Um, uh, okay. Seth, you want to leave us? I can't find a good one. Which one is gay or going for feminine looking gay guys or going for masculine looking gay guys? It's a good question. That's a good question. I don't know. That's a good question. I think going for masculine looking gay guys is gayer. Yeah, I guess. Like a hairy bear dude. Like if you, I can't even talk about it. I guess it has to be gay. I can't even talk about this. You're liking masculine traits more. You know? I can't even talk about this because I'm already now the bestiality guy on the show. So if I talk about this, I'm also going to be the gay bestiality guy. So I'm just going to be. Yeah, you will be. I'm always going to be the resident gay. Don't worry. That's true. I was going to say, forget it. Don't do that. Uh, okay. Last one. Fuck, marry, kill. I think we've done this before. Kamala Harris, Hillary Clinton, Michelle Obama. We did that. Did we? Yeah. Who are you going to fuck, marry, kill, Mike? I'm going to go ahead. You go, go ahead. Oh, I can't do that either. That's horrible. It's not really good. I'm going to fuck Kamala. This one sucks. I'm going to fuck Kamala, marry, Michelle, kill Hillary. That's because you're gay. She'll like that. She's a dude. I like ethnic chicks, you know, you're like, you're like dudes. That's what you like. You like dudes. Rank the weirdest things Fouad does. Eating apple cores, likes getting caught, naked dog washing, brushing teeth in the shower, or obsessions with toilet plume. Bro, you are fucking racking them up. I got some weird quirks. I think it's because I'm the only honest one on the fucking show. You guys all hide your shit. No. Especially you, Seth. You're the most moderated. I don't know what I do. Like Ian at least professes his gayness. You don't even. I shit in the shower all the time. Do you really? Almost daily at this point. It's almost like become a fetish for me. I actually believe him 100%. I can totally see Ian like taking a dump, getting in the shower, not being done, and finishing in the shower because he's going to get back out. I just see him dropping a huge log. No, no, no, no. I never drop huge logs in the shower. No, I, I, I listen. When you, when you, Ian, when you shit in the shower, is it like there was some left over? What the fuck? No, I'm just like, I'm like taking a shower. There's some left over that you didn't get in. I'm cleaning my ass. I'll clean my ass. I'll give like a little push and just like, and then I wash it down. I'm kidding. I swear. Next question. You should try it. It's very liberating. Yeah. I just want to read this. I don't know what this question is. I just want to read it. Jay had a terrific podcast with Hani after the Olympia. At one point they were talking about peaking for a show and how Hottie's body may have been too tired to peak properly. Hottie mentioned, Hani mentioned something like the big guys referring to Andrew and Samson, not peaking in their shows, suggesting that these guys are not doing the conventional peaking. Provis. Coop. Cooped. You explain what it, could you explain what it meant, what it could have meant? How can we speculate to what Hani meant? I don't know what the fuck you meant. What does he mean? Well, I'm kind of curious to you. What does he mean by they're not peaking in their shows? Because they're just like, they're just like coasting onto the stage and not doing a peak. I don't know. Like they're not depleting and loading carbs and all that. Like, I think he's actually, actually, actually, if that's what he meant, that's not necessarily totally off. Cause I know Samson. France. And Mel. Don't carb load very, very heavy based on his previous, you know, they know from previous shows that every time he carb loads really heavy, he gets watery. Yeah. So I think they, they do, I guess, honey is, if that's what he meant, he's kind of right. What is a peak? Because like I'm saying that you have to do like for it to be a peak, you need to do like water loading, depletion, fucking like all this. Well, you know, but you know, it's like a peak is just getting you on stage the best you can look, whatever you do in that to me is, is irrelevant. No, but I think I agree with you, what you're saying, but I think people in general, when they say they're peaking, they're saying they are manipulating something in their diet, whether it be the carbs, water, salt, to achieve the best. And then renders the best look. Yeah. But that's, but I think, but I think if I had to guess what honey's saying, I think that's what he means is they're not doing a traditional peaking protocol. They're just, I would probably agree. I would probably agree with that. Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. There's a big fucking chungus there. What? Oh, okay. Last question. If you got to see three of your lifetime stats on your deathbed, what ones are you picking? Total wanks is mandatory. I'm actually curious what that would be. That's a good one. That's 65, 70. If I live to that age. Total wanks. I'd like to see total animals slaughtered. Wait a second. I have, I can figure it out right now. Like how many total animals I've killed in my life. Oh, look, we'll just do the math right now. Okay. I've been alive for 46 years. You've been jerking off since you were what? Like 13? 365 days a year. Well, no, you haven't been jerking off for all the years you've been alive. Yeah, but I, well, hold on. I've been jerking off since I was nine. Nine. Yeah. I think I jerked off the very first time I was nine. It was probably like 11 or 12. Well, you started nine. I was probably younger than that. You're probably right. I was probably in like grade six. Are you fucking for real? Nine? Grade six or seven. So yeah, you'd be like 10, 11, 10. Yeah. Okay. So he's one year after me. It's always 35 years. Let's say 35. Hold on a minute. Just hold on a minute. I started at nine, but there was a whole bunch of years where I doubled and tripled each day. Yeah. Okay. So try and do the average here. Let's go for 35 years. And average 17,000 weeks, 17,000 weeks. That's crazy. What are you laughing at, Mike? You're the same. I just, I just, I don't know. I definitely, I don't think I was nine when that happened. That's fucking crazy, man. But you guys are the same. You guys are exactly like me. You probably wank every day. And if not every day, there are days where you double up. So it all averages out to one. No. Well, no. But there was days when I was younger. What do you think? Stop trying to push your weird wanking onto me. I don't do that. But there was definitely days when I was younger, when I was like 13. I'm not part of your club, dude. When I was like a young teenager, I was wanking like five, six times in a day. See, there you go. So it all, when I was like 14, for sure. Yeah. Remembering that you're wanking off every second you have time. Just beating on that thing. You know, I was shooting blanks by the end. There's nothing coming out. Blood coming out of my dick. Yeah. I'm not going to go any further. This is going to get, it's only, so let's just yell, stop. We just talked about authenticity and Sam soon. Like your food. I'd let it out. I've let out enough. I can't do it. Hold off. Seth, you're not saying anything. Are you kind of in the same ballpark or are you like Mike? You just don't touch your weenus. No, I think, I think I'm probably in the same ballpark. When you're young, dude, that's where like my baby powder fetish came from. Cause of all the baby powder. The taping. Cause you're just beating the hell out of that fucking thing. Like I need something to calm it down. Yeah. Wait a minute. You jerked it so hard. You're leaving marks on it and shit. Oh yeah, dude. Beat me. I've been there too. I can't say I haven't, but I never tried baby powder. That's a good solution. I could use it. Yeah. Okay. I'm going to try that. Yeah. I love baby powder. It smells great. But that gives you, but that just gives you a smooth stroke, but you get no friction. But no, it wasn't, it wasn't for that. It was the chafing. And then like, as I got bigger, like your legs, like I just, wait a minute, wait a minute. So your dick is fucked up. So you put baby powder on it and then you don't touch it. Yeah. Yeah. Just cause it was like, cause it's all beat up. It's red. And after you've done the six times a day, did you think powder that? After the half a dozen wanks. What do you think the most? Half a dozen wanks before noon. The most wanks you've done in a day is if you had to guess. Six. Six. Yeah. I'm probably six. He's like, that was, he's like, that was yesterday. You definitely can't do that at this age. No, fuck. No. I'm like, I think the most I've done at this age is probably two or three. I'm not going to say, but six is my max. 25 plus. I'd like to see if I could beat six just for the fuck of it. Yeah. Do it tomorrow. Tell us. Go live every time. Do you? What's your, guys, I'm going for number five. Here, it's going. What's your max? What's your max in a day? Giz in a cup and then weigh it with each time and see the regression and load as it goes throughout the day. Oh my God. It's going to be nothing. It's going to be air. It's going to be air. It'll be like four mils to like three mils to like one to like 0.25. Yeah. All right. What's your max in a day? Who, me? Yeah. Probably somewhere between six and eight. Eight. Oh my God. Shit. When I was young, what are you doing? Rip the skin off your dick. Six to eight. Seth, what's your max? I don't know. Probably like when you, when we were young. Yeah. Like three or four is normal. Six is a lot, dude. Yeah. What'd you say? Three or four? Yeah. That's normal. That's like average. When you're younger. Yeah. That's taking a day off. Yeah. That's like, I wasn't, I was busy that day. Yeah. I had a lot of homework that day. Mike, are you just being like cool? You're like not. No, I'm being honest. I didn't, I didn't, I would tell you if I was wanking it all the time. I just never like, like I could never see that. I never think back to me doing it more than like three or four times. Not a big one. It's not that different. It's four or six. It's like two different. It's not that. You're not that. You're not that mature. You're not that mature. Oh yeah. I wouldn't try to, don't try to normalize your six, dude. Okay. Ian's at eight. Ian's at eight. What the fuck? Wait, I said six to eight. Yeah. But that's because you don't want to fully admit. You don't want to fully admit the eight. So you're like six to eight. I don't know. I don't remember exactly. I'd like to see in the comments though, people who are going to be. You're going, you're going back to back a couple. Times there. Yeah. I've done back to back for sure. Yeah. Yeah. I've done two at once. Like, come on, wake up. We're going again. Get going. I'm just joking. Don't go down. Two at once. Wait, like you finish and just keep going, finish again. Yeah. Okay. I've done that. Is it like a, it's like a test to see if you can, or is this, you're still into it? Are you just pushing yourself? It's like, you're kind of pushing yourself to see if you still got it. I've done that as an adult, like in Cialis fueled rage, you know? When you're, when you're, listen, I didn't fuck till I was 17. Really? Yeah. I was jerking off at nine. That was fucking eight. Eight years of jerking it, man. That's a long time. I was fucking at like 11, but I was fucking at like 14, you know? Even 13. I only had like a three year hiatus there. Like, you know, Seth, what did you fuck the first time? I think, uh, 17, 16, 17. So you're fucking hammering away at yourself too. Yeah. I wasn't nine. I got it. I got it. I wanted to ride my bike more than I wanted to wank it when I was nine. Listen, I'm a little perverted. All right. Let's just fucking, nine's not that bad. I think you should put, I think you'll put a pull up for that one. You'll be shocked. That's like great. That's like great five. Yeah. Well, I was, I matured early. I matured young. What do you want from me? Fucking Arabs. God. I had a mustache at fucking 12. What do you want from me? All right. Seth, lead us off with a prayer. Cause Paul's not here. We need to, we need a good one after today. Oh man. Yeah. We've sinned on this podcast. We got to pray the fucking sins away here. Yeah. All right. Everybody bow your heads. All right. Lord. We thank you for another beautiful night of bro chat with all of us being able to get together. Please continue to bring us good health, good fun, good fortune. Please bless each one of us in our endeavors in life. Ian and Melissa with their trying for the babies. Uh, uh, with his business, Mike with his business. And, uh, again, please, uh, grant us good fortune. And also all of our followers and listeners, uh, please make sure that they go into the holiday season, uh, wonderful with their families, excited and, uh, continue to bring us together to do good, fun things. Okay. In your name, Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. Thank you, Seth. You're going to ruin it right now. No. Paul, Paul, can you say a prayer for us? Yeah. Say a prayer for us. Well, I just, I just blasted my back. So I got a great pump right now. Amen. Amen. Feeling pretty huge right now. Gonna go home and eat some food, probably some cookies. And, uh, smoke a joint and call it a night. Amen. Amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. All right, guys. Talk to you next week. See you guys.