 What's going on guys, it's been a while since I did a solo Q&A, so I want to jump on here and just do this thing one-on-one with me and you guys and have some serious bodybuilding talk and get some serious bodybuilding talk and get some serious bodybuilding talk. kind of give you guys some of the knowledge from my 25 years in the game. If you guys ask questions, those of you who are on my Instagram, that's where you ask if I put a post up for Q&A's, you can ask the question there. And that's where I pull the questions from. Before we get started, I just want to show you guys really quickly. If you go to hostile.com, we dropped three new hoodies today. We got the fragment zip in a cement black and white. We got the culture zip in a black in a maroonish color, which is called blackcurrant. And we got the core pullover, which these two are like a medium weight hoodie. This one is more like a t-shirt, but a little bit thicker. It's blue, military green, and black. We just launched them today. They're going to sell out. We'll probably will restock them because of how much I like them. But get yours now before they're gone at hostile.com. Okay, guys, let's get into some questions here. I know you guys got like 150 or something here for me. I'm going to try and get through as many as I can. Those of you who've been with the channel for quite a while know that I generally go to 30, 60 minutes, somewhere in there. And I just get through as many questions as I can, and then we'll wrap it up. So let me just see what I can get into here. And what kind of good questions you guys got for me. In contest prep, Elijah Klepper says, In contest prep, when do you cut cardio if you're on track? Three days prior to show, one week, and have you ever tried HIIT training for fasted cardio? So in contest prep, me personally, I probably cut cardio the Thursday before a Saturday show. Now, that doesn't mean the cardio on that Thursday is the same as my regular cardio the weeks before. It's hard to give you a general statement because cardio can change drastically depending on your body and your needs. I have done cardios where I started with two 45-minute sessions, burned off the bulk of my fat by six weeks out, and then brought it down to 20-minute sessions from six weeks out to the show. So I've also done preps where I've done two 45-minute sessions leading up to the last week, and then gotten ready, and then chopped it to 30 minutes daily up until the second or third last day. So there's not really one general answer. It depends on you. What I would say is this. One of the general rules, if you're in shape, that I would go by, is something I like to do that John taught me that I think I did with Hani as well. Whatever your cardio amount is, and for me, I always did a little bit more cardio. It was always like two 30-minute sessions or two 45-minute sessions a day leading up. The last week, though, we would generally cut that down because I was in shape by then. And like John, for example, would leave my cardio in at like half an hour a day, the Sunday before the show, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Now, those cardio sessions are not crazy intense, and they're not there to burn fat. John always felt like it was a good way to just keep carbs moving through your body, right? And like keep your glycogen moving, keep everything kind of moving through the body and not just let things get stagnant. So those last workouts, like the Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday before a show, are generally like pump workouts. You're not going apeshit. You're not going to failure. You're not going crazy. The same thing kind of applies to the cardio. I would probably do, you know, instead of doing a 45-minute session, I would do my training session and then a 20-minute session of like light walking or what I even might do, and I know I did this on like a couple Wednesday and Thursday nights when I was at shows. I would fly somewhere on a Wednesday. I'd get in. I would train during the day. I'd eat a couple meals, do whatever I had to do, and I would go back to the gym, say, you know, before my last meal, do 20 minutes walking, just kind of keep water moving through the body, not letting yourself get like stagnant from sitting around. I always felt like that was a really good strategy, and I always liked that a lot. But as far as like intense cardio, my opinion is no matter how you did your cardio through your prep, you should be ready for the show at least a week out. Like if you're still trying to hammer away burning fat within the last week, you didn't do things right. So at least by the last week, maybe two, you should be ready, and you should be pulling back on that cardio, and the cardio that last week is really just to keep water moving through the body and keep your food processing properly and things like that. It's not hard, intense cardio. Antonio Marino Sr. says, Fouad, do you think if you would have met Big Mike sooner and adopted some of his philosophy on training, your body would have held up a bit longer? I don't know. I think Mike is very smart. I think me and Mike have some of the same philosophies on training principles as far as how important the pump is, creating a massive pump throughout the workout, not relying solely on strength gains, but relying on pump as well. We share those same philosophies. We also share the same philosophy on active range of motion. I don't believe in like full range of motion. I believe in active range of motion. And just to explain that really quickly to you guys, I'll give you a perfect example. If you are doing a bench press and I come down to here, my chest is still controlling the weight. Right? Right? I'm still holding the weight up with my chest. If I come down to here now, it's almost like the weight is being rested on my joints. Even though I got a massive stretch of my chest, I almost feel like the tension is relieved a little bit. So when I say active range of motion, sometimes that active range of motion is just before the peak depth and just before peak lockout. So if I'm extending that barbell press, when I get here, that's still tension. If I lock the elbows all the way out, I might lose some tension depending on how I'm feeling my chest. So active range of motion, I'll tell you, I'll give you guys a good story. I was training with Justin Shire. We were doing pause reps on squats and my pause reps used to be squatting all the way into the hole until I couldn't go any further. So I was almost like resting on my knees a little bit because if you just sit down, your quads are not holding you anymore. It's your knees and joints holding you in that position. And then I would pause there for a second and shoot back up through it. And Justin said to me, hey, why don't we do that again? Or I asked him, he did a set and he was stopping like this short of peak depth. And I said, why are you doing that? Go all the way in the hole. And he goes, yeah, but then I'm resting. I said, you know what? That kind of makes sense. So I tried it. And I would stop short of peak depth by like that much, which meant my quads had to hold me up. So that is kind of one of the, I would go down. I pause with that much room left. My quads are now holding me up. The tension is still there. And then I'm shooting back up to the top. So that's kind of what I mean by active range. I hope that explains it well. But anyway, so going back to Mike, we share a lot of the same philosophies. Now, his form is probably very different than mine or not very different, but much more meticulous. But I don't think our principles of training are very far off at all. I think the one thing I could have, the thing is, you got to remember, Mike was doing the same things I was doing when Mike was coming up. So he wasn't always this enlightened bodybuilding guru. When he was coming up, he was dumbbell pressing 200-pound dumbbells like an animal, just like anybody else was. So all of us have kind of learned and changed along the way. So I think more your question is, would you have benefited from being smarter when you were younger? And the answer is yes. I think when you're younger, you feel invincible and you're really hungry and you want to be incredible and you want to be great and you want to get to the top and you're fucking willing to do anything. And my mindset was to go 110% all the time. And going slow can be 110%, but it didn't feel that way to me. I was like, no, we got to go crazy. If you're not going crazy, you're not going 110%. That might have been something I could have changed back in the day. Still had the intensity, but with a little bit more well thought out process. Ariana Bedifit. I think that's how you say it. I don't know. Thoughts on bulking nowadays. Seems like everyone is on the main gaining train. Do you still believe you had to add some fluff to one day be a mass monster on stage? Or can it be achieved but in a longer process by main gaining? Um, so I've never said that main gaining will not work. It will work. It will just take you a long time. So if you're 20 years old and you want to be. Well, I shouldn't give any amount of time because it really depends on your genetics, whether main gaining is going to work or whether it's good for you, not good for you. The main issue with bulking is this one. And most importantly is people say, well, it's unhealthy to yo-yo diet. So you shouldn't get 40 or 50 pounds over your stage weight and then try to bring it back down and go back up and bring it back down. That's not a healthy way to do things. So that I will agree to. But bodybuilding in general is not healthy. We should try and make it as healthy as possible. So maybe that excess weight gain is not a good thing. Um, the other aspect that they always say when you're promoting main gaining is if I put on that 40 or 50 pounds, I'm going to have to diet much harder to lose it than if I had 30 pounds. To me, this depends on your genetics. I never had to diet. Like I, I dieted hard, but I didn't diet any harder than the next guy. And my prep sometimes, man, I did an eight week prep once. So like, if you can lose fat pretty quickly, I don't know if it, I don't know if it's bad to gain a little bit of extra weight if you think it's helping you performance wise. So this is where I've kind of landed on the bulking topic. And this is where doing a podcast is very helpful because when you do a podcast, you get to talk to people that are much smarter than you are on various topics. So one of the things I learned in my podcasting was talking to John Jewett. And I asked him this question, what do you think about bulking? Cause I've always been a proponent of bulking. Most guys, when you see them make that really big gap, really big jump is because they had a year where they put on a lot of fucking weight and it resulted in a good amount of stage weight. Doesn't always happen, but sometimes like when you look at Quint, Quint had this offseason where he went up to 340 pounds or something like that. It didn't result to a good stage weight. But was it that, was that the coaching at the time or, or not? Because if you ask Quint, he felt like he put on a ton of muscle and he felt like he was much bigger. He felt like he lost a lot of it in that prep, not because he was too heavy, but because it wasn't being paid attention to properly. So in my 25 years, anytime I've seen somebody gain a significant amount of muscle from one year to the next or two year, or, you know, if they took a year off, they got kind of fluffy. Right. And I'm not talking about guys like James who are already like into their later years of their career where they're, or they've already built their foundation. I'm talking about younger guys. Like if you look at Terrence Ruffin right now, he's soft, but he's trying to put on a lot of weight and I bet you it's going to result in a good look on stage. But all that being said, my personal beliefs aside, this is kind of what I think is accurate, objectively speaking, and not from personal belief. Objectively speaking, when I had John Jude on the podcast, John said that your body weight should be at a point body fat percentage wise that suits your performance best. As long as it's not, he thinks he, he said to me over 15% body fat is probably too much. And he's talking about men, obviously it's going to be different for women, but speaking about men, he said over 15% body fat is probably too far under 8% body fat is too little. But what he was trying to get at was wherever your performance is best, meaning your strength gains, your pumps, all of that, wherever those, wherever that number is, that's the body fat you should be at. So if you're one of these people, and there are people like this that are like walking around at 9 or 10% body fat, and they are gaining strength every week, their logbook numbers are going up. Um, their measurements on their arms are going up, whatever metrics they're using, their pictures look better, then do that, stay at 10%, try and go to 11. If it doesn't yield a better performance result, go back to 10. If you go up to 11 and you notice better performance, you're, Hey, I'm a little stronger. My pumps are a little better. Stay at 11. If you go to 12, same thing. Like for me, I was always between 11 and 12, maybe 13% in the offseason. That's when I noticed my best strength gains, my best pumps, and it always resulted in five, at least five pounds of stage weight at the end of the year. Sometimes 10, most of the time, 10 in my early years. So that's what worked for me. If you, if your pumps feel like shit, when you're a little bit fatter, if you're 13% body fat and you're like, my pumps suck, I'm not sleeping right. My strength isn't that much better. Then go back, go back to 12, 11, 10, wherever you feel like your performance is best. That's going to be the best result for you at the end of the year. Uh, Island scavenger skulls says advice on growing with only one kidney. I'm always a little nervous as I've been, as I've seen it be an issue in the past. Uh, I'm not a doctor, so I don't like to talk about these types of things because it's a little scary to be, to me, to be honest. If I had one kidney, I mean, look, part of the reason I retired is because I had kidney issues. So it would kind of be the same thing. If I had one kidney now, I know there's people that do it. I think I'm not positive, but I think Frank McGrath has one kidney. I'm not a hundred percent sure, but so it's not that it can't be done. It's just how much is it shortening your life? How much is it causing you problems? How much is it causing you ailments in your later years in life? That's kind of what it is. It's not about whether you can do it or not. It's about what's the detriment that you're going to pay later on and what damage are you doing during that you don't necessarily know about. If I had one kidney and my heart was set on bodybuilding, if I was like, you know what, this is what I want to do. I don't care. I don't care what the risk is. I have to do it. If that's what I want to do, I would find a company like Merrick Health. And this isn't a plug. I'm just saying, cause I, I trust those guys. I know what they're doing. I would find a company like Merrick Health. And I would say, you know what? I'm going to pay you to check my blood work every quarter. Every three months, I'm going to come in. We're going to do a full panel. You're going to check all my kidney numbers. Cause for those of you who don't know, there are more than one or two. Um, you're going to check all my kidney markers and you're going to tell me how my health is. And then I would pursue this bodybuilding thing. And if my markers ever looked like they were trending in a negative direction, then I would have to rethink what I was doing. If I could keep my numbers stable. Then I would say to myself, okay, as long as my numbers are stable, I'm going to take these drugs, whatever they may be, whatever Merrick recommends. I'm going to take these supplements. You know, I'm going to take a lot of astragalus. I might get stem cells once a year, whatever it is I have to do to keep my kidney level stable. That's what I'm going to do so I can pursue this thing that I love. But if I had one kidney, I would not pursue bodybuilding without somebody watching me as I went through it. Because you're just asking for, um, problems down the line, in my opinion. Okay. Ryan Stanley says, how often would you pin test e if that's all you were running? All right. So this is going to be tough. There are so many schools of thought, or actually there's a, there's a real school of thought and an old school way of thought. The real and accurate way of thinking. And I only say this because like, again, like I said, things I've learned from people on the podcast, things I've learned from people at Merrick. Um, pinning daily seems to give the best result in the way your test levels are and also the stability of your test levels. And which also coincides with the amount of side effects you're going to get. So if you're doing 200 milligrams a week or 300 milligrams a week, whatever the test level or a hundred milligrams a week, whatever the test level you're doing. I would divide it by seven or divided by five or something like that, or just do it every other day. Like if you don't want to do a shot every, every day, maybe do it every other day. Um, but the more frequent injections seem to give the body less peaks and valleys in their hormones, less peaks and valleys seems to give less side effects, which is what you want. So this will also help control estrogen. It will also help keep your test levels high where you don't get those dips and then your progress is not as good. So that is the most accurate way to do it from what I've been taught through discussing with various professionals. Um, I don't do that personally. I think three times a week is good enough for me. So when I was doing like heavier cycles, I would do Monday, Wednesday, Friday. And to me, that was a good enough space where my peaks and valleys weren't big enough for me to worry about. And I was comfortable with that. So, but again, this is not something, those are the optimal ways in my opinion to do things. But at the end of the day, this is your personal journey. And if you want to do one shot a week, because the Esther lasts a week or two, then do one shot a week. But I would also experiment and say, okay, I did one shot a week. This is how I feel. By the end of the week, I start to crash. I notice I get a little bit more moody. Maybe I don't feel as good. I'm going to try doing two shots a week and see how that feels. And maybe you like it better. Maybe you don't. And you're like, okay, that's a little better, but I'm still getting a little bit like I can kind of feel my mood a little bit or, or maybe my performance, or maybe I'm getting some acne. Maybe, maybe I'm getting a lot of water retention. I don't know. Maybe try three times a week. Okay. And see, and just see what you like the best, what works best for you. Now, I think every day is probably the best way to do it. I just don't want to do a shot every day. I just don't. I'm just not going to do that. It's, it's not that important to me to, to make that difference. So that's going to be a personal decision on your, on your part. Uh, T man, five, six, nine, one says again, no question, but your suggestion of ground beef, rice, plain yogurt is life-changing. Always looking for new tips on food. This is, uh, for those of you who don't watch the podcast regularly, I grew up in a, I'm of Lebanese descent. I was born in Canada, but my, uh, of a Lebanese background. And my mom used to make this dish with, uh, rice, ground beef, and like herbs and spices and whatever. And we would put yogurt on it. And when I told people that they were like, that's disgusting. Now my mom would make yogurt fresh at home. And the way she made the yogurt was, it was drained so much that it wasn't as much like a regular yogurt, but more like a Greek yogurt. And when you put that on rice and beef, I'm telling you, it just makes it that much easier to eat. Now, the thing is, it's not only that it's easier to eat, but the health benefits become great as well, because now you're getting even more protein from the yogurt, which means you might not have to eat as much beef, but you're also getting all the probiotics from the yogurt. So there's all these different benefits you're getting now, putting the yogurt in with the rice and the yogurt or with the rice and the ground beef, as well as it being just easier to eat. So give it a shot. If you guys can get past the fact that it's like rice, ground beef, and yogurt. A lot of people just say it's like sour cream. I know it's not like sour cream, but it does have that kind of like flavor, texture to it, whatever. So give it a shot. It makes life a little bit easier. It just adds a different way to eat your food, which is always good for bodybuilders, because eating is so fucking monotonous that anytime you can spice something up or change it or make it easier to get down, you're going to benefit. Um, the prepping PA says, can you bring Laura Lee Chapados or Ashley Costwater? Costwater? I think it's how you say it. Dying, dying for a bikini pro to be a special guest. Okay. I'm going to tell you guys why I don't do this. I've had many women reach out to me and say, Hey, can you get my favorite bikini pro? Can you get my favorite fitness pro? Can you get my favorite whoever to come on the show? Part of the reason why I don't get women is this. It's a very bro chat. Like, like it's a bunch of dudes sitting around talking about their dicks and wiping their ass and how they're going to fuck Mary, fuck, kill some chick. Like it's not, it's not really the right venue for a Laura Lee or an Ashley. Like I would feel like it would be demeaning to them. And then what are the questions going to be like? Like, it just seems like a tough, and maybe this is my upbringing. Maybe I'm like being too conservative about it. Maybe they want to come on and talk about the way they wipe their ass. I don't know. I don't know. I just, I don't feel like they do. So that's why I don't invite female competitors. Maybe it's out of respect because we're just broing out and broing out is usually gross. And I'm, I'm actually shocked most of the time of the, some of the women that message me and say they watch the show. Cause I'm like, we're so fucking gross. I don't know why you're watching us, but I guess it's just the entertainment value of it. I don't know. But, um, maybe we'll have a woman on. I don't know. I just, I don't feel like I would be able to ask the proper questions. Like part of the reason, like you guys tell me that I'm good at my job and I'm good at hosting these things. Part of the reason I feel like I'm comfortable doing it is because I come from the world and I have experience in all aspects of bodybuilding, whether it be media or stage or coaching or whatever. So I can kind of relate to anybody in the sport. I can't relate to a bikini chick. So I feel like it'd be a little harder for me to make that fun, but maybe all these are just excuses and I should just do it and see what the fuck happens. We'll see. Um, R and B lifts says, I was so hyped to see your guys podcast post yesterday. I literally shouted and fist pumped in the air at work. Thanks. Also no more bestiality. Okay. I'm glad you guys like the podcast, man. It makes me happy. Um, coach Pat, IFBB pro. Where do you think Samson would rank amongst all Mr. Olympias? That's a tough, um, that's a tough, a tough one to do because look, if you're talking about anybody before 1990, Samson kills all of them. Because they didn't even judge legs on par. Like balance wasn't a thing before 1990. Like if you look at Lee Haney, absolutely phenomenal bodybuilding bodybuilder for his era. But they didn't like his back. His upper body was twice the size of his legs or not twice the size, but was, it was still an unbalance, an imbalance there. And, you know, if you go back to Arnold, like these guys, their legs were not a focal point the way their upper bodies were. And I think for that reason alone, if you took anybody will to build her before the 1990s, Samson's going to eat them up. Right. Now, if you take bodybuilders after the 1990s, like let's put them next to Dorian Yates. Okay. Dorian Yates has a better back and Dorian Yates is more conditioned. Does he beat him anywhere else? I don't know. Samson's legs are twice the size. Samson's arms are twice the size. Samson's chest is twice the size. Samson's waist is better. Dorian's got a better back. That's it. So he wins two poses for sure. So I don't know. Like that's to me, that's how it shapes up with Dorian. If you talk about Ronnie, Ronnie's a different story. Ronnie is the king of kings. So I don't know if anybody can beat Ronnie. Phil. I think Phil has the aesthetics and shape to match Samson, but also the conditioning. So that one's a tough one for Samson until he dials in the condition just a little further. You got to remember this is Samson's first Olympia. Samson's been getting better year after year after year since I met him, which was four years ago. And every single year he shows a market improvement. So we don't know what the finished Samson's going to look like. Is the finished Samson going to be better than Phil? Is the finished Samson going to be better than Ronnie? Is the finished Samson going to look like? We don't know what he's going to look like. So I don't know where to put him. In the world of Olympia winners right now, it's a pretty general consensus that it goes Ronnie, then Phil, and then you can debate everybody else. If I put Samson next to Jay, that's another tough one. Jay's got great legs. Samson's got great legs. Samson is far more aesthetic than Jay. They both got great arms. They both got Jay's probably got better shoulders. Samson's probably got a better chest. Jay's got a thicker back. That would be a good matchup. I'd have to see them next to each other. That'd be a good matchup. But I mean, you can do this all day long, right? And the other thing is too, you got to see these guys on stage next to each other. One of the things I learned when I first saw Samson on stage in person was actually how big he is. And you can't tell until you see him in person. Because the very first time I saw him in person was when he took sixth and they brought him out next to Rami. And I could not believe that he held his own next to Rami. Because Rami at the time was the biggest thing we'd ever seen. 300 pounds, fucking just a giant, massive human with these humongous legs. And when Samson stood next to him, and I'm not saying all body parts, but just stature and muscularity in general, he matched. I was like, holy shit. He's going toe to toe with Rami, the biggest bodybuilder in bodybuilding. And I didn't expect that. Because when you see photos of Samson, he's so aesthetic that you forget that he's also 300 pounds on stage. So it's hard to quantify, like, is he better than Brandon Curry? I think so. Is he better than Hadi when Hadi was Mr. Olympia? I don't know. That's a tough one. I mean, maybe he will be. Maybe he's not at the moment. Maybe he is. I don't know. A lot of people think this past Olympia or past Arnold was the best Hadi we'd ever seen. Does Samson from the Olympia beat Hadi from the Arnold? You have to see him next to each other. It's really tough. It's really tough to say. It's really tough to say. I think the only thing I can say for sure is that currently I think we all, you know, most analysts or whatever you want to call us, media personalities, whatever, seem to have Ronnie and Phil one and two. Some people have them flipped. Most people have Ronnie then Phil. So I don't know. Um, Keon versus Prime Flex Lewis. Who wins? Oh, that's a really tough one. I personally think Keon only because the only area I think Flex beats Keon is, um, detail and conditioning. Flex has crazy detail, crazy detail through his entire body. It's just, it's just, it's great lines, very clean and very, very good condition. But Keon showed this year that he can also bring some pretty crazy condition. It's not the same as Flex's, but when you take that level of condition combined with his structure and muscularity, it's hard to really think of anybody beating Keon. I'm also kind of biased. I'm a huge Keon fan. I think he's, I think his physique is absolutely fucking phenomenal. Like it's, it's mind blowing how well that physique is put together and how well he presents it. So I don't know if you should take my opinion. I'm just, I'm completely blown away by that physique. And I think the level of detail and condition that Flex brings is definitely a winning, is definitely a stronger suit for him. But I don't know if he's so far ahead in that area that the condition that Keon brings isn't enough to still give him the win based on his structure and muscularity. Iron Will Seven says, when you were competing, how often would you change your workouts, movements for certain body parts? Or did you just stick to the same movements for body parts for a certain period of time? Um, I don't think I changed things too much. I think, actually that's not true. All my workouts changed. I didn't do the same workout every week, but the movements really didn't change. Like, except for the last one. Like, so my workouts were generally like, let's say you're doing chest and you have four exercises. The first, the first one's going to be a machine press. So it's either going to be a hammer strength press. It's going to be a, a pin loaded press, some type of machine press, right? Because I feel like they're the safest. After that, it's probably going to be, going to be your meat and potatoes. So it's going to be like a dumbbell press or barbell press. Those two are probably going to be one and two, or at least second. Second in the workout is going to be my meat and potatoes. And this is a John Meadows, I'm not going to take credit for this. This is kind of how John taught me, which I always got the best results with. And I always felt like made the most sense. You do the safe exercise first. It doesn't mean you do it lightly or doesn't mean you don't do it hard, but it's just a safer exercise. It's not a machine. Then you get your meat and potatoes in and sure, you've already done exercise. So your bench is not going to be your strongest ever, but we're not in there to break records. We're in there to build muscle. So machine press safe, get everything warmed up, lubricated, blood flowing, joints moving into your meat and potatoes. It would generally be a dumbbell press, a barbell press, like an incline press or something like that. Then I would go on to another machine maybe, or if I did barbell press, I would do a dumbbell press third. That would also be something hard. Generally, what I would do is the second exercise was more of a weight. I would focus on weight. So like, for example, if I was doing like a barbell press, I might go up to a weight where I can only get six or eight reps for failure. So I'm going up to like four plates, four and a half plates, and I'm trying to knock out six and grind those out. And that's where I'm building my strength. The third exercise is the failure set. Like this is where my, my volume set comes into play, where if I did barbell press for two, number three is say a dumbbell press. Instead of doing 175 pound dumbbells, I might do one forties for 12. I'm failing at 12, but because I'm doing a little more volume, it's driving them a little bit more blood. That's kind of the way I looked at number three. Those three exercises, they generally didn't change. Like I might flip them around. I might do a different machine, maybe hammer strength one week, maybe pin loaded the next, but it's generally a machine exercise. Then the second two, they're just going to flip. It's going to be barbell one week. It's going to be dumbbell one week. They're going to flip back and forth. It's kind of always part of my workout. And then the fourth exercise is probably the one that changes the most. That's the isolation exercise. I usually save it for the end. It's going to be a dumbbell fly. It's going to be a cable curve, sorry, a cable crossover. It's going to be a pec deck. It's going to be something to really, really isolate the pecs. Generally going to be in the 12 to 15 rep range to really drive as much blood as possible. Finish off the workout. That's pretty much the gist of all of my training. You, you'd be hard pressed to find a setup on any body part, except for maybe arms. That's different than that. Um, and yeah, I didn't like, you know, people talk about splits, bro split, fucking push and pull split, blah, blah, blah, split. I tried all of them. I gave all of them a month or two tests to see each, but I generally just like a bro split. Maybe two, I would train twice, two body parts a week. Sometimes like a body part twice a week. Sometimes like as far as like prioritization, um, if I want to prioritize like building my back or building my arms, I might throw in a second day or something like that. But generally it's, um, just a bro split. So, uh, no, I didn't change too much. I, I move things around to keep the workouts interesting, but I didn't do like these crazy wild exercises all the time. And like, if I did, if I did, those exercises were usually saved for the last exercise. So last exercise to me was the isolation exercise. And that's where you can get kind of fruity with, you can get fluffy with different exercises or whatever you're doing. Um, Vatican monk says, could you explain your higher cardio at the beginning of prep that you mentioned a few podcasts ago? Sure. I could. I kind of touched on this earlier in this, um, podcast. It made sense to me in the past. It starting, starting your prep, you start with like, instead of a lot of guys, what they do is ramp their cardio up as they go through a prep. So if you start your prep at 16 weeks, you'll start with like a 20 minute session of cardio. And then you're trying to burn more fat. So you start ramping up the cardio more and more and more. So by the time you get from 16 weeks to six weeks, now you're doing two 45 minute sessions and you're like, oh fuck the show's six weeks away. I still got more fat to burn. The reason I don't like that as much is because as you get further into your prep, your calories go down. As my calories go down, I don't want to be raising my cardio because it's going to mean more muscle loss. So to me, if I'm trying to be as, as muscle sparing as possible, my calories here are extremely high, right? I'm still in a deficit. I'm in prep. I'm in a deficit, but they're higher than they're going to be at four weeks. I'll do my cardio. Now put me on those two half an hour sessions and let's start burning away at some of that fat while I'm eating a lot of food. And then as I get closer to the show, when my calories gone from 4,000 to 2000, now I can do 20 minutes of cardio a day instead of two 45 minute sessions a day, because I burned off most of the fat earlier on in my prep. And my training sessions are also going to be better because I did most of the cardio and burned off a big chunk of fat at the beginning. So now I'm not dead tired from doing tons of cardio and I can't train. I'm only doing half an hour a day, 20 minutes a day. So my training sessions now are great as my calories go down. So there's a lot of benefits to getting the cardio done early, getting big chunks of fat burned off early while you're eating a lot of food. Um, Makata, uh, Mac Adam, Mike, I think. Why did you not ask Chris about the Detroit pro? Uh, I should probably should have as a joke. I probably should have asked him as a joke. Um, but no, I already know why it's too far for him. The reason he picked Prague of all the shows in the year is because it was the closest. Well, I guess he could have done Romania, but it was the closest to the Olympia. So he doesn't have to re-prep. I already know he's not going to like go into an offseason and then go back into a prep just for Detroit. I should have asked him as a joke though. It would have been, it would have been a good, it would have been a good, uh, soundbite to promote the Detroit show. Uh, John Thick with 10 C's says, do you think Sebum is getting paid to do the Prague show or is, or is making it, or is making a share of the pay-per-view? Uh, no, I don't. I, I think any promoter would pay Chris to do their show. They would have to pay Chris a lot of money. I don't know what Chris makes, but I have an idea. Just, I don't even have an idea. I know it's a lot. Just put it that way. I don't think any promoter can offer Chris the amount of money they should, they need to be offering to get him to compete. Like offering him 10 grand is not going to make him compete. You know what I'm saying? It's like the guy's a fucking multimillionaire. So it's like, I don't think anybody's paying him to do their show. And if they are, it's a bonus for his pocket. I bet you he didn't even negotiate it or ask for it, but I, I really don't think they are. I think this was more a situation of, Hey, I think this is going to be really cool for the fans. It's going to be really fun for me. And it's a cool way to end my career. I think that's what he's doing personally. Arthur fitness says, if you had to choose, would you rather have a great coach or a great training partner? Much love to Paul. That's a tough one, man. It's a, it's a really tough one. I'm going to say this and it might sound cold, but if you're focused, on being the best in the world, you don't need a training partner as much as you need a coach. And that's just my opinion. Other people may disagree. That's just for my, me personally. Now that doesn't mean I don't cherish every single day over the last 20 years that I've trained with Paul, but there was four years where, or three years where I lived in Toronto and I didn't train with Paul and I made some of my best gains there because I had a great coach at the time. Uh, that was when I started working with John. And John turned my body into something that I didn't think it could turn into. And I was training by myself. I didn't even have a training partner that I would go to the gym every day by myself. Now, the other reason I say it is if you look around at most pros, they don't really train together. Like some of the, there's some, there's a few, you know, you talk about Martin and Brett, um, whatever. But most pros just kind of train by themselves. They might train with a girlfriend. Like Samson, Samson's training by himself. Samson trains with Mel sometimes, but a lot of times he's training by himself. Um, you know, Ian would train with like Mark Berger sometimes, but he also trained by himself. Like, you know, James has a partner, but I also don't think like, if you ask James, like, Hey, would you rather work with a coach or work with your training partner? I think James would tell you, I could still be great without a training partner. Like a lot of us are self-driven. And I think when it comes to bodybuilding, if you're not self-driven or self-motivated or self, you don't have self-belief, it doesn't really fucking matter if you have a training partner or not. But the thing is the coach can guide you, can guide that belief in that, um, determination in the right way. It's a tough question, man. Even as I'm answering the question, I'm like, fuck, I couldn't imagine for the last 20 years without training with Paul. I guess I'm thinking of it more pragmatically, like just as a competitor. Do I want to do bodybuilding with no training partner? No, I don't. I'll just put it that way because bodybuilding is fun to me. Like it's something I love, but part of the reason it's fun is I get to do it with my best friend. It would still be fun doing it by myself, but it's not as fun. Right? So if you're asking me like, is bodybuilding great and would you want to do it with a coach or with a training partner? Emotionally, I want to do it with a training partner. If we're talking about pragmatically and just talking about getting from level one to the Olympia stage, I think a good coach is probably going to be more valuable to you if you have self-discipline and you don't need somebody to push you. Um, Dave Stoner says, can a person still get big if they are older? I'm 52. I have workout experience. Just curious as to how much progress an older guy can realistically make. Dave Stoner, I'm going to assume you're not on steroids. You could be, but I'm going to assume you're not. So let's say you're not on steroids or you're on TRT, right? Like a hundred milligrams a week or whatever the doctor prescribed you. Number one, I don't think it's a healthy idea to try and get bigger. Getting a little more muscular is okay. Depends what you mean by bigger. If you're talking about being like a mass monster. No, I don't think at 52 years old, it's a good idea to be smashing four or 5,000 calories of food to try and get huge or else I would be doing it myself. Um, I don't know if it's healthy to be taking a bunch of steroids. If you're not on, if you are thinking about that at 52, I mean, it's not healthy at 22, but it's probably a lot worse at 52. Going back to your question more specifically, can you get big? Yes. At what cost? I don't know. Is it probable or likely? Uh, not likely without a lot of assistance. And by assistance, I mean, performance enhancing drugs. Look, after 40 years old, your test levels are going to start to naturally drop, right? So you're already behind the eight ball as far as like putting on muscle. It's hard to put on muscle without testosterone. Um, let's say you go to the, the TRT route. So now you're testosterone replacement therapy and you're like, okay, I have some testosterone. So maybe I can put on some muscle. Okay. Yeah. You can probably put on a little bit of muscle if you're on TRT. When you say get big, that's a relative term. It depends what you mean by get big. If you mean, can my body look tone at 52? A hundred percent. Your body can look tone. It's probably even healthy. Can you get big and talking about like classic physique size or even open men's size? No, I don't think that's something you're going to want to do because you're probably going to have to take a lot of PEDs to make that happen at 52 years old. If you don't already have the base for it. Um, just to touch on that one more time. I don't want to make anybody older. Like I'm older. I'm 46 years old. I don't want to make anybody older. Think that you can't look great. That's not what I'm saying. And remember I said a relative big is a relative term because when you say big, I think in my head, bodybuilder, big. Like if you're talking about like RFK, like just a nice fucking tone physique, uh, that looks muscular and athletic. Yeah. You can definitely fucking do that. That's more a little bit of TRT and a proper diet with a good work ethic. And you can get that. Um, Bradley, Bradley Embriadi says, do you think sometimes people overthink training splits or do you, have you ever done that in the past? I feel like I do sometimes I do it sometimes. I definitely do. I don't think there's anything magical about training splits. I think it's the consistency that matters more. I think the only time training splits matter is if your body has an imbalance. It's been shown that frequency can aid in building muscle faster. So if for example, my back is lagging, I might want to, I might want to hit it twice a week. If my legs are lagging, I might want to hit whatever area is lagging in my legs twice a week, whether it's quads, hamstring, adductors, whatever it is. Um, arms, same thing. So like when you're talking about prioritization of like a lagging body part or an imbalance in your physique, then I think, um, the split matters because you want to add in the prioritization of that body part. I think if your entire body is balanced and you're just like, do I want to do pro split? Do I want to do push pull legs? Whatever makes you happy and will keep you focused and it will keep you consistent and doing it as hard as you can every day. That's the split you should do. Uh, it's Kev's says, this is a two in one. Any advice for cheat training? Every time I train my chest, I don't feel them and I feel more of my shoulders doing the work. Any advice tips? And what do you do? What do you think is the most difficult part about competing? Okay. Okay. So lagging body part, man, there's a million answers and I'm not a training expert. One of the things I used to do personally was I would pre-exhaust that body part. Or like I said, uh, when you're talking about not being able to feel your chest because your shoulders and your, uh, well, you didn't say triceps. You just said shoulders. So one of the things that could be his form. The first you want to check your form. Cause a lot of guys will, and not to try and get technical in a podcast, cause I can't show you, but a lot of guys will cave in their chest. So when they're pushing, they're going to cave in their chest and they're going to push with their shoulders and their arms. So first thing you gotta do is check your form. Let's say your form is perfect. And you just happen to have dominant shoulders. It's the way you're neurologically set up. I would pre-exhaust my chest. So if my shoulders did a lot of work, I would be like, okay, I got to figure out a way to get the blood into my chest first. So I'm going to do two exercise, two isolation exercises before I get into compounds. So like I would do a pec deck first, and then a cable crossover first and really get the blood engorged in my chest. And then I would move on to something like a press. And then maybe even, maybe you just can't barbell press. Maybe when you barbell press your shoulders, because of your physiology, your shoulders doing all the work. Don't barbell press. Do a pressing movement that you feel more. So I would start with the isolation exercises, get the blood flowing pre-exhaust. Then I would go to a pressing exercise that I feel my chest most in. Don't be like, well, I got a barbell press because they said I got a barbell press. So I got a dumbbell press because I got a dumbbell press. No. So if you pick a compound movement like an incline hammer strength, and you feel it like crazy, and you don't feel it in your shoulders, that's your compound movement. So start experimenting with different compound movements, I would say, is part of it. But first and foremost, I would isolate and pre-exhaust first. Then I would search for the proper compound movement that you feel your shoulders in the least. Before both of those things, though, I would check my form and I would talk to somebody who really knows what's going on and be like, can you watch my form? Can you see what I'm doing? Or maybe watch some videos with like, who's that one dude from Redcon? What is his name? Joe Bennett. I don't know if he's still with Redcon. But anyway, watch some Joe Bennett videos. He's very, very good at explaining training. But yeah, those are some of the things I would do if you're having trouble feeling a body part. Okay, we'll do a few more. This is a deep one. I don't even know how to answer it. Where do you find your identity? Is it your values? Holy fuck. I think your identity is not one thing. Your identity is everything. So is it your identity is how do you treat people? How do you see yourself? How do people see you? What is it that you're passionate about? What are the things in life that drive you? I don't think your identity is made up of one thing. I think it can be. I think that's when people run into problems. I think that's why it was hard for me to retire. I think like when you do something and you give your life to something like bodybuilding for 20 years, it becomes your identity because you're so wrapped up in it. It's how everybody sees you. You're the bodybuilder. It's how your family sees you. It's what you talk about every day. It's like, that's you. Um, so all of those things I mentioned all become twisted into this thing that you do, that you've given your life to for 20 years. Um, but I don't think identity is one thing. I think it can be one thing or wrapped up in one thing, which is always a bad idea because when that one thing disappears, it becomes a big problem. Like I had a very tough time retiring and I had a really rough two years after retiring and it took me time to get out of that mold and into figuring out who I was. But I think when you do your identity actually like flourishes a bit and you understand that it's not one thing. It's not what you do for a living. It's not who your friends are. It's not, it's all of these things combined make you as a person. It's the best answer I got for you. It's a pretty deep question. Um, let's do one or two more and then we'll go. If you were to cook up a tray of, uh, sorry, Sam. La surf. I don't know. I'm totally butchering these, but whatever. If you were to cook up a tray of meat that had exactly enough for two to three meals that you were having that day, would you bother weighing it out or just eyeball it into servings? Knowing that at the end of the day, it's still the same amount of meat no matter what. Okay. I'm going to tell you what I would do and I tell you what the right thing is to do. I shouldn't say that because I don't know. I don't actually know what scientifically is the right thing. I would say this. Most of the people I've talked to that are smarter than me on these topics would say that if you're supposed to eat 12 ounces of meat in a day, you cook that 12 ounces of meat and just break it up, eyeball it. And whether you're eating four ounces one time and five, the next or three, the next, it's fine. I probably believe that. I don't think you need all 12 in one sitting, but if you're saying you're still going to split it up into three and try and break them up evenly, they might be off an ounce or two. You're probably fine. I don't think it matters. Me personally, because I'm fucking nuts and I bet you most bodybuilders because they're nuts, still going to weigh it. Um, not all bodybuilders, but I think most bodybuilders and in the offseason, it's a little bit less daunting, I think, because you're eating so far over your caloric. Like when you're in the offseason, you're eating a surplus of calories. So if you eyeball something and it's off and you're eating too much, I mean, you could be eating too little, which is a problem, but you're going to make it up on the next meal. But if you're eating too much, it's not the end of the world because you're not dieting for a show. If you're prepping for a show, I feel like things have to be so exact that I have to measure every meal and make sure it's exactly what it was supposed to be. And I'm getting exactly what I'm supposed to be getting in that meal. And it could be based on performance. It could be based on digestion. It could be based on just, I don't want things to change from day to day. I want everything to be exactly the same. Because one of the things I really loved about dieting was I could guess exactly what my weight was going to be the next day. And I could do that because everything was exactly the same. I drank the same amount of water. I used the same amount of salt. I ate the same amount of fucking meal, like the same amount of meat, like meat or rice or whatever the fuck in every single fucking meal. So all of it was very predictable. And that's what you want when you're dieting. You want it all to be predictable. How much weight am I going to lose today? How much weight am I going to lose by the end of the week? How much weight am I going to lose by the end of this prep? What am I going to look like? What am I going to look like tomorrow? How dry am I going to be if I drink this amount of water versus that amount of water? You want all of it to be very predictable. In the offseason, it doesn't matter as much because it doesn't matter if you're 12% body fat or 12.5% body fat the next week. As long as when it starts getting away from you, you adjust it. But that's where I think the divide is. Offseason, I would probably do what you're saying. Pre-contest, I would probably measure everything. Who do you think? Sam J9446 says, who do you think are some of the best up-and-coming bodybuilders? Oh, that's a tough one. I'm going to skip that because there's a lot of great bodybuilders on the rise. I don't know on the amateur level. I think I saw that Elliot. I don't know if it's Elliot McDermott. I think, is that his name? I don't know, something like that. Pretty phenomenal bodybuilder. I don't know. I don't know too many of the amateur scenes, so I don't really want to leave anybody out. So I'm just going to skip this one. Is Seth lighting the fire in you to hop back on? No. No, he's not. I'll use this as the last question. Guys, I love watching Seth make a comeback. I am jealous that Seth is making a comeback. I am envious that Seth is making a comeback. I wish I could make a comeback. But in 2017, I stepped on stage at the Arnold Classic. It was my worst look of my entire career. And that year, I knew it was the end of my career. I didn't retire until 2020, but I think I was just kind of putting it off. I knew when I saw the way I looked at that Arnold, I was done. Because your body doesn't come back. Once you go over a certain hill, your body doesn't come back. And even though, let's say my health was perfect right now, I could jump back on a huge cycle and I could probably put on a ton of muscle. Is it going to look pretty? Fuck no. I'm going to have a wide waist. I'm probably not going to have... My arms are probably not going to go back to 23 inches. They might go back to 20 if I'm lucky. It's just not going to be... When you've reached a certain point... Not that I... I'm not talking about me on the Olympia Sage or anything like that. But in your own mind. When you've reached a certain point in your own mind of where you're happiest with your physique, once you go past that hill, it's hard to go back to it. And I think the reason Seth can is because Seth never reached his prime. I went through a prime and I went over it and I went to the other side. So I know where my best is. Seth never reached that prime. And he still looks as fucking good. I don't want to say better because there were some periods where he looked pretty big. But he still looks as good as he did when he was in his prime. So I think Seth at 40 can still do this. And it can be very positive and very fruitful for him. Whereas for me, I love to entertain the fact. I love to fuck around with the guys. Oh, I'm going to get back on a cycle. I'm going to get huge. I'm done. And you know what? Even if... Even if let's say my body could look like I looked at 35. I can't... Health-wise, I can't do it. I won't risk it. I've already done a lot of damage to my body. I did stem cells and things like that and really brought my kidneys back from where they were. So I feel comfortable with my health right now. But I in no way, shape, or form want to put myself in that type of jeopardy again. Or cause my body the stress that it would take to get back to where I was. Even if I could. I'm 35 years old. You guys don't... You guys... I don't know. A lot of you guys don't know what I was like as a bodybuilder. Like I was very extreme. I was 300 pounds in the off-season. I had stupid fucking measurements. I was a very big guy. Now, physique-wise, the size didn't necessarily matter because maybe my proportions weren't perfect. But that's not a healthy weight to be at, especially at 46 years old. So I like living through Seth. I like watching him do it. I train hard. I still train just as hard as I did or almost as hard as I did when I was bodybuilding. I love training hard. Seth hasn't changed that at all. I think what Seth has done for me is maybe give me a little bit of motivation to eat better and to drop a little bit of fat. Maybe do a little bit of cardio. I think Seth... I envy Seth because he lives that side of bodybuilding daily, whereas I don't. I live... I love training bodybuilding. I love being a competitor. I fucking hate eating perfectly. And you guys know that from watching the podcast. I like my junk food. I like my snacks. So maybe he's getting me to think more about my eating habits. But training-wise, I've always been a little bit nuts when it comes to training. So the biggest thing I'm getting from Seth is just the enjoyment of watching one of my friends do something they love and be able to recapture that lightning in a bottle for himself is pretty fucking awesome. So anyway, I'll wrap it there. Guys, thank you very much. I don't know how long that was. I think it was an hour. I hope I answered some of your questions. I hope you guys had fun. And I'll try and do more of these if you guys enjoy them. And until next time, catch you guys on the podcast. Make sure you check out Hostile.com. Support the channel. Support me. And I will keep doing my best to bring you guys all the stuff that I've been bringing you over the years. Thank you all for the support.