! KR KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KRzan KR Or you can do your own. You can check out any type, anything you want. You can check your testosterone, your HbA1c. You can check anything, progesterone. Any of these that you see here, you can add to like an alucard and do your self-lab, self-checkout. You get the requisition. You take it to the place and get your lab work done on your own. That way, if you don't need any medical oversight, you don't need anybody to read your blood work to you, and you want a cheaper option, you can check out Merrick Diagnostics, and you make your lab work as expensive or inexpensive as you want. This is kind of the best way to check if you want to check your testosterone levels, check if your gear is working, check if you're running too low. This is kind of the best way to do it if you want to save some money. So MerrickDiagnostics.com. Check it out now, guys. Thanks for watching. Hi, Paul. Hi, Fred. Look. You see that? Yeah. Scar? Yeah. It's getting better, eh? Yeah. Yeah. Much better. That was way thicker before. You can barely see it now. Is that from the last surgery? Yeah. That was, uh... Fuck, I can't tell where I'm at. That's the thing. It's like an L shape. Oh, yeah. So they cut it open and they peeled it back. They cut it open and they went... Yeah. Opened it up, took a look inside and went, ooh, that's really fucked up. And then they sewed it back up and they were like, this guy's done for. I wonder if they mentioned how big your traps were. He said that because I had such big traps to give a lot of area to look. Really? No. I'm sure they said something about it, though, during the surgery. Maybe. Yeah. While I was out, they were probably like, fuck, this guy's got a lot of muscle. Yeah. I've never seen a trap like that. Too bad there's none. There's no trap on the other side. I'm a better one trap than two. How you doing, man? What's going on? Not much. You know, same as you, recovering from the weekend, getting back to normal somewhat. Big success. Big success. It was. Very happy with the way the show went. Big success. Paul, I know how much you love doing the shows. I do. And I stress hard about them the last couple of weeks, you know, hoping that everything goes right. Because, you know, you're the face of everything. Yeah. And a good looking face of that, I might add. Well, thank you. I do a lot of the back end stuff that I worry about, you know, making sure that I didn't forget something day of. Yeah. But I think Detroit's different. You know, like when we do Toronto, I feel like you take care of a lot of it. Like Toronto has been like a 70% you kind of just take over everything. Detroit, I feel like I kind of try and participate in trying. Much more. Definitely. With the back end stuff. Much more. But I just still like my responsibility stuff. I just always stress that I'm forgetting something or, you know, something's going to come up that I didn't, wasn't prepared for. It's because you're not used to using the electronic board that I created for us. The Trello board. No, I'm not. So for people watching, we use this thing called a Trello board. And some of you that work in various businesses might use it already. It's basically a networking board that the entire company can use. And we put different things on it, like different lists of things that need to get done. And Paul refuses to use it. Not that I refuse to. At times I find it not user-friendly. No. It's not Paul-friendly. It's very user-friendly. It's not Paul-friendly. Yeah. It's just not my style. I'm a sticky note guy. You're a sticky note guy. Yeah. But that's why you stress so much. Because you got fucking sticky notes all over the place. You just have one location on your phone. Just look at it. You know what? I got to walk you through it again. Okay. I'm going to give it an effort to get more tech savvy. Because I know I'm causing myself more work than I need to do. Yes. But no, I think it went over well. I think, you know, even for not having, you know, before the show, I was really stressed that we didn't have the lineup. Because I thought Raphael might come or Akeem might come or Nick might come or like last minute, you know, Mike was going to come and then he didn't make the deadline. So I was really stressed about that. Ian, what's up? What's up, guys? It looks like it. What's up, you? Your microphone's way away from you. What's up, maggots? There you go. You entertain the crowd with the surprise guest posing? Yeah. But no, I was a little bit like taken back because I was like, fuck, man. You know, last year we had Matt Grego and William Bonak come to the show and I was like, you know, that was really fucking awesome. And I was a little bit like taken back by it. I was like, fuck, man. You know, we had, the year before we had Martin and Vito, then we had Bonak and I can't remember who competed against William last year, but it was a good lineup. And then this. Sasan and James. Sasan and James. That's right. And then this year, you know, even though no big names, like no offense to anybody that was there, but like Olympia, top 10 Olympians came. It was still fucking electric in the building, man. Like everybody, like Ian, you were sitting there. You can attest to it. I don't know. How do you, maybe you can talk to it, talk about it a bit. Yeah. No, I mean, I think the excitement, the energy of the crowd was fucking awesome. You know, I think they were just as good or better than previous years, despite what the lineup was like. You know, I think they supported all the athletes like really well, even if they came there to watch them or not. Yeah. I thought it was awesome. You know, like at the night show was a fucking full house crowd and they were, you know, they went crazy for the athletes. It was great. Yeah. Um, and even though Wesley was like, you know, the, uh, overwhelming winner and classic or overwhelming favorite and, you know, turned out to win, you know, anyway, a classic, I thought was very competitive. Those guys all brought it. There was like five or six guys as deep as eight guys that brought great looks, great connection. That Ethan Gohardt guy was really good. Fuck. He had one of the best I've ever seen. I said, I said in the, the news wrap up I did, I said, fucking Ethan might've been peaked better than anybody ever seen. It was literally perfect. It's like, from like, aside from like Hosema, I'm like, I've never seen anybody peak perfectly. Full peeled, perfect tan presentation was perfect. Like even in the dead space between his poses, he was always presenting his physique. You know, it's like he'd hit like a side chest and then he'd like go into a pose into another pose. It was like every, every moment was used. He was fucking so hard. So full. It was a crazy look. Like, you know, it's funny you say that me and Seth, we're talking over to the side and we're watching some of the night show and we were like the classic guys, you know, these guys, you know, they're not yet in the top 10 or in the top 15 of, of all classic guys. So maybe they don't think it's as important, but aside from Wesley and Ethan, maybe one other two, two other notables. I did not feel like the presentation was up, up to par to what a classic physique guy should be presenting. I felt like some of the posing was a little choppy. Maybe they were a little like uncertain of themselves. And I think that's what, that's the difference in experience you could see between like Ethan and Wesley and some of the other guys. I felt like they just need a little bit more time. I thought there was a few guys who had some really good posing, some good routine, some good presentation. I think one thing you had in this show versus some others is you did have a lot of guys that were like, you know, doing their second, first pro show, third pro show. Like, you know, they weren't guys that had like, you know, like you, I, Wesley had done 15, 20, 30 pro shows, you know, under their belt. So you had some guys with, you know, a little less skin in the game. So their posing wasn't quite as crisp and perfected. But even at that, I thought, you know, there was a few guys who had really good posing, put together good routines and were really crisp and presented really well. But you know what, though, Ian, it's not the routine. It's not the routines. There was great routines. And there was good. No, I mean, I had some shaking on their individuals. And it wasn't, it was just like, it wasn't, you know, remember you said like Ethan, he would hit shots in between shots. Yeah. No dead space. Yeah. I feel like that, that is like somebody who's really, really taken the time and like figured it out. Right. So the guys that were posing were great at their mandatories. They were great at their posing routines. I feel like it's just, you can, you can see the little bit of difference between a veteran and like a newer guy is all I'm saying. So, um, it's going to be interesting to see those guys kind of grow through. There's a couple, couple guys I saw that were really good. Like Lamar, Lamar Shaw. Yeah. He was good. Paulin. Really nice. Paulin really good. Yeah. That guy was really good, man. He looked just like Terrence Ruffin. Paulin looked really good. Taylor, uh, that new kid. As soon as they did. Taylor Leipzig or whatever. Yeah. He was good. Taylor had a really nice physique. There was some, there was some really nice physiques in there. Just, you know, I think Taylor got his color right at night. Maybe it was a little bit. He was better at night. Yeah. He was a little too light during the day. Paulin. I talked to him backstage. He said he tried to come in big because he was worried about Wesley. Really? Yeah. And I said, don't come in big. Play your game. Come in shredded. Right. Yeah. Cause you can't, you can't make your physique bigger than it is. No. Right. And he's a small guy. And Wesley's always going to be bigger than you. So just like focus on. And what's one thing Wesley doesn't have potentially is conditioning, especially in the lower body from the glutes, the hamstrings, you know? So if you can exploit that with conditioning, if that's something that you gravitate towards, just go for what your natural inclination is. Don't try and play somebody else's game. You know? He laughed about it. He laughed about it though. He's like, I know. He's like, from now on, I'll just, you know, I'll come and shred it or whatever. Cause I told him, I said, you have an amazing physique. I'm like, if you were like a few pounds lighter, it would just look, it would look fucking wild. I'm like, you might be, you could give everybody a run for their money. Yeah. Look at this fucking guy. You still got COVID? Fucking guy. You're sick as a dog. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. He's not so sick. I think I've had COVID to be honest. I felt everybody's been sick. Everybody has been sick. I got COVID too. I got it, but I fought a lot pretty quick. I don't know if it's like whatever, but I felt kind of shitty and I don't feel that bad, but my sense of smell and taste has been completely gone for four days. That's COVID for sure. Like zero, like literally zero. I could, I was drinking like glasses of orange juice and eating my meal just now. I could, I couldn't even taste what it was. Zero percent. Really? You probably got it. No, I could put a zit, a mint zit in my mouth and I can't taste it at all. Wow. Yeah. You probably got it from guy. Yeah. Too close to the Arnold. I haven't seen guy. Guy. Did you get a doctor's note? Yeah. There you go. My descriptions. How are you? Somebody, you know, you didn't have to say you had COVID. You just say, I didn't say I had COVID. You told me you got COVID. I didn't say that. You could just say. Yes, you did. I got the message. You know what? I said COVID? Guy. I think so. Guy. No, I didn't. Paul. Guy. Let me check. Let me check. Hold on. I just want to make sure. Friends long enough that you could just say, I got, I had a lot going on, man. I just want to rest this weekend. I'm not going to. I know I could have. You do sound sick. I said, I'm praying I don't have COVID. Praying. Oh, that's what you said. I thought you said you had COVID. I told everyone, I told everyone all weekend that you had COVID. That's why you were there. I got, I got two weeks ago, I got sick for 24 hours, puked my brains out, out of the blue. Then a week later, I had a double ear infection and a sinus infection. I was on doxycycline a couple of days before I left for the Arnold while I was in Columbus. And then I felt better and then got home and I was rocked. Yeah. You were sick at, like in Columbus? I was taking medication while I was in Columbus. Yeah. I would have been worried to be around Nick at that time. Well, I was on my antibiotics for like three days. So I was like, you're not going to get sick. You're past the, you're past the contagious phase. The carrier. Well, once I think you're, if you're on antibiotics for like 48 hours, you're usually like not contagious. Yeah, you're good. Everyone gets sick at the Arnold. It's a cesspool every year. Yeah. I mean, you're shaking a million bands that are fucking touching your dick and shit, you know? Yeah. Touch your dick. I went through, I went through this little carousel of photos. And I don't know, guy, this carousel looks like your coach. It looks like you're coaching. They're all something. Looks like you're coaching, buddy. Helping friends. Helping. Friends helping friends, you know? Helping or coaching? Help. Help. Just help. Kelping. Kelping. You're kelping. You're kelping. It's a new word. You should be, you should be proud of yourself, though. Thank you. You did a great job. Appreciate it. You guys did good work together. You looked amazing. I mean, you know, I didn't know Nick's body. There's a lot of times I was asking him questions and feedback and, you know, because I was like, I've never, he's the biggest guy I've ever worked with, right? So it's like, anybody's worked with you. You know? I was like, and the one thing about Nick is when he's full and he looks full, he's, you can, he can be flat and still look very full. Yeah. And you have to know the difference between that line of like, which, which way to go. So. So what was it like? Um, oh, what'd I do? Nothing. I can see you. You're fine. I can't see you. You're looking blue. What'd I do? You changed the grid. You probably just changed it. No, your guys are completely gone. The fuck? What did you do? I don't know. Minimized it, but. Change the view. No, I don't even close the zoom as a whole here. But you can see you. It's fine. Yeah. Oh, here we go. Here you go. I got, I got, I got. Um, say, would you ask again? Sorry. So start. What was it like? Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Start, start like, like nobody really knows the story, but you've been helping Nick for probably since the Olympia. You guys started talking, correct? Well, Nick, no, no. So I'm, you know, I got to give Nick a lot of credit. I'm not, wait, I'm not saying Nick didn't coach himself. No, no, no, no. I'm saying like, you've been there with him. Yeah. Yeah. And then, you know, he, uh, he asked me if I could be a second eye because he kind of wanted to do it himself. And, you know, I think like the end of November, he sent me pictures and he's like, what do you think? And I'm like, dude, you look great. I said, the problem is you're too lean. I'm like, can I, can I ask you something though? Yeah. So he left Kyle and then it was after the Olympia and he said he wants to do his own thing. Did at any point you think to yourself, I should push him into working with someone or were you like, I, I did try. And I know he was working with somebody for a couple of weeks and just was like, ah, this isn't my cup of tea. Yeah. We were, me and Nick were working together and I'm like, you know what, man, I don't think we can swing this. So then I'm like, guy, you take him. Yeah. He gave me his lesson. That was nice. Yeah. Yeah. Nick was like, you're fired. And you said, really, really, I was like, you know what? I think this needs to be with someone more advanced. So I hand him off the guy. The guy took him. Listen, I do what I can. Listen, so, so he was working with somebody. He didn't like it. So he decided to leave and do his own thing. And then you stopped pushing him. You're like, I'll help you. I'll work. I'll talk. I'll be your second. Yeah. He was like, you know, would you be a second? I said, yeah. Then, you know, I think as trust built over the weeks, you know, there came a point where he was like, take the reins. Like, really? Yeah. So where was that in the prep? Like when, what we, how many weeks out was that? Um, I mean, we did a lot of stuff. Like I, I asked a lot of questions and I got a lot of feedback. Um, I'd probably say like. Eight, 10 weeks out. I started helping a lot more, like driving down to see him every week and, you know, send me pictures. I mean, he was sending me pictures like the last month, every day, every day. So guy, I know you've coached some people, but Nick, Nick is, you know, potentially the best in the world. Yeah. Right. Was that any point where at any point where you're like, fuck man, I got coaching. Like this guy, I could fuck up this guy's whole life. Like, was there any anxiety about it at all ever? Or were you like, I'm good. I coaching never makes me nervous. I was actually, I, but when I was, I never was more nervous until I was sitting in the seat, watching him on stage. I was, I was more nervous in that moment that I was actually being on stage. It's so funny how that is. Yeah. Because it's weird because if I didn't do my job, it didn't affect me. It affected somebody else. And that's not easy for me to deal with. If I made a wrong call, because a lot of things I did that Nick will say he wasn't used to doing. Like what? Give me one. Give me one. I kept his water pretty high. You mean like when you're peaking? Yeah. Like, you know, he was drinking water up until Wednesday and then he was drinking a half liter. Actually, I might've kept it to like, I don't know if I dropped it down on Friday or Thursday, but he was drinking. Well, I mean, I never pulled his water. Not one time. Did I ever pull it? Even the Friday? Nope. Really? Nope. I backed it down, but I never pulled it. And I'm talking, he was drinking like liter, half liters. Like I kept his water because Nick was drinking eight liters of water. And I had pictures of him at two 70 during an eight liter peeled. If I drop your water too much, you're just going to be flat. Right. Yeah. I always think it's best to be able to, if you can, to try and always be able to keep in as much water as you can always renders a better look in my opinion. Yeah. Yeah. And I mean, I told Nick, like one thing I told Nick from the beginning, I'm like, I think the number one thing that needs to be a focus is the food, not the drugs, not the shit. Like, you know how to train, but I, that stuff got changed up. Um, his, his food, you know, he loves cream of rice. He, uh, is very meticulous. What time he eats, what time he gets up? He's the thing that drives me nuts the most about him. and I said this to him is he's so meticulous that I actually get mad at him because that's what makes him so good so there's things he does that's so specific over and over and it was driving me fucking crazy but I couldn't get mad at him because it makes him that good why would it make you crazy though because I thought I thought like I've coached people I coach for 10 years if somebody's doing everything on the dot every day the exact same it makes it very easy to make changes and see what's doing what yeah I'm like it's just Nick is so routine that like if he sent me pictures at 6 30 and like one one morning I slept into like 7 15 and I messaged him when I got up and he was like you motherfucker you I'm like so like I had to be up at 6 30 every day the pictures came in like he was so he just he wants to know the info he wants to know what the what the next day is and he wants to work on his routine his schedule yes and Nick was very good with like you know like is the food too high is food so he was giving me feedback so that's why you know he I give him a lot of credit because before I even did anything Nick was really good I mean Nick did his whole offseason by himself it looked fucking great yeah what what other things other than water was there anything else you changed that he wasn't used to a lot lower peds yeah yeah I mean that usually results in a fresher look fresher look cleaner lines fresher look yeah yeah um I mean gave him sprinkles of diuretic if we if we even use a full one I'd be shocked I don't I think we probably use three quarters of one that's total and that wasn't at once that was like a little here a little there I just to keep the water moving that's my that's my best look me too my best looks were my actually my my wins were zero diuretics yeah yeah and I would ask him like are you peeing are you still peeing are you peeing good because as soon as his peace slowed down a little just a little bit keep the water in a little bit you know I mean he he ate Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday he ate 1100 grams of carbs a day he was eating a lot a lot of food and he was he was cream of rice uh turkey and a little bit of nut butter and 99% of the time I was like do it again can I ask you something though though can I ask something important towards that if the main knock on Nick or the only knock on Nick really was that he had a little bit of trouble controlling his stomach would it make sense because I'm only asking because it's kind of something me and I already know what you're gonna ask because then I have an answer for it good me and John did it right it's like getting ready a little bit earlier so you could feed him less on the days where he actually has to go on stage have you considered that like kind of frontloading and then backing off so one thing that I wanted to do and before before I even started helping Nick one thing I told him is I think what you need to do is you need to fill up early yeah and then pick like a bird the day of the show to keep your stomach tight I've literally verbatim said that so on Thursday he was peeled out of his mind to where like nothing I could have done he would have spilled and I wanted to give him a burger and fries right and I was like burger and fries tonight it'll keep you full you'll go to bed wake up tomorrow we can just pick he was a little iffy and I knew he was gonna be because he doesn't really eat that stuff when he's dieting he just I don't blame him I don't blame him so then I gave him a half a muffin with his last meal to hold his weight because I didn't want his weight going too low because even though a lot of people are like why does this the scale does matter to me in certain situations yeah I didn't want it to get too low because then I knew something wasn't going the way I wanted it to um and I gave him a half a muffin he woke up in the morning he was gassy he was like his stomach had some pains so the only way to get him full was to feed him or he would just flat so at that point I didn't have a choice but to give him cream of rice however I do think he held his stomach better than I've ever seen it period I'm not listen I'm not saying anything about it I thought it was fine yeah I'm not saying anything about it personally I'm saying the judges obviously like I mean I watched Tyler's breakdown he was like well he let it go in the side tricep and he let it go in this shot and he kind of penalized yeah I mean he had some moments for sure but I think overall his he did a pretty solid job no but I think he did better on Saturday but it's something they definitely penalized him for either way you know but I'm saying that's specifically what he pointed out yeah of course yeah he lost the side tricep because he didn't control his stomach in it that's what this is Tyler's words not mine no I and I agree yeah and then he penalized him for the most muscular with the hand out instead of the hands together because his stomach was showing yeah so the two things they penalized him for the one thing they penalized him for was that so I was like that's why I'm wondering if there's a way to frontload him so that he has easier time I thought that's my that was my plan going in but yeah once I gave him a little muffin and it just bothered him I'm like I don't have a choice but one I will say every time he ate I would always go are you hungry he's like dude he would eat a meal bake bro I'm starving I'm like how's your stomach feel he's like empty yeah you weren't doing a lot of fats right no like like it was like 10 grams of fat from nut butter like here and there was it was just I sometimes I increased it if his weight was starting to go too much I'd be like throw another 10 grams of fat in there yeah no did you enjoy the process um yeah I I look you know I learned a lot about Nick and his body for sure but you know as far as like coaching somebody the one thing that I learned from Chris is always go with your gut so anytime I felt like I should do something I just did it I didn't I didn't double guess you know myself yeah I mean guy that's a big fucking deal dude because you got literally have somebody's you know this is this is somebody's life in your hands right like he fucking just won 250,000 dollars so like if you fuck that up that's not just you know it's it's not just money either it's also like his status also like he's coming back off a you know a devastating olympia he told me he was like this show could be like a big big deal if yeah I do well I don't do well for I don't there's a lot hanging on it for sure how did Nick feel about it afterwards he told me in the room he was like dude I know I didn't win he goes but I gotta say man he was one of the funnest preps I've ever had with anybody he said I feel like I look the best I ever had he said the crowd went nuts he's like social media is blowing up yeah he seemed pretty at peace with it 150k he was like dude I got nothing to be mad at me yeah he goes I'm I'm beyond grateful well plus plus the guy he lost to is it like an absolute fucking freak and he did beat hottie who he's never beaten before he said that I've never been hottie before and I beat it yeah yeah yeah it was a big deal I think I think that was a huge a huge one for Nick for sure so what's next for Nick do you know you know people don't realize that Nick's competed four times already in seven months and if he has to do another show to qualify that's five if he does the oh that's six it's a lot of shows Nick's not a small guy he's done a lot in seven months so he just wait why didn't he do fucking Detroit he could have literally not done anything and walked in at like 90 percent no offense to the guys at the show but it's Nick Nick even said he was like I well I'll tell you my response to what he said he goes dude I don't know why he goes but like you know we stayed there Sunday we were we came back Monday and like Tuesday he was like dude I don't know why he's like but this like post show is like kicking my ass he's like I'm just like you know he's like I said I told him the best I looked on stage my rebounds were always yeah the the worst because when you're peeled out of your mind you rebound a little harder and I think he's rebound like not not in a bad way but like his weight went up like not significantly but it went up like quicker than usual and I said you know we didn't use a lot of diuretics like we kept your water in like you were peeled out of your mind it you know so he's like he was like dude I can't come back down again he's like I'm like he's exhausted he did probably he probably didn't even have to well like like honestly if you like Moe was in shape yeah but I think I understand what you're saying but I think someone like that also takes a lot of pride like being at their best every time they get on stage yeah he's like I would never get on a stage and be like I could win the show I'll get on like 90 percent I would always be like I'm showing up at my best or this you know yeah like because you know it's like you know that's going to be online it's going to be something you remember it's a trophy you win like you want to be at your best right yeah yeah he's going to get scrutinized hard yeah you're right I would have done the same thing but now he's got to do a whole other prep if he wants to do Olympia yeah you know we I he literally said he goes dude I just want a little bit of a break he's like and then I'll decide what I want to do he's like everybody keeps asking me what's next he's like I just I just want to relax for a couple weeks and breathe yeah if you stay reasonably tight it doesn't make it next doing another show that hard yeah well Nick Nick even said Nick's like well you know what do you think and I go I think you need to do what's best for Nick I said I never had a coach tell me what show to do I said I'll never tell you what to do I said never yeah so is this it now you guys are the team yeah you know we talked the other week he he wants to you know keep keep rocking and rolling with me and see where it goes and you know um now I'm I'm busy so like and one of the things why I didn't really say much about it is because I don't have the bandwidth to like I don't want to work with like a ton of pros and act like I have my coaching business which is great but like you know it's a lot of time that goes into what I did I have no I give Chris Aceto more praise than anybody because I have no idea how he does five six seven ten people at the Olympia because it's it's a lot that's why his responses are one line that's why and I get it and I get it they don't even make sense no I know you sent Chris a message it's like the fucking thing you get back is like four words if you don't if you've never talked to Chris and he texts you back you won't know what it says it's like look good burger talk next week that's all it says that's literally what it is bullet points or he'll just write back like peeled it's like what do I do next what am I supposed to do with peeled that means that means keep going yeah no no changes and you know the other thing I could say about Nick I've never seen somebody so calm wait can I interrupt for a second yeah Ian how much craderm are you on none what I've just you seem like you're just mushed into your couch are you there I'm just chilling listening yeah I made a very mushy couch so it is a bit of a weird place to sit in podcast but no I'm good I'm just chilling you look like long enough it looks like your head is just there and everything else because the couch must wear like the same color um I'm just tired but no what I was saying about Nick who I was like he's so calm like I used to get like anxious backstage and like you know like can't sit still and like dude he's just I've never seen somebody the night before the show slept like a baby yeah Friday night like he just he's so just robotic with it yeah it was like pretty cool to see how like he doesn't let the stress or the fans or the noise or the so no he's just very blah that's why that's why before the show like people kept saying Nick's inconsistent Nick's inconsistent and I'm like I remember fucking you know before these last few shows like before Matt fucked his shit up you know like before that all happened Nick was the robot everybody called Nick the robot because like I spent a lot of time with him when he was that hostile like the way he ate and the way he trained and the way he fucking moved and the way that was just the fucking way he was yeah so it was really weird for me to hear people say he's inconsistent but he had been at a couple shows but I knew I knew what was there so like I'm like this guy's gonna fucking show up and I'm like I know he's gonna show up great I think everybody was a little bit uncertain because they're like who knows how when he coaches himself what it's gonna be like yeah why do you think I can't put him in first I knew what I was doing well I congratulate you guy you did a great job and Nick did the work man I just like no I know I run the ball type of thing no no I get it I know I know obviously you know the athlete does the work and the coach kind of directs things here and there I understand and I know Nick probably has a lot of say also in what goes on but you still deserve credit man he looked very very good and it would some people would say that's the best he's ever looked I I'm struggling with that look versus the 20 2021 Arnold Arnold it took the best Nick ever to beat me you know but nothing less would have beat you yeah anyway how are you otherwise guy you doing good yeah man just trying to catch back up with everything I said I'm supposed to do my taxes I didn't even do them because I felt like dog shit oh yeah I've been fucking doing that shit man what's uh I don't want to talk about taxes please let's talk about anything else how's how's the how's the marriage are you getting married soon they're engaged now yeah should be should be why it's been like that is that the longest relationship but like when you're at your age you got you're supposed to get married after like six months you know yeah you're not really my age I'm 43 I'm not fucking yeah when you're when you're over 35 when you're over 35 you get married in a year no actually I don't agree with that I think you're less likely to get married up when you get to be in your in your 40s at least well because you're all fucking jaded from your divorces but I think normal people all those total separately are you drinking coffee me yeah what's going on guys just want to break away to show you one of our sponsors david protein the sponsor I came across by accident I was eating their bars actually enjoying them they contacted me because they saw me enjoying their bars and so we are now partners if you go to their page david protein you see here if you buy four boxes you get the fifth one free chocolate chip cookie dough is probably my favorite guys if you want a good snack their taste really good 20 grams of protein just about 30 grams 150 calories zero fat it's like it fits into your macro count almost perfectly to help you top up that protein count by the end of the day davidprotein.com buy four boxes get the fifth one free are you yeah why it's just late I always drink coffee it does always it's my decaf I have a no I have AI have a soldiers I list this is honest all right then I'm gonna have a cup because I feel jealous guy seven years straight I have a fucking tradition every single time I start a podcast whether it's a bro chat or body milk looks or a real body milk box I have a fucking coffee really I just finished one yeah because I got to keep the conversation going so I need to be about my wits I can't be all fucking tired and fucking you're Italian guy you could have coffee my friends always had coffee after dinner and stuff but I didn't know what he was I was about to make fun of him I was gonna say if you have water in that mug I'm gonna fucking laugh at you no I have a cup of water here look look what is that hostility no it's it's uh well no I should say that for marketing purposes but I won't lie it's a sugar-free kool-aid should I use this mug I do want to show you guys something and I want to say should I use this one wake up yes I do want to show you guys something I'll take it's gonna take me a second to show you because I have one arm but this was a present from Jesus yeah this was sick yeah he came into the amateur show uh at my he came into the amateur portion of Detroit it is a travel humidor for my for my cigars I was absolutely fucking blown away uh that he sent it this is what the inside looks like man it's fucking nuts and the cigars in there are oh that's neat yeah the cigars in there are from Lamar Shaw yeah I saw him he brought him to the check-ins right I saw that video yeah Lamar Shaw brought me five cigars and I put them in here because I'm like that's super fucking cool so I just wanted to say thank you uh to them for bringing bringing them and Lamar's got a cigar page which I thought was fucking pretty cool oh wow uh cigars and bars this is Lamar's cigar page I didn't know he was like that hardcore into cigars I got to learn about I told him I was going to use his page to learn about cigars because all I do I smoke them but I don't know shit so he's got this whole cigar page man he breaks down fucking only a classic or physique guy could do this like yeah for sure this is Lamar Shaw yeah yeah I know oh this is crazy I didn't know he did this yeah yeah he's got a whole fucking cigar page man that's sick badass that's cool yeah so I gotta but you couldn't you wouldn't catch an open guy doing this shit no they don't have like the they don't have the swag the swagger that he's got no no I'm gonna do I was in the middle of coming out with a cigar company when uh I had uprising and then I stopped because shit happened but I had like all different cigars companies were sending me for like samples and shit yeah but how hard is that fucking market to break into I don't know oh I figured every bodybuilder fucking smoke cigars and most of them shoot guns so yeah but they people want to smoke like great cigars not guys sister Nino cigars I didn't know what's going to be a great time guys I missed you guy um what's going on Ian anything new with you no I mean I was with you this weekend so I mean Detroit pro is great Ian got me a busy busy couple weeks and got me all fucked up why yeah you got me all fucked up too dude I told you not to fucking ask me to take my goddamn clothes off I was very adamant I'm like bro I'm goddamn serious I don't want to take my clothes off please don't ask when he asked me the amount of anxiety I felt it was like when you're a kid and you're at school and like everyone's yelling like fight fight fight and you and the other guy like yo we don't want to fight but the crowd's cheering so you have to throw a punch or everyone's what's the anxiety you're huge and you're leaning you look great like why don't understand the anxiety I just didn't want to it's like I don't feel comfortable in that situation I don't like what I'm like put on the spot like I I just really didn't like it you know yeah like I'm not I'm not now like it turned out good but like bro when I when that was happening my anxiety was an 11 you know I know but you secretly liked it I I didn't like it but I'm happy that it didn't turn out bad guy can I just tell you the crowd went fucking insane and I tell you guys honestly listen to me you weren't there so I gotta explain this to you throwing my face theater if you were there you would have felt this power the electricity it's really I can't stress enough what fucking Detroit is like it's like it's different it's like a family yeah guy it's like everybody's intimate it's like everybody's having a party together it's like everybody's right it's like yeah yeah it's like the whole crowd is just having a big party they're all in on it together yeah so because I'm making fun of Paul I'm like asking him to do fucking prayers and shit geography he's doing like bro chat to start they all get it yeah yeah they all get it they're all in on it everyone and then there was like a dead spot in the show so I'm fucking asking Paul geography and shit yeah the whole the whole crowd's fucking laughing yeah like that's how yellow it answers to me like everybody is in on the fucking party right so then in the middle of it I'm like before this isn't like some small crowd this was like a packed house yeah I graduated for a kiss I saw but after the after after Kim and Niall went out guest posed I was like we have one more guest poser I knew the second you said that my fucking my I was sweating perfusion I should have just ran I should just ran be like yeah and I said and somebody yelled Ian and I said if you guys chant his name loud enough he might take a shirt off and because I was doing commentary everyone knew where I was sitting so everyone the crowd like the people ahead of me everyone just turns around stares at me so it's like every eye on me I'm like oh fuck you know every fucking person in the audience stood up they're all cheering his name the whole crowd that's awesome dude so then I almost got out of it I almost got out of it so listen someone put the video up listen he shakes it off I'm like no no no and I'm like okay I'm gonna leave him alone so I leave him alone then Sid goes out yeah you walk backstage Sid comes back out he's like so we get to see you I swear listen I swear to god I did not tell Sid to go on with it Sid goes out he keeps pumping up the crowd and he's way way better at it than I am so he was like yeah so the crowd now aggressive fucking a shit like come on Ian we want to see it let's go get your shirt off like I'm like fuck and at this point it's the second time so like they got all hyped I got rid of it they did it again at this point I I had to do it like yeah there was no no was not an answer like I couldn't have waited what they need bro so yeah I peeled my shirt off and hit two poses so he hits a couple shots sits down immediately it's on fucking social media and everybody's like loving him yeah does that make you want to compete I mean look it was fun like then he couldn't be mad he couldn't be mad at me because it went so well like the whole fucking world I've seen the comments like it's on every page it's all positive like hell yeah come back man to the people it looks huge blah blah and then there's like two comments like I thought you got a hair transplant why does he have a bald spot you told me that I'm like motherfucker I need to do my crown okay I haven't done that yet I love it there's always that one asshole I know it's got a point out so funny I'm good yeah see I I thought that was hilarious I was I'm like if that's the one critique at least none of them are on my physique you know we're at one scale one to ten sexiness right now it's gonna be a good fade on the side there yeah I gotta get a haircut Thursday that's that's not a fade that's white four fuck you four well you got a seven head dude who gets a fucking hair transplant leaves her forehead so big well it's better than having it too long you made me I googled fucking the average length of somebody's forehead it's three and a half inches so mine's right there so I don't want to that's not three and a half inches yes it is I'll get a measuring stick from what eyebrow uh eyebrow to yeah right from right here to here oh it looks like a natural place for a hairline yeah I didn't want this I'm fucking 43 I need a hairline come forward to the camera the actually how you measure for hair transplant is that so you lift your eyebrows up and you're never supposed to have the hair where the muscle moves right here like look his is right to there it's okay all right so for me don't want hair where your forehead's say that word again Ian what say that word the p word what word you said it's I don't know what I said perfect perfect I think the placement is perfect because like if you had it lower it would be where the head is articulating I think it's perfect also it looks like a guy that's losing his hair that's what you want yeah well you want to look natural yeah you know you don't want a transplant that looks like you have hair yeah you want to get a transplant that makes you look like you're losing your exactly yeah you're supposed to have me a little bit thin at this age yeah you're supposed to look I'm not taking hair advice from you you got fucking peach buzz on your head you just can't put it lower where the muscles in your in your forehead are you know so then for me it'd be like right here yeah yeah okay yeah that's where it used to be yeah for me it'd be here yes yeah and your beard would be because they get you to do that when they're when they're doing for your hairline they'll get you to lift your eyebrows and see where that those muscles articulate to and then that's the lowest you can go okay you know like you could do it high or low or whatever but you're going like this and your hair just going exactly you know uh what was I gonna say we had a bet this weekend didn't we paul yeah we need to just get someone to get on on clipping these bets because the amount of fucking bets that paul has gone out of is staggering no I think you start I think he won this one I know but either way like too many bets for everyone here have gone unnoticed so we need to fucking start why you're centering on mine so much you paul has skipped the money the most that's all I know yeah okay oh you're right I have but I tend to fulfill most of the ones that I've that I committed to I will do the best I could I'll do the net the fish you gotta do the fish that what I'm reluctant to what's the fish I got a strumming yeah why did I lose why do I gotta eat that anyway what did I lose Paul I'm gonna tell you this I did that seven years ago eight years ago in Sweden and you can look it up it's the number one worst swelling smelling thing like on this planet the year the video it is so if you open it don't open it in your house go outside don't let the juice get on you it and those Swedes they don't even eat it raw when we had it it was on a cracker with mashed potatoes onion and butter it's so bad they gotta mix it with all that shit just to swallow it yeah but I saw a video of a fucking uh Sean Carina eating that shit like it was nothing he must have a deviated septum that motherfucker because it smells that bad so does Paul though so it's okay I got it I have pictures I have I have a video of me and Branch opening up and just opening the can in a bag inside somebody's house yeah I almost threw up I started gagging I'm gonna I'm not gonna make it it's not gonna go no you won't be over repeatedly throwing up yeah um but I already what did I lose that I have to do this I think it was something that you guys threatened for me to have to do but I never actually lost a bet no you lost something and I I remember that don't try and weasley we're out of it now well I know I've lost a lot of bets but I don't know if I lost that one I think I just kind of imposed that one on me well I lost a bet this weekend I don't remember what it was I think it was something to do with mo foda okay one of the somebody who watches this podcast anytime a bet is made can you start clipping them for us and then we're gonna make sure that these are fulfilled all I know is I gotta grow my hair out for two months yeah oh you're gonna look old uh yes he ever I gotta love it okay but Paul's but Paul's gonna eat the fish it's gonna be worth it yeah well when do I gotta eat the fish I'll fly in right now no go to Fuad's house get the tin we're eating it now oh I gotta work in the morning so this is the results of the weekend mo blessing Elias McCall can I ask a question before we get into this yes so when you guys do the overall like classic and open guy is that like fan voted yes oh okay yeah it's a popularity contest okay okay we just called it something different it's just like the people's champion award at the olympia yeah yeah okay people I think people take it too seriously because there's their because the difference is it when they do the people's choice award or whatever they call it the olympia there's no posing no we make them pose so I think people think it's like an actual competition gotcha but it's not it's just whatever the people like right like on there for sorry I'm taking a piss do they vote on your phone yeah yeah so I there's an app there's an app guys taking a piss right oh I love you guy I don't see your little dick well I do it's probably like this little cigar right now it's like a fucking little your little fucking peter well he's sick right now I'll get a little more he's sick right now that's small that's huge food what are you saying he's got covid yeah I got covid yeah but he's got a doctor's note so he's okay right yeah yeah so you don't fuck with me I love how guy just takes a piss in the middle of a podcast anyways I can't hold it for another two hours I think it's awesome what were you asking me I forget what you're asking me if the fans voted or it was like oh yeah I got an app that I fucking have on my phone and I can set it up and then it gives me a link then I put the link on my stories and then everybody votes so like probably I think it was 1500 people that voted no Wesley looked great but Mo looks more complete he's got if we're going yeah yeah if we're going by bodybuilding criteria yeah that's what I'm sure yeah but if we're going by classic criteria Wesley wins so of course so that's why you can't really judge it it's just a popularity you know it's kind of become a cool little side thing though I think it's awesome and you get more compliments about the stage and how the lighting is there than anything I've ever those those little things like if people don't take them too seriously and they understand that it's just for fun I think I saw I think I saw Ivan say something about it like him not liking it and I didn't read the reason why but I think it had something to do with like photo should have won or something like that it's just for fun it's not like a city I mean like it's not it's not judged off the state like it's the people you know like it's basically a popularity contest it's just a fun thing to add to a show to kind of separate it from other shows that's all yeah I think the most fun part is is just seeing them next to each other the voting after it's like look Wesley is way more popular and he's going to get more votes we understand that it's okay you know but what the treat to the fans and the people is is getting to see these guys that you would never get to see stand next to each other how do you vote for it who wins really whatever that's a secondary thing but like getting to see like when we got to see Grego and Bonac or these guys together it's fucking cool dude like we want to see that you know that's what that's why I said we you know we said it when we started to started doing this we don't make any fucking money at the show man it's just like we're like little kids that they gave a show and they're like do whatever you want with it and we're like fucking awesome we can make it we can make it look like however we want we can do whatever we want we gotta have the biggest show in Canada now we're in Detroit we're in Detroit no I don't know you mean we're in Detroit because I took my shirt off because I took my shirt off can I borrow your h2 for the summer uh for one weekend no like let me take it home to Ottawa and ride it for the summer no you could borrow it for one weekend you're not gonna ride it let me take it home fuck you no one pp touch you can what are you gonna do with it you can sit on it let me bring it home you can sit on it drive it for I'll let you I'll let you drive it up and down my driveway no when I come down to judge your Oakville show I'll keep coming to your house and then I'll drive it home from there uh you can drive it around the block okay I'll take it this is your new bike uh no it's my old bike that I can't run I can't can't ride anymore you're not gonna want to ride it so yeah yeah I'll put it to you it's kind of like a it's kind of like a uh just a momento right now I just sitting there nice and shined up in my garage is there any any progress with the arm uh yeah actually so they didn't even they did without boring everybody I'll try and be quick they did some emg testing which is where they put a needle in each muscle and they measure you know there's like a screen and there's like a wavelength and it measures like whatever how much it goes from one to the next day like conduction whatever electricity is in the muscle I guess so they put it in my shoulder there was nothing but they did a nerve graft which is I don't know exactly how to explain it but they did some like nerve transfers in my brachialis that was your last surgery right yes so they put the needle there and it's only been three months and there was already some nerve conduction oh so it's starting to regenerate a little so it's already connected I can't feel anything but internally it's connected so they're like so they're like in another three in another three months I should start to feel some flickers and some muscular activation of the bicep which will which will give me like this function right it'll actually be kind of awesome because you might not have enough feeling to your arm that you can feel stuff but maybe you use it so you can jerk off so it's like the ghost you know it used to sit on your hand to make it go numb and then jerk off it's like the stranger you know you can do that shit sit on your hand and make it go you've never heard of that paul no I heard of a stranger not yeah the straight like you sit on your hand until it goes numb and then you jerk off with it so it feels like someone else has jerked you off like it's not your own hand that's brilliant I've never heard of that before you should try it this podcast early so yeah peaked with interest yeah I did it I did it it doesn't work that well no no it sucks could you just like tie off your arm yeah sure whatever just cut off the circulation jerk off just put a tourniquet on your fucking wrist and then just just wait half an hour or you could tie a string to this hand and just yeah yeah or you could just pay a prostitute to come to your house and suck your dick right right get a fleshlight yeah right I honestly want to try I've never tried one of those things I would like to in my life you never tried a fleshlight no have you guys tried one of those fucking no I've never tried I've never tried I've never tried a pocket pussy before I don't know I don't want to say too much but they're pretty good I'd like to try one I've never have maybe I'll I know you can get ones where you like mold it I'll get just a mold of Melissa's so then it's at least it's not like this is another bitch's pussy you know you can get you can get you can get the ass with a pussy in the asshole yeah yeah yeah I'll just get her to sit in some fucking shit and mold it you know yeah yeah just some just some mud or clay yeah yeah I've um I've uh I see a lot of this stuff coming through since I've been over in uh FedEx for the last little uh people are pervs what do you what do you get what kind of shit sex dolls and they're I guarantee Paul has taken one of them home and just not told anybody oh yeah that package that package just went missing yeah Paul's in the fucking bathroom yes give it her then packaging it up and sending it through yes there's fucking load inside it like yeah you get it but this is what you get that's your duties right there yeah yeah here you all have a naughty drawer at your house I don't I don't have I don't have toys for me in it you know yeah yeah same I got three I had this conversation a three a few podcasts ago I said I said how come guys don't get like if a girl gets a dildo nobody cares but if a guy gets a fucking pocket pussy it's like really weird it's weird yeah good point good point why is that why is that it's taboo for a strange reason yeah which is funny because guys are like men's masturbation is a lot less taboo than women's like like guys it's like everyone knows every dude fucking jerks off and watches porn it's like so much more normal than women masturbation but then when it comes to sex toys if like a guy has one it's weird but girls have them isn't it's like it's so strange where that line is like blurred between those you know yeah I used to use a cock ring why because you couldn't keep your dick harder no no because because I wanted to make sure it lasted as long as I blow my load too quick huh but what does it what does it do it just trap it vibrates no it doesn't vibe to get a vibrating so it's like you it's so it's like you still blow your load but it's stuck the blood's like stuck in there I have one in the package if you want to see it mine did have a vibrator I don't know what kind of cock ring you got but I um when I have vibrates you never seen that before Paul it's like yeah really no this is basically got an elastic band but I make my parents sleep in my spare bedroom I tell them they can't go in my bedroom because if my mother went into one of those drawers dude I'm always worried about you would be mortified when people are over like yeah like when my parents or my fucking dad's and his wife are over and they're like helping us do something I'm like I'm always worried so I was gonna be always checking here where you know like fuck oh my mom would fucking have an aneurysm why would your mom be in your bedside drawer well like like my mom that's my mom found my sust in my room when I was fucking yeah but that was when you were fucking 12 not when you know like yesterday yesterday my dad my dad and his wife are over here helping me do some uh I was putting together a closet system in my uh walk-in closet did you stop at a key on the way home and get that yeah I picked up the pieces I need yet so um we were doing that but we were missing one piece so like in that looking for that piece when I'm not looking maybe she would be like oh maybe it's in this drawer opens this drawer and then there's a bunch of fucking you know but that's the shit you got to be careful with yeah yeah but my mom watches this podcast so now she at least knows not to go in my drawers you know yeah I think your mom knows all right your mom wouldn't be shocked again I don't think no no no uh anyway back to my arm yeah how do we get on some cock rings and because I was like going to jerk it off with his dead arm all right yeah so I might have this motion and then they're talking about doing because they don't think the muscles are going to come back naturally so they're talking about doing a tendon transfer where they take my trap it goes over the rotator cuff and it connects to the humerus bone so that when I so that when I flex my trap I can raise my arm man so I'll be able to raise my arm and flex my bicep and then they're talking about because this wrist like I can flex down but I can't lift it up because your c7 nerve that comes from your spine is what moves your wrist yeah but you can you can open and close your hand I can open and close my hand right but is that new no no it's well it's better now but it's been like that better for sure so this so you see how my arm is now your c7 nerve is what does this and it's also what does this okay so mine is severed so I can't do this or this but they're talking about fusing my wrist so if they're not down it's up so it's always so it'll so it'll always be straight yeah so then if I'm reaching for something my it won't be like this uh it'll still be open so I can just grab whatever I want to grab it'll be it'll be like a lego you know where you just have like a yeah yeah like set like an action figure like a lego action figure yeah you guys you guys have no idea I've been working on my bike in my garage dude doing shit with one arm oh my god I've been doing like just different things on on my bike like taking off the fucking luggage racks and like I gotta it's so fucked if I took if I shot video of it you'd be that'd be good for you for still doing it though but the caveat for that is I would just be like fuck this I'm not doing this yeah me too I would do like I'm gonna just get someone else to do it fuck it yeah you imagine if it was your right arm how fucking bad that would be well I said to Ian I think just this past weekend that if out of all the limbs yeah I the right the the left arm your non-dominant arm yeah yeah yeah how can you imagine better than a leg or better than my right arm so it was just like I got lucky that way I guess you have to relearn everything with your left arm on top of your cock yeah I bumped into a girl at the show who was a competitive skier and she got in a skiing she got in a skiing accident she's in a wheelchair oh yeah she's been in a wheelchair for eight years and now she still fucking skis she does adaptive skiing like she skis in her wheelchair yeah those like sit down things really imagine that dude like fucking and she had the most positive attitude I'm like this is crazy so I just like I mean you've been you've been fucking back riding so I mean you understand it's like yeah same kind of thing just I don't know there was a girl it popped up like a couple weeks ago on my social media she was a competitor and she lost both of her legs yeah I think she might have been Canadian I saw her yeah yeah crazy well I thought about Paul you know we were talking about adding more classes to the Detroit pro yeah I thought about adding an adaptive class yeah that'd be uh that'd be really cool for sure I would enter it so would I well you're retarded so it would work I'm old can I go in it can old people just because I'm old and broken can I do it old retarded I have five tears old fat day retarded something I can't raise my arm above here my shoulder's fucked if you had enough surgeries and you can prove them it counts I can prove them all baby you're gonna I just got cut open today and I know you guys are fucking around but I'm being serious do you think that'd be cool that'd be awesome it would be cool I guess it's kind of like the wheelchair division that's really what adaptive is but what if you just like don't have an arm like me yeah right yeah because front double bicep yeah one bicep only yeah yeah how about a lat spread what there's no I can't yeah yeah well one lat one lat I can open one lat yeah uh but that's weird though because my chest obviously so my pecs don't work either both of them well my c7 nerve on the right side got damaged so it's working but not great the one on the left the one on the left's not working at all so I kind of have a tit so if I go if I go on stage I might have a tit that might cost me to lose the show I got a tit like a tit is it it's accruing fat there or you have gyno no the top part of the chest is probably transgender class I have one tit you're such an idiot no uh no because my peck was you have you know you have a peck yeah and then with the muscles not working it droops it's drooping so now I have a droopy peck I got a droopy peck it's like you already had a bit of hamburger titties now they're just like yeah are you like peeled now because you lost all that weight no it's like it's like it's like I lost all the muscle not any fat no I was like I was though I was pretty lean you're gonna get shredded though you were saying I am started today that's why I posted that shit today I'm so you know because like I gotta be honest with you guys man like from the outside looking in I get a lot of compliments from people who's like oh you know you're still training and you're still you know you're still fucking you know you're doing the show and you're promoting the show and you're riding your bike and they feel like everybody kind of looks at it like it's like I'm over it but yeah I make a lot I make I have a lot of self-pity days man I have a lot of self-pity days and I fucking sometimes sometimes I give myself excuses and you know I'll eat some I'll eat a bunch of junk I'll be like oh I don't care I only have one arm anyway fuck it all and I like there's a lot of bad days in there and I decided I think I decided after the show this week I was like you know what that's enough self-pity there's no excuse for me to be fucking fat or sloppy or or anything there's no excuses so I decided after the show that's it I'm back to work 100% no more fucking junk food no more bullshit no more no more self-pity and and seeing that girl in that wheelchair made all the fucking it just there are other people with afflictions like mine or worse so I have no excuses to fucking you know just be a fucking slob or anything like that so there's a girl skiing in a wheelchair you better fucking figure it out I know right is that there's like I got a follow a guy on instagram he's an x games guy and he is paralyzed now from the waist down he's the guy that does the backflips on the hat yes vert ramps yes dang and he did backflips like yeah this guy still does x game shit in a wheelchair in a wheelchair yeah yeah I'm like triple backflips in the wheelchair yeah I'm like it's fucking how scary that is doing a backflip when you can't feel your body and if you fall you can't really stop yourself like and he's doing them on like a half pipe and shit I'm like this is just wild wild shit to see man so anyway the human spirit is fucking strong so there's no reason to be a pussy anymore anyway uh you know those marks I had in 27 those burns yeah on your skin yeah I'm getting them again they fucking had to cut me today and I got stitches in my back because I had a biopsy a big patch of it so I thought I thought you said that had something to do with protein or something no no they thought it was um I was taking out dactone with the tanning bed so they originally called it a phototoxic reaction mixed mixed drug eruption so why is it coming back now they have no dude I have like these fucking marks on me that are just where do you got them I got them all I got them on my chest I'm inside my shoulder's dick on the top of my tailbone is it so it's not like um like shingles no Paul says that about every guy anytime anytime because this is Paul's conversation style if you say something he will try and relate related to him which is normal right but he tries to relate to himself so anytime a skin condition a little bit selfish it is a little bit selfish anytime a skin condition comes up no matter what you say it is it's shingles that's not true it's got to be shingles because it's the only thing you can really just really get out for that the process elimination are you sure it's not shingles like you get a test for it he's still like you can carry your spinal cord he's still on this all right let's see it guys see if we can do that looks like pimple looks like no it's not it's a it looks like a it's like a burn you sure it's not an ingrown hair pull up oh my god see it I see it okay Paul and you have these in multiple places I have it looks like it looks like shingles I have one right here get a doctor's note or chicken pox you're a chicken pox did you have chicken pox in your kid yes and shingles before but you know what part is they get itchy and I itch myself raw like I'm a fucking like like a crackhead is it like an autoimmune disease or something dude I've been to a dermatologist a rheumatologist um a hematologist I've been I've been blood tested a biopsy like nobody knows what it is dude they want me to go to another doctor in Philly I said I'm not going I go you guys have bounced me around to four doctors like I'm done yeah but you got to keep going to figure out what it is though it's so frustrating bro when you don't get an answer I get so fucking aggravated how often do you get those it's just been going on for like eight months then the lady today I went there and she day I had to take the thing off but she I gotta oh show me oh yeah yeah yeah like it's hairy crack you're taking a piss on the podcast show me your asshole like you saw his balls he's a little bit of like a like like a what's his like voyeurism yeah a little bit yeah yeah it's kind of teasing a little bit like an after dark wants us to see you know yeah yeah a lot of my dm are you guys into that I'm I know women are like melissa melissa would love me to fuck her in public you know yeah oh really I'm not I'm not into that at all though I'm not into that what's the what's the craziest place you've had sex uh in the back of a taxi what um or in a booth at a restaurant a bar yeah a lot of people were like sitting around you yeah like it was like in a crazy horse is like a country bar and it was at night when it was a bar so like it was dark it was dark yeah but it was also like a packed house so yeah the girl with a skirt on the the taxi was fucking weird though because like she was like or the taxi guy because I'm sitting she's straddling me he and me and him are looking each other dead in the eyes in the rearview mirror is he jerking off he was talking he was like like oh no it's okay go go go like it's okay he was so into it dude it but it fucked me up I didn't like it that's awesome I would be too if I was driving tax like yeah fucker yeah yeah how are you Paul me at the weirdest place uh I've had sex in public um park benches um nice like uh parking lots I thought that was normal though parking lots I've done lots of parking lots for sure but like outside of the like outside of the car though like not in the car yeah well you got to bend them over like the car like yeah where she's in the back seat and I'm out the door yeah yeah no there's no car involved at all oh nice you just went to you just went to park it he's like you know what I know a nice parking lot it was walking back to the car didn't make it to the car oh wow ah yeah you know things got horny kids you know I wasn't really kidding at the time actually but things uh oh I've got I've done port-a-john what a john's interesting not not full on intercourse but you know that's pretty disgusting that's pretty disgusting that's someone who doesn't have a lot of respect for themselves absolutely yeah my god a port-a-john why do you call it a port-a-john that's what do you call it what do you call it port-a-potty same thing same thing same thing or an outhouse what are you sick what are you six years old port-a-potty I've never heard someone called a port-a-john I have 99% of people I know around always port-a-john port-a-potty that's what you call it yeah yeah okay well anyway uh guy what about you uh plane plane like a bathroom you can get a no-fly list for that high club really in the bathroom there's not much room yeah but I was on my way to I was on my way to Korea I was on my way to Korea just flying emirates for business class you know middle of the night when everyone's sleeping only a 212 guy could do that yeah an open guy could never do that even a classic guy probably oh it was like you look you get the look and you're like all right really that would be that hard yeah change room wait also also driving home from the beach and driving in the ocean in the ocean I've done in the ocean that you should do that though that's bad people around in the ocean underwater you're never supposed to have sex underwater yeah water I fucking hate underwater sex it's really bad for the woman too it just sucks anyway well you're you're compressing water up into her vagina it's not good for them yeah okay Paul's like all right I'll make sure not to do that noted just anal Paul you can only do anal underwater because there's not as much suction is that why yeah it's just it's good it's like flush it out there you know right it's like an enema yeah uh driving wild driving yeah well I did that too that's what I was saying we're driving long uh obviously public like parking lots and different parks and shit uh change room there's like a like a try on clothes yeah I've done that yeah yeah and uh the stairwell of a hotel oh you know what I got GNC when I worked in college while I was open in the back room fucking nose is itchy I think I've jerked off at every place I worked at me too I used to jerk off at stores I worked in the bathroom all the time yeah like you guys are animals like every single job I ever had I was like nothing I think there was a thing about it I'm like dude I sniffed lines of coke in the bathroom at running room when I worked there I think when you're younger like like half your day is like thinking about how many times you're gonna jerk off figuring out figuring out where and when you're gonna fit in your day yeah yeah okay I got a gap right there you know how much shit I've been late for because I was jerking off oh yeah for sure like yeah I've like missed appointments you guys ever had it where you just had sex you're still horny it up and then you go jerk off after you yes yeah yeah guilty of that yeah okay anyway on to other things yeah um okay let's see how we did probably so bad dude uh you go over the uh I won Paul won look at by how much to Ian second Fuad third Mike fourth yeah you killed it Paul fuck what's the points I can't read it from here Paul got 15 points because he got Mo first he got Leonardo he lost out on like Leandro Leandro sorry not Leandro Ron Gordon you fucked up too how did you win yeah blessing Patrick these two were close exact and Chris way down yeah you sucked how did he see what I don't know how I won that but whatever that's the uh with the win Ian no no exact no exact last guy that's why that's why and then I had blessing way too low I had no exacts also was it close between um um blessing and Mo no no like no like yes but no I don't think so no not really yeah um the results for classic Ian won wow Paul was Paul was second I literally just threw mine in a random order Mike was third I was last let's take a look at how we did in our classics like look at the results Mike uh or Ian got Wesley Ethan was exact you got two exacts that's why and the rest were a little bit we all got Wesley and Ethan didn't we I'm sure no I got you got Wesley and Ethan yeah you got those exact two it must have been the rest that like Ian was a little bit better on yeah Mike I just I completely guessed I had no idea that's awesome I don't think I had Ethan second either yeah no I didn't I had oh he was good he came in fourth oh yeah you you fucked up on Ethan that's why you put him too low yeah yeah I had Ethan like fifth oh you had him that low wow yeah okay well I got smoked this week let's go back to predictions we got the Arnold classic UK yeah I think I should should get a fish tank what I like fish I've always wanted like a really nice salt water fish tank they're hard to keep though they're hard I know I just want like a huge one like a massive really nice with really nice fish in this podcast room I'm in now I just want like a sick fucking but I know I would absolutely not clean it so I could hire someone to do it for you I think that's what I would need you have somebody clean your dog shit you're I think I'm gonna yeah I think if I could find for a decent price they come like you know once a month or once every two weeks whatever's like necessary and it's like reasonably affordable I think I'd like to do that oh get a lizard I love having the chameleon I think yeah it just doesn't look as that like that's sick I agree and the lizard's dope but I want it to be like a you know when you see a nice salt water fish tank and it's lit up nicely and like it just looks so dope like yeah I always wanted to get a fish tank like I've seen them like in the wall like yeah yeah I love that man like that's badass some rich Jewish kid I went to high school with fucking they had one in his house and it was like fucking 15 feet long it was so sick yeah um does anybody have the Arnold classic list okay yeah I did see it recently Andrew Martin blessing um who else is doing that team Akeem let's see here Akeem William and Curry I think yeah Brandon Curry okay here uh yeah right Andrew one second I'm doing these one by one so there's only like only five guys eh what no it's more than that are you sure about that yeah I got all I see here is Andrew um Hasan Mustafa Akeem Brandon Curry and Martin oh Hasan Mustafa sorry because Hottie's out right well I know blessing is going blessing too okay um also um uh Kanate okay Kanate oh yeah Abu Kanate or is it Abu Kanate Abu Kanate he's from England right yes he's from the UK Abu Kanate uh create and I can see him being good one day he's got a lot of okay so so far I got blessing Hasan Andrew Martin Abu Kanate and Akeem that's it is there anybody anybody else that's all I see I have the picture here with the people that were on it wait there the only other person on it is Hottie but we know he's out I think Brandon Curry no we said Brandon yeah Brandon's in so what's the seven guys Hottie out all of a sudden I didn't I don't know people are speculating this is the the end of how you got a visa you know couldn't get a British visa yeah people are speculating he probably didn't apply for it early because he thought he was UK has has made their shit a little bit tougher recently too yeah I have classic here too if you want that one second I don't know why this is what what do you try to do okay I got Brandon Curry blessing Akeem Abu Kanate Martin Andrew Hassan uh I got blessing let me get rid of this I got blessing twice okay did I miss anybody I think so okay uh so what is there a total of seven eight classic we got Wesley Wesley's running the gauntlet huh Mike Summerfield Wesley Ethan doing that show too no who else come on dude Kim Angel bro my fucking nose is so itchy Sam Sam Sam Sir like Bomboli Bomboli's doing it yeah oh tell me when you're ready I'll give you more but I'll give it to you okay Bomboli got who else uh Vahid bad pi bad pi bad pi bad pi Vahid Okay, next. Valenzuela Ramos. Ramos. Got it. Paul Canu. Oh, I like his physique. Yeah. Canu. Got him. Herrera. H-E-R-R-E-R-A. Jorge. E-R-A. Jorge Herrera. Got it. Yeah. Angelo. Angelo Rossi. R-O-S-S-I. Angelo Rossi. Got it. Did you get Kim Angel? Yep. That's all I have here. Okay. So I had 10 on my list here. And then I got to add. Oh, I got Gus Estranino here. I got Guy. Yeah, I'm right. Fuad. Ian. Paul. Okay. Save host selection. Okay. I think we're ready. I think we're ready. Boom. I'm sure we'll get more of that open between now and then. Make predictions. Open. Okay. Guy, you want to go first? Sure. Okay. Go ahead. There's the list on the left-hand side. That's the list we got. Let's do Andrew. Andrew. No, do I want to pick Brandon or Martin? Let's do Brandon. Martin. Martin. I don't know. Abu Kanate. Look, can you just show me him real quick? Yeah. He's got a unique shape. Is this the black guy kind of had like shorter dready hair? Yeah. Yeah. Let me see. He looked, I thought he looked actually great. This is him in Detroit. Yeah. I thought he looked phenomenal. Crazy physique. Crazy body parts. I think it's just a trap, a delt thing. Like he needs, his traps are so big. A little narrow. It's almost like he needs the delts to kind of pop off a little bit more. How was he from behind? He's good. A lot of good, a lot of great body parts. I think it's just a. Well, his arms are wild. I think it's a shoulder span thing, if I'm being honest. Well, his traps started in his fucking ears. I know, right? Look how fucking thick those traps are. Yeah. I think he's young too. Here's some shots. He looks tremendous. Yeah, he's good. Got a lot of potential. All right. Let's do. Is there any back shots of this guy? I'm looking. He reminds me of like a Michael Lockett in a way. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's. That's a good shot. Better legs than Lockett though. Yeah. Yeah, he's good. He's got a lot of great body parts. Yeah. Look how far back he can fucking twist his arms. Like that's fucking. That's nutty. He's like. It's kind of like a 90s looking black guy. Yeah, you're right. That's kind of. Yeah. All right. So let's do. So we got Andrew, Brandon, Martin. Let's do. Akeem. Okay. Blessing. Abu Hassan. Abu. Those are great picks. Okay. I'm going to go. Andrew. Martin. Brandon. Blessing. Akeem. Abu Kanat. Kanate. And Hassan. Okay. Ian. Andrew. Martin. Brandon. Andrew. Martin. Brandon. Akeem. Akeem. Hassan. Hassan. Blessing. Okay. Oh, interesting. Paul. Abu. Kanate. Andrew. Martin. Brandon. Akeem. Andrew. Martin. Sorry. Brandon. Akeem. Wait. Sorry. I didn't register. Akeem. Okay. Who? Blessing. Blessing. Hassan. Kanate. Hassan. Kanate. You guys think that Blessing can beat Hassan? Yeah, I do. I do. Hassan was way, way, way, way off at the Arnold Monday. He was. Yeah, but I think. Like, like, like 10 weeks out off. And I, Hassan's a great dude. But I know he's got a problem. He's got, he cramps really bad. He can't take diuretics. Like, he's got a, you know, digestion issues. He's got a lot of, a lot of issues. It causes him to kind of not miss his peaks. Kind of not hit his peaks, so. Okay. Let's take a look at Classic. Classic. Guy, you're first. Do you want to go? Or do you want somebody else to go? I'll try this. Let's go, Wesley. Wesley. Ah, there's Mike in this one, too. Let's go, Wesley. Mike. Kim. Where's Kim? Kim. Uh. I don't know these other guys besides Sam. Sucks to be. Does anybody know where these other guys have placed recently? Kim. Mamoli was what? Fourth or fifth? Mamoli was. Mamoli was fourth. Fourth at the, uh, Arnold's. Herrera was up there, too. He was like six. Who? Herrera. I said, let's do Andrea. Jorge Herrera. Sam Sulek. Jorge. Sam. I think we're all going to have the same for this. Class of yours. And. Uh. I don't know these other guys. I don't think so. No, I'm not going to have that. Well, I'll show you if you want. Here's Vahid. Bad bye? Bad bye. Vahid. Bad bye. Yes. Bad bye. That's him at the Arnold Classic. Oh, it's going to take forever. He was good. Yeah, he was. He's got great shape. He's probably a little torso dominant. I remember watching him. Okay. That's that guy. Then there's, uh. Paul Cano's got beautiful shape. I think he got a little bit robbed at the Arnold, if I'm being honest. I thought he should have been ahead of Sam. Sam beat him? Yeah. Yeah. Sam beat him. He's got amazing shape. I actually think he was in better shape than they think he was. Um. Um. But he's a little smaller. Smaller. Yeah. But look at that shape, dude. Crazy structure. Yeah. Just fucking. Yeah. I think he got hooked a little bit. Like, look. Look at that. He's in shape, dude. Like, that's not. He's missing a little back depth. The thing about Paul is he was. This was only. This only came out in little spurts. He kept on letting his glutes go. So he looked softer than he was. Yeah. Um. But I think he was trying to get the adductors to come out. But I don't think he needed to do that. Like, if you look at this pose, even with his glutes flex, he's still got great adductors. Yeah. Crazy. So he just, you know, if I was him, I'd stay on that shit all the time. Yeah. Yeah. I think he just needs to, like, have a little more energy and enthusiasm in his posing. And just, like, make sure that, like, the quads, the glutes, the hams, all that is being, like, hit on every shot. Like, look at the shape, man. And I think he could have honestly had a little more, like, sheen and oil to, like, bring out some accentuation there. I feel like he poses small, too. Like, he can make himself be a lot bigger. Well, like Ian said, he's a little bit not excitable. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like, Wesley, like, ignites the crowd, you know? Like, yeah. Yeah. Like, even Kim, you know? That's pretty crazy. I think he's good. He should be placing better than he is. Yeah. He still could be in better condition, like, from a hardness perspective. But overall, it's not bad, you know? Yeah. He looked a little flat at the Arnold. Yeah. Ramos. Ramos. Ramos. Which one of these is Ramos? Luis, right? Or something? No. It's a... Luis Roberto Venezuela. Yeah. Valenzuela. I know, but I can't find it here. Maybe if I try Luis... Just type in the Valenzuela. Val... And... Zuela. Let's see if that... Uh... Nope. Did you spell right? I don't know. I think so. V-A-L-E-N-Z-U-E-L-A? Yeah. You don't get to see that guy. Next. Angelo Rossi. I'm seeing if he's tagged on this post. Rossi. Angelo Rossi. I don't see him either. What the fuck? Man. Angelo... Rossi. That's him, I think. There we go. Angelo Rossi looks a little thin. Is this the right guy? It's gotta be. I have you be pro. I don't know, dude. I don't know. I don't think it's the right guy. 11 weeks out. It just said it. Yeah, it is. It is, but it's... He's... I'm not trying to be... Oh, he's natural. Yeah. Yeah. I'm always trying to prove a point. The last guy, if you want to look him up, is Roberto Ramos on Instagram. Roberto Ramos. Okay. Oh, yeah. I found him. I'm looking up right now. Roberto Ramos. I can't fucking... It won't come up. Roberto Ramos under... You know that line... Underscore. IPV Pro. Yeah. What do you... You don't know what an underscore is called, Paul? I just couldn't think of the word. Roberto Ramos underscore what? Yeah, Fuad. What account do you want? Your regular one? Yeah. IFBB, Fuad. I just sent him to you and DM'd. Roberto Ramos underscore IFBB? Yeah. I just DM'd it to you. It's right there. It's right here. Got it. Boom. Roberto Ramos. Wow, that was hard to find. What the fuck? Jesus, that's a good back. Yeah, I can't tell what I think about this guy's look. A little bit wider in the waist, I think. I mean, this... Well, this stage video looks really good, though. This is so, like... Why is that angle so high? Like, I want to see his... Yeah. I want to see his waist. Who's filming that? I'm taking the video. Is he eight feet tall? I know. The guy... Look at the mirror. Look how tall that guy is. Okay, let's take a look at this. Yeah, that's what I'm watching. Oh, fuck. Waist looks really good. Yeah, but when he opens up to a front double, it's like... Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. It's kind of weird the way he looks at it. He shouldn't vacuum. We'll see. It's kind of weird. His posing's a little bit strange. That's a pretty good shot. His chest is a little flat. Not a lot of separation from the side, though, right? It's weird. His body's weird to feel like... I know. It's strange. It's got big glutes. Huge calves. Lacking little ego. Yeah, I don't know. Weird physique. It feels like the legs are big and the upper body's kind of flat. There's no depth in the back or chest. Look at that hamstring on from the side, though. That's what I'm saying. The legs are big, but the back and chest don't necessarily match. Like, the whole upper body doesn't match the lower body necessarily. The lower body doesn't look really well separated either, right? Dude, look at that, though. It's separated. It's thick as fuck. In the front, but not from the side. Yeah, it's a hard physique to get a read on. So, okay. Guy, that's it. He has been to the Olympia. Oh, yeah? He won a show. Who's the natural? Sorry. He did win a show in Texas last year. But then he doesn't have any pictures at the Olympia, which is weird. Like, he won this show. Okay. Let's go on, Ian. Okay, guy. You seen him all? Who was the guy that was the natural guy? Was that Paul? Rossi, I think. Put Rossi in 10th. Okay. Lewis, 9th. Okay. And let's put Vahid in 8th and Paul in 9th. Yeah. Okay. You suck. Yours are going to suck bad. Shut up. Wesley. And then I'm going to go Kim Angel. Oh, maybe not. Actually, I'm going to go Mamoli. No. I'm going to go Kim Angel, then Mamoli. Get out of here. I don't want that. I want this. Kim Angel. Then Mamoli. Yeah, Mamoli. Then, uh... Fuck. Fuck. What's wrong? What's Herrera look like again? We didn't look at him. Herrera. I think it was one R. Horry. This guy? Yes. Yeah, this is the guy. Mm-hmm. Oh, I liked his physique. I remember seeing him with Arnold. Okay. I have a Horry Herrera there. Then I'm going to go... I'm going to go out on a limb and go... No. I'm going to go... Vahid. I think Paul should have beat Sam. Then I go Sam. Then I go... Uh... I go Ramos. Then... Ramos. Then I'll go Sam. And Rossi. I think that's good. Maybe. I don't think you think about it. Go ahead. Ian. Me? Or Paul. Yeah, I think I'm almost the same as you. So I'm going to go... Uh... Mike. Mike. Wesley. Mamoli. Mamoli. Oh, no. Sorry. Kim. Sorry. Kim. Then Mamoli. I forgot Kim. Kim. And Mamoli. I lost the line up here. I had a picture in front of me. Where is it? You got... I need to see it in front of me. I had it here. One second. It's on the screen. You can't see it? I'm too far from my laptop for that. I can't read off there. Paul, who are you winning? Wesley. Wesley. Then Mike. Then Mike. Yep. Then Kim. Kim. Yep. And then Mamoli. Mamoli. Herrera. Where the hell did that damn picture go? So you copying mine pretty much? No. No, no. I got Wesley winning. Oh, yeah. That's right. You do. Canoe. Canoe. I love Canoe's physique. I hope he gets it right. Me too. Actually, I'm going to put Bad Pie ahead of Canoe. You are copying my picks. No, I'll put Canoe there. Fuck you, Paul. Why do you keep fucking with me? I don't want to have the same picks as you. Canoe. And then Bad Pie. Yep. What's that bring us down to? Eight. Eight. I'm going to go Sam. Oh, shit. Sam. Sam. Then Ramos. Then Rossi. Rossi. Okay. Ian. I just need to sit closer. Yeah. Okay. Kim. Angel. Then I'm going to do. Which one was Herrera again? Okay. I'm going to do Bad Pie. Bad Pie. Then I'm going to do Herrera. Canoe. Canoe. Sulek. Sulek. Venezuela. Got it. Okay. That's all of us. Okay. Okay. That's the Arnold UK. Fucking picks are in. I don't. I feel like we're missing somebody in the open, but I'll put them in. Who though? Like. I don't know. I feel like there's somebody we're missing. No. Yeah. There's only like six, seven guys. Is it Mo. Is it Mo. Is it Mo. Is it Mo. Mo. Mo. Mo. Mo. I don't know. I don't know. Now he's got his qualification now. That's true. I guess. Okay. Well. If he's supposed to say anything about it. I'll change it if we have to. What about Raph? Raph wasn't doing it? No. I don't think so. No. Maybe. But we'll check. I'll check. And I'll add in. And I'll let you guys know. We can change them around if we have to. Well, there's still another week before the lineup's locked in too, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. So we'll. Yeah. It's not this weekend. Yeah. Okay. Let's do some questions before we go. Boom. Okay. Where are we here? Yeah. I don't see anything that. Mr. Shaw. IFBB Pro. Lamar. Says. No question. Just want to say that Detroit Pro. It was one of the best shows I've experienced in eight years of being a pro. And the crowd energy was incredible. Also, I hope you enjoy the cigars. Thank you, Lamar. I have not tried one of your cigars yet, but I will. And I appreciate the nice comments about our show. Hell yeah, brother. Guy, you got to go, man. I'm telling you. The feeling in that fucking place. I'll be there next year. No questions asked. Plus, we have a big party. Food wants to get me drunk and take advantage of me. We didn't get drunk this year. No. We ate a lot of food, though. Ivan Bodybuilding says, do you think Moe's win at Detroit was overshadowed by Wesley's people's champ moment. I feel like Moe is the true overall winner as the open champ. But the pose down made it look like Wesley beat him, especially to casual fans. It kind of took away from Moe's win, and he should probably be handled differently next year. I disagree a thousand percent, Ivan. The King of Detroit competition is fucking awesome. The crowd loves it. The audience loves it. The talk online is all positive, except for yours so far. It's a great moment. And if anything, what took away from Moe's win was his own speech that focused more on negativity in social media than actually the fact that he got his first qualification and is doing the Olympia. I feel like Moe made a big speech about social media, which some people took as good or bad, whatever. But I feel like he should have taken that moment to revel in the fact that he just qualified for the Olympia. He won $25,000. And, you know, he just won a show. Like, he should have been ecstatic. The King of Detroit is not... If casual fans take it for whatever they take it for, that's fine. It's a people's champ award. They do it at the Olympia. We do it in Detroit. It's not going anywhere. It's going to be handled exactly the same next year. I think Moe's message was trying to, like, bring people together and not pull them apart. I understood what he was trying to do. I didn't think his message was bad. I just thought, instead of focusing on negativity in social media, why not do what Wesley did, which is focus on the fact that he just won the show. Yeah, I mean... You know, he's doing it like... Like, take that moment. Like, has Moe won a show before? Yeah. Like, I mean, look, it's his moment. I don't agree with him, but it's also your moment to do whatever the fuck you want. So, like, you know, that's not how I would have talked post-show. So, whatever. We can criticize it. Everyone's entitled to their opinion. But it's also his moment. He doesn't have to do anything other than what he wants to do. So, we can sit here and say he could have, should have, would have. And we... Sure, you know, I agree. But, like I said, it's his fucking moment. Do what you want, homie. The reason... But it did overshine it because it was more of a, you know, controversial, taboo topic that he was talking on, which kind of took away from the next moment. But, I mean, at the end of the day, he won a show. He got the paycheck. He's going to the Olympia. Who fucking cares? You know what I mean? No, no, no. The reason I only... The only reason I brought it up is Ivan was saying that it overshadowed Moe's win. Yeah. Yeah. And I thought more so what overshadowed Moe's win. Yeah. Was that he was talking about... I agree with you. Yeah. Yeah. I just feel like... No. I mean, anyone that's, like, really paying attention, like, knows that it's not... That that was a popularity contest between them. It's a People's Champ Award. It's not a... It's not judged by the judges under, you know, any kind of bodybuilding criteria. It's just, like, for the fans. And just, like, it's cool to see, you know? I think it's cool, too, for someone who might be a casual fan. It shows you the difference in the two categories. It shows you a blown-up physique and open, like a fully developed massive physique versus someone who's more aesthetically pleasing and a little bit more structure-based. I think it's great. It shows the differences. And also, you know, maybe Moe wasn't as excited, but Wesley was very excited to do the King of Detroit. Yeah. In the previous year, Matt and William were super excited to do it as well. Yeah, they were. So the guys are excited to do it. The crowd is excited to do it. Most of the fans, if not, you know, 90% of the fans, all seem to think it's really cool. And lastly, it's our show. Yeah. And the IFBB is like, you guys can do whatever you want with your show. Within these parameters. And so this is kind of how we want to do it. So if people don't... It's just funny that last year when the open guy won that, no one would criticize that. No. But then when it's the classic guy wins against the bodybuilder, then it's taken away. But it's like, it's just... It's not what you're saying. That's why I literally started this off with my question. For the same reason. And Matt last year being the classic winner and losing the King of Detroit to William, he was ecstatic to be a part of it. He was... That's fun. Who cares, dude? Yeah. Who cares? Honestly, and Ivan, I love you, brother. I'm not trying to be rude, but you're the first person I've seen have a negative comment about the King of Detroit. Almost all the people we've talked to about that segment of our show think it's really cool that we can do it. Because most of the times, before we ever started doing King of Detroit, I don't know how many people do it at other shows. I've never seen it. No. So I'm like, we've always talked about it on podcasts. Like, what would... It would be cool if the Olympia took all the class winners and put them up against each other just for fun. Yeah. And so we're allowed to do it. So we're doing it. So sorry, Ivan, if you don't like it, brother, but it's probably sticking around. Yeah. Paul, the man that can do anything, can he do one last bodybuilding show with Ian as his coach? That's a little bit disrespectful. What do you mean? Well, I'm the one who coaches all these years. Oh, yeah. No, I think you should judge him. That is. You're right. Yeah. But you didn't show up for my last show. I probably won't either, Paul. Oh. I'll just go. What's one epiphany you had during your life that made the biggest impact? What's one epiphany guy that you had in your life that made a big impact? Well, I got to think on this. Have you guys ever had just like an epiphany? No. No. Like, I don't think that's, I don't think our brain changes that easily. I think it needs to be like, you know, we can have things we think about, but I'm never like, and all of a sudden my behavior changed because of one moment. Right. Me either. It's like longer actions and thinking and changes. It's like, nothing's like, oh, you know what I mean? Yeah. Well, you can, you can have an epiphany, but then you're kind of, you need to act on it. Like old habits die hard. So even if you have an epiphany, won't make you change your actions. Like you need, you need to do that. And that's hard work, you know? Yeah. I mean, even if it does make you change your actions, like I said, sometimes you fall back on bad habits. Yeah. So you have to keep on going back to that epiphany. Yeah. But even if it is the case, what's one thing that might've like, I think when I met John and I saw the way John interacted with people, I realized it was kind of an epiphany where I was like, oh, okay. I can, like life is not, like I can be a little bit more relaxed. Yeah. I don't have to be so fucking anxious and intense all the time. And so that was kind of an epiphany. John, John kind of showed me a different way to live, I guess. Yeah. I definitely, I definitely had some moments like over my career and then, you know, looking back at it too, like where I really started to care, not try and control things that I can't control and, and not like, you know, stress myself out so much about other people's opinions and stuff like that. And, you know, I really, I'm not bothered or really think about it in the same degree when that I used to. And that's something, but that took time. That wasn't like a, you know. Yeah. Paul, anything? Probably when I became a dad. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's hard not to change, you know, when that happens. Um, change what way though? Well, um, a lot of ways, you know, um, like doing coke and banging strippers, like what? Yeah. That had to be, I had to stop. Yeah. Um, had to, um, had to be less selfish with my time. Yeah. Like what? What don't you do now that you did when you had early on when they were small? Yeah. They're independent. Name something. Uh, uh, you know, just couldn't take off whenever I wanted to. Um, you know, stuff like that. What didn't you do that you had that you did when you didn't have kids? I love that. They're fucking best friends. This fucking guy. This guy is fucking doesn't miss a meal. Doesn't miss a workout. I did miss a few when they were small. Bullshit. He missed six meals over the 10 years, you know? Sleepless nights. You know, those are all, oh yeah. I don't know. He ended up. This guy is exactly the same person pre and post kids. I think it matured me and it gave me a more respect for women. Um, I said recently, um, I forget what I was talking to, but I said, um, I never thought I was a good, I could be a good bodybuilder and I didn't win this show, but my one, two, third, third pro show ever, I took second, but I beat Brandon Ray. And when I beat Brandon, he was somebody that I thought had one of the most amazing shapes I've ever seen. And when I beat Brandon, I was like, holy shit. Like I could actually do this if I fucking bust my ass. Yeah. But you probably only beat Brandon cause you were harder than he was. Brandon's got, Baron's got a better face. He was probably way off. He does. But that was my point. That was the moment where I was like, guys are assholes. No, no, that's all true. But the Mike, because I, he's, his shape kills me. Paul, have you seen, have you seen Brandon Ray? Yes. Yeah. But we got a beautiful physique. Yeah. Guys place like six at the Olympia, you know? No, what I'm saying is, is that, but that was, this was 2011. That's 2012 though. Brandon Ray competed in the 2012, didn't he? Yeah. I'm just saying like six in the 2012 is like 15th in the open. That's like 35th. One before last place is what I got. Remember I did two open shows and took fifth at an Arnold. Fuck. Did you really? You took fifth at Arnold's? Yeah. But not, but yeah, but not, but not the real Arnold. That was like, nobody flies to Australia. No. Brandon Curry was there. There was probably, there was probably six guys in that show. No, there was like 12. Seven. Get up. There was 12 guys in that show. That was close. 10, 12. Yeah. And you took fifth? Word of God. It was Dallas McCarver's last show. Good for you, man. Oh, that was the one where he staged it on stage. Yeah. And I would picture me grabbing him. Yeah. That's great guy. That's probably my point is that that's more, more impressive than your Olympia win. Yeah. But when, listen, when I beat Brandon, my thought was these guys are genetically better than me, but I can outwork as many as I, as I, as like I, I physically could. So I knew I was never going to win an Olympia, but I was like, I can be really good because I can outwork a lot of these guys. Did you, do you have a picture of your fifth place at the Arnold on your wall in your shrine? No. Why? I have pictures on my phone. I think you should put one up in the room. Look, that place doesn't fucking get you anything. I have a place at the Arnold's a big deal, man. I have the metal from it, especially in the open. You're waiting from two 12 to open. That's what you want to, you want to hear something funny. Sure. That fifth place placing at the Arnold Australia was more money than any first place. Two 12 by one. Really? Yeah. That's crazy. Yeah. Two 12 doesn't get paid. But I just saw you should go on Instagram, pull up a Jose. Ma. Jose. Ma. He's trying to get huge right now. Right. Yeah. He's going open. All right. Yeah. Look at this video. He just put up. I thought it was fucking veto or someone from the side. Initially. I couldn't tell who it was. I can't wait to see him in open. It's a freak, dude. Oh, I saw this before. He looked huge. He's got Doreen Yates physique, dude. That. No. No. This one. No. No. Wasn't he originally open? Yes. He was. I thought it was actually, when I saw it earlier, I thought it was a good veto for a second. That's what I just said. Yeah. It looks like him. Yeah. He reminds me of fucking Doreen Yates, man. I'm telling you. He's got that same shape. Yeah. Thick boy. Almost as big as me. How's he going to do? He's got a crazy back. How's he going to do, you think? I think he's going to do good. It just depends on the legs. Yeah. Yeah. But now he's got no weight cap to worry about. Yeah. His back is nuts. Yeah. And he can get fucking peeled, which goes a long way and opens. Okay. Let's go through some of these quick because we're almost done. Pick one life to live for a year. Wolf of Wall Street, Jordan Belfort, Pablo Escobar, Frank Lucas, El Chapo. I'm taking Pablo Escobar. At any point in their lives? Yes. There's nobody. Pablo Escobar, dude. I'm taking Pablo. It's not really. Yeah. Yeah. What were ways you grew yourself to have endorsements, more physique, or video content? More physique. How did I get more physique? Now is different than our era is different than this era. Our era was build your physique. Be a good bodybuilder. Yeah. Then the money will come. Now it's content. It still is, though. Now. It's both, but it's like content. Content's king, man. No, no. I'm saying like, I think the primary focus should be getting a good physique. And then, you know, those things can come. Follow. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. But I'm going to, without naming any names, I've seen some really shit physiques get paid a lot. Oh, my God. For sure. Yeah. But I'm saying it depends what your goal is. Is your goal to be a professional bodybuilder? So I'm saying in terms of prioritization, if you want to be a pro bodybuilder, developing your physique should be a primary one. No, no. But this guy's saying for endorsements. Okay. Just for endorsements. And what I'm saying is nowadays, if you have good enough content, you don't necessarily have to have a great physique. You can have a mid-tier physique and just fucking pump out really good content. Like I used to tell people back in the day, like the way to get endorsement contracts is become pro, do well, win a show, like that, then it'll follow. Now it's not like that. No, no, no, no. Jose Ma, or not Jose Ma, sorry. Joseba. It's a long thing. You just said congratulations. The crowd was awesome. Competition was amazing. Thank you, Joseba. We appreciate it. He looked great, by the way. Yeah, he's competing, I'm sure. He's got his nice fucking blazer on. He's looking slick, you know? What were you calling him? You were going to call him Joseba Tate? Yeah. Could anyone see a world in which Hottie extends his career by moving back to 212 and vying for titles in that division? No, he would never know. No. He wouldn't be worth his time. Can Paul please lead the podcast for 10 to 15 minutes? Okay, Paul, take it away. Not tonight. Not tonight. Okay. Geography question for Paul. What's the capital of Barbados? Barbados. I know this one. Barbados is... Fuck. Saint something. I don't know. You don't know? Oh, come on. You know what guy? Huh? Do you know it? Think about it. I did. I was to Barbados. Let's see. Bridgetown. Mm-hmm. Bridgetown? Bridgetown. I was going to say Bridgetown. I've heard of that, but I didn't. What was your first big purchase after receiving a big, big check? I never purchased anything after a check. I made a big purchase. I never got a check and made a purchase. I bought my wife her car. I bought an engagement ring for Melissa. I won. I won. Your bounty points. Well, no. I won two shows. My wife was... I think at the time, I bought a Range Rover, then my wife wanted it. So I gave it to her. And I was making the payments. And then I won two shows back-to-back. So I used that money plus some other money. And I paid the car off. And I paid her car off. So I didn't have to make payments. I used the check. I used the check. I used the bodybuilding or just money? Just money. It's not saying bodybuilding. Well, my girlfriend's daughter her car, her first car. Oh, yeah. I remember that. That was nice. That's why I asked when you're getting married. You might as well at this point. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. When I came seconded to Arnold, I used a lot of that to do a big renovation on my house. And then the first Olympia or one of the first pro shows I did, I bought Melissa's engagement ring with, I think. Those are like the two main ones I did. Most of the rest I've saved, to be honest. Paul's angry that we spent that on our wives. No, I'm not. No. I just thought... Paul bought two pounds of weed. Paul, I'm not wrong with that. What's one thing, each of your bucket lists that you would like to do that you haven't done yet? Hunt. There's a lot of roads I want to ride. Paul wants to hunt. I want to ride. I want to hunt. I want to ride a million dollar highway. And a million dollar highway and going to the Sun Highway. I want to do some rides, but I want to do shit out of North America. There's some rides in fucking Romania that are supposed to be like... Fuck North America. Let's go over somewhere. Yeah, yeah. I'm 100% in. Okay. I want to climb... All my stuff's redneck. I want to climb a big mountain, and I want to shoot exotic animals. Yeah, I want to do a horseback hunt for elk, and I want to shoot hogs out of a helicopter. Oh, that would be cool. I'm doing that this year with Branch. You're in Texas, the problem. Yeah, yeah. What'd you pay for that guy? It's like $1,200. Yeah. You know, Branch asked me to do that with him. I can't wait to go. Where are you going this year? Wow. When I was in Texas at Metroflex, I did a shoot. Branch was there. Oh, a poke of an airplane? Branch was like, if you stay a week later, you can come with me on a hog hunt in a helicopter. That would be awesome. They smoke hogs from the helicopter. I didn't want to stay, but now looking back, I probably should have. Let's go do that sometime. We can all do it. Now, you guys have told me when you hunt, there's some kind of an emotional attachment when you're killing animals. Is it the same thing when you're going? No, when you're hog hunting. No, hogs, bro. Those are like, they're so ugly and nasty. They're like fucking fat rats. You just fucking mowed down from a chopper. And they cause so much damage, too, right? Yeah, they're fucking grung. They destroy everything, bro. Cattle, fucking land. Yeah, fuck them, dude. Fuck those motherfuckers. Hot lizards. What the fuck? Wesley, top 10 in the open with proper off-season transition. No. No. How do you know when it's time to walk away from stability and bet on yourself and not look back? I recently quit my job in an oil field and going all in on full-time RV life and travel the country. Nice. You only got one life, man. Awesome. Yeah. If someone drops a bar of soap on the floor, is the bar of soap dirty or is the floor clean? Bar of soap's dirty. Depends. Is it a public shower? You can always clean off the bar. You can clean it off, yeah. Does Fugat still shower with his dog? Yes. Yay. How big was the invoice for Ian's cameo pose? Zero dollars. Each two. Were paid. For Paul, how do you think Steve Weinberger feels having his judging integrity? Questioned when Hall of Fame bodybuilders like Kevin Livroni claimed Joe Weider allowed Dorian to win because it was better for the sport commercially. Where was that? I never saw that. Yeah, I didn't see that, though. I've heard stuff like that. Flex actually made a claim like that on my podcast when I did a podcast with him. Why? I will say this. Listen, I think, and I don't know this for a fact, I'm just speaking from certain things I've heard. I think when the weeders kind of ran things, weeder athletes got preferential treatment. But they also were the best athletes in the world. So it wasn't like, you know what I mean? So it wasn't like they were beating guys that were way better than them. They were the best. They just happened to be weeder athletes. Right. Yeah. So it's kind of like it's tough to say it was politics. Look at all those muscle deck athletes. All those guys on top of the charts. Like who is better than Kevin LaVroni, Flex Wheeler, Chris Cormier? Like these were all weeder athletes. At that time, there wasn't really any better athletes. I was a weeder athlete, by the way. Were you? I was also a weeder athlete. I was. Oh, you were Flex, yeah. I was a Flex magazine. Yeah, me too. Yeah, I had a Flex contractor. Yeah. Paul, the man that can do anything. Can you do one? No, I already asked that. Why is it come around like that? Thoughts on Patrick Moore's package on Detroit? I thought Patrick looked big. I was actually really impressed with his size. Yeah, I thought he looked good. I think the conditioning in the lower body just needs to come down a little more. But I think for a show of the season, I thought there was like some good promise in his package this year. I think it has improved in some ways. His size looked good, but conditioning is very controllable. I think a couple more weeks, he could get that down and he could do good. I'm honestly shocked at how big he was. Yeah, me too. He was wide shoulder to shoulder. His back was good. Side poses looked really good. Waistline looked nice. I mean, yeah. And the conditioning was really just from the waist down. The waist up, it wasn't too bad, you know? Yeah. Agreed. Epic song choice. For what? Name a song that's an epic song choice for you. My Life Eminem. I was going to say Hail to the King. I'm just trying to look up who it is. Avenged Sevenfold. Yeah. Hail to the King's good. Or Shepherds of Fire. Shepherds of Fire. What's that one? That's Avenged Sevenfold as well. Avenged Sevenfold. I got to check it out. Live, Slip, Not, Wait, and Believe. Great song. Even better. Is Paul on dating apps? No. No, not. Grinder. You're on eHarmony, you loser. eHarmony. I don't do that. AOL chatroom dating. I remember when I was a kid, I had an AOL, because my dad had dial-up internet where we lived in the country. Right. So, like, I couldn't have high-speed internet. It didn't exist out there yet. So, I had, like, an AOL dial-up, you know, and the AOL back then had, like, chat rooms. So, when I was a kid, I would, like, go on these AOL chat rooms. And, you know, that's, like, back when people would be typing, like, ASL, you know, like, age, sex, location. It would be, like, you'd be talking. And I gave this one girl I talked to a lot. I gave her my home phone number. And I remember she called my house one time. And my mom sees this number. And she was calling from Oregon. And my mom, like, freaked out, was like, what the fuck are you giving people on a fucking chat room? You're like, you don't know who the fuck these people are. You know what I mean? You're fucking, like, 13-year-old boy. Was this a girl? It was a girl on the other side. But, like, who knows who this really was? I think it was actually. It was an adult male. Yeah. I think it was actually who it was claiming to be. But, like, when you think of it now, it was like, what are you doing? Like, giving, you know, this is back. They could have easily found my home address off my phone number back in these days. Like, shit's in the goddamn phone book, you know? Like, so, yeah, it was pretty dumb. My mom taught me a lesson off of that one. I remember that. Top five bodybuilders to have your back in a bar fight. William Bonak. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. I'll take Andrew Jack. Yeah. That's pretty impressive. Yeah. Just for fucking, like, mog status, you know? Just do this. Just hammer like this. Right. Yeah. I think I would take, like, what, current competitors? Yeah. Retired, too. Either one. I think I'd take, like, a branch, and I think, like, a Nathan DeAsha would fucking. Oh, yeah. Nathan's good. Nathan's rowdy, for sure. He's a good pick. If Paul could dunk and wrap afterwards, would he eat a toenail sandwich with soup? One. One. If it gave me the gift of dunk and wrap for life. One of each of ours. One toenail sandwich with a bowl of shitty soup. For the ability to dunk and wrap for life. And you can dunk and wrap one song. No. No. I could dunk once and that's it? No. Okay. You could do any dunk you want. But for the rest of my life? Do I have this ability? Or do I just get it one time? You can dunk for the rest of your life, but you can only wrap once. Okay. I'll take that because I'll make that wrap into a golden platinum hit. All right. Eminem. Relax. And I'll be just dunking anywhere. I get anywhere. I have proof that I was sick, by the way. Give a doctor's note. Yeah. Besides prescriptions. He's got his COVID test. No. I have the number one thing. I can't stand more than anything. I just thought of this. Soup. I fucking hate soup, dude. Do you? Why do you hate soup? It's an Italian thing. Shit. It's so weird. Soup with sickness makes no sense, but it's a thing. I know. I think it's a thing. Yeah, it does. My mom makes minestrone soup Italian. It's good to have liquids when you're sick. I know, but that's why I bought them. But I fucking hate. Drink water, bro. It's the electrolytes. Because of the sodium and shit. The salt and the chicken broth is good for you. It's just water. Just drink water. That's why I don't eat soup. Shut up, man. Use electrolytes. Don't go yet. What? Don't go to the bathroom yet? Don't go to the bathroom yet. Aside from sponsored supplements, what are the pre-workout subs the pros use? Just the fucking pre-workout. What's the pre-workout? insulin. Cialis. Yeah. Yeah, some people use Cialis. Yep. What would help? Amidrol. Nolitol. Halo. Liquid D-ball. Suspension. Suspension. Is it possible to have a GoFundMe donation for the Detroit Pro to increase the prize money? I would have thrown in $100. I bet it would be $100,000 next year. Easy. I thought about doing that, but I feel like it's kind of cheese dick. You could do it for the king of Detroit. I thought about doing a GoFundMe and just all the money from the GoFundMe would go right to prize money. You kind of badass, to be honest. Call it the People's Award. Because we call it the People Show, right? So it's like, if you just did a GoFundMe, it's called the People Show. Or should that money go to the Detroit, king of Detroit? No. No, no, no. No, I don't think it should. And I think this is a good way to promote it, too. Because you can start this a while out, and you can show it ticking up to incentivize. Like, hey, the prize money now is at $37,000, $42,000, $45,000. You can show it live ticking up as it gets to the show. That might actually push more guys to do the show. That's what I'm saying. I just wanted to do it this year. I actually had it set up. I just felt like it was kind of ghetto. Like, I don't want my show to be ghetto. That's sick. Do it. You think so? I am not a GoFundMe, like, give me money. I think it's fucking super, super gay in 98% of cases. So do I. In this case, I don't think it is. Because it's your choice. It's the fans can decide. If they want to contribute to the champion winning more money, do it. If not, it's cool, too. There's still money. I think that kind of GoFundMe is different than, like, the bodybuilder that tears his peck. And he's like, I don't have insurance. I think you still need to, like, you can't have it that you guys now give less because of it. No, no. We'll still give her $25. You still give your $25, but then this is on top. So I think as long as you still have skin in the game, you know, I think that it's completely fair. I think GoFundMes are for, like, the kid who, like, lost his family in a fire, not for some, like, loser, low-class bodybuilder that doesn't have insurance. That pisses me off. The way I had it set up this year, because I didn't have it set up. I had it on Give, Send, Go. Yeah. And I had it set up that we would still do the $25,000, but every single dollar that came after that, we would just divide it amongst the classes. Yeah. But then I was like, I don't know. I feel like it's kind of ghetto. I don't want to do this. And I left it alone. But maybe if everybody agrees it's cool, then fuck it. We'll just do people's... People in the comment section. Yeah. Comment section, let us know. Why don't you take a poll? Yeah, we'll do it. Do it in the comment section. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, maybe we should start it now. Do it all year long. Yeah. That'd be great. Do it all year long. And then we'll fucking... You have a quarter million in there by next year. Fuck, that'd be wild. Dude, imagine we get to $100,000. Yeah. That'd be crazy. Seriously, all of a sudden we're a $100,000 show? Yeah. I'll only charge... Give it all to the winner? How many shows... Give it all to the winner? Or would you just split it among the top three? All can... All can tribute $500. I want it to be... I want our show to be a $100,000 show for the winner. So we'll get there eventually. But whatever we get, like let's say we get $50,000. We'll just split it the way we normally split it amongst... Yeah, your normal split just increases all kind of. Yeah, same ratio for a second. Among both classes, open and classic? Yeah, yeah, yeah. We don't want to like just... Yeah, here's $100,000 for open. Classic still gets $15,000. I don't know. That's going to make more promoters do the same thing? Dude... Well, listen... I don't think they can do it the same as us though. As you can. After we started the black backdrop, I noticed a bunch of promoters switch over to darker backdrops. You know, with better lighting. So I think things do... Yeah, but I also think it's different. Like when you're talking about something like this, like crowdfunding, your pull for something like this is much different than the average show promoter. Yeah. You have the podcast. You have a platform. You have social media. It's that you're engaged a lot more closely with your fans than the average promoter is. Yeah. So I think like the average part of they do it, it's... You might get some, but it's not going to be a game changer for you. Where for you and your platform, it can obviously have a huge impact for that person, you know? Yeah. Can you imagine... Fuck, Paul. Can you imagine if we could give somebody $100,000? Oh, I know. That'd be crazy, man. It's just like fun, too, because as the fans, we all want to see it get big because we want to see that. You know what I mean? Well, it's already become known as the people show. Yeah, exactly. If it gets that big, you and me can charge a guest fee to show up. Oh, dude, if your purse gets to $100,000, I'm competing, you know? Well, you're supposed to next year anyway. Yeah. Well, I didn't say next year. I just said if I compete, I will do your show. Okay. Me too. We'll wait for that. All right. You know what? Let's end on that. Anybody watching, please comment in the comment section what you guys think about a GoFundMe. Strictly for prize money, none of it will go in me and Paul or Ben's pocket, and none of it will go to pay for anything else. We will also still contribute the same money we contributed this year, but anything that comes into GoFundMe will just increase all of the prize. Goes right to the athletes. So just comment below what you guys think of that. So if you want to support bodybuilding. Or if you want to support me and Paul and Ben, and you want to support Detroit because we care. We're doing, listen, like I said, we don't make any money at this show. I told a little story on the news channel. I said, Bill Sebelia, the head judge, came to me and said, you know, if you guys have it at this date, you guys will have more amateur competitors and you make more money. And I said, even if we make more money, we're just going to increase prize money. So we're always going to make no money. You're always going to make the same. So anyways, anybody interested in that idea, comment below, let us know. And with that, Paul, say a prayer so we can get out of here. All right. Let us pray. Let us bow our heads. Tonight we give thanks for the success of the Detroit Pro and all the many fans and athletes who came out to support. Ian for taking his shirt off and wowing the fans with his newfound gains and his chisel physique. Unfortunately, Guy had COVID, so he couldn't be there. We hope that guy's recovering well from his battle with the coronavirus. He had a doctor's note. He had a doctor's note, so we know it was true. And he's got some prescriptions, so he's got some weird welts on his body, too. So that's not perfect. Paul, about a recap of the podcast. Sorry, Lord. So may we all go in peace and love with love in our hearts and go. Amen. Amen. Amen. Good night, guys. See you guys. See you guys.