 2-tetete,adeshadeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte,adeshte, So if you pick up the foundation pre-workout now, you will get a signed foundation. Now, if you get a signed foundation, you will also get with it automatically. You'll win a free prize pack that has a hostility, a bloodshot, some lifting straps, a hoodie, a belt, and I think a shaker cup. So it's around a $200 value. So get to Hostile.com right now. Pick up our new foundation. I'm going to show you really quickly where it is, what it looks like, and how awesome the labels are. This is the new foundation. We have three different flavors. If you click on it, it'll take you to the page. We have Berry Blast, Jelly Bean Rush, and Tangy Blood Orange. And you're going to get 30 servings for $30. If you get to Hostile.com right now, you can pick it up, and hopefully you get the signed one and be the winner. Thank you guys for the support. What's going on, boys? How are you? What's up? Another week, another bro chat. Yep. Ian, I need your help. Did you buy that motorcycle yesterday? Nope. I'm going to more to look. Are you going to buy it? Maybe. Yep. Probably not. I'm pretty indecisive. What is it? M1000RR? Is that what it is? Yeah. I mean, I looked at that. I looked at the ZH2. And then there's still that black Busa that I looked at before that is still. It's got to be the Busa, dude. You're too big. You're too big for the others. Yeah, you're probably right. I don't even know anything about bikes. And Busa just sounds cooler. It is cooler. Wow. Got that black, riding that black Busa around playing. Yeah. It's literally the, like, almost the blackest bike you can buy. This is what, this is what Ian's getting. It's like. That's probably the one. Yeah. It's like what Lawrence Fishburne drives in Biker Boys. Yeah. It's like the most obscure reference I could ever think of. Lawrence Fishburne. That's, there it is. That's a stock version of it. That's what it looks like. It would look just like that. That's a Gen 3. Yeah. That's nice, dude. I love that bike. Yeah. I think they're sick. You change those, obviously, those big fucking behemoth stock exhausts, obviously. Yeah. Yeah. I'd maybe put a little stretch on it or something, but either way, they're fucking dope. I always felt like it needed a little stretch. Not this gen. No, just a little bit. But the new gen's not quite as bad looking as some of the old ones. The original gen, like this, I hate that this is gross. Yeah. Yeah. Like it's tough. Now we know that a Busa is also a fish next to Google. Yeah. It's a bird, actually. It's a, I guess what they named the bike after is like some kind of falcon, right? Dude, look at this one. This is what, yeah, it is. It's a falcon. So this is what you need. You need to drop the front end. You stretch the back end and black everything out. And you gotta, and you gotta. The one, the one I looked at is fully blacked out already. You should have bought the one I sent you. The one that was like all finished out fucking for 17 grand. Yeah. But you know, some, like some dude fucking beat the piss out of that bike. Like, you know, I want to be the one to beat out of it. Like. I want to beat, I want to beat the shit out of my bike. Yeah. Why is April? April's like a dead spot in bodybuilding. Even though there's FIBO and there's the Arnold Brazil. Yeah. I mean, there's not much like, there's not a whole lot looking like there's going on those lineups though right now. Is there? Why? Well, Raphael, I think is doing the Arnold Brazil. He did a guest. He did a guest posing recently. He looked pretty good. He did on stage. He looked pretty good, but he didn't look great for like. I don't want to speak badly, but he just, he didn't look great for two weeks out. Is it two weeks? Well, cause South Arnold, Arnold South America is like two weeks from now, I think. So. Yeah. I mean, he only had so much time between the Arnold Columbus and this. I mean, we can only expect so much improvement, but I mean, there's still a good couple of weeks there. So I know he did switch coaches as well. I just saw this pop up. This is not with Neil anymore. Right. He's working with a Brazilian guy. This is a mirror. Amir just posted this. I saw that. Yeah. Fucking crazy. He's probably doing the Arnold Brazil. He's gotta be, he's ready. Like the fuck. Or FIBO. Obviously he's. Oh, FIBO's. Yeah. FIBO's. Fucking European. So it's probably FIBO. Yeah. Yeah. Um, I was kind of trying to. He's literally German, isn't he? So I mean, he's definitely doing FIBO. I was trying to look for, uh, fuck. It's still loading. Where did it go? Where did it go? Where did it go? There it is. This. Just the back, just the backside. It doesn't look like two weeks. I mean, it doesn't, but it's still, uh, it's not far off how he looked in. Columbus with still maybe a little better and some time to go. So we'll see. But yeah, I mean, to really be in super good shape, obviously it's not going to happen for, for Arnold Brazil. He, he clearly needs more time, but to see if it's a significant improvement for the Arnold, I guess we'll see. So there's him. And then I don't really know who else is doing. I think, um, who did I see? Go back to the picture of that Amir guy. Or was the guy we just looked at? What was his name? Yeah, Amir. You guys see how fucking weird it looks that he, what? I'll wait till you get back on this. Amir, Amir-o-magic. Amir-o-magic. When he hits those, when he's hitting that like side chest, his head is still like tucked forward. Yeah. Yeah. Just put your head normal. A lot of guys do that. Let your body rotate. Just keep your head still. Yeah. He tucks it into his shoulder. Same with the tricep on the, there's another shot where he's doing a tricep further down the profile. It's like, he's tilted forward so much. This one, I don't blame him for because I know when you're like your flexibility's off. Yeah. But like when your flexibility's off, you're just kind of go that way. It's like weird. You kind of, you kind of end up over there. He's just fucking peeled as fuck though. Like I, it's so crazy. Like we don't see anybody this shredded. Like it was Roman first and now him. It's crazy. I wish I was so big. I couldn't bed my neck. Be great. It's like, um, but yeah, I don't understand. Ian, what is it? Mike, what is it? Why, why don't guys compete? You know what? I've honestly like, I hate to sound like this fucking guy, but the whole front end of the year has been pretty fucking unenthusiastic with like competitor turnout so far, so far, you know? And it's like, I don't know what people are waiting for. Like, are they, are people just, are all the shows going to be like this all season? Are we all of a sudden going to get like a Tampa pro with 47 guys? Like where the fuck is that? That's what I mean. But that's what I mean though. I think everybody kind of, but I'm saying it's not even April. It's like, when the fuck are these guys playing to compete? I feel like these guys are like way too strategic in the way that they approach doing shows. Yeah. But if you've been properly strategic, you would have gone one fucking Detroit or Arnold Brazil. That's what I mean. Like, but they're like, big purses and no lineups. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Cause I feel like they're all, I feel like they're all waiting for the summer shows and I'm like, okay, but I call that murderers row. You're like, yeah, have fun at Texas with 31 guys that like 19 of them have been to the Olympics. No. Yeah. Now you're Joe Classios. You're like Hunter. You're like fucking Jordan Hutchinson. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like that's not an easy, I don't know why you wouldn't jump into like, if you jumped into like Detroit, then you have FIBO, then you have Arnold South America. There's a whole bunch of chances to like actually do something. Yeah. So it's strange. And then even at the Arnold, you know, it's not really like a big, big turnout. No. So I don't know. I wonder if the Arnold does that on purpose though. I feel like they should have more guys. Yeah. But I'm not trying to say this is an insulting way, but like they had some guys in that lineup that wasn't like they were declining a bunch of big names to let them in. I think that was probably just most of what they got. They let them all in. You know? You think so? Well, I mean, like Anthony, or is it that? Cause he won the Arnold amateur. Do you think guys? No. What did Anthony? What Anthony Williams? What did he win? He won the year before. He won the amateur before. Okay. That's how, so. Yeah. No, I thought that I guess. I thought he won North Americans or something like that. Yeah. I didn't think he won the Arnold amateur, but maybe he did. No, no. I think he won something. He won North Americans or something like that or nationals. I don't think it was the Arnold amateur. Let me see. You know what? We can check for that. The real bodybuilding podcast website. You think it knows? Dude, if you go to the real bodybuilding podcast website, I'll show you. And you go to competition history and you go to Anthony. Well, he won the Arnold amateur. Yeah. Yeah. He did. Let's just confirm it though. Let's just confirm it. We're going to, we're going to find out. Cause this is the, this is the like real, this is that what tells you the real shit. Yeah. I mean, it's like the first pin picture to his profile is him winning it. But Anthony Williams, Arnold classic. Yep. That's right. And now we've confirmed it. Oh no, wait, we have it. That's this year. It doesn't have the amateur shows. This one. Oh yeah. This won't show amateur shows. That's right. It won't show amateur shows yet. Yet. We're going to correct that. Yeah. What's going on guys. We talk about Merrick health all the time because they are the preferred place. I go to for lab work and medical oversight from their experts. But Merrick also has a second arm that's called Merrick diagnostics. If you go to Merrick diagnostics, which we'll take you to right now, they are kind of like a self checkout lab markers. So you can do their comprehensive panels or you can do your own. You can check out any type, anything you want. You can check your testosterone, your HB HBA one C. You can check anything, progesterone, any of these that you see here, you can add to like an Alucard and do your self lab self checkout. You take, you get the requisition, you take it to the place and get your lab work done on your own. That way you don't need, if you don't need any medical oversight, you don't need anybody, you need anybody to read your blood work to you and you want a cheaper option. You can check out Merrick diagnostics and you make your lab work as expensive or inexpensive as you want. This is kind of the best way to check if you want to check your testosterone levels, check if your gear is working, check if you're running too low. This is kind of the best way to do it. If you want to save some money. So Merrick diagnostics.com, check it out now, guys. Thanks for watching. Anyway, what's going on with you, Ian? Anything new? Yeah. Hug a couple of lights today, you know, manly stuff. Just being a man, you know, another day being a man. Does that make you feel like a man? Yeah. Manly. Yeah. For real. Honestly. Yeah. Yeah. Go to the bar connectors, you know, shut off the breakers, you know, man. And, you know, you know, it's crazy. I hung an air compressor in my garage. Wow. That's a big, big guy. That was a big deal, dude. I had to plug it into the ceiling and hug it on a hook. I put it together. I fucking know. No, Ian. Do you know what a pull toggle is? Like to pull start it? What's a pull toggle? See, you don't even fucking know. You're not a man. I don't know. I think you're just making that up. Oh, I'm not. So I think you just learned that today and you're trying to impress. I learned it last week, actually, because I was trying to. I learned it last week. I was trying to hang this fucking air compressor. I mean, I have an air compressor. So if it's something to do with that, I don't know what it is. No, it has nothing to do with the air compressor. It's when if you put a hole in the drywall, if you're hanging something from the drywall, you push it through the drywall and it's got a plate on the back of it. You pull it and it hooks to the drywall so that you can hang something without it like breaking. Oh, I mean, I use anchors when I call them. Yeah, they're like an anchor, but it's called a pull toggle. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So I use anchors all the time. But they're like, they're never heard of that. But the wing nut ones only are rated up to like 10 or 20 pounds. Yeah. I got metal ones that I hung. Yeah. Some blinds and some lights that were 50 pound weighted. Yeah. These are 200 pound weighted. Okay. So yeah, that's. So I could hang the air compressor from it. Yeah. Yeah. So I put in a couple of pull toggles, fucking hung that air. I was like, I fucking. Nice. I call my wife out. I'm like, look. And you got like a long spool that comes down so you can air compress stuff or what? Yeah. So I could fucking like, I got a, I got an air wrench now and I got a. Oh yeah. Yeah. Air ratchet. I don't even know what the shit's called. I called my wife outside. I'm like, look what I did. She goes, what'd you do? I go, I hung the fucking air compressor on the wall. She's like, cool. Fuck off. She shut the door. I went back inside. So you should be like. Yeah. Check this out, babe. Yeah. It's crazy though, man. Cause I don't, I don't do anything and now I'm trying to learn how to do it. So anytime, anytime I do anything, I'm like, feels pretty good, man. Look at me. I'm lucky. Like I, my dad taught me a lot of shit when I was young. And obviously the more like I've owned a home and like the more I've got like in the groove, like when I first moved out or had my own place, you know, I'd have them over to like help me with a lot of stuff. And like learn. And then I just kind of teach Melissa stuff now. So like even Melissa now, she could easily fucking change lights or change switches, like basic electrical stuff. You know, she can do all that herself. No problem. Like if she could hold the light and mount it by herself, like usually just need a second set of hands to hold it while you do it. But she's, she's getting pretty capable. The only thing she can't do is fucking page. She just paints all over the fucking carpet and shit, but anything else she's pretty good at. Yeah. You know what? Samson said it to me best. Cause I said to Sam something about this. He's like, he asked me when, cause Samson does all that shit around his house by himself. Yeah. And I said, I don't do any of this shit, man. I don't know how he goes. Nobody fucking knows how he goes. You got to do it and fuck it up a few times, a few times. And then you learn. So I'm like, Oh dude, I've, I've done shit where like I've gone to, you know, install something and fucking drilled one hole. My wall was the fucking wrong size. Just some of fucking patching it up. I don't know how to mud walls yet. So I'm fucking mudding these holes. I'm sanding it. I fucked that up 15 times. Like I used to do that shit all the time for sure. But I also do think like, you know, like I said, I was lucky that my dad was very adamant of like, you're a man. You got to know this shit. Yeah. Like not actually that like strict, but like he just knows how to, my dad is like one of those guys that knows how to do everything. So he really wants to like, you know, teach that. And he thinks those are very important skills to have just as a person, not as a man. But, but yeah, no, it's, it's cool to see that Melissa, like she gets pretty excited to like learn some of that stuff. And then she likes to take initiative. She's like, Oh, I know how to do this now. I'll do it. I don't need to ask Ian to do it. You know, my dad was a blue collar guy that knew how to do all that shit, but he couldn't be bothered to force us to do it. So he'd be like, do you want to do this? And I'd be like, no, he'd be like, get the fuck out of here. And he wouldn't, he wouldn't like force me to learn it. Yeah. A lot of mine was like, like kind of seed in the back of my mind that took some like practical trial as an adult. Cause I like, as a lot of it as a kid, you like your dad saying like, Hey, come watch this. And you know, you can learn, pay attention. I don't, I don't want to fuck. I want to go inside and play fucking video games and fucking jerk off. You know, like I'm not actually paying attention, but like it was, I heard it enough over the years that like I knew it, but like I hadn't practiced it or really paid attention. So, you know, a lot of stuff like, you know, but like you could, you could you change oil on like your bike for say, I changed oil on my Kawasaki. Yeah. So, I mean like, you know how to do shit like that. I love, but I love car shit. Like I took, yeah, like on that, like you would know how to do that or change your tires or change your fucking oil or, you know, service your bike in any ways that you would need. Like, yeah, a lot of that was just like shit. I heard at the back, but like didn't really pay attention because I didn't actually want to be there. But yeah, I took auto shop for five years in high school. Okay. Well, that's fine. So I like, I, I like do, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not proficient or anything, but I'll sit there and fuck around on my bikes for hours happily. Yeah. You know what I mean? But doing stuff around the house, I'm like, ah, fuck. Let's call, let's call somebody to do it. Chick shit. Yeah. Chick shit. Chick shit. The only, the only thing I don't do is paint. Like I could not, I like, I'll do little touch up stuff. Like, you know, if I need to like repair a hole in the wall or fucking, you know, there's a scratch. I can do that and I'm good at it. But like paint, like we just had our bedroom painted. I'll send it to you. Actually, if I don't know if you can show it on here, what I, we did with this fucking thing. It looks crazy. Where should I send it? Send it to my phone. Text it. Yeah. Or send it, DM me. If you want me to pull it up. I just texted it. Oh, it's easier if you just DM it. DM it to me. Yeah. Oh, I gotta, I gotta actually upload this real quick. What was I gonna say? Mike, do you do any of this shit? No. Just flat out. No. I get really irritated if I get asked to help too. I'm like, fuck. Does Kat do all, everything? Oh yeah. She hung the fan. She hung the ceiling fan in this room. I refuse to help her. I'm like, we better call somebody. She's like, I can do it. I was like, yeah, right. Yeah. Summer's like that too. She'll fucking do everything. And I'm like you. I get fucking irritated. I'm like, I don't fucking make me do this right now. Please. I should come home with like some massive thing. Can you help me carry this up three flights of stairs? I'm like, what the fuck? Like, first of all, where'd you buy this? It's like, looks like it's fucking from some shipwrecked fucking pirate ship. We have some thrifting store. I'm like, God damn it, dude. The whole time I'm carrying it, I'm like, this is the last time I'm fucking ever doing this. Like, get someone else to come over and do it. We should actually add our guest here. We have our guest waiting. Oh, but this is going to go for a while. What do you mean? WNBA. I thought it was when I first saw it. Windenbalm. BLM? Put him through the gauntlet. Black Lives Matter? Is that Mike? What the fuck? Mike. I hate you. What's up? What's up, man? How are you? Mike, this is Ian. I literally thought I was just talking to you. Now I got the whole group. Holy shit. Ian at the gallery. Get the gallery image. That's badass, man. Do you got all of us or just one of us? I got all of us. Okay. I got Mike, actually, in the front. Now that you're not a year, it goes to you. You can change the gallery. Yeah, you can swipe so you can see all of us, not just whoever's talking. Are you on your phone or are you on a computer? I'm on a fucking laptop. In the top right corner, there should be a little gray. Next to the sign, I didn't think. If you click on it, you can click it to gallery. I got to put my Paul glasses on. Top right corner. Yeah, click gallery. Oh, yeah. There we go. Wait. There's only four. Is Paul on there? No, no. He does not hear it. He's got it. All right. How are you, man? Fucking good. How are we doing? This is awesome. Everybody, this is Mike. Mike's wife reached out to me. Without me knowing. Without him knowing. And said Mike was the man. And you're a fan. And you're a massive bodybuilder. So I said... I'm not a massive bodybuilder. I said, let's have... I was 13. You're massive. Don't worry. How old are you right now? 55. You look good, man, for 55. You're still carrying a lot of mass. Looks way better than Paul. That's for sure. 5'10", 265. Oh. No way. Really? Yeah. Do you ever compete? No. I never thought I was big enough. Biggest I ever got was 296. That's big enough. That's big enough. The body doesn't work be a thing, but you guys know. Oh, yeah. Of course. I never think I'm big enough, ever. Yeah, but you had it way worse if you thought you were big enough at 300 pounds. Yeah. Yeah, that was my power. I started power this thing at like 40, 42 years old. Okay. So good time to pick it up. A little late to start. I've been strong my whole life, like Ian and Chet, and that's 500 every year since I was like 20 until last year. Notice how he just said me, by the way. Well, I know you're crazy. Fucking pussies. I think Mike might have actually been stronger than me, but not anymore. That's for sure. Yeah, that's what happened now. Now I got to get reconstructed surgery on my shoulders. Oh, yeah. So you've been bodybuilding since you were 14. You were powerlifting at 40. Yeah. You never thought you were big enough. Did you compete at all or never? No, never. I mean, people used to always try to get me to, you know, 296, 510. You know, not, I never got like lean, lean, but I was always, you know, abs, striations in the shoulders, vascular kind of shit, but never, you know, competitionally, never like 8%, 6%, 5%. Did you have friends that competed or no? Yeah. Yeah, I got to put local guys. And you've been to all the shows and everything. You never thought you'd do. It's just, I went to, we had a few shows here in Syracuse and I remember, what the hell was his name, came, and I was so intimidated by just seeing him in person. I don't know. I just, it's an awe when you guys get on stage and go through the whole, you know, losing the weight and suffering through. Like, I've suffered to gain weight and be huge and force-fed and bloated and, you know, where you feel like you got to shit every five seconds, but, you know, 10,000 calories and all that, but for no reason at all, just to be a fucking bro and huge and walk around and be big. That's all right. You guys, this is a question for everybody and I think I know most of your answers, but did you find prep like eating no food harder or eating lots of food? For you, that's probably eating less food is harder. Mentally. I always tell everybody both suck really bad, but I hate starving. Yeah. I hate starving, but there's, we've talked about this, the only comfortable periods in bodybuilding are from 10 to four weeks out and the six weeks after the show. Yeah. Those are the best looks too. Yeah, they are the best though. You're right. You're right. They're the best. It's funny, funny how that works. You want to walk around 10 weeks out all the time looking, you know, jacked and not completely starving. Yeah. So how, how bodybuilding proficient are you? Um, I don't know. Pretty good. Like, do you know, do you follow all the competitions? You know, all the guys, you like, you know, the history, like listening to you guys every day, doing your predictions and everything. I'm pretty good on that. I mean, I'm a Nick fan. I'm a little, I'm not politically correct like you guys were. I don't know. I can say things. I think Nick should have won. That's okay. A lot of, you know, a lot of people think that you're talking about, you know, the whole mass, I guess to me, my big thing is, is it's open. So I don't know if Ian said this too, like you gotta be a freaking open, open, open was the freaks, Ronnie Coleman's, you know, all the huge guys. It's supposed to be like a circus show. They're huge masks, massive muscle. We started the, uh, you know, classic and physique and all these things. These other ones basically to satisfy the people that want that, you know, prettier look, you know? So the open should just be the guy that's got the most muscle and the hardest look. You make it, you make a good point, but I have a question for you, Mike. I like, I like this cause you're a fan and you watch, you've been watching bodybuilding forever. So you kind of get that perspective on the other side, right? From your, from your perspective, it's saying what you're saying. I remember, I remember in the early two thousands, when mass was reigned supreme. Yeah. Everybody complained that the guys were too big and too sloppy and it didn't look good. And they all had bubble guts and that was my era. And, uh, so that's why we kind of got to where we are now. What was it? They were too big. Like, it seems like they just focused on the gut. It's the gut. Like for Nick losing, it was his in between poses. It wasn't, you know, I do think the stomachs were an issue. Yeah. I think the stomachs were an issue in the early two thousands for sure. And I think they corrected that, but I think with Nick, like it's not like it was, he's not an early two thousands. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's not what I'm saying. No, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. That's not what I'm implying. What I'm, what I'm implying is not that Nick was there. What I'm implying is Mike is saying that we should let mass reign supreme because it's open and we have classic for shape. Mass with conditioning though. And that's what Nick has. He has both. Right, right. But he just doesn't have the pretty look. But the guys in the early two thousands had conditioning as well. What I'm saying, what I'm saying is, is when mass reigns supreme, what happens is you go down this road where eventually you do start getting the bubble guts and you do start getting the blown out wastes. Right. So there, I think they're not trying to go back to that. So what I'm asking you, Mike, is if it went back to that, would you be okay with it? Absolutely. You do. You just, you're like mass all over all else. Mass. Just the largest. Yeah. I can do the biggest legs, the biggest shots, the biggest arms. It's gotta be conditioned. Like you guys have brought up before, like Marcus rule was gigantic. I mean, he was a little disproportionate with his legs, with his upper body, but he never came in as hard. And, you know, like Ronnie, he was the king because he was not only mad, but his conditioning was insane. But I'll give you an example. Like if we went back to, back to this, right? Like if you look at one of the prime examples, we can't, can it be like, would be like Dave Palumbo, right? He's absolutely humongous. Yep. But doesn't have the greatest shape. Is that okay? But he, yeah. Right. Like, look, look, this is what, this is what we're talking about. It's like, guys are just going to get bigger and bigger and bigger until. Yeah. I mean, I think, I think you can still allow guys to get bigger, but still penalize the midsections. And that's what creates something like a neck, you know? Right. So I think, I think it can be both. If you judge it properly, you know, I think if, yeah, if you penalize still for when stomachs are out of control, but you need to find a middle ground where, you know, if Nick's just letting it go in a little bit of transitions, it's not deducted. So, well, I mean, it's not deducted that harshly. Cause I think Nick still came second to the fucking Arnold. Hang on. Let me ask you. Do you think he lost the show? Basically? That's what everybody's saying is because of his transitions, not because of his, his look, him from the back. We know he won most poses. So it was basically, I mean, every time I hear anybody, not just you guys, but talk about why he lost. It was the transition. You know, but let me ask you this. It's not like he lost to a little guy. Like Andrew's, you know what I mean? Yeah. So, so if we're going to, if we're saying mass reigns supreme, well, yeah, Andrew's got the same amount of muscle, but better shape. So it's like, how do you not say about a muscle, but he's, but you know what I'm saying? It's very heavily muscled. So I guess we'll see when Samson comes in, in the show. I guess what I'm saying is like 150 pounds and he's pretty much a perfect physique. So I guess what I'm saying is like, it's not like he lost to a small guy is what I'm saying. You know what I mean? So it's not like the mass didn't matter. It's just that he went up against another guy that had a lot of mass as well. Yeah. So it seemed like that Andrew wasn't as in shape. His conditioning wasn't as good. Definitely. Oh, so we had his, his pretty shape. Yeah. And then we had Nick's got in between poses. Right. Which I think, I think, I think where it came down to Mike was it, since you're playing with levels, right? So you have like, you have like, let's say you have the box for mass and Nick's is a hundred percent. Yeah. And Andrew's is 90. Then you have the box for shape and Andrew's is a hundred percent. Isn't it? Is Nick's 90 or is it 80? Is it 80? You know what I mean? Yeah. And then you have the, and then you have the box for conditioning and Nick's is a hundred. Yeah. I guess that's just where then you weigh each box. If you're weighing them all evenly, 33% or like, no, the mass box, the conditioning box are weighed, you know, 40, 40, and then it's 20 on the shape. It depends kind of how you're. What I'm saying is I think the shape box is, is what made the difference. Yes. Where, where, where the argument here would be that it should be switched, that the shape box is less proportionate to the size box. No, no, no, no. I don't mean that Nick could take over. No, I don't mean that. I mean, let's say all three boxes are equally weighed. Yeah. What I'm saying is if they, then I could see Andrew winning. What I'm saying is if they traded places. Yeah. On the conditioning and the shape or sorry, the conditioning and the muscularity. Yeah. The shape box isn't a wash because it's like, it's a, it's a 10, seven. It's not a, it's not a 10, nine. You see what I'm trying to say? Yeah. Yeah. So I think that, I think if you, I don't know, I, I know they say it's transitions, but I don't think it was just that. I think it was kind of, they were weighing all three categories and that's where they kind of went. Right. Look at this fucking guy. I guess we got another Paul. Actually, that's Mike, but he looks like Paul. A little bit. I can put my cheaters on. There you go. Hey, I like this. You got a growing beard. I love a beard now. Paul. Yeah. I just shaved it. Mike is a fan of the podcast. You wanted to. Huge fan. Huge fan. You guys have a great podcast. Everything's great. It's all positive. You don't bash people like all the other ones. They don't drone. You guys don't drone on, you know, and just fill stuff with empty chatter. It's, it's really funny. And then the bro chat. Only me sometimes. Yeah. Well, you ramble, but you normally ramble about funny shit or good shit. We'll just, we'll cut 40 minutes of that later. You know, you were appropriate. You were appropriate attire too. I see. Yeah. I got my, I hate people in my pedophile hunter. I figured Mike, Mike would like that, you know, Mike said, if you're right, I love people. That's a real people person. Oh God. So Mike, what do you, what do you, what do you do? Well, I work for utility company here in New York, Syracuse. And, uh, I'm just started doing, uh, coaching. It's just actually in the middle of making my company for Garofalo performance for like lifestyle coaching. If I've coached a lot of people, as far as I've been, I've had a strong bench, I've been 500. Like I said, I've always been a lot, really strong guys, squad at eight 65, all that crap. And, uh, so I've gotten people really strong. People wanted to bench over 400, all my friends, I give tons of advice and stuff on juice and, I don't know, drugs, lifting everything. And it's done for free. Can you, uh, can you help Paul? Cause Paul wants it. I need some money, a lot of help. We have a bench routine. It's like nine weeks. You'll gain, and off juice, you gain like 40 pounds. Well, I like to take juice and bench is not a strong exercise for me due to a severe shoulder. Juice kind of screws it up because it's a progression. So like halfway through when the juice kicks in, the numbers get all skewed because it goes by a percentage of your max. So then all of a sudden it's the, the percentages are way off, you know? Yeah. Well, I like to get up to like three 25, maybe. What? I'm just joking. Yeah. Nowadays, I probably would be a little. Do you think you can bench three plates on a barbell pole right now? Right now? Um, I would hope so. Two goes up very easily, but, um, but I haven't tried anything above like two 75 in years ever since my shoulder started getting really bad. I think if Paul tomorrow, just load it up and give a rip. Yeah, exactly. What will, what will happen is, uh, literally, yeah, literally exactly what'll happen. I think if Paul dedicated, like dedicated, like this was the only thing he was focused on, he could do three plates. Oh yeah, for sure. Yeah. Well, don't say for sure, dude. I wasn't, Hey, I was, I'm like giving you a little bit of a compliment, but it's not, it's not for sure. It's like 75%. I feel like you could do that. Like when we trained in Saskatchewan one time and we were doing close grip bench. Yeah. You were doing two plates on there for like sets of like 10, 12, whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Two, two, pretty easy. Are we talking about one rep? Yeah. If one rep, you can do three, probably now for sure. Yeah. I would hope I could. Yeah. But wait a minute. You guys trained like a year ago. Yeah. Yeah. He's lost a lot of strength since then. If anything, I've gotten stronger in a lower body. Well, we're talking about bench press balls. So I don't care how much you squat. It equates overall body strength. A little leg drive, you know, Mike, you said you squatted eight 65. Yeah. My twenties had a regular bar walked out. Wow. Do you got any, do you have an Instagram? What's your Instagram? Oh, we don't want to go look at my Instagram. What's your Instagram? You got, it's me, Mike Garofalo. I know. How do I spell it? G A R O F as in Frank. A L O. How old are you, Mike? 55. 55, eh? Yeah. Huh? One second. I'm going to show up. Way bigger than you, Paul. Way better shape. How much do you weigh? 365. Hey, am I, am I, am I spelling this right? Oh, I got to put my glasses on. You know, G G A R O F A L O. Yeah. Yeah. Is it Mike in the beginning? Hang on. Spell it a go. Yeah. Isn't it? Is it? Oh, there it is. Underscore. Mike underscore. Yeah. That's one of them. Look at this fucking beast. Easy now. Is this you? Paul, you got up the dose, homie. Yeah, man. Is this recent? You definitely got up the dose. You got to run. You got to roll your growth up to like eight and then come back. Oh yeah. I got to go back on growth. If you're going to like a public event or something, you always got to roll it up. Dude, that's fucking strong as fuck, man. Good for you. That was at about 45. I don't know how long ago. Five, 10 years ago. That's fucking awesome, man. A 45 deadlifting fucking 700 pounds. The thing is, I do my quad tendon in the right leg. So that was the problem. I used to, when I squatted a lot, but I recently, I can only do seven. Look at this shit. You're right too. I got three bikes. That's the, that's the pro street, that's the pro street, 2016 pro street breakout. That's my wife's Indian that we put a big fat tire kit on. Nice. And that's my buddy's a fat boy. I like it. I'm a little disappointed though. Why are you disappointed? You don't, you don't follow me. We'll get all the political shit. We got all the angry political shit in there. We don't look like that. That's all right. We like that. We like that stuff too. It's all right. Well, I got three bikes. I got two, two of the baggers too. I got two. I just got one dyno. I got a one 43 and a 22 road glide. No way. Just got my sheets hit 198 horse and 195. Good for you, man. Fucking crazy. And then my other one's got the one 35 crate motor in it. Oh, nice. How's that? That's actually, honestly, I think that's the best motor. It's about 130 to 40 horse. You can beat the hell out of it. Harley did the screaming Eagle kit on it. So I didn't send it away to anybody else to get it done. So it's got all the EPA shit on it. So you can literally just beat the fuck out of it. It's not going to blow up because it's not lean. It's not, doesn't get hot. That's the one we take for, you know, two up and rides, longer rides. But the camper on the back, that fucking big suitcase fucking thing. Good for you, man. So you fucking ride your strongest fuck. You fit right in. You might just come on every week. I'm telling you what the people around me here, there's not a lot of people like, well, you guys know now the new generation. It's awesome that all these kids are lifting weights. I think it's amazing, but Holy fuck. Elaborate. What do you mean? I don't need to elaborate Mike. You know exactly. No, no, no. We want to hear someone else say it. Go ahead. And the shit you guys talk about, like the, the respect, like when I grew up when I was 13 years old, I lifted them, you know, hardcore gyms back then. Everybody was hardcore. There was no puffy gyms, you know, and I would never think of taking off my shirt or, I mean, I, I out benched a lot of guys that were in their thirties and forties. And I still would respect the shit up. You guys have been doing it longer. You know, it's a respect thing, especially at gym. There's gym etiquette. That's just absolutely gone now. You know what I think? You know what I think though, Mike, I think the taking the shirt off in this era is different than the taking shirt off in our era. Yeah. In our era, you took your shirt off. Cause like you were, you had something special to show. Yeah. In this era, you take your shirt off just because it's part of social media. We're like, Hey, I'm going to pose after my workout. It's just part of like, just part of what they do. It's not, I don't think it's the same. There's no modesty. I don't, but I don't think it's the same meaning, Paul. I think, I think, I agree. I agree. But it's, but it's like a modesty thing. Like, you know, I don't know. I don't think it's a modesty thing. I think it's a part of the norm of like, okay, look, when we went to work out, it wasn't for anybody else because there was no social media. We would just go train and we do the shit. Cause we love it. Right. I was one of the chicks. That's for the fucking chicks, dude. Pussy bro. After the first two months, the chicks are gone. But now, but now it's working out as a social thing. Yeah. Yeah. So you go, you put your cool clothes on, you go, you train, you take your pictures afterwards with your shirt off. Like it has nothing to, I don't think it has any to do with modesty or respect. I think it's just part of like this generation's way of working out. Like it's part of the whole thing. Yeah. But doesn't it seem like, like, like even my girls nowadays, like you wouldn't wear shorts that short in my day. Oh yeah. Yeah. Well, let's hear it, Paul. Huh? Let's hear it, Paul. Well, okay. So like, and I don't think a lot of them mean to be slutty. I think it's just that that's just what they wear. Now. There's not as much modesty to the body, you know, like you don't keep it as, as under wraps anymore. Like my day, if a girl wore like booty shorts, if these girls were today, they're like, Oh, look at that slut. Nowadays, it's just, it's just, it's just, that's so true. That's so true. Yeah. I don't think that's true. You don't think so? It says put on your burka. I don't think that. Yeah. No, I don't, I don't think, I think it's cause we can't, you live in Windsor. Is that what it is? Yeah. You're in a fucking small city. There's 10 people at the gym. They got one fucking slut run around and fucking, if you, it is, it is an epidemic in the sense that there is like, it is. The girls are, and I'm in public gyms every day. So it's like, there is girls that are, they can dress how they want to dress. If they feel like they want to dress that way. But it's like, it's also, it's almost become like a, it's almost become like a uniform. Yes. Like, but you wouldn't see that. Michael. Yeah. But that's what I'm saying, Paul is I think that's part of this generation's working out. Like when you see fat chicks, we're in tops. Hold on a minute. Let me, hold on. Let me explain. Let me explain what I mean. Let me explain what I mean. We used to go to the gym. It was strictly like for our physique. People, kids now are going to the gym because it's social. So it's like going to the bar. Yeah. So they're like, so the, like, what, what does the chick wear? What does the chick wear? And she goes to the bar. She wants to wear something revealing. So that's how they look at it. You think? That's how I think they look at it. They validate it with their physiques. I think, I think. You can definitely tell they're not there to lift, to look big or get huge. Working out is a total social thing now. I'm not saying they don't. I'm not saying there isn't people that work out hard and have nice physiques. I'm just saying it's also very social. It's not like it was before. Yeah. I guess that's true. Yeah. So I think you guys are just old in your life. I don't disagree with that. I mean, I'm only five years younger, but you guys are like way past. On the positive side, you got to be happy that there's this many people lifting weights and these kids are lifting. Because if you get this many people lifting weights, you're at least going to be more, you know, in tune with your body and hopefully get a little more manly. And then society should shift at some point here. You know, if you got this many kids lifting weights, you know, even if it is for social media or just to, you know, I don't know, to post something on the internet. How many people do you, how many people do you coach Mike? Right now only about 10. Like 10. I literally just started. Like, the problem is I posted all this stuff and all my friends that I've always helped and other people. I posted that. I started my business and I'm going to do it for money. And I've got, I don't know, 75 people that are messaging me for asking me questions for free. Still. Oh, of course. Yeah. I keep trying to say, well, like, you know, welcome to the club. $300 a month. I can take care of that for you. You know, just go on and sign up, you know, and it's like, oh no, I just, just another question about this or, you know, why are so many people taking a thousand milligrams of mass? I've dug myself in such a hole with that dude. I answer like everyone's shit all day. Yeah. That's the problem. I literally give away like a million dollars worth of free coaching. That's what it is. More after this now. Yeah. I mean, I, it's, I say this is on the podcast all the time. It's already a fucking epidemic, you know? Yeah. But, but Mike, I'll tell you this as, as a business owner. And I think these guys could probably attest to this too, and their own businesses and their own styles of coaching or whatever. I think you always have to give like, kind of like three steps forward, one step back. Like if you give some free information, you get more business than giving, than giving no free information. Yeah. I think there are. You need to get it. You understand what I mean? Like Ian's saying though, the problem with me is, is the people, I mean, I live in a small town, Syracuse, small, but all the people that I've helped and talked to, you know, give juice schedules to and lifting advice and how to get strong and, you know, gotten people, gone and lifted with people and all that. I've done it for free so much. Like if we're out on bike riding, I'll just ramble stuff off for like 20 minutes. I know, but I guess, I guess what I'm saying is like, like, I guess what I'm saying is if like somebody messages you, right? Yeah. Instead of sending them the whole schedule. Yeah. You give them some information and you say, if you want more, I'll coach. That's what I'm doing now. So all I'm saying is like, you can't give zero information, but you can't give all the information. It's gotta be like, yeah, just, just berate them. Like I do. Yeah. You just gotta give them a little cock tease, you know, that's what I gotta do. What are you a fucking idiot? You know, let him touch it. On the tip, a little bit, right in the, right in the pee hole. Tickle it. Yeah. Paul, Mike thinks that, uh, Nick should have won the Arnold. What do you think? Well, there's a lot of people who agree with Mike. Um, I don't, but, um, there's a lot of people who do. There is, there is a lot of people. It depends on what you like, you know, that extreme muscularity versus more shape. I have an interesting question for you guys. So the New York pro and Pittsburgh pro are coming up. I'm going to gloss right over the Arnold Brazil and Feebo, because I don't know who's even competing in those, competing in those shows. Yeah, no, but I, I came across one of my favorite bodybuilders of today. I'm like the president of his fan club. I'm pretty sure. Andrew Perez. No, the whale, the Russian whale. Oh yeah. I'll post random shit on my story and he'll just like, like respond funny emojis to it all the time. He does that to me too. Look at how Paul, this guy, he's fucking huge. Listen to me. He's 346 pounds. What? And look at the condition he's in. Yeah, this is insane, dude. Can you imagine? Nasty man. Can you imagine? Look at this backshot. Where the fuck? Look at that backshot. No, there's another one somewhere. Where did it go? There. Look at this fucking backshot. Yeah. Yeah. Like at 346, he's got lines in his glutes. Yeah. Is he, is he doing one of those two shows? So I asked him, I was just praying he's going to do Pittsburgh. Cause me and Ian are going to be there. And, uh, I said, what are you doing? I'm like, are you doing something? Like, he's like, I'm focused on the Olympia. And I'm like, you're almost ready for a show. Like, what do you mean? And he's like, well, maybe something before. And he put a winky face. I'm like, this guy's got to be doing Pittsburgh. So the question I was going to ask you guys, Mike, I'll throw it to you first. Since you're a guest. Yes. If that guy goes against Tonio, what happens? You're asking me. I'm the guy that likes the massive. I don't think anybody can compete with him. I mean, he's, you know, I mean, the top five guys, but he's gigantic. I mean, it's not only that he's gigantic. He's full everywhere. His back looks insane. His side leg is, is unreal. Like it's, I can't even, the width of his hamstring drop is insane. I, I made a bet with Paul that he would be in the top 10 at the Olympia this year. I think that's 100%. I might be losing that. Are you changing your tune now, Paul? Absolutely. I don't really like that. Okay. Before you, do you know, since you're not changing your tune before we forget, what's the bet again? I think, I think I had to trim my beard a little bit and you had to grow your hair out for just, just trim his beard a little bit. Go to the barber and get it. Look, make it look better. You know, no one clip. I think you should have to have a clean shaven face for three months. Shave your eyebrows during pool season. I'll give it to you. No, I know. I think you get, you have to have a facial hair design of our choosing. Okay. I like that. Yeah. I got to agree to this too. What, uh, like what, what does the wrong handlebars? Just handlebars. No of our choosing. Just cheek hair. No, just, yeah. You just got to take that with what you will. You can't ask any questions. It's a, it's a bet. I'll do it too. That's okay. All right, fine. Okay. There we go. All right. This is, this is Olympia. We're talking about the right. Yeah. All right. We'll forget about this by then. Yeah. You got a lot of time to forget this one. Fans, the fans, the rules will change 20 times. Someone will remind us. Someone will remind us. Yeah. We should, we should think of something way nastier. That's a big, I've been saying that for, I've been saying that for like four months. So fuck you. I work with the public. I work with the public. I know, but you're changing, you're changing your tune now. Cause you see how big he got. I said this like four months ago. Yeah. Well, Hey, I mean, big doesn't always necessarily mean better. Yeah. But he's in the top 10 can beat him. That's what you got to have. Yeah. Well, who was 10th again last year now? Uh, what's his name from, uh, Brazil. Good video. Yeah. I was like Vito Bonac. Those were guys were like, if he can beat some of those guys, I'd be impressed. You know what I mean? Looking at pictures of him standing alone. Yeah. He looks great. He beats Vito for sure. Vito's got, Vito's got world-class legs, but he's not. You beats Vito or Bonac. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Dude, he's 346. I know. He's fucking huge. I know, man. Like he's 346 and he does it. 300 pounds on stage, you know? Yeah. Vito's going to be better too though, right? We haven't seen Vito in a long time. I know Paul, but like, I don't think we really, like we understand how big that guy is. He's standing alone in a photo. Yeah. I know people that have seen him in person are like, dude, it's fucked how big this guy is. But you know, like it seems like we get like these odd, like once in a while, you get these big Russian dudes that come out of nowhere. Yeah. Everyone's blown away by them. And then it never really materializes. That's not true. Remember Alexander Fedorov came out? Yeah. He didn't really do that much. He did. When he first came out, he did really well. He beat Ronnie. Or almost beat Ronnie. Well, they built it up as him versus Ronnie, but no, no, he almost beat Ronnie. Yeah. That was a good show between those two. Yeah. The only, the only reason he faded away is he's got injured. I think he had a lot of injuries. Yeah. Injuries, something like that. Do you remember we competed against him in Orlando? I was there for that. Yeah. I beat him. I was first when I was there. He was pissed that I beat him. Was he second or third there? Third. Yeah. Cause Lockett, Lockett, Lockett, Lockett, Lockett was second. Yeah. But yeah, that's a, but then like Tony, Oh's fucking seventh. That's what I'm saying. Like Mike saying, there's no, Tony was doing something soon, right? What's he competing in Pittsburgh? Pittsburgh. He's put up some stuff. He looks pretty good. Yeah. So I'm like, that's what I mean. Like that's a, but yeah, the size difference is going to be, is going to be stark, but it's going to be how much that Tony, Oh's insertions and shape can. I think is with, with, uh, Sergei is his, his shape. Isn't bad, you know? No, no, not at all. Like the shape is solid. Like how's his stomach. Update, I think it was a backshot. I mean, it's like, he's like perfectly proportioned. That's what I'm saying. Like it's, you got like this perfect physique, but then you got a mass monster. Who's like, there was a front video too. I think he's going to outweigh him by fucking, you know, below this to the left. There was a full, below this to the left. Like, yeah. Yeah. Like that's a really complete physique, man. I don't know. I still think that. How big is he? I'd say he's probably in like the, what? Mid to high two thirties, two 40. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's giving up like 60 pounds. Is there videos of, um, Sergei posing? Or is it just all still, all still photos? Uh, I think there's a video somewhere. Let me see. Sergei. Videos of him lifting and stuff. There's a video of him posing. There you go. Back to Larry wheels. She's good. I mean, Larry wheels looks like a child there. Yeah. And he's what? 300 pounds. 275, 285. Yeah. Six, two. He's fucking huge. That's good. He's three. He's three 20 there. So he's 20 pounds heavier now. Yeah. That's crazy. Like it's, you know, and he, he beat Quint on his first, his pro debut. Like that's not, you know, what is this? I thought this was a stage video. Dick TZ again. Yeah. That's wild. Yeah. That's wild. That's crazy, dude. Yeah. He's got a little. Yeah. Yeah. Look at this. Look at that stomach though. The leg is crazy. What do you mean? Look at this stomach. He's not even flexing. Don't start with the stomach. He's leaning back so hard all the time. That's why he's in the middle of the fucking offseason, man. Look at the leg. I'm just looking for stuff. You can't find it. I've been looking. Trust me. I mean, it's not like, it's not like he's going to be Mr. Olympia. He's got some, still has got to round out his physique a bit and stuff, but like, he's definitely a top 10 bodybuilder to me. Jesus. Yeah. I mean, if he comes in looking like that, I can see him challenge, you know, being right there with Raphael. I don't know if he beats Tony, though. Tony, seventh. Wrestling a bear. I mean, I mean, look at like, this is two 90. Look at the difference in his leg. It's like, his hamstrings crazy. Yeah. I'd definitely like to see what this guy looks like in person. It's fucking huge. He was at that expo. He dwarfed everybody. I know. I saw a picture of that. That was crazy. What expo was that? I can't remember. Chris was there though. There was even, Chris was there. He dwarfed Chris, him and some, uh, smile off the other 350 pound Russian. They stood next to, uh, hottie. He looked like a child. Yeah. I mean, like he's a little bit more sweet for his shoulder width, but legs are still solid for a time. Yeah. It's like, yeah, his legs are still good. What is he? Five, five, five, 11 or what? I know he's short. What does that say in the caption? Does that say 11 weeks out? What does that say? 11, 11 more weeks ago. That was 11 weeks ago. So he had his, is that the umbilical surgery or the three 40 hernia surgery that he's talking about there? Recovery from surgery was successful. I look like he had a bandage on it in one of the earlier pictures. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know, man, but it's exciting. This is him on stage. He obviously gets in shape, not a ton of detail here, but who knows what another year will bring. That's bad color on that shot too. That's hard to tell. Yeah. Paul, you're going to be fucking handlebar in it for a while. I think we'll see. We'll see. We'll see. You've been impressed before by pictures. We can do better. We can do better handlebar, you know? I, you're right, Paul. I have been fooled before, but I can't, but I think it's harder to be fooled by like someone, they say the three 46 and they're in eight weeks out condition. Yeah. It's like Dallas McCarver shit, you know? Yeah. Like how do you, like how can he, how can he fuck that up? You know what I mean? Like if he's three 46 without a gut, right? How could he possibly fuck that up? If he's, if he's in that kind of condition, right? Well, he's not gonna be three 46 on stage. He's going to be, I know what I'm saying is what I'm saying is if he's three 46 in that shape, that means he's three 10 on stage, even at 300, it's still bigger than everybody except for like Samson and fucking Andrew. Nick. Yeah. Yeah. If he comes in shredded at over 300 pounds. Yeah. He's going to, that's what I'm saying. It's going to be hard to keep him out of the top 10, you know, unless, unless there's issues with the waist control posing, you know, details not there, maybe he's watery, whatever, but you know, it's gonna be hard to deny size like that. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Um, okay. Well, we don't have any shows to cover this week, so maybe we'll just get right into questions. Paul, how was your week this week? Well, what is today? Tuesday. Oh, wait, before we, you guys get snow too. Oh, just a little tiny bit. It didn't even stick on the ground. It just took up a couple of thurs. You guys get a lot. I woke up. Yeah. We had like, I don't know, a couple inches this morning. It was like a good amount on the ground, but then it was like warm and sunny the afternoon. So it's already starting to go. And I think it's going to be like, fucking 15 degrees, like 60 degrees, something this during the week. So it's supposed to go to like 20 here tomorrow. I think it was like two. I'm going riding on Sunday. I rode once already this year. Did you? Yeah. I took my bike out once. Uh, I was at the end of last week. That was fucking nice. Mike, you're from New York. Yeah. Syracuse. You've been out already this season, haven't you? Um, no, because I'm my two big bikes are still getting worked on. I got to pick them up this Saturday. And then the 135, my kid, I don't know, shredded the belt on it again for the fifth time. So why don't you do a chain conversion on it? I'm going to do it now. Yeah. You know, I just got one for my bike. I mean, it's actually, they're doing it this weekend. Yeah. All the, the other two got the chain conversion. I beat the shit out of my bike. So I don't know what the hell he's doing to take cogs off a belt. I have no idea. He's, he used to be about three 70. I dieted him down. He's, uh, two 60 now, two 55. Lean as shit. Looks really good. Six, six. Oh boy. But when he was three 70, I thought like, maybe he was jumping up and down on it or like, you know, when he went to launch it, he was, you know what I mean? Cause if the swing arm moves, it tightens that belt up. So maybe that's how he was ripping the cogs off. Yeah. Now he's two 60. So I have no idea what the hell he's doing. Um, but yeah, no, I haven't been out yet. You know, I'm going to show you something. You're going to laugh at me. Okay. But I'm going to, I'm going to, so obviously I'm riding with one arm. So I've been making a lot of like, yeah. Adjustments to my bikes so I can ride them all. And the, the Harleys are almost done. I'm converting them to automatics, but I'm a little bit worried about riding the road glide. Cause I've already dumped my bike a couple of times. Um, in parking lots and shit. Cause they're just having a trouble adjusting. Yeah. So I'm worried about riding the road glide. Cause the road glide is like fucking 900, 900 pounds. Right. Yeah. Check this shit out. Right here. There were times you want to look at that. Look at these fucking wheels. The training wheels. Check it out. It's it's don't call it that. It's called landing. It's called landing gear. So we have a guy that rides with us. He's like five, five. I don't know. He's about the size of a girl. And he rides a little glide. And last year, he didn't even move the bike. He went to just take a lot of a parking lot. He'd crank the wheel and slammed it down and broke his ankle. Yeah. So I, I bought him a set of those and sent them to his house. Did you really? Yeah. He took it as an insult. I'm like, buddy, I'm trying to help you out, man. Like you can, it's hard. It's an 800. When you're walking the bikes, you know, they're 800 pounds. It's not as tippy toes. Like I wasn't really being a dick. I was like, dude, just, they come up, they go down, they don't stick out the whole time. Yeah. You know, I think they're cool. So I think it's cool. Shit. I mean, look, otherwise my road lad is going to sit there and collect dust because it's like, it's too fucking heavy. And I'll certainly take it off your hands, but I mean, it's the best option, I guess, is those training wheels, you know? Yeah. So I'm getting a landing gear, not training, not training wheels. Landing gear. Not a bad idea. It's like a jet. It's like a jet. That's right. That's right. They deploy at under six miles, an hour. So if I'm like going into a gas station, I get gas. You press the button. They drop. Oh, so it's a button for it. Yeah. There's a button for it to deploy them. And then when you drive away, they automatically pop up at six miles per hour. So I'm like, you know what? I think this is what I'm going to have to do until I get used to riding with one arm. Yeah. Do it for sure. So anyway, I thought I, that's fine. I thought I just put it out there. Can you deploy them at higher speed? No, no. Imagine that. I'm just thinking of like, if you think you're going to crash or tip it over or something, can you hit the button and they pop out and left me out? No, no, no, no. They only work. They only work at like under six miles per hour. So they're just, they're just for like, listen, they're for, they're for people with like arthritis or amputees or like, you know, whatever your fucking affliction is. the hardest part about riding for anybody rides knows it's the slowest speed shit in parking, in parking lots and fucking whatever. Right. So this is my way so I can keep on riding. It's my, my, my fucking shit, you know? Yeah. So that's it. Anyway, I thought I'd throw that out there before you saw it. And made fun of you. And just ridiculed me down. It's already out there. You can't say you broke the ice. Yeah. So, and also we have to critique Steve's set. Some light training. One of our, one of our friends, Steve Grenzilla trained likes tonight. He has been trying to work with Ian on perfecting his training. And I said, send me a video of your leg workout. So I know what you did. He's hopeless. So this is his set of hacks. What's already wrong? You played Steve. Is he using, is there fucking bands on there? Is he using reverse bands, Ian? I don't see him. No. Okay. Are those knee wraps? Yeah. Where's the rest of the set? He threw in, he threw in a set of bench. Cause he's a good, I love it. Cause he's a good bench. I love it. That's funny. That's Steve. Yeah. Sounds like, it sounds like he's moaning. Yeah. What's he got on there? Three plates. Four. I wonder who's stronger, Paul or Steve. I trained with Steve. Steve's strong. He's the strongest spot. Yeah. Steve is strongest. Fuck. Just not on legs. Trains hurt. Oh my God, Steve. He racked it with like five left. What the fuck? What is this? RPE? Science. Science. Oh, I know he's had some, like his knees have been bothering a lot lately, so I won't be too harsh on him, but you had more there, Steve. Yeah, for sure. Like five left in the tank. At least. Fuck, man. I could get big like that, Steve. I tried, I tried going for like a, just working up till I felt a point of discomfort with deadlifts. And I had deadlift in like three years. It's a fun time. What'd you do? How much? I did seven plates and I called it there. Oh yeah. Yeah. I did three there a day. I was proud of myself. Seven, seven fucking plates. Fuck you. That felt heavy for me for seven plates. For sure. It's heavy. Yeah, it is heavy. I'm going to feel that for weeks now. It doesn't feel heavy. It is fucking heavy. It is fucking heavy. Yeah, but I mean, at the same body weight, I've done that for like sets of 10, you know? Yeah, but you're 35. Yeah, I'm in my, my physical prime to it. That's bodybuilding prime. Yeah. Ian, muscle maturity. Once you're 35, every five years. I think for, I think for a lot of stuff, I'm stronger than I was before, but I also don't like some of the stuff. I just don't try and be as strong as I was before. Like what? Like what? Like for what, what? Which side? What are you stronger on now than you were before? Nothing. I think my back's training and stuff. I'm stronger for sure. Like rows and stuff like that. I'm probably stronger. Yeah. Yeah, but that's all machine shit. That doesn't count. No, no. Even like dumbbell rows. Like, I mean, I put up a video the other day. I picked up with no straps and wrote 200 pound dumbbells. Let's see. Let's see. Ian's dumbbell row. Have you seen my dumbbell row? With no straps, by the way. It used to be. It used to be. Have you seen my deadlift? Now it's. Have you seen my dumbbell row? Okay. Let's see. It's dumbbell row. We need the noise. I love the grunts. The grip is the impressive part. Yeah. That's all I was trying to find was the grip to be honest. I've been working on mine lately. That's great. A lot of hip drive though. Lots of hips. Lots of hips involved. That's great. Good for you, man. Let's go. That's a hard machine, man. Yeah. That's so hard. Yeah. That's my, that's my least favorite, uh, T-bar row. That, is that the Arsenal T-bar? That chest supported one? The supported one. Is the Arsenal? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's my least favorite. So fucking. It's like the hardest thing ever. Yeah. Yeah. Like it doesn't feel smooth at all. Two plates on that is like fucking super heavy. Yeah. I know. It's crazy. Well, Ian, since we're, uh, like, no, like my, my pressing will never be like, I'm not ever going to be able to press like I did, but some stuff I feel like I've got like, yeah, a little old man maturity in there. That's got stronger. You know, since we're showing deadlifts, I'm going to show you my deadlift. Yeah. I saw this. One arm, one arm deadlifts. Someone actually sent me a, you know, the strap that goes over your shoulder. I bought it yesterday. Okay. I saw it in the, uh, I saw it in the comment section. I, so I, I bought it. Someone sent it to me. Felt like it was going to rip my, it felt like it was going to rip my arm out of my fucking, the shoulder. I have no arms, but I did it. It felt pretty good. I had to, I had to use, I had to use, I had to use a wrist wraps. Yeah, of course. I'll balance it. No, I just don't have that grip. Like after, I mean, two 25 in one hand on a barbell, that's long. That's fucking hard. After a plate, a plate and a tan on each side, I can't, my grip won't give, I can't grip grip anymore after that. Um, I want to show you guys this too, Paul, cause you got some competition coming your way, buddy. In what category? Jumping rope. Oh, yeah. Well, I injured myself. I had stomping rope. Yeah. You mean stomping rope? That's probably what led to the injury, Mike. It's a calf injury. So that's probably what led to it. Lord fucking beating the ground. Paul, me and you are going to have a jump rope off. I'm up for that. I got one arm, dude. Look at this shit. I bought, I bought this thing yesterday. One arm fucking jump rope. How the fuck does this work? You grab the middle of it and you swing it forward and it goes around you. Oh my God. That seems so hard. 160 bucks. Well, sometimes you got to do, listen, Mike, when you do, take advantage of you. Just put one, put run rope on the wall, get Paul to swing the other side and you just fucking like double, like double Dutch. Yeah. Like, yeah. And I'll sing a nice little tune. Like a song while I jump over. Yeah. Listen, you get the two going at the same time. They take advantage of you when you're crippled, man. They fucking like, they're like, you want to jump rope? 200 bucks. Yeah. I wonder if that's why they do it, Mike. Of course they do. Well, they're not making much. They're probably not selling a lot. So we've got to make the most of the pre-unit here. Yeah. For sure. What the fuck, man? Is that, I wonder if that would be like, can you do that with two hands? If you wanted to send them a video of you doing. How am I going to do with two hands? My arm. No, you can't do it. Two hands. It's got one grip in the front. You do it this way. I guess you could, you could hold it. Yeah. You could hold it with both hands and do that. That'd be harder though. Just use a fucking skipping rope. Paul. Yeah. Why do you want to use the adaptive one? I don't want to. I was just thinking. I want to use yours. He can't even let you have that. I know. He can't let me have the cripple. If it was easier than I would, I would maybe borrow it off you. But if it's not, then I don't want to use it. Imagine it's easier for the crippled guy. Shit's easier. I can make fun of crippled people now. Yeah, you can. For sure. You always could, but now you definitely can. Yeah. But now, but now I'm allowed to. It's just like how I can tell racial. Socially acceptable. Why can you tell racial jokes? He's Italian. Yeah. I'm Italian. What does that fucking mean? Well, I'm impressed people. Yeah. We're kind of like neutral. Yeah. They're not white. But that's right. Yeah. Look at me. I'm not white. Italians are not fucking neutral. Yeah. They're like kind of in the middle. Like, look at me. I'm not white. Clearly. You're part of the bad side in World War II. Well, we, we went to the winning side once we, yeah. Cause you're like, we're losing. We better run to the winning side. We don't have loyalties to anybody. We're just want the way. We're not stupid. Mike, we see a secret ship. We got off it. So why, why do you go over here? Why do you think you're allowed to be racist? Because I'm colored a little bit. Cause you're red. Yeah. I'm fucking, I'm brown. You can tell racial jokes too. I can tell racial jokes. Yeah. You can too. I'm going to be racist as fuck soon. Yeah. I'm just going to turn myself black. It identifies whatever you want. Yeah. Um, okay. Do you believe in fate or everything happens for a reason? For example, do you think you were meant to have your bike accident as bad as that sounds? Ooh, that's a deep one. I'll ask you guys, do you guys believe in fate? No, the question's for you. Fuck you. Don't deflect. Don't deflect. I ask you guys for help with prayers all the time. I get no help. Uh, always comes back to Paul. It does. Hey, what about me guys? Paul, do you believe in fate? Uh, not really. Like, not in the sense that like there's a script pre-written script, you know, like, I think you put yourself in positions in life and then things, you know, follow those patterns, but I don't think there's like some pre-written story to our lives. But that's not, but that's not fate. That's just putting yourself in. Right. Putting yourself out there is different. I'm saying, yeah, fate, like somebody says those putting yourself out there. It doesn't matter. Cause it was already predetermined. Yeah. Yeah. See, I don't believe that. He doesn't believe that Ian. No. Do you, how do you know your choices that you're making are predetermined? That's the question. That's the tricky part about this. Cause I agree with you. I think it's your choices. You know, you choose things. That's the direction you go. But then the more advanced part of this would be is what about those choices? Are they predetermined? They weren't. You thought they were choices, but they weren't really choices. Exactly. Exactly. But they were choices. Then it gets messed up. To you. But if I had options on the table, then there were choices, but, but you still made the choice and that choice was already. It was presented. It was presented to you. I know you're saying. You thought it was a choice, but it wasn't, it was not actually ever a choice. Cause it was already determined that you were going to make that choice. So next time I have a decision to make, I'll just pick the opposite of what I would do then. And I'll just throw fate right off. It could have been predetermined. Yeah. It wouldn't know that. Cause I'm going to do something. Because it's all predetermined. So to you, you can think it's a choice, but the outcome was already decided. So this story predicted that I would pick something completely opposite of what I'd normally pick. Correct. Yes. No. Yes. Okay. Just stop for a minute. That's the point. I'm not saying I agree with it. I'm saying that's the argument. Is that if it is predetermined, it doesn't matter if you switch your mind because the switch of mind was already predetermined. Well, you know, with me, I'm very undecisive. So that's predetermined. Undecisive. It's not a word. Indecisive. Yeah. That's what I said. You said undecisive. Right. So I think with that. Indecisive is a word. Undecided. I don't make decisions well. Yeah. I don't like to make choices. Underestimated. So can we go back to the question? Let's go back to the original question. Paul, do you believe fate at all in any way, shape or form? In any shape or form? Yeah. Um, I think that, um, there are certain predictable outcomes, but I don't think that I mean, explain that. That doesn't answer the question though. Yeah. Just give us a yes or no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't want to just give you a quick answer. I want to get a little bit deep into it. That's not necessary. I want to hear what you're going to say. No. That's it. Yeah. Yeah. That's enough. Oh, we lost. That was early tonight. He didn't charge his batteries. Oh my God. I think it's because, uh, Hey, there he is. Oh, um, uh, I don't know if I believe in fate. I mean, a lot of good things happen in my life after the accident. Does that mean it was predetermined? No. I mean, my life, my life is whatever you want to me. My life was going down, uh, kind of a, a bad path, I think before the accident in a lot of different ways. Like on a lot of different levels, health, like even like ways I can't really control with, well, I couldn't control, but like, like health, like everything. Like, so I don't know. Is that like, well, you and I talked about it before for that, you know, like you're, you're talking about like, you know, you've always been someone who likes challenges and, you know, challenge yourself a lot. And sometimes you might push that too far. Yeah. That's your point. That you brought that up before that. Maybe this was a way of telling you that, you know, you push things too far. You know, you have to learn a lesson from this. And if it would have been just a small injury, you might not have learned that lesson. Uh, yeah, I know what you mean, but I guess I'm saying like, when he says it's fate, what he's asking you, the question is like, it still doesn't answer the question of fate. Yeah. Yeah. What I'm, what he's saying is like, was, was the accident supposed to happen because your life was going in a bad way. And so fate brought you to this point where you had this accident and now your life has turned around in so many ways. Yeah. Because my life has turned around so many ways. So I'm like, but it's changed so much though, but it's changing. I know it's from that incident, but yeah, it's gotta be different. I interpret fate is a little different. I mean, I don't think that fate is always like something is to learn a lesson. I interpret fate as just, it was all predetermined anyway. I think we're talking more of like, Oh, I'm not saying it's a lesson. We're talking more about like karma in my opinion, or like that kind of thing. Then, then fate to me, I'm just seeing fate as like it, it all didn't really like you weren't ever really making decisions. It doesn't matter if you learned a lesson on the other side. I don't consider that fate. That's just like cause and effect or learning a lesson. I think fate is like, it was all just predetermined to begin with. And no matter what you have done, you always were going to end up in that accident. No matter what. I don't think that's what he's asking though. I think he's, I think even though he said fate, I think he's asking like, he's more asking, do you think everything happens for a reason? That was the second part of his question. Okay. Because like things are better than they were. Yeah. So like, was the accident supposed to happen? Yeah. I guess. And then my mind goes even deeper than that of like, maybe it, if everything does happen for a reason, it doesn't like, we can't see it within like the small scale. That is just our lives. You know, that's more like butterfly effect of like, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Maybe to you, whatever bubble law, but then maybe somehow your accident affected somebody else. The fact somebody else, and those things were all meant to happen for a reason, but to you, maybe particularly to you, it wasn't meant to happen. Right. Right. Right. You know? Right. Yeah. So it's like, how far down that rabbit hole can you go of where did, maybe the reason for your accident, if there is a reason is not for 10,000 years from now. It's like, how would we know, you know, like where can we really see the effect of those in the ripple that it has? Right. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Huh? Are you smoking dope or anything? That was philosophical shit right there. Like, keeping a high is what that was. Funny you asked. Oh, this is such an obvious question. Who would you rather get in a street fight with? If you had to prime Ronnie Coleman, a honey badger or mighty mouse Johnson, like I'm fighting them or they're on my side. They're on my side or I'm fighting them. No, you have to pick one to fight. I have to fight. Ronnie Coleman. Ronnie Coleman. I'd rather fight Ronnie than the other two for sure. What was the third one? A honey badger is going to fucking kill him. Or mighty mouse. Mighty mouse. Demetrius Johnson is going to wrap you into a pretzel and fucking choke you out. I think I'd take the honey badger. Really? It's going to fucking kill you for sure. I'm going to get bit by a honey. Those things fight bears. Oh my God. They do. It's not singular honey badgers. Do they? A honey badger will chase a bear away. Anything. They fucking eat cobras and shit. Well, I know small snakes and stuff, but we're fucking. Dude, type in, type in honey badger bear. See what you get. I'm going to check this out. I just think you could, you could easily, you could easily wind Ronnie and just kind of knock him over. Yeah. Yeah. He's done. Yeah. I don't want to fight Ronnie. That's sad, man. You're not going to really, you're just going to tie. You're just going to tire the little guy out, you know, just run around. Just choke him out. You don't have to hurt him. Google says a human would like, I'm out of breath. Oh, it says, but with significant injuries. So yeah, I mean, you could, it's things that a normal size human could defeat a honey badger, but with injuries. It's going to rip your face off. But they're 13 to 30. They're 13 to 30 pounds. So like that has to count for something, you know? It's fighting a very aggressive toddler. A toddler with a knife, a toddler with a knife. Yeah. I mean, are we talking, are we talking current Ronnie or prime Ronnie? Cause there's a big difference. Oh, that's a tough one. We're taking current Ronnie. I mean, that's me, but I think I got the upper hand there. He said, he said, he said prime Ronnie. Yeah. He's going to be slow, but I don't want to fight Ronnie, man. You know, Ronnie was a cop though. So he must've been able to hand himself a little bit. For sure. Even at that size. Yeah. Prime Ronnie's just going to pull a fucking Glock on me. It's going to be the honey badger is the easiest one. Maybe. These things are that nasty. Yeah, they are. Yeah. They're nice. Are they known to be aggressive too? Yeah. Are they? Yeah. No, they're like one of the fucking worst things ever, but I just think they're too small, you know, but they got to watch that honey badger skit with the gay guy talking over as the narrator. Yeah. I've seen that book. Oh my God. That's one of the funniest videos. Of all time. Really? He's like, Oh shit. Look at him. Look at him go. Honey badger doesn't give a fuck. One second. Pull this up. It's so fucking good. This is the honey badger. Watch it run in slow motion. It's pretty bad-ass. Look, it runs all over the place. Whoa. Watch out. Says that bird. Ew. It's got a snake. Oh, it's chasing a jackal. Oh my gosh. Oh, the honey badgers are just crazy. The honey badger has been referred to by the Guinness Book of World Records as the most fearless animal in all of the animal kingdom. It really doesn't give a shit. If it's hungry, it's hungry. Ew, what's that in its mouth? Oh, it's got a cobra. Oh, it runs backwards. Now watch this. Look, it's snakes up in the tree. Honey badger don't care. Honey badger don't give a shit. It just takes what it wants. Whenever it's hungry, it just, ew, and it eats snakes. Oh my god, watch it dig. Look at that digging. The honey badger is really pretty badass. They have no regard for any other animal whatsoever. Look, and it's just grunting and ew, eating snakes. Ew, what's that, a mouse? Oh, that's nasty. Oh, they're so nasty. Ooh, look, it's chasing things and eating them. The honey badgers have a fairly long body, but a distinctly thick set, broad shoulders, and, you know, their skin is loose, allowing them to move about freely, and they twist around. Now look, here's a house full of bees. You think the honey badger cares? It doesn't give a shit. It goes right into the house to bees to get some larva. How disgusting is that? It eats larva. Ew, that's so nasty. But look, the honey badger doesn't care. It's getting stung like a thousand times. It doesn't give a shit. It's just, it's hungry. What the fuck? I haven't seen that in a long time. I've never seen that before. That's hilarious. That's old? I've never seen that before either. That's pretty old, eh, Mike? Yeah, it's old. It's fucking funny though. Greg Goliath, friend of the show, asks, how much trend is too much trend? Stop. Stop. Until you start hitting your wife, you know? When the night terrors start, it's usually time to bring it, pull it back. That's about a good sign, dude. Flare-ups in traffic is acceptable, but like once you start to get to domestic abuse and a night terrors, then it's probably pulling back. Any amount after eight weeks is too much. Yeah. Really? Because I went like four months straight once. Oh my God. Microdosing? Or like just... No, like... Oh my God. Yeah. Fucking full blast trend E all offseason. 40 mgs of Halo there the whole time too. So I competed at the Arnold and the Powerlifting meet, and the weeks running up to that, I ran a whole bunch of crazy insane Dallas McCarver type cycle. Oh yeah. I had 1,400. I was doing test e or Trent E and Trent Ace, but I didn't know I was doing the Ace. 1,400 milligrams a week? A week. Holy fuck. Fuck. That was... So then I coined the phrase Trent Coddick because that was where like I'd drive around and just want to like, you know, walk into people's houses. Fight everybody. Yeah, you must kill everybody. Not even be enragedful. Just like, I think you should just kill everybody in this house. You know? Send for all of you to die. It's just time. You know what I mean? I'm not living at the gym, and now you're in the house. So guys, watch. It's guys. It's fate, you know? Yeah, that's right. That's what it was. Had you not taken that train, we still would have did that. You know what happened? I used to run Anadrol all the time. Yeah. And then Anadrol started fucking with my appetite. Yeah. And I wanted something to give me the strength that Anadrol gave me, so I started using Trent. And I would just, my cycles became Test, Enanthate, and Trent E. Did you ever do Bent? Once. Yeah. Once. Once. I felt it, but I heard it was so toxic. I was like, okay. That's coming back now on TikTok. They just talked about the Tread. The Tread and the Anadrol is okay, but the Mentis, that's too scary for us. Ment was the line too far for me. I couldn't. I drew the line, Ian. Did you ever hear of Frog Juice? No. No, what's that? Frog Juice is a mixture of liquid Anadrol, liquid D-ball, no Ester Test, and no Ester Trenton. Oh, send it over. Yes. Oh, my God. Let's all do a bunch of it. I'm telling you, I can reject it. It's insane. Oh, it burns like a motherfucker. You say no Ester? No Ester. It has space. It's like a suspension, but it's in oil. So basically, you inject it, and you go fucking nuts for two days a month. Un-fucking-real, and the pump is just, you basically, we did a trend no Ester, and then I've done the Frog Juice too, but the trend no Ester, like four of us were lifting in my basement, and we just basically walked around like we didn't know each other, like we were on crack, and just kept lifting. You get so pumped up that it hurts, so you throw the weights, and then you turn around, and you're like, well, fuck, I want to do that, but then you went over and did some other shit and just like walked around each other. That's insane pump. Crazy fucking pump. That was just trend no Ester, the Frog Juice is... No Ester, that's what we need to get you on food, the transformation, you'll be fucking juiced. There you go. No Ester, you'll get your right, that fucking left arm will move. Fucking frog juice. My left arm will start working again. It'll grow. Yeah, it'll grow a new arm. Like a frog, yeah. Yeah. Ian, what was the most trend you ever took? I did 700 one time in a cycle, but my night sweats got like way too bad. Like I just like, you can't sleep at that. Like that was what I was... 700 was standard for me. Yeah, 100 a day I did. Standard? Well, I mean like when I ran it, I ran 700. Was it seven? I never went over seven. And then when I was in a contest, if I was switched to like trend ace, I would do like 100 a day. So it was always seven. Yeah. Yeah. I did three. I would do 50 a day or 100 every other day would be like pretty standard for me. Yeah. Yeah, I liked it. I don't know. But then again, my kidneys were shot. So yeah. You never had any problem with your lungs with trend? Oh, dude, I would get... That was the worst for me. That was one of the biggest reasons why I couldn't do it. Like if I would do 100 milligrams in a shot, my fucking... I would get a bad cough nine times out of 10. That's what happened when I did the 1400. It actually damaged my lungs. So like the trend cough, you know, it lasts like 30 minutes. Mine was lasting like six hours. Brutal, dude. And then it got to the point where every time I lay down in bed and I was horizontal, it felt like you'd get the trend cough like running in the cold, you know? And even when I was off trend, like six months later, it was... I would get that even from like tests and stuff sometimes. Yeah. It's the... What do you call it? It's something... Oil embolism. Yeah. I only got the... You can actually get the trend cough with any oil injection. Yeah. I only got them like one out of 10 times. Really? That's awesome. Yeah. I wouldn't get a trend cough that much. It's so funny to hear you talk like this, Mike, because whenever we think of... I know this is really stupid to say and I... It doesn't... I know I shouldn't even say it, but most people, when they think of like the biggest doses of gear, they think of pro bodybuilders. They're like, those guys must... Those guys, look how big they are. They must take the most of everybody. Powerlifting gets pretty crazy and strong. Yeah. Powerlifting is psychotic. Yeah. Powerlifting is a whole different level, dude. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Even now, I follow a lot of arm wrestling and some of the drugs that these guys take in like pro arm wrestling, dude, is fucked. Really? Oh, yeah, because they just want to be fucking aggressive and strong and like, they'll go insane like powerlifters. It's fucking nuts on this shit. Yeah. Yeah. Crazy, man. Any words of wisdom for someone who's just done a grade three hamstring tear? A third grade hamstring tear would mean you tore it off the bone? The word of... Definitely don't do any leg curls for a while. You could probably still squat though. Words of wisdom would be go get an ultrasound or an MRI, find out exactly how bad it is. And then... He knows it's a third grade probably. Yeah. No, but you need to find out how long, right? Like, is it six centimeters? Is it 12 centimeters? Like, because it makes a difference. if it's three centimeters, you can do some PRP shots and that'll heal it probably and you'll be okay. If it's 12 centimeters, you might need surgery. Like, there's a whole bunch of different things you can do to correct. What's the worst one you had? 12. You had a 12 grade three. 12 centimeter, yeah, from the, right from the insertion up. Oof. Twice. You know how you have like three strips in your hamstring? Yeah, yeah. I did the first one when I was 20, 21 or 22. Anna Draws fault, by the way. And then I just... Not too strong. Dude, I was stiff like dead lifting four plates. It was like my second year lifting weights. It's awesome. And then, I did the middle one, same leg. I did the middle, whatever that's called, the middle part of your hamstring when I was like 33 or 34. So, yeah. For any of the guys who have coached how important is it to know or is it important at all for your athlete's mental health status? Back it up. How important is it to know your athlete's mental health status? I mean, I guess it's important, but I think it really depends what kind of level you're coaching at too. You know, like you have to be realistic with like what the expectations of the coaching are and what kind of coach. Like if you're working with Ahani Rambon and he's coaching four guys at the Olympia level, I mean, he's knowing everything about those guys' lives, but I mean, it kind of depends, right? Okay. It definitely is a factor that matters. Let's take what you said and expand on it. So, Mike, on your level of coaching, you're not coaching Olympia level guys, but you are doing lifestyle coaching. So, are you working with them on their mental health or are you just like giving them their X's and O's and you're like, go fucking do this? No, you still do the mental health, I think. You still got to motivate them and you got to keep their mental health good. I mean, that's the huge thing with lifting weights or feeling good about yourself and what's going to get them to drive themselves to work out every day. And if they're, I don't know, if they're bipolar or they have mental issues, I mean, how are you going to stay consistent? I mean, you guys know more than me about body, it's consistency. It's doing the same thing every day over and over again. And if you're mentally unstable, then that's not a thing that's going to happen, you know? But isn't it something that you would find out like when you hired the coach? Like, like if, because some coaches will just say like, look, I'm not going to get into your personal life. I do the X's and O's. I'll give you a diet. That's kind of what I was applying. I'm not saying that. I think at every level it's valuable and I think it's great. Like if Mike and these guys at any level is doing it, I think it's an important part of the puzzle. But I think guys also need to be realistic of their expectations of a coach at certain levels and the dollar you're paying, you know? Right, right, right. Yeah. Yeah. I guess if you're paying like a hundred bucks a month for, I mean, if you're on an NFL team, your coaches know what the fuck's going on in your life. You know what I mean? But like, it's, it depends, you know, if you're playing peewee football, they might not know as much. So it depends on the level. And I think guys will, you know, I think good coaches will be interfered. Like we'll know some of that. And some guys, it's, it depends what you're doing. Right. Yeah. How did, Oh, Paul, DM me that photo. Of what? You know what? We got some shirtless pics of Paul. No, no, I did a little photo shoot this week. Look at that. Look at the humble, see that. See the humble brag in his face. You guys can vote for it. Yeah, we will show us. Give me the photo. Send it to me. DM it. I'll send you the link to vote for it too. Is this the charger? Yeah. DM, DM me the photo. Okay. What was your nickname again? That I gave you? The charger man or something? I forget. Mike the charger. I forget. Did you pull the glasses off? Uh, there's a, there was a few pictures with glasses on and a few with, without glasses. Did you get more than one photo or no? I got two so far that he sent me. Can you, okay. DM them to me, please. Okay. We got to make Paul's, uh, Tinder profile here. Yeah, change your profile. We were going to do that. I thought we're doing grinder. Well, whatever. We just need to make a dating app profile for Paul on, on the podcast. Ian, what is this video you're sending me? Oh, I was just earlier when we were talking about my color, my room, my paint. Look at, look how sexy the darkness is. It's nice. It looks good. See like, Oh dude, it's so sexy. Yeah, it looks sweet. But there was a reason we were talking about that. I can't remember why, but because we were talking about, uh, being a handyman. Oh yeah. And I said, I don't paint. Right. Who's this dude you sent me? The freak. Who? Roberto Ramos. Oh, this is the guy that Sam beat. Isn't it? Roberto Ramos. This guy. We must've been looking for it on the podcast or something. Yeah, this, I, yeah, I think we were looking for that. That's right. Yeah. Um, Paul, did you send me the photos? I sent you, I'm sending you the picture right now. Look at this motherfucker. He's like, didn't send me the photos. He sent me the link to vote for him. He's such an idiot. You can share that with the group. Put it in the description. Can you please put it in the description and the title of the podcast? Everybody win this by like 60,000. Yes. Everybody go vote for Paul. You guys got to see this shit. Look at this shit. Look at this shit. Oh, this guy. Holy shit. This is a sexy motherfucker. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'll go for that Ray Donovan. Look, that's not you. She's going to kill you. What the fuck? He's not going to kill me. I've got better than that. This kid's going to be you too. He's not going to be me. I've got to clean that kid up. Everybody on the podcast go over Paul. Cause this chick's going to be backstage. age of like a WWE like he's getting out of this car. I know. I know. Yeah. Where did the photo go? Why does it? Okay. There it is. Look at this guy. Look at this guy. I'm getting out. Go to go to fuck some people up. I ate some chicken wings the night before and I couldn't control my stomach very well though. You'll see it sticking out a little bit. You'll play second. You're all right. Yeah. All right. The link is going to be in the description. Everybody go. It's going to be hilarious. He's going to have like a hundred thousand votes. What is the contest for the Wizards? It's for, yeah. Yeah. There's this magazine. This magazine's local. It's called the drive magazine. Yeah. And so they're picking somebody for this ad. I don't know if it's going to go on the cover though, but if it is, I'm, let's go to listen to me. I'm dreading this fucking thing going on the cover. Cause if it does, I'm never going to fucking whether I have them, whether I get on the cover or not, I'm having a cover party. Alternate cover party. Yeah. Paul is never going to let me hear the end of this shit. If he gets on a cover of this magazine, that's going to be my picture in every single, any kind of media I have, anything that I do, that's going to be my picture. Paul's LinkedIn is going to be that picture. Yeah. I want you to please change my RBP avatar to that. That will forever be that photo that we took by professional photos. Um, so it said, how does Paul's photo shoot go? In the meantime, can you Google Paul Lowe's on Tumblr? It shows peak Paul and some classic headings. Oh shit. There's a Paul Tumblr. What's a Tumblr? What the fuck? Is that like a, like a thing like a, like young girls have? No, it's a website. Uh, pictures and shit. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. This is Paul Lowe's on Tumblr. I wonder if you're going to walk into some gay porn. This someone's baiting us here. Oh my God. Damn. The touch article who had me and you, Paul. Oh yeah. Look at who I touch on my lats. Yeah. Who has got like a little bit of a sultry, like pout there too, you know? He does. Yeah. He's probably like, Ooh, look at these lats. Oh yeah. My non, my non-existent triceps. Yeah. So look at that head of hair. Yeah, man. That looks very Italian. Yeah. It look like, it look like a young Franco Colombo there. Just for context of this photo with the A6 too. Look at those. You like those fucking wrestling? I used to squat. I used to squat in those shoes. I love it. Cool for a Tom because he's got the A6 wrestling shoes. Right, baby. Um, that was actually that, that photo shoot I only got because Antoine Valon was supposed to do it and then show up. And I got you the photo shoot. That's why. So this was, um, Muscle Mag International was doing an article that was called touch training or something like that. Yeah. Where you're supposed to touch the muscle of the, your training partner while he's training. Cause it's supposed to activate the muscle better. Or you can see Paul here touching himself. You probably should have led with that. Yeah. I probably should have told it. It works by the way. Very effective training style. Let's see what it's going to get out of here. I don't want to fucking get out of here. What the fuck is going on? Uh, is there any comments here? No, 16 notes. What does that mean? Four blog, four reblogs. 12. One thing I'll never forget. One thing I'll never forget about that photo shoot. And that was like the first photo shoot I ever did. Right. Only one ever did. And I remember the, they were like fake weights. Right. So, um, I was pulling down like a, and the photographer was like, Hey, make it like, try to make a face. Like you're straining with the lap pull down bar. So I did something like this. If it's like, is that, is that your face you're going to make? And I'm like, I'm trying to be serious right now, man. You got to use real weights in a photo shoot. Come on. Yeah. I had to hold those poses for a long time. All right. How many Olympias do you think Sean Roden would have won? Can we take a moment to remember how good Luke was? Okay. Well, we're doing a, okay. Well, Luke was incredible. I mean, both him and Sean were incredible. Yeah. I think Sean Roden probably would have won one or two more. I think he could have beat Brandon Curry. Yeah. Cause Brandon won the year after him, right? Yeah. Brandon won. So I think Sean could have beat Brandon. No offense to Brandon. I just think Sean, Sean was that good. Um, and then who won after Brandon? Was it Rami? I don't think, I don't think Sean would have beat Rami. No, you can go on another one. I think maybe, yeah. So I think maybe one more. Um, Fouad, could you bring Paul canoe for a one-on-one podcast? Yes. Uh, what's one food during prep you can't have enough of? And it says, for me, it's almonds. Well, that's obvious. If you give me a jar of peanut butter, I'm not going to fucking stop eating it. Um, during prep, I would say cream of rice. Hmm. I eat oatmeal. I eat bowls and bowls of that shit when I'm dieting. Oatmeal. I'd say oatmeal. Cause he's keeping me full longer. Yeah. But what's something you like eating that you can't have enough of? I guess. I'd like it on diet. Cause I'd have it with Splenda. It'd be something sweet for a change. Hmm. Ian. Yeah. I mean, nut butter is probably the one that's like the trickiest. Yeah. Yeah. Control, you know? Yeah. Like you can get so out of control with that. So easy. I used to buy almond butter. So I wouldn't eat it all. Dude, Melissa, Melissa once during a prep mashed an entire full size jar with a spoon of nut butter. Yeah. I did. I did. Three quarters. Fucked her stomach up so hard. I'm sure. Three quarters of a jar once with a fork. Yeah. I just kept, I used to eat it with a fork instead of a spoon. Cause I'm like, I won't eat as much. Right. I just kept dipping the fork. I kept dipping the fork in there until it was all gone. I was like, what the fuck? Um, Mike, have you ever been on, on a diet, like a good, a prep at all of any sort or no? Yeah. Just, you know, random. Trying to look good. Just kind of dieting. For a show or nothing, but yeah. Kind of like Paul, just like summer's coming around. Yeah, exactly. Summer's coming around. You're a retired bodybuilder too, Mike? You know, huh? Mike, you're a retired bodybuilder too? Mike, Mike never did these shows. Never thought I was big. Show Paul how Jack he is. Show Paul how Jack he is. What do you ask him on Instagram? What do you like? What are you currently lifting? You still lift pretty heavy? Uh, no. Most of my shoulders, I need reconstructive. Me too. You're so funny. That's as high as I can lift that arm. So. Paul's competing right now. Yeah, Paul's just wants to know how much stronger. I don't know, right? How much stronger, is that? So what do you say? I mean, I can probably still bench 405 for reps, but you know, he's way bigger now. Oh, Paul. Yeah. Check that out. This is three weeks. This is three weeks ago, Paul. I'm a little bit leaner than that, but you're sick. Yeah, I'm pretty sick. I'm a little bit. I just don't get this. You know, this is November 27th. So this is me trying to bench 500 after I hadn't benched. And I only benched like three times that year. This was what? Two years ago, a year ago. Yeah. That's fucking pretty good. So. Yeah. That's when the bench in 500 stopped. You're way behind, Paul. Yeah. I got to start lifting a little bit lower reps and higher weight. Got to crank that nose up, Paul. Get yourself, get yourself more in frame, Paul. I don't like that. You're shrinking yourself for everybody. Yeah. You just got your head down there. I don't know. Oh, sorry. There we go. Let us see those big old shoulders, you know, he's like, I guess, I guess I got to start lifting again. Oh, yeah. Starting to feel a little ashamed of myself. There you go. I got my chest up, my shoulders back. I want to know what you guys think about this. Cause it kind of went, kind of went under the radar a little bit. Uh, with Arnold's son winning his pro card in natural bodybuilding, do you think natural bodybuilding is still as respected as pro enhanced athletes? Did he get his pro card? I know he wanted to show. First of all, okay, wait, first of all, I don't think, I don't think it was ever as respected as pro enhanced athletes. Cause pro bodybuilders are fucking freaks. Natural bodybuilding is cool, but it's like, you know, it's like, it's a whole different thing. It's kind of like women's NBA. It's not cool. It's not cool. It's kind of like, it's kind of like women's NBA versus men's. You guys, you guys can say that to be PC, but it's not cool. It's not the same thing at all. The NBA is like the IFBB and WNBA is like natural bodybuilding. Yeah. It's kind of the same, same comparison. Yeah. Like they play and they're pretty good, but they're not, you know, they're not, come on. They're not even pretty good. Well, you've judged natural shows too. Natural shows. You don't get like any bodybuilders. It's all men's physique, a couple of classics, all bikini, no physique or figure. Um, anyway, the point I'm now. Yeah. Yeah. Point I was making is Arnold's son, one is pro card. And I don't know what the competition is. I didn't know he won his pro card. It's a weird, it's some weird federation though. I think. Oh, PMBA. Okay. He just, yeah, I don't know. It's not bad. He's got pretty good quad sweep. He's got good quads. It's better than the, it better than the last show I saw. I think this was the previous show. And I was like, oh no. Yeah. He looked a lot better than the second show. I was really bummed out when I saw this. I'm like, that's Arnold's kid. Don't wonder. But then, but yeah, I'm not saying, still, still, still hit it though. You know, legitimate kid. Yes. A real kid. Yeah. That's the, the Spanish maids kid, right? Well, it's a real kid. It's a, he's a real person. Oh yeah. I know he's a real boy. He's a real boy. My real boy. Will there ever be a slap bet? What does that mean? What's a slap bet? You slap each other? Like those slap fights? Probably. I'd love to see that. If you guys could do that. Whoever loses a bet just gets to get fucking slapped. I had the opportunity to want to smack the way. I gave Paul the opportunity. He passed on it. I didn't want to hurt him. I gave Paul opportunity. We even filmed it. We were like, he could take it, Paul. I stood there. I was like, hit me. He's like, he just went like this. I'm like, I couldn't bring myself to do it. I'm like, I would have slapped the fuck out of you if I wasn't. I know you wouldn't. I know. I was trying to think of that in my head to build up the rage, but it didn't come. Can you, can you swing that arm and slap him with it? Yes. Oh, we got to see that. You know, we don't have to slap it across. You know what I can do? You know what I can do really good right now? Use a heavy bag. You don't have to use my face. You know, the, you know, the Conor McGregor walk. Yeah. You can swing it like that. I can crush that walk. So we need, you need to film a video of you swinging, walking up like that to Paul and to just. Yeah. Well, I got, I can block it though, right? No. You got to eat it. You got to eat it. What's the longest workout you guys have ever done? Two hours. I didn't, I didn't rich pianos eight hour arm workout once. No, you didn't. Eight hours. I did the OG. Did it suck balls? Did you drink a whole bunch of intro and stuff or like, you just like eat food and drink and fucking. Yeah. Like it's all, you do a whole bunch of shit. Really? Yeah. Was it good? Did you have a good workout? Uh, I mean, it's, you get to a point where you're like, all right, I'm really fucking ready to go home here for sure. Yeah. But it's fun. Like you feel like you're, you're actually convinced your arms are going to grow from it. You know, when, how old were you this? It was like, right when he first came out with this concept. I was, I think I might've been a pro. Like I, I was young, but I turned pro really young, you know? Like roughly how many sets would you have done that day? Oh my God, dude, I have no idea. 800. Yeah. Wow. Uh, Samson, Andrew top two, this Olympia question. And if so, who wins? I don't see how Derek fucking can compete with these two. I know. I know he's good, but like Andrew stepped it up and Samson, if he comes in with another fucking 10 pounds of muscle, I mean, did you guys see Samson's update? His back actually looks a lot bigger. Yeah. Like that gym shark photo of him in like the tight top where he's like staying there is the most like obscene comic looking photo ever. Where he's like walking in the road or whatever. Yeah. He's wearing this fucking tight shirt. It looks fake. He's so funny. Absolute AI looks. Yeah. It's like literally his arms, tricep coming around the back. Look at the same guys. I know it's a lat spread, not a back double, but this is the most mass I think I've seen on his back ever. Like, look, it just keeps going. Yeah. It's good. Like, look how far the lats are out here. Like, that's insane, man. Back to, I don't know, man. I, I don't know with this added mass. If he brings like the 2024 conditioning, if he can condition and he's going to be tough to beat, he's fucking huge. I predicted he's going to get his title back, but I guess like somebody said, he's like, you say that all the time. So I guess it doesn't really, it doesn't really mean much. Um, does Ian still have his fitness app? Yeah. Do you go, don't give me money. Go give me. Sign up twice. You just got to ask some questions. That's all. He doesn't want to give you money. Just, yeah, just use Cody in on anything. Okay. Uh, what do we got? What do we got here? How different do you think placings would be if different at all? If there was no head judge swaying the decision, making, making by deciding who stands in the middle of a call out and the judges were not allowed to speak to each other or look at their peer sheets. Paul, that's a question for you. If there was no head judge, how would the fucking shit run? I think in categories like bodybuilding, um, classic physique somewhat. Um, and, um, women's physique, women's bodybuilding, like the more muscular categories, I think you'd still get, uh, you know, you still get the same pretty much nine times out of 10, right? Times out of 10, the same people going in the middle, pretty much the same people surrounding them. But the other categories that are a little bit more, um, you know, the judging a little bit different criteria, like bikini for sure. More nuance to it. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I think those ones would be all over the place. So if you think if there was no Steve Weinberger and it was just eight or seven or whatever judges sitting at the table and they all had a sheet between them, you think the outcomes would be almost the same for the, for the more muscular categories? Yes. Let's just talk bodybuilding for, but yeah, I think eight times out of 10, at least it'd be, they'd be pretty close to the same still. Yeah. I think I can sit. I can think I can agree with that. Ian, you think so? Yeah. I think for the most part, you, but you'd get maybe a couple more outliers, but like that's when the high and low judging would eliminate that anyway. So I think the placings would end up virtually the same. Yeah. Yeah. Why do we need a head judge? You know, that that's of course, assuming that you have a good experience judging panel. Yeah. Yeah. Let's assume that they're all trained properly. Yeah. Why do we need a head judge? I think without a head judge, it's like, cause I think it does make it more exciting when you get them grouped. Cause if you didn't have a head judge, what would you, you'd get compile your scores and then you'd have to live, get the statistician to then make the call outs. Like how would that work? If not, you would just have maybe the 20th place guy in the same group as the first place guy. And no one would be rearranging them to like give the entertainment of like seeing first, second, all standing there. Cause you would, it would take too long to have like everyone score it. And then it goes to statistician. And they say, okay, these are the top five guys. Let's put them in a call out. Like that would just be too slow and cumbersome. So like you need a head judge to keep that cadence, you know, direct directing it. Yeah. Well, if you have proper communication between the head judge and the rest of the panel, it should kind of play that way. Anyways. Yes. The head judge should be asking for feedback from the other judges. So I'm saying if you didn't have that person at all, then, and there's no communication, that's like the person saying, no, look like nothing. Then how does that happen? It wouldn't really work as well. It would take too long to compile it anonymously. Then have that announced as your top five. Yeah. And then comparing them, you know, I think, I think, I think, I think what this person is really trying to ask is if there was nobody directing, right? You have, obviously you have like, this is just the way I see it. I could be totally wrong, but if you're sitting on a panel, you're like, you want to feel like, you know what you're talking about. So you're probably going to try and agree with the head judge more often than not. So what I mean is like, if he says, you know, Derek's in the middle, Samson's on the left, Andrew's on the right, Nick's on the outside, Martin's on the other side. That's how they call it. You're probably going to kind of go, along with that. Even if he doesn't say so. Well, I think at most, and Paul, I'm sorry to interrupt. I think you'll agree with this. I think at most level shows, and definitely as you get higher, they'll have that discussion and be like, Hey, I want to see this guy. I want to see this guy. And you'll usually get him compared in there. If it, if it makes sense, you know, like most guys are, we'll speak up and say that. Well, you, you and I, and when we judge together, even, even though the regional shows, it's not usually much of a debate, you know, we'll talk, we'll be like, Hey, you know, what do you have? Can I see number 30 in this, in this group as well? And then you'll put them in the group and run through and be like, no, they're not putting back in the second group. Or sometimes it's like, actually they're better than this guy. Move that guy into the second. And you and I have also disagreed on placings in the past. We've disagreed. Yeah. But hold on. What I'm saying is like, you guys have a second to agree or disagree with each other. Right? Yeah. What if you just didn't have a chance to talk? That's what I'm saying though. But I think, but I think that's maybe a little bit better. Cause now you're getting that person's actual opinion without, I think you could unencumbered. Well, no, because I do that at a higher level show where you have higher level judges. If you've got a regional show and you couldn't do that. Let's just pretend we're talking about the Olympia alone. Okay. Then I think you could do it there. Cause I think, and I don't think there are, I don't think they're very agreeable always really. Like I think at that level, like it's, it's not just like someone says that and then they agree because someone said it. I think there's a lot of like, I don't see that man. Like I, I'd like to see this guy. I think this guy's better. They're like, no, you're crazy, dude. I want to see this guy. Sure. I'm going to tell you what, in my fantasy world of bodybuilding, if I could change one thing, it would be, it would be live scoring. I would love, I would love to see, you know, the seven judges and you have seven like things up there. And I would love to see it scored live. If that built more trust and, and more transparency, I'd be all for it. Yeah. I'm all for it. I think the only thing it does is ruin a little of the mystique for finals. That's all it does. Yeah. True. You know, doesn't that get like, you kind of know if like you, you look, you kind of know looking at it anyways. That's what I mean. Like you're getting, like you also don't like it is still in the back of your mind. Cause you don't actually know there is still a mystery there with, when you start to show it, then it's like, all right, well we know the places we don't need to come back for finals. You would kill your finals tickets a lot for sure. But what if you were scoring poses and not placings? I think people would still kind of end up seeing over time that that dictates what the final result is. And I think for finals tickets, you would get a pretty big drop off of people kind of already knew like, all right, we know where these guys are placing. We don't need to go back. I don't know if that's true. You think it would result in ticket. Mike, Mike, you're a fan. Mike, what do you think? I don't know about that because that's what we just talked about with Nick was, didn't Nick win more poses, but so if they did the posing, like, like who I'd say, and that's what scores you were seeing, but you're not getting those nuances of shape and muscle. Hold on a second. Mike, sorry to interrupt you. I don't mean, I don't mean that would be the only way it's scored. No, I know, but that would be the only way they would show the public was those scores with, with the posing. Right. But the public would understand that there's still the other nuanced areas of, of criteria. It would have to be explained that suppose for pose. Right. I just think it would add an element of like, Oh fuck. Nick won the side chest. Look, it was nine, nine to 8.8. You know what I mean? Like, it's kind of like, kind of, if you just didn't use the judges, but you had little keypads, like, you know, voice in those shows or whatever, where the public does. Everyone votes. That would be cool too. Everyone votes. And then, then you can see on the finals, you know, how close it was to what, what the public wanted. Yeah, that would be cool. You could see the hard, thing to eliminate that is that with social media now is there's so much, there's so much like fandom bias. Yeah. Like some, some guys could be a 10th place guy, but they could be C-bomb level famous. Yeah. And they're going to fucking win every single time. It's like, you fuck it all up. You know, like even like, you know, with, with like any show like that, you know, you get a lot of guys that have a crazy level of fame that aren't necessarily the top guys. Well, it's like Wesley and Mo, we saw that. I was, I was going to use that example. Like Wesley, you know, I love Wesley. He's got an awesome physique, but if we're judging it as a bodybuilding, as a bodybuilding show, Mo wins that. Mo wins. But, but Wesley's going to win that by fan vote every single time. Right. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. It's tough. I don't know. I don't really know the logistics of how I would want to implement it. I just think there's something, there's something to do with live scoring that can change the excitement of going to a bodybuilding show or even, or even watching it on a live stream. You know, if you see it on a live stream and you see his scores pop up across the board while the guys are posing, I think there's an element there somewhere. If somebody can figure out the logistics of it, that would create more excitement in watching bodybuilding because it would be real time. It'd be real time. Shit. Where you'd be like, I'm interested to see what that would more due to the cycle psychology of the athlete, but the athletes not, but they wouldn't necessarily, well, they would, they would know if the public all those, they're all going to know. They're going to know after. They're not going to know after. Yeah. Well, they get off stage. They're not going to know. I'm going to say they're going to get off stage and they're going to know exactly where they're placing. Yeah. But like, I see how that might affect the finals. No, I'm just curious to see what it would do. Yeah. But they're not going to know their placing. They're going to know the score on an individual pose. Yeah. I mean, there's still the, there's still the nuanced side of it that the judges have to compile and figure out. Right. So like Nick, it's only so much, but yeah, I agree. Nick will go into the fucking hotel room after knowing I beat Andrew on a side chest. He knows he beat Andrew on a side chest anyway. Yeah. Right. So it's not like there's any surprises there. I just think for the fan watching at home, there's a level of instant excitement. That's not. So how are you scoring it? Are you scoring as an individual score in that pose? Or like, are you putting that say, you know, a team is 10th place in the side chest or, you know what I mean? Like you're placing everyone in the whole lineup in that pose. I'm, I'm scoring. If there's five guys, this is how I picture it in my mind. There's five guys on stage. There's scoreboard above them. Or if it's on a live stream, it's at the top of what place they were in what pose. No, no, I'm saying I'm giving you a number for that pose. So if it's like 10 is a perfect chest side chest, like the Olympics, you do it like, yeah, like, yeah, like fingers. Good. So like Martin, Martin side chest is a fucking nine. But if you stand there next to Nick, Nick's is a 9.5, right? Like, so like, like, and in your world, like Chris bumps, said side chest is a 10. Yeah. So like, that's how I mean it. Cause then you're not giving away the scoring of who's winning, but there's still something to watch. Yeah. Right. Cause you're like, Oh, so-and-so beats such and such in a most muscular, but not. It would be interesting to see that like extrapolate over time because then like those scores would be comparative, you know, because like, you know, someone that has a 9.5 side chest that would kind of have like, you know what I mean? Like in figure skating, you know, like if you score a two 37, like that could be a world record score. That's like a really high score, no matter what the competition is. Right. You know, like if you're scoring a nine plus in a side chest, like, you know, you know how many guys have a better side chest, the whole world comparatively to that now, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Cause you'd have to score it universally all the way down that like, it couldn't just be per show, you know? Cause like if someone is, even if they're winning, say Tampa pro, you could win the show, but it would have sixes in every pose. It's not necessarily what I'm saying just because it's really, it's relative to your competition, what you're winning. It's not necessarily the, the pose in that show, you know, Oh, you're judging the pose as that pose out of 10, no matter what, all the time, not compared to another person. Are you, is that what you're thinking? That's what I'm saying. Cause if you're giving it a 10, it's scoring that pose to the person, not to the part, like in bodybuilding, you're scoring at first, second, third, fourth, fifth, not a score out of 10, which is now individual to the person. Right. Right. Right. So like now you'd be able to see that across the board from everyone. And that's why like in, in figure skating, it's like, you know, a certain trick can only attain a certain score kind of thing like that. You know what I mean? Right. Yeah. I don't know, man. Look, I, like I said, I don't know the exact logistics of it. I just think it'd add an element of, um, but I'm saying it'd be crazy if you could see like, okay. Yeah. This person has the only 9.5 on a side chest. This is the best side chest in the world. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Like by numbers, that's the best side chest. Well, because we always have those debates like, Oh, who's got the best back double bicep and bodybuilding statistically by the scoring. This is the best side chest, right? Cause they've got the, the highest score that's ever been scored in the side chest. You know, you can even go a little bit further with the poses. Like instead of, um, like each pose, you can, you could, you could grade it by the criteria conditioning, yeah. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. Conditioning. Well, you don't want to do that. Cause then you, now you have like 18 scores and the audience would take forever. I know the audience, the audience gets, the audience will get lost, but the judge that's sitting there, it would also take forever at a high level show with a lot, but you would take those three criteria for each pose and then compile your final score for that pose or final placing for that pose on that competitor. Yeah. You, you know how much this would slow down the show though, Paul. Oh, absolutely. Yeah. No, I agree with you. It would take fucking 75 hours. Yeah. I mean, if you just had, if you had bodybuilding only, you could have that. For sure. Wait, wait, wait, wait a minute. Wait a minute. You're sitting at the table, right? Yeah. Weinberger's like side chess. They call their side chess. Yeah. You're now looking down every one of the lineup and giving them three scores for every single thing. That would be so. No, no, no. One score, one score. But even then that would, it would be slower than comparative against another. It's slower for sure. Yeah. It'd be slower. Cause you'd have to hold each pose a little bit. Yeah. You'd have to hold each pose longer to get an individual score versus just seeing through the poses and seeing who's better. Yeah. Comparative versus like individual scoring per person, you know? Yeah. Yeah. It would be cool, but it would be slower. It's not feasible with the amount of competitors. We can do it. We can do it in Detroit. Cause we only get two classes. You can do it in Detroit. You could. Yeah. Maybe we'll do it first. Yeah. Maybe next year. What we'll do is we'll do just at home judging on the live stream. Yeah. We'll figure out. And they can fucking judge purpose by conditioning. This and that. Yeah. Cause if you just make it vote for a person, then it's more open to fandom. If you actually have to score honestly, like, I mean, it can still be dishonest, but it's harder. It's like, you're being more objective. Cause you have an exact criteria. Like you're never going to say that, you know, this guy, even if you love him, his conditionings at a 10, if it's clearly not, you know, right, right, right. So like it, it puts you to be a little more honest and then you can say, Oh shit. Okay. Maybe my guy isn't as good as I said, as much as I like him, you know? Yeah. I got to figure out how to do that, man. That'd be pretty fucking sweet. Yeah. There seems to be a lot more people talking lately about transparency and judging. So, I mean, if you could find some way to, well, they're talking about it in a different way. I think there's a lot of, there's a lot of people talking about it in a negative way. Like, uh, we want to figure out why they're putting this and you're cheating and whatever. Right. I don't mean it like that. I'm not either. I, I, I think it adds a level of excitement to the fan watching. It does. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, okay. Let's burn through a couple more and then we'll go. Uh, would you rather live in space for a year at the bottom or at the bottom of the ocean? Base. The bottom of the ocean. The bottom of the ocean. Fuck the bottom of the ocean. That's way worse. Oh no, no. The bottom bottom of the ocean is scary as fuck. Yeah. Scary and cold and dark space. Yeah. Space, man. Mike's like, fuck that. Mike's like space doesn't exist, bro. What the fuck? Uh, Mike, are you a flat earther? No, no. Okay. No. Um, uh, well, I didn't vote for Biden's. I mean, no, top three feeling as a man. Hanging lights. Hanging lights. I was just going to say, fixing shit around the house. Yeah. Working on your bike, working on your bikes. Yeah. Fixing shit around those. Winning a fight. Not going to check out. Not going to check out in the bedroom. So she's just laying there. Oh yeah. We're not going to do that. Not going to check out and fixing shit around the house. That's it right there. Yeah. And maybe, maybe killing an animal. Oh yeah. Okay. That's, that's okay. I don't know if I've experienced that. Which does that break the top three thing? Cause knocking out a chick where she's like, just had so much. You can't take anymore. I can't take too much dick. She has so much dick. She's dead. She just, she's dead. I killed her. I literally fucking killed her. Yeah. I killed her with my dick. Knocking out a chick. Knocking out a dude. Dicks are down. Fixing shit. Is there anything better for a guy? Test level over 2,500. Yeah. Honestly, is there anything better than those three things? That's, that's pretty peak. Yeah. Yeah. What were they again? Knocking out a chick. Knocking out a dude. And fixing shit. Yeah. Well, I don't care about the fixing shit. Yeah. Give us a third. Give us a third then. Something manly. Just training in general. There you go. That's gay. That's gay. Boxing. But that's knocking out a guy. That's knocking out a guy. Yeah. It's like number two. What about. Helping someone less fortunate than you. Oh, yeah. What? I know one. I know one. No, no, we're not that good. I got one for you. Bang. I beat up someone less fortunate. Wait, wait, I got to hear this. Say what, Paul? Banging a girl in your first place that you paid for. Super specific. Super personal. Well, I mean, that's where he peaked in life. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's like, this is it. We've all. My first apartment on Frank. Is that what you jerked off to? Or what? 1,400 bucks a month. I paid for this. My TV. My TV. It's one thing to finger bang a girl in your parents' basement. But when you take a check into your pad and slay her. You finger bang her on your fucking coach. You finger bang her on the mattress on your floor. You finger bang her on the coach that your buddy gave you. That's your mattress. No, that's. That's peak. That's peak there. Okay. Want some microwave popcorn, babe? Some tuna, maybe? Some tuna. Can't tuna. In the comments section, leave us. Leave us some. Yeah, leave us your baby shit. Feelings as a man that would fit into the top three. Ask Paul if he could finish a high rocks competition in two hours. Oh, man. I don't want to try something like that. I know what he's going to say. Zero percent chance. Give me four weeks to train for it. Well, what's a good time for a high rocks? I think an hour is like pretty good. Like, like Seth, I think it was like 50 something minutes. Right. Paul, it's hard. No, I think it's a set. It's a set workout as a high rocks, isn't it? Oh, I thought it was different. Like, like advanced CrossFit. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I probably couldn't do it. Uh, should we see it or should we see what the workout is? It's CrossFit for woke people. What is advanced gym classes? What it is. Okay. Paul, I got it. I got it here. So it's eight. Exactly. Eight kilometers of running with eight functional workout stations. Each proceeded by one kilometer run. So you do a thousand meters on the hand skier, 50 meter sled push, 50 meter sled pull, 80 meter, uh, burpee broad jumps, a thousand meter row, 200 meter farmers carry a hundred meter sandbag lunges and a hundred wall balls. And between, between each of those, you're running one club. Oh, no, I'd be waiting for an hour. What the fuck are you doing? I don't even drive that far. What the fuck are you doing? You gotta do that. Just go work out, man. Two hours. There's no chance. Just work out. And then we'll move treadmill afterwards for 20 minutes. Yeah. Seriously. We're coming. We're coming. We're coming. We're coming. We're coming. We're coming. We're coming. Can I tell you something? I'm really stupid. I think I'm going to, I'm going to divulge some information. Probably going to regret. But when I see those guys, I think to myself, they could probably fuck for hours. Yeah. They got endurance. I'm always jealous. When I, when I see those guys, you need to be able to hold your load for that long, despite how long you can do it without us like being sweaty, fat messes. You know, I still dude. I think like I, that's the only reason I want to do that shit. Just to be able to, I don't want to feel the fuck for hours. I don't want to fuck for hours. I don't want to fuck for hours. Mike. I want to fuck till she's dead. You want to kill your wife? He's checking out. He wants to check out the third man. Yeah. So you got complete. What happened? You passed out. You hit her in the back of the head. Yeah. Why do you feel like a man? Splashing water on her. Wake up, baby. It's too much for you. Got smelling salts on his fucking mic. Round two. After you guys retired, did you keep shaving your bodies or did you let the hair grow out? And if you let the hair grow out, was it immediately or did it take a year or so to let it, let it go? I keep shaving mine. I'm a hairy Italian. I only shave my, if I'm going to take off my shirt and like to, to wear a tank top or cause like Mark wants to take photos. Other than that, I would never, I did ever get uncomfortable before you. What? Shaving it. No, no, no. I have a lot of body hair. No. Like when I wasn't used to it because I was shaving it every fucking day to take like progress pics and shit when I was competing. But once I got used to it now, like, no, it could be fucking four feet long and I don't even notice it. It doesn't get itchy enough and under your shirt. Not anymore. Mine does. It does feel good when you shave your body. Like you haven't shaved in a while and the t-shirt's just like floating on you. Oh yeah. Yeah. Just feel that like, Oh yeah. That does feel good. This motherfucker. Yeah. That's a good. I don't, uh, I don't ever shave. I trim. Yeah. But I can't let the fucking, I can't get here. It's just, it's not even, I don't even get itchy or anything. I don't stink. I just don't like it. I just fucking don't like it. I can't do it. I think I look, I think I look bigger. Yeah. Bear smile. Yeah. Yeah. Do you get it on your shoulders and shit too, Ian? I got it. I never did. Make some taller. Yeah. Uh, you have eight weeks to get in shape for a comeback show. How would you do it? 1400 milligrams of trend. Wrap it up. Uh, what's Paul's type? I'm interested in this one. Type of what? Woman. What's Paul's type? One that's nice. Find it. Black chicks. That's it. That's it. Nice black chicks. That's it. Well, I'm an ass man. So they got a nice round ass. So nice black, big ass. Big ass. What about a BBL? Paul, would you take a girl with a BBL? What's a, what's a BBL? A fake ass. A Brazilian butt. No, no, no, no, no. I eat real stuff. What if you didn't know? What if it was like so well done that you didn't really know? It's like, I couldn't tell to the touch or the look. No, it's like, it's outrageous looking, but like, you're like, it looks, it looks normal. You know, as long as I like it and it feels good. I'm fine. Um, pretty quick. What's that? What's that? Just a little bit. Um, some black, you don't, you don't want, you don't want like a stay at home wife. No job. No, I don't want a good mix. He doesn't want anybody to stay home. No, no. You got to leave for at least eight hours a day. Black, black. And what other race do you want? You got to mix another one in there. Okay. Um, I always like Polish. Asian, black and Polish, black and black. And from black to the whitest country. What? Yeah. Yeah. Well, a blonde, black girl. Yeah. He just wants his cake. It's because it's because he's racist. Yeah. But he wants that. He wants all the physical attributes of black. He wants a big ass athleticism for his children and everything. But you know, you know, Jade Cargill is from WWE. No, Google that. That's what Paul wants. What's your last? What's your last? I think. Let's see. C-A-R-G-I-L-G-I-L-L or something. Oh, there it is. One second. Yeah. This is Paul's future. Oh yeah. I can see Paul with her. Let me see this. I don't want anybody over 40. Well, she's jacked. You can work out with her too. Oh yeah. This girl. Yeah. I like that. 30, 33 years old, half black. She's got a good job. This is it. This is the one. She's definitely not staying home all day. This is the one. This is the one. Let's get a train. Yeah. I like that. Maybe I'll send her a DM. She's black with blonde hair. So I need this laundry. Perfect. It's literally everything. You can literally have any color hair you want. You know what you should do, Paul? She's busy. She makes more money than you. She's half black. You're good. She's nice. We're going to work. Send her the picture you just did, the photo shoot. Yeah. There you go. And a nice message. Just say, hey. Yeah. Ask her if she wants to 10X herself. By dating a Lozon. In that picture. Yeah. All right, Paul. Mike, have you had a good time, buddy? We were happy to have you on, man. You fit right in, man. It was nice having you on. Thank you. I appreciate it. This is awesome. Do you want to say anything before we go? Anything you want to plug? Your coaching business? No, I'm good. You're good? Okay. Yeah. Paul? Make it a good one, Paul. Say it in his prayer for us. Okay. We have a guest tonight. Don't fuck around. Okay. I'm just seeing Mike's name for the first time right now, though. What is it? What? What is it? What is it? Interpret it for us, Paul. Gabe up sex? Gabe butt sex. Gabe butt. What? Gabe butt sex. That's one of your better ones. Oh, man. On that note of Gabe butt sex, please say a prayer for us. Clean us out. All right. Let us clean us out. Clean us out so we're prepped and ready for the Gabe butt sex. Give us an enema. Get the doo-doo shout. All right. Let us pray. Dear leader, as we bow our heads and look to the heavens for you, I want to dedicate tonight's prayer to our guest, Mike. It was a pleasure having you, Mike. You seem like a cool guy. You're a little bit stronger than me, though, so we're going to have to up my game a little bit because I have to be the strongest 50-plus-year-old on the show. But I think I'm a bit leaner than you, at least, so I think I might have you. He's really hanging on that lean. I know. He's like, I'm not sure. Conditioning is very important. I'm not sure how your balance is, Mike. I don't know if you got symmetry or not, but I consider myself pretty balanced. So that might be another advantage I have, maybe. But you got size on me. Holy fuck. His traps are bigger than your whole upper back. Yeah. That's a hell of a prayer. Yeah. I also got this leg injury right now. Would you shut the fuck up? I'm going to say a prayer for myself tonight. I need some help with this. I got some BPC coming. I'm hoping that heals it up. There you go. So pray for me. High doses. High doses. Yeah. So pray for me for that. Anyways, you guys got any problems you want to ask for some forgiveness? Finish it up, Paul. Or some help with? Okay. Let's take it home then. Until next week. It's always a pleasure. Amen. No. Fuck you. Amen. What the fuck was that? He told me to bring it home. You started a prayer. Then you made fun of our guest. And then you fucking said amen. You did say I was big and strong, though. I compared physiques with our guest. I like that. Well, all right. So, well, you know what it is. The weather is starting to turn finally. Some nice weather coming. Don't flip them as well. For those of you guys who ride, you know, be safe out there. And I got to get to bed soon. I got to work early tomorrow. Worked all day. Worked in 12-hour shifts now. All right. All right. Oh, my gosh. Shit, Paul. I got a show this weekend and next weekend. And please vote for me. Vote for Paul. Vote for Paul. The link will be in the description. Yeah. And if you get a chance to, maybe just push them to get me on the cover. There's something you can do about that. Send me the link. I want the link. Everyone send a DM to the Facebook page. Okay. I'll send it to you guys in the group. I sent it to Fuad. All right. Good night, everybody. Amen. Good night. See you guys. All right.