 cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep cep there. We have to share. We, we can't, uh, you know, see those who can't do teach. Yeah. Well, you know what? I feel like it's my responsibility or one of my responsibilities is to bring to the masses. Somebody asked me one time, do you, would you like to be personal training? And I said, I like what I do because I can reach more people than if I was just training one person or two people in the gym every hour or whatever. And I feel like that's kind of, I take it upon myself as a little bit of responsibility. We have a lot of fun on the show, but I feel like every once in a while, it's important to get to the important stuff, which is we all want to, I think all of my listeners want to bodybuild. They all want to be jacked. They all want to be big. They want to put on, put on muscle. I feel like it's my responsibility to try and teach them to do that while mitigating some of the pitfalls that I endured and people that we know endured. So that's why I feel like you're the perfect person to bring on for that. You couldn't have said it better. And that's the same way I feel is that I want people to be able to pursue their goals the same way that we had the opportunity to do ours, but utilize a little bit of our wisdom and experience along the way. I think that the, the below the title of my next book will probably be how to exceed your genetic potential and live to tell about. Yes. Yes. And that's what it's funny. Um, Broderick Chavez made me feel stupid one day because we were talking and I said, guys want to go past their genetic potential. I think that's why they use things like growth hormone and things like that, because you know, they're, you're adding satellite cells and you're kind of almost changing your biology in a way. If that makes sense, if that's even accurate, I'm sorry if it's not, but that's kind of always how I always thought about it. But he said to me, just by using anabolics, you're already exceeding your genetic potential. You're doing something that your body wouldn't have normally done on its own. So, uh, like you said, all of the people, well, not all of, but a lot of the people that are listening are, have gone down that road and are exceeding their genetic potential. And I'm worried that they're not paying attention to the other side of things. But not only that, I don't want to, I don't want to make this whole podcast about like, you know, be scared of the boogeyman, right? Something else I've learned along the way since my accident is that a healthy body is actually a more responsive body. And I think one of the things that I didn't know when I was a professional bodybuilder and I don't think was talked about very often was that if you can make your body healthier, if you can make your blood work better, you're actually going to put on more muscle. Is that accurate? Do you feel the same about that statement? Do you think we kind of all went the wrong way? Can you maybe shed a little light on that? A hundred percent accurate. And I want people to be able to push the limits of their body. But at the same time, there's things that you can do to make sure that you're healthy. So those, you can push further and for longer, right? I set my final world record in powerlifting when I was 45 years old and I started competing when I was 18. Right. So I've had the opportunity and I've made a lot of mistakes along the way. You and I both know we've, we've, we learned from experience and most of the, we had to learn multiple times, you know, we tell people now about how, how detrimental the dirty bulk is. But we, we did it at least a half a dozen, if not more times throughout our career, you know, just try and get as big as possible. Right. But yeah, there's some very simple things, affordable that people can do. And, and now with, you know, groups like, I've been talking about this, as you know, for damn near 15 years, I've been talking about blood testing and about how I've been getting blood tests and now everybody's doing it. And, and the barriers to entry are, are much less in terms of access and affordability. Right. And with this group, Merrick Health has taken a whole nother level to make it accessible and affordable. I used to pay damn near $400 for a comprehensive blood test online 15 years ago, 10 years ago, even five years ago. And now that same test is under 200 bucks. Yeah. Maybe one, six. And so affordability is no longer the issue. And then some of the, we'll talk more about what some of the ancillaries, I guess you could call them. And people think about those in terms of additional performance enhancing drugs, but I just think of them as things that you can take with a stack to mitigate, uh, like you said, mitigate a very important word, uh, some of the side effects that are extremely accessible and affordable through, you know, telehealth groups like Merrick Health. So we should, we should dive into that and start telling people, Hey, if you're going to do this, also do this. Sure. Let's start with something a little more basic. So one of the things that people know me as the eating guy, I love eating. I I'm known to be a binge guy. I'm known to be a bull head, like a heavy bulking offseason kind of guy, which are all, you know, now I know not necessarily great things, but I want to get into that because people are still doing it and it's still kind of a fun thing to do for bodybuilders have the eating challenges and things like this. But I want to get into just a binge and what it does to a body. So I know there's a cascade of events, but I don't know exactly how detrimental it is. So I was hoping you could explain a little bit to me when a guy goes on a 5,000 calorie binge or cheat meal or whatever they want to call it. What are some of the negative effects that take place and how far does he have to go before those negative effects start to be like once it, what, how much food do I have to take in before it's a problem is what I'm kind of trying to figure out. Yeah. I think it's highly individualistic. I think that there's a big difference between acute and chronic. If you're going to have a 5,000 calorie day, you know, go hard. It's not something that you want to repeat over the long term, because there's no evidence that these huge calorie surpluses give you more hypertrophy or strength gains than a modest surplus. Okay. And as you know, there's a whole host of people on the internet now talking about, you don't need a surplus at all. You can access your own body fat and then supply enough protein and the training stimulus. And we're hearing this over and over and over again. This is both in terms of general health and performance that it's just not that the training is far and away a greater stimulus than the eating. And this even boils down to protein intake. We see that if you're going to pull a lever, that's going to give you the biggest return on your investment. Adding a little bit of protein or a few extra calories is a small add on really dialing in your training and recovering well, of course, with sleep and stress management is where you're going to find the, I think the bigger, much bigger return. Can you give me a little bit more specificity in that area? Like you're saying a little bit of extra protein and all that, that's the easiest way to get somebody to kind of start to look the way they want to look and change their physique. What are we talking about exactly? A gram per pound, a gram and a half per pound? Are we talking about lean body mass? Are we talking about overall body mass? Can maybe let's get a little more specific for people watching. Yeah. When you say people watching, we're talking to bodybuilders. Some, some of them, some of the people that are watching are not, are not all in our world. Yeah. I get clients that are gen pop. They're, you know, dad bods and soccer moms and they want to know weight loss. You know, the vast majority of clients are actually weight loss these days. Um, and I think what we're seeing now from the evidence is that right around 0.8 grams of protein per pound of body weight appears to maximize the hypertrophy response. And then there's this really thin kind of asymptotic, you know, if you're trying to, to wring out the last one half of 1%, then you could bump that up to a gram per pound. And I would suggest that would mean weight, a gram of protein per pound of lean weight. Cause if you've got a significantly overweight individual, you don't want to match that. Um, and that's what we're seeing. And, you know, when you've got just phenomenal experienced researchers, uh, like Stu Phillips, uh, up in McMaster university, who's been doing this for 30 years with the PhD postdocs studying protein metabolism and, and hypertrophy using, you know, biopsies and MRIs is you're really, you know, you're really not going to get, it kind of goes back to what I was just saying previously, a meaningful, it's not going to make a meaningful difference to go from 0.8 to 1.0. Does it matter if I'm on steroids or not? It would matter less really because yeah, steroids make increased nitrogen retention and make you more efficient at digesting protein. Okay. So you could even take less. The thing about steroids is they kind of, they, they widen your, your, your lane. They decrease the minimum, uh, effective volume, right? Meaning you could train less and still gain muscle and they increase the maximum recoverable volume. So you could train more and harder and, and still be able to recover without over fatiguing and plateauing. Right. The difference between the two is where people are arguing, you know, could, could you get 90%, 98%, 99% of the same result from doing a little less as doing more? Because you and I, you know, historically it was, it was a badge of honor. If you could go to the gym and you would limp or crawl out of the gym and you would be sore three days and your muscles would lock up in the middle of the night when you were sleeping and you had to walk down the stairs, holding onto the rail sideways, one step at a time. We bragged about that. Or at least we felt as though, you know, I still do brag about that. Yeah. And, and it's, it's sad now to find out that a lot of really good power lifters, great person body lifters leave reps in the tank. We dream of that. Right. Right. Not only would you not leave a rep in the tank, but someone would have to help you up with the last rep. Yes. And then they would push down while you resisted at least a couple more. You didn't do a set until that, until you just went limp and the, and two guys had to drag the weight off of you. Right. Right. And we prided ourselves on that, you know, because it's always that, you know, I can outwork you kind of mentality. Right. Now we're finding that, that you're better off taking the gains and coming back to fight another day. Right. You're better off repeating more consistently a high level of effort without, I told John Jones, when I went to his camp, UFC heavyweight champion, when I went to his camp to work with him a couple of years ago to get him ready for heavyweights, I said, look, we're not digging ditches. We're building mountains. All we need is, is a sufficient stimulus and, and to provide something that's measurable and progressible, you know, and cause you know, the mentality of UFC fighters is much like you and I just discussed about ourselves coming up. It's the same mentality. You know, you don't have to be damn near carried out at the gym. You didn't work hard enough. Right. Yeah. I mean, this is, this is something John taught me a long time ago when me and him worked together. John Meadows. Yeah. John used to say, dig the ditch, but don't dig the ditch so deep that you can't walk out of it. And that was kind of like the, the really, really the thing that stuck with me because we did used to dig that ditch so deep that you would need a hand pulling yourself back out. Yeah. And, uh, that really resonated with me and I, and I kind of kept that, but going back to protein and steroids, the funny thing is I remember when, you know, the, the thought process used to be that if you were on steroids, that you could handle more protein, not that you would need more protein, but that you could handle or absorb or digest whatever that means more. So you should eat more protein because you're on steroids. So what you're kind of telling everybody now that was, that's completely asinine in that you, the fact that you can handle less means you should eat less. Yeah. I don't know if it necessarily means you should eat less, but I'm saying as you become more efficient and utilize the protein that you eat, so you can, you know, get more benefit from. Okay. So on the flip side of that, I've always kind of had this question. I kind of know what you're going to say, but I want to ask it anyway. A lot of coaches seem to choose one side or the other when it comes to carbs and fats. They're either like a really low carb guy and they do like a high fat diet or they do the opposite where there's like zero fat. They're doing egg whites and chicken and fish and no fat at all. I know you're probably going to tell me it's a balanced diet, but is there a way that people, you know, people are doing intermittent fasting. People are doing, you know, all these different types of fad diets. What do you suggest for, we'll start with just the average person that wants to work out and look good? Yeah. You know, I did a seminar in Iceland with Hawthorne Bjornsson 10 years ago now, where I nearly two and a half hours go over every aspect of the vertical diet. And I have said from the very beginning and we'll repeat now in response to that question that there's many paths to the same destination, particularly when it comes to weight loss. And they all work the same way, create, you have to create a calorie deficit if you want to lose weight. Yeah. And you have to find the diet that you can adhere to long-term. Some people seem to be able to adhere to a calorie deficit by skipping a meal, intermittent fasting. Okay. Some people seem to be able to have less hunger by cutting back on carbs, keto. Sure. Uh, and others use a calorie counting method, uh, just to track calories in the app or what have you. And they can, uh, they find that they're in better control, having a more balanced diet. There's only three types of diets. I know we think there's hundreds, hundreds, because there's some that have been studied and none of them shown to be any better than any other diets when they compare them, uh, long-term in terms of outcomes, long-term dietary adherence. You can get water benefits, you know, from glycogen depletion and food volume in the short run from depleting carbohydrates, et cetera. Right. Um, but, uh, I think Dr. Peter Atiyah came up with this little thing. It's a CR, DR, and TR. Those are the three diets. And then we just talked about it. There's calorie restriction where you track your calories. Yeah. Uh, there's a dietary restriction, the DR, and that's where you, uh, eliminate a particular food item, be it carbs, um, you know, or anything that a caveman didn't eat. That's dietary restriction. And then time restriction where you do eat in a window or alternate day or once a day, you know, whatever you choose, whatever flavor you choose. We don't see any independent benefits of, uh, either on weight loss or other health markers, uh, from doing intermittent fasting. There's been a lot of claims about autophagy and, um, and cancer prevention, et cetera. And it just the, any health benefit that is realized from one of these diets, and I'll include all of them in there, even though I think there's pros and cons to, to keto intermittent fasting in particular, uh, the health results come strictly as a result of the weight loss itself, irrespective of the diet. And we've seen that repeatedly in the research. So the weight loss is the primary driver of, of reversal of poor health outcomes, et cetera. Uh, so I don't think any are better than the others. Now, when it comes to performance, and again, I said this 10 years ago, you need enough fats to satisfy your body's, uh, hormonal requirements, your AD and K absorption, et cetera, uh, for a healthy diet. But fats beyond that, which provides you a health benefit, don't demonstrate a performance benefit. Whereas carbohydrates, uh, an adequate amount of carbohydrates. I'm not saying that means you have to eat carbs right before or load the day before, but if you have sufficient glycogen in your system, you're going to perform better, uh, in anaerobic activities, such as, you know, high-speed sports or weightlifting. Um, now we don't see that that means you have to jam down a big carb drink before training, but you have to have sufficient storage in to, uh, in order to have an optimum training. And with recovery, it does appear that, uh, particularly if you're training twice a day, that you want to restore the glycogen depletion so that you can have better performance. Same thing would be true of hydration, but so when I recommend a diet that's more quote unquote balanced, uh, the diet, the intent is for performance. Now, if it's for just for weight loss, my primary focus is satiety. Does this prevent you from getting angry and, uh, going off the diet and binging? That's my primary focus. That's what these new GLP one agonists do so incredibly well. It's why they're so effective. They just cut out hunger. Right. Right. And that's something I want to get into. I wonder if we should touch on that before. There was something you said that I found very interesting, which is, you know, all the diets are pretty similar, uh, in the main health. Right. And the health outcome that you're getting from it is mostly from the weight loss itself. And where I want to go with that is we're kind of doing the opposite thing in bodybuilding. So whether you're bulking heavy or not, the main goal in bodybuilding is how big and heavy can I get, you know, like you have a Samson Daudo walking around at 350 pounds, you know, you have, you know, some of these guys now, the, the smallest, you know, the Mr. Olympia is, uh, I don't want to say small, but smaller in stature still walks around at 250, 270 pounds in the offseason. So, you know, these guys are just massive in comparison to the average person and they're walking around getting heavier and heavier and heavier. These are the P and the guys and, you know, the amateurs are, are emulating this, whether they're 200 pounds or climbing up to 250 or over there, everyone's trying to get bigger. So I guess the question is if the health outcomes are coming from getting lighter, how do we keep positive health outcomes while we're gaining weight? Yeah. Excellent. Because I, I say that, I say that one of the most important things for maintaining your long-term health in this pursuit of, of being the biggest that you could possibly be is controlling your blood pressure. And that's directly late related to, to weight. And it's, it's even more exaggerated by performance enhancing drugs that they call water retention, which compounds the problem. Right. Um, and so I could, you know, the number one on the list of reducing blood pressure is weight loss. It's the single most effective and, and, and has the highest result per pound of weight loss. But I know my clients don't want to lose weight. And this is true for a natural athlete. Like, uh, I work with Lane Johnson from the Philadelphia Eagles. He gets fined if he gets too light. What position does he play? Offensive lineman for the Philadelphia Eagles. That's why Superbowl champion. Yeah. And he's seven and he has a hard time gaining weight. So he'll, he'll settle in at about 310, 300 and so pounds right in there. And the coaches don't want him that light. They want him at three 30. Right. Well, they actually incentivize him or disincentivize him with a fine if he gets too light and he has a hard time eating enough food to gain weight. And you want it to be, you know, decent weight, uh, if you can, or how do I say healthy weight? Uh, this is the same thing that Mitchell Hooper asked me when I started working with him a couple of years ago, uh, uh, world's strongest, uh, man, Mitchell Hooper. Right. You know, Stan, I want to get bigger, but I don't want to get fatter and I don't want to get unhealthy. Sure. And so the two biggest things, one is going to be blood pressure. Okay. Uh, and these athletes don't want to lose weight. Matter of fact, they want to gain weight. And so the second thing on that list, the number two thing on that list of things that have the hugest impact on blood pressure is going to be sleep apnea. A lot of these big athletes end up with some degree. And again, it's not an on off switch. It's a, exists on a continuum, some degree of sleep apnea and sleep apnea can significantly increase blood pressure. So one of the first things I do is I get them to either get a sleep study or, you know, just use a stop bang questionnaire on the internet. Do you snore? Uh, do you wake up tired? Does a significant other recognize you holding your breath at night or stopping breathing? It's not really holding your breath. It's involuntary. Right. Uh, or now we have these, uh, uh, these little finger deals that measure your pulse called a pulse oximeter. Um, and it measures your oxygen, uh, saturation at night and you can, you can put them into your iPhone and do kind of a, uh, you know, a rudimentary home sleep study. I'm saying this because sleep studies are expensive. What is that called? A pulse oximeter. You can get them on Amazon. Pulse oximeter. And it goes on your finger. It's what they, you know, when you go to the doc and they do your blood pressure and they put that little thing, that little clip on your finger. Yeah. It's a, it's a pulse oximeter. This thing. There it is. And they have them hook up to an iPhone so that you can get readings throughout the night. It'll tell you if your, uh, oxygen level drops down too low. If it gets down into the eighties or even, you know, 90, 91, 92. Yeah. You're having a hard time getting enough oxygen while you're breathing. And that's going to have a huge impact on your blood pressure and your recovery from training for that matter. So you wear that all night long and your phone records your oxygen level. Yep. You're using that. You're using that to go, Oh, you dip down to 92 or below or whatever the number that you decide. Yeah. And then that's going to tell you whether you need a CPAP or not. It's a rudimentary way. See sleep studies are very expensive. They can call 1500 plus dollars in the United States, or they can take a long time in Canada or other countries that have socialized medicine. My clients overseas, they have a really difficult time getting in to get a sleep study. Yeah. And then most often, especially in Canada, uh, and other socialized medicine, uh, countries, the doctors will tell you to lose weight. They won't just give you CPAP because they're expensive. They cost a couple thousand dollars through the medical. You can get them on Craigslist for 200 bucks. And this is kind of an end around. I'm talking to bodybuilders as a bodybuilder who since the mid nineties had to wear a CPAP throughout all of my career and still do. And this isn't just for big guys, even smaller, lean guys who have thick necks, uh, may experience some degree of apnea and can benefit from a CPAP for blood pressure and recovery. So Stan, can you tell me what, so, okay. So I've heard this many times before. I don't know if my listeners have as well, but that a CPAP is very good at lowering blood pressure and all of that. The thing I want to ask you is I'm having trouble wearing mine and I, and all, and a lot of my listeners are the same. They're like, I can't wear my CPAP. I've tried, I've tried so many different masks. I've tried everything I can, every, and then the ones who do fall asleep. And I'm like this as well. They'll message me and say, yeah, but I rip it off halfway through the night and I can never keep it on the whole time. So do you have any suggestions for these kinds of questions? Like, I'm sure you've received these kinds of questions as well. Of course. Uh, there's been times where I've flown out to, to a client, house to set up their CPAP so that it's more comfortable. When I first started using a CPAP in the early nineties, just as my body weight started getting North of two 40 or so, I found myself waking up in the morning, exhausted and wanting to fall asleep all day long while I was driving to work or while I was sitting at work. And so I got a CPAP and they used to be a CPAP is continuous positive airway, right? So it was like driving down the freeway with no windshield, just all night long. And it was intolerable, but I dealt with it and I ratcheted that headset down until I, you know, until my, my jaws were sore and I woke up sore. Uh, but it, it, it was life changing. And I don't say that about a lot of things. You and I have been in this business for decades and we don't, we don't say that about a lot of things, but I, I woke up two mornings later and I was like, damn, it's like, it's unbelievable. See, I haven't had that epiphany. I'm waiting for that. Yeah. Well, I was a younger man and you're tired from just about everything when you get to be all right. But, uh, uh, the mask is always the challenge. Now, nowadays they have these auto PAPs, which are called BiPAPs where when you exhale, the machine interprets your breathing and stops forcing air in and set the amount of pressure that the machine will give you and will relieve you. It's called respiratory pressure relief EPR and most machines. And you can just go to YouTube and YouTube your machine with programming instructions. It'll tell you how to get into it and what adjustments to make so that it's a little more comfortable when you exhale, it's not still pushing air into your face. Sure. So that's one. The other thing is the mask and people respond differently to masks. And I, about a year ago, and I've been meaning to do a YouTube on this, but I've been lazy. Uh, I discovered a mask that is a nose mask. It has no, one of the things that's annoying to people is, is the headgear. Yes. It's cranked down and Velcro and then it leaks and, you know, all this stuff. So I found a nose mask and, and I don't know why the, the name of it is escaping me right now, just off the top of my head, but I'll have to give it to you to update in the notes, uh, below, but it's a, it's a CPAP mask with no, with no headgear. You might just Google like this mask, no headgear and see if it pops up. I think this is what I did about a year and a half ago. I, I, I just Googled CPAP mask, no headgear and it works. It works with a mouthpiece. Oh, a bite guard. Interesting. Okay. Well, we'll have to, we'll have to come back to it and see this one. T-A-P-P-A-P tap tap is what it's called. And it works with a mouth guard. You know how you, you can, you boil those bite guards and you bite on them and they form to your teeth. Yeah. Like when you go in, you just snap them in, just snap them right into your teeth. Yeah. That's the tap tap right there in the upper right hand corner. That's the mask I've been using for over a year. And it is absolutely incredible because it has these soft pillows that go to your, to your nose. Right. Yeah. And held on with one of these snap in bite guards. You have no head gear on your head. Awesome. That's what I need. It works amazing. Now, pro tip, initially you want to put a little bit of Vaseline around your nose because those, those there's going to be some irritation, irritation, just so your body calluses or gets used to it. Sure. And then secondly, some people open their mouth while they're sleeping. You can use a piece of, of mouth tape and attach it to the tap tap and to your lip and it'll hold your mouth shut. It's a little awkward. You have to, you have to do it lengthwise instead of across. Sure. I was going under the, the, the bottom lip and up onto the cheek for a while until I figured out you could just do it right here. A piece of tape. Hard to explain. I just encourage the listeners to try that if they're having trouble with their mask, it has been unbelievable for me because I had a lot of problems with the pressure. Right. That's what happens to me. Yeah. I would get really sore here almost to the point of a headache. Yes. I would strap because every time, if I didn't strap it on tight enough, air would just leak out the side and I'm like, okay, this is pointless now. So I'd have to like really wrap it up to my head. I have a little, I have a little mustache, but it doesn't affect the nose pillow. Right. And it's super comfortable barring getting any, you know, abrasions from, uh, getting used to it. So, so guys, so you think all bodybuilders north of 240, or even if you're in that realm need to be probably a CPAP most likely. Yeah. There's a, again, there's a questionnaire on, you could just Google called stop S T O P bang, B A N G stop bang. And it just asks you a number of questions. Do you snore? Do you wake up tires primary too? Right. And then you could try the pulse oximeter just to see it and, or your wife may be able to tell you your significant other. Yeah. I was surprised how common this was at 400 plus pounds. When I went up and stayed with him in Iceland, like a freight train. I was in a room clear across his house and it was like shaking the walls. And I'm like, brother, don't you have a CPAP? Same thing. He said, well, yeah, I do, but I don't wear it. It's uncomfortable. Same with Lane Johnson, uncomfortable, Dan green, you know, all of the big guys that I've worked with over the years. Uh, but it's unbelievably effective. If you can just be persistent and try and solve some of those problems with the expiratory pressure relief and possibly a new mask. So let me ask you that. Let me ask you how this works, Stan. And hopefully you can explain this to me. Let's say my blood pressure is high. Let's say it's one one 40 over whatever 90 or something like that. And I want to bring it down. If I were a CPAP, am I seeing that change immediately? Or is it like a gradual thing over the course of a month or two? Or like, how does that within a week or so really the lifestyle changes for, for, uh, blood pressure can happen very quickly. If you stop doing some of the things that are causing the problem, you start doing some of the things that can help right after a CPAP, probably one of the biggest things, you know, I would say exercise, but we're all, you know, we're pretty much exercising about all we can. If we had any more energy, we would invest it in the gym lifting, um, uh, insulin resistance, but I don't see a lot of that in bodybuilders. I see a lot of that in bodybuilders, Dan. You really? Well, because the thing is, and I'm sure you know, this obviously growth hormone contributes to insulin resistance. So guys are not eating the way they used to. So this is the thing that I've noticed dietary wise. insulin resistance is better because guys are eating a little bit cleaner and there's many cuts in their diets and stuff like that to bring back insulin sensitivity, but they're also using growth hormone, which, which contributes to insulin resistance. So there's still that there, right? So you're saying insulin resistance also contributes to high blood pressure. Absolutely. Yeah. That's a big one. Okay. So if we're re if we're using growth hormone and let's say our diets aren't perfect, or even if our diets are perfect, sometimes if a guy's on a high carb diet for a long period of time, that can also kind of contribute to insulin resistance. But let's just say it's still a thing that's around. How does somebody correct that? Well, the growth hormone, obviously you'd want to use smaller doses, would be the, you know, you got to be careful with what is much because what is smaller doses? And let's, let's again, preface this with, with, we're talking about, let's talk about a, somebody who's competing, who wants to be a bodybuilder. The average people don't necessarily use growth hormone. If they do, it's an IU a day or something like that. So let's talk about bodybuilders. Uh, very individualistic. I always had problems when I started, uh, implementing growth hormone with insulin resistance. And so I had to only use it for competition for the last, say 45 days before the show. Uh, I didn't use it a lot for powerlifting because, uh, I would get, I was already heavy and I, and I, and I didn't see any evidence that it contributes to strength gains. Sure. Right. And so, but I did see that it benefited, uh, lipolysis for the last four to six weeks of bodybuilding. It does, did seem to see some benefits there. So in, in small doses now, mind you, the last week you'd want to go off for the, the water retention. But, uh, other than that, uh, I felt as though there was some, some, some evidence that it helped you get leaner. Do you think it's benefit? Sorry. Do you think it's benefiting guys to put on muscle? It's hard to deny it in, when you see, you know, folks using it, but we don't see that in the mechanisms. We don't see that in the, in the research. It's the problem. And so I'm, I'm torn to give a definitive answer on that. But, uh, I guess it's because of the dose and, and I will go back and talk about that dose. I just, it seems like a really effective dose for bodybuilders is around four to six I use a day. And I don't know if that's what you found. Yeah, it is. I want to ask you this as a separate overarching question. Do you feel like that sometimes what is found in the literature isn't always found in the reality? Yeah, possibly because literature doesn't cover these dosages. Right. Okay. So there is things that we can point to in bodybuilding that work necessarily that we can't find a study for. Yeah. We have studies on testosterone going up to 600 milligrams a week, and we see a linear increase from 200 to 400 to 600, but it stops at 600. And we know that, you know, today's crew probably is closer to a gram a week. Uh, and you know, some more, and I would caution that the side effects start to become, uh, you know, the juice isn't worth the squeeze at some point. Right. Um, and so I'm not, I'm not making recommendations in terms of dosages. I'm just saying that the more you take, the more likely it is that you're going to have to mitigate some of these side effects. Right. And we're talking about lifestyle changes. I said, maybe you reduce your growth hormone and, uh, you know, because insulin resistance is a problem for blood pressure and you get into sleep apnea, uh, CPAP for sleep apnea. Um, the next things on those lists is going to be potassium intake. You know, the dash diet trials were, uh, people perceive them to be about low sodium diets, but that's not what they were. They were, they, they reduced sodium, but they also always increased potassium and calcium. Right. And we see in, uh, even now in like primary hyperaldosteronism and this, I don't mean to get too deep in the weeds, but this is now in the two 20, 2025 guidelines from, uh, the endocrine society and AHA suggest that people with idiopathic hypertension or that, which they don't know why it's happening, um, uh, should get this test as many as maybe 25% of, of persistent hypertension could be because of this primary, uh, hyperaldosteronism where the adrenal glands are, uh, uh, uh, aren't reacting. And what happens with this is that it increases sodium retention and decreases potassium. Okay. That's what is going on behind the scenes. If you don't have hyperaldosteronism, uh, you need medication if you do, right. Uh, if you don't have it and you increase your potassium intake to 4,700 milligrams a day or thereabouts, and that's just, you know, a daily baked potato and some fruit and yogurt, you add that to your normal diet and suddenly you'll have 4,000 plus milligrams of potassium that has a significant impact on performance as well, but on blood pressure reduction. So do you think bodybuilding diets are inherently heavy in sodium? Is that why? Yes. Just almost the most of it is simply because the calorie intake, the more calories you eat, the more sodium you intake. But I thought a lot of the foods we eat are high in potassium anyway, you know, like, sorry, let me just ask this as a question instead of assuming are all of our proteins that we eat various forms. 100 milligrams of potassium per ounce of beef or fish or tuna. It's pretty considerable. If you're going to eat. We're looking for 4,000 to 4,500, 4,700 milligrams. Uh, the big one would probably be eating a potato, which is twice as much potassium as a banana. So I would, I would encourage a potato or two a day that would get you 900 to 1800 milligrams right there. Right. And then fruit and yogurt. Those are kind of the three that I throw in there on top of your meat consumption that gives you a significant, uh, and with fruit, I'll use the berries. The, the four berry blend from Costco is, uh, strawberry, raspberries, blackberries, blueberries, uh, because it's also got nine grams of fiber per cup. Sure. Well, I think that loaded with potassium. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think avocados in that same boat as well. Yeah. And then there's a calorie consideration of avocado because it is pretty calorie dense and might not be a problem for most, but it is mostly monounsaturated fat, which might start to edge us into the next conversation. But after we wrap up blood pressure, uh, uh, if you cannot get the results, I'll mention one exercise that seems to be twice as effective as walking or jogging. Mm-hmm . That is, uh, isometrics. Okay. You just did a wall sit or a hand gripper, you know, for 90 seconds or did a leg extension and held the weight up. Yeah. If you did this, you know, a few sets of each and maybe every other day, we see a 10 to 12 point reduction in systolic blood pressure. Whereas jogging might only offer fibers. Okay. Now is that gonna, is that gonna apply to guy that's like, you know, this guy's eating 5,000 calories a day. He's taking a gram of test a week. Is this, is this gonna apply the same way to him as it applies to like the average guy? It's triage. It's triage at this point. When your blood pressure is 160, you need the 10 points from the apnea. You need the, the five or six points from the potassium. You need the five points from the, uh, sodium reduction. You need the five points from, uh, isometrics. It's, it's the one thing going to solve the problem. Right. And then that gets us on to the fact that in most cases, I'll be honest, the lifestyle interventions for these particular individuals we're talking about, myself included when I got up to 300 pounds and Mark Bell, his systolic blood pressure was 190 at one point. Uh, Telmosartan becomes almost required. And not only because it reduces blood pressure, but we see it has cardio protective, uh, effects. It can, it can prevent and reverse left ventricular hypertrophy. Okay. And it improves endothelial function. Can I ask you a personal question on this? So I was on Telmosartan for a long time. I was having a lot of stomach issues and I didn't realize it was from the Telmosartan. Yeah. As soon as I stopped taking Telmosartan after like four years, my stomach issues cleared up. Yeah. What does somebody like me do about that? Just, just a drug I can't take. Just, I'm just, those matters. Those matters. And now we're seeing in the research that micro dosing multiple compounds, I see significantly fewer side effects, right. And can provide an equivalent or even better outcome. And I'm talking maybe potentially as many as four different, this has been tested. So four different blood pressure medications and very tiny doses has better effects than a large dose of any single one. Now, even if I'm taking a small dose of Telmosartan and like Imlodipine and like Carvadilol or something like that, right. Am I still getting the, cause I think Telmosartan is also kidney protective. So am I still getting the heart benefits and kidney benefits of Telmosartan even though I'm at like a quarter of the amount. We're seeing equivalent benefits in the research with, with much fewer side effects. Okay. So that's one thing to consider if you work with, uh, and the folks at Merrick Health, they'll, they'll guide you through this. You know, if you're just sure about how you respond, it's very individualistic. So a blood pressure medication for preventative measures, CPAP diet, is there anything else that a bodybuilder needs to cover because losing weight is not an option? That's the big thing. And I'll tell you the other one, which is really controversial. And I used to believe this myself, but, uh, the evidence is just overwhelming now. And this is one of the first things that I talked to Mitchell Hooper about if he wanted to increase his calories. The only other thing is really a long-term concern, uh, which is going to be your lipids. It's going to be your cholesterol level and whether or not you're laying down plaque and all of these early years throughout your twenties and thirties. And then you wake up one day when you're 55 and you get a coronary angiography and find out you've got, you know, significant arterial blockage and that's saturated fat. That's your butter and bacon. And so if I'm going to push calories on an athlete, I'm going to keep saturated fats very low. I'm going to use, uh, really lean meats. And I've always recommended such, you know, top sirloin cap off from costs. Costco is very lean 96, four beef Trader Joe's has a real good one. If you want to eat, you know, a lot of red meat, you still can, and you could still maintain a less than 10% or lower, maybe eight or 7% saturated fat in your diet. Uh, you go to a, even though dairy has less of an effect, you still want to go to, you know, like I use a nonfat Greek yogurt. Uh, and I eat a lot. I threw a ton of dairy at, at, uh, at Hofdor and Shaw and Mitchell Hooper. And, uh, mainly because a lot of the research that Stu Phillips talks about at the McMaster University, again, shows an independent effect on BMI and performance. It's a dairy effect. I'm quoting him. Uh, and we don't know if the mechanism is IGF-1 or what have you, but we see a dairy effect, independent of protein, independent of calcium, independent of calories, um, uh, for women as well. So I throw a lot of, of dairy at my athletes, lean, uh, you know, low fat Greek yogurt, because it also has that, uh, the other benefits for digestion and the biome and, you know, the fermented, uh, food. So, so I'm loading them with Greek yogurt. Just to touch on saturated fat really quickly, before I move on to the next topic, are you against the carnivore diet? Cause that's all like not all, but have very heavy and saturated fat. Well, the keto diet can be heavy and saturated fat and the vegan diet can be poor with Oreos and things like that. So, uh, there's ways to do this. You can decrease saturated fats and increase mono and polyunsaturated fats, nuts and seeds and, uh, salmon and, and, uh, olive oil. But the reason I mentioned the carnivore diet specifically is because the carnivore diet is, is very steak and egg based, which is egg is some saturated fat, some saturated fat, and then beef, depending on what beef is, some saturated fat. So, Yeah. I mentioned that diet specifically on purpose because I, I just wanted to get your thoughts on carnivore diet itself. If it's a high saturated fat diet, it's going to increase, or it's going to decrease the number of LDL receptors on the liver, which causes your body to be less efficient at clearing cholesterol from the bloodstream. And so you have an elevation and this is how high for how long, uh, I know that a lot of these people make it, we could go on for an hour about this. A lot of these people make a lot of claims about that it has to be oxidized, or you have to have endothelial, or you have to, uh, I've heard those things. You hear all these high blood pressure, the cholesterol itself, APOB in particular is the most accurate current blood tests for, for looking at your, uh, atherosclerotic plaque exposure. Um, it, it can penetrate the endothelial lining, even if it's heavy, if it's in high enough concentration for long enough, again, how high for how long it's multifactorial. It is an independent risk factor, but there's other risk factors, you know, such as high blood pressure, anything that compromises the endothelial lining, high blood sugar, high iron, uh, all of those things will increase your susceptibility to, uh, to plaque. Uh, but that's one factor in it. People always miss, well, it's not the saturated patches of sugar. If I said to you right now, that as long as you're wearing your seatbelt and driving the speed limit, texting while you're driving doesn't matter. That's what I hear when these idiots on, you know, these counterpractors on social media talk about, oh, saturated, that doesn't matter. Okay. Hold on. They can all matter. They can all matter. Listen, I, I don't want to defend the carnivore, because I'm not on the carnivore, but I am curious about, I'm very curious about it because I did it for a short period of time and I felt really good. Yeah. It was like a six week period. I actually lost some weight, probably mostly water weight, but I felt really good. You feel pretty clear of mind. Some people say I felt very clear of mind. I slept really well. I had a lot of, there's a lot of good benefits I noticed from it, but I just want to ask you this one question. I understand everything you just said, and I understand that there are more risk factors. But the question I have is, if you're on the diet properly and you're, it's keeping you away from sugars and it's keeping you away from all these other things, then you're kind of limiting those other risk factors as well. Are you not? Now you hit the nail on the head. I've said there's many paths to the same destination. Right. And I include carnivore, intermittent fasting and keto and vegan, and there's many paths. Right. If that particular path feels good to you and seems, it's the least restrictive and you're able to lose weight. Right. That's the primary driver of health outcomes. Now, is there potentially one other thing you can fix? You know, the weight loss itself, you'll reduce your LDL. Right. Right. Right. But then at some point, and depending on, you know, if you're eating a ton of butter and bacon, you're, we have, you know, the, the, the, uh, Finnish study, they had about an 80% decline in, in cardiovascular events since, since they, because they used to be really high butter consumer. And then the country implemented a, uh, you know, a reduction in butter campaign. Sure. They had an 80% decline in their cardiovascular disease. Butters particularly, uh, you know, it's a, it, it breaks up the milk fat globulin membrane, that processing of milk into turning it into butter, which particularly insidious, uh, and high. And it doesn't matter if it's grass fed or not. It's just, uh, you know, it's going to contribute. So I said 10 years ago, and I, I said, that the carnivore diet is the ultimate elimination diet. Yes. Uh, and that some people need to eliminate things before they find out which one's causing the problem. Now, ideally, even with the FODMAP diet, which I've talked about as well, uh, fermentable oligo dye, monosatirides, and polyols, the FODMAP diet is foods that can aggravate your digestion and cause bloating and gas to the point of pain. Um, they even recommend eliminating a whole host of foods, but then reintroducing. Yes. I'm just suggesting if you're going to go carnivore, please check your April B. Yeah. And try and mitigate how high it goes by using a leaner beef. Sure. All right. Let's move past, because carnivore can go on like this can go back. Like we can talk about anyway, but I don't want to make this whole podcast about diet. I do want to talk more about health outcomes. So let's get blood pressure out of the way. I think we've kind of really dove into it well and kind of covered a few things. What's, and also the people that are watching have heard me ramble on about blood pressure for the last five years. So let's talk about something else. What is the next thing after blood pressure, a bodybuilder has to look at that he can go, okay, I'm going to do this to make sure I'm good when I'm 40, 50, 60 years old. Yeah, we touched on it. It's kind of all covered under a blood test. I would suggest that you manage your blood pressure, get a CPAP and get a blood test. And we talked about Merrick health, having a very easily accessible online format to where you can just order a blood test. They have an a la carte. You can just select your blood test or they have some, some packages in there. Uh, I have one on my website in particular, standofferning.com that links, you just go hit blood tests and it links to Merrick and it gives you one that I've pre-packaged that I use. Um, and it, uh, it includes a host of the things we just discussed, obviously like a complete blood count is going to tell you if your RBC hemoglobin and and hematocrit is elevated. You don't want to have thick blood. Um, uh, having said that you'll scroll down a little ways and you'll see blood tests down there at the bottom blood work. And you click on that and it should, uh, uh, here it gives you a little description. And then in there, there's another thing you click on. It's going to take you directly to Merrick health website. There it is. This is Merrick. Well, it's because the main question I get from people is what blood package, like, what should I check? What should I ask my doctor for? And yeah. And I have to check a funnel with my pounds. I think it comes to about $144. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't, I don't want to make this a Amerik health, uh, commercial. Sure. Yeah. I agree. But yeah, but it is one that we both trust for sure. We both use Merrick and you know, we've been using them for a long time, but just so the, the blood work is important, but why is it important? Let's get into that. Well, these are some other potentially, uh, health compromising things that you can pay attention to. Get a comprehensive panel, look down and see if, uh, if any of these things are out of range. One would be, if you've got really high, uh, hemoglobin hematocrit in RBCs, you don't want to have too thick blood. This is a really good one. I want to get into RBCs. So people are constantly getting their, you know, they're going to get, uh, the phlebotomy done where they get their blood. Uh, how would you describe it? Just get their blood removed. They donate blood. Yeah. Yeah. They're donating blood and that's supposed to reduce their RBC. Now what I've discussed before is your RBC is just going to come right back up. Yeah. Yeah. Can you, can you maybe touch on how to bring those numbers down? You reduce your testosterone intake. And now we've got me and you, me and you, we're going to be coaching client for a minute. You, you're my coach and you say, you're my doctor and I'm the athlete and you say, reduce your test. And I say, I can't, I got a show coming up now. What? And now I'm microdosed your testosterone in a smaller amount and use and drive masteron a little higher. It's not as, uh, potent, uh, on RBCs. And so that's kind of where I've settled in more recently is just bring your testosterone down to, I don't know, even as low as, as 140, you 20 milligrams a day, uh, and then use Bastron to drive the rest of your anabolic, uh, results. So instead of, so let's just play this out just so people watching, and I know we're not, we're not prescribing any dosages or anything like that. We're just going to say me as a bodybuilder, I'll take my example. I used to use a thousand milligrams a week or 1200. I actually went up to 1200 milligrams a week at one point. Uh, but anyways, you would say to me, instead of taking 1200 milligrams a week, you can take four or even less. Yeah. Testosterone and microdose it, but you can supplement the rest with Mastron. Is that what you're saying? Yes. It's exactly what I'm saying. Okay. And that's going to help. I've been giving my clients for years and, uh, we, we see a little improvement in estrogen conversion, sometimes higher testosterone results in really high estrogen. And that's not something I'm necessarily concerned about. I'm more concerned about low estrogen, to be honest with you, than high estrogen, but you know, we want to, you know, and then the water retention as well. I just, we see less of that with the Mastron. Okay. Uh, so, but it's important to say this about these, uh, these RBCs, hemoglobin hematocrit. You also need to look at your platelets and your ferritin. It tells you, because if, if you have low ferritin, which is an iron storage marker, you could give your, potentially give yourself anemia from over donating chasing numbers. Right. And and, uh, uh, erythrocytosis is elevated RBC and hemoglobin hematocrit that happens at elevation for people say that live in Denver. Uh, and you don't necessarily have phlebotomize them. Polycythemia is different and that's a, you know, a condition where your body overproduces and, and can be, you know, very damaging to your system. So you've got to be kind of cautious. This is where it takes somebody like Merrick health or you and I to kind of go in there and say, yes, donating is generally a good idea, but let's look at your platelets and let's look at your ferritin because I don't want to give you anemia. I don't want you getting low iron. Then you'd be exhausted for months. The thing is, Stan, is it a good idea though? Because doesn't your body recycle red blood cells at every, every 90 days anyways? Yeah. Yeah. So if it does, then like, I just don't understand the point of donating. If my body is going to recycle my blood cells, my red blood cells every 90 days. And if I donate, the number is just going to go right back up anyways. Is this whole thing just a game? Like what, what is the point of donating then? Like what am I, other than, other than donating for the public, which they can't use anyway, because you're using steroids. So other than that factor, why would I donate anyway? You know, it's, we've talked about acute versus chronic and, uh, I would, I would kind of compare this to body weight as well. One of the mitigating factors for bodybuilders who gain a lot of weight in the offseason is they also diet down for competition. That's not always the case with strong men and power lifters, right? They have your wrath. And so my recommendation, when I first started working with Hoff Thor, he was 440 pounds. Uh, I asked him to come down, lose at least 7% of his body weight and he lost about 10%. He ended up getting down to about, uh, 395. Um, and then brought him back up for competition. So I periodized the same way you would do with lifting, you know, for power lifting, you would periodize, you don't always, you can't constantly redline your, your vehicle. Right. So you're, so are you saying, are you implying that just the donating and the time it takes for the body to bring the number back up? It's still that gap is still healthy or healthier or beneficial. And we do have some research showing that donating does have some positive long-term effects, but this is generally, the research is showing like once a year. Okay. A bodybuilder might need to do it more often. If they have a significant problem, I would try and mitigate it in other ways, like reducing the testosterone dose and microdosing, and then consuming more water and just trying to make sure that your blood isn't too thick too often. So before we go on to other, uh, factors on a blood panel, I want to touch on microdosing really quickly since you brought it up. There's kind of been this, like, it's not really a debate, but I guess it kind of is a little bit of a debate, something where like, it doesn't make sense. It's just overlapping esters, blah, blah, blah. I understand the peaks and valleys argument of like, uh, injecting testosterone. But like, it doesn't have to be every day. And are we seeing, are you seeing that much of a benefit side effect wise? I'm not talking about performance or both. Again, very individualistic. It doesn't have to be every other day. If you go from once a week to twice a week, which I'd recommend anyhow, because the half-life of some of these, uh, testosterone could be the shortest five days, whether you're doing that day or syphanate. Uh, so it could be twice a week. And again, you're back to the peaks and valleys is sure that's absolutely the reason why, but peaks for, uh, conversion and valleys for, uh, just kind of your general, uh, you know, well-being. Some people find that because I used to get testosterone doses once every two weeks. You remember that? I do remember that. Yeah. Especially in Europe, that was a common thing. And, uh, some people would have these, these, uh, peaks and valleys. They'd have these moments. Matt. Matt. Those were horrible valleys. I know a guy, I knew a guy that was getting it done with a doctor and the doctor was, and this isn't long ago either. This is like a few years back. And a doctor was doing a shot for him. He would go to the doctor and get the shot done every two weeks. And after, after every week, he'd be like, man, the second week, I just feel horrible. And I'm like, yeah, because the testosterone is gone. Not gone. Obviously it's not gone, but like the valley is just gone so far. Yeah. So you're cutting down your own system and then there's no more of the exogenous in there. And all of a sudden you stand back. So you're saying it doesn't have to be every day. Like we don't have to be that crazy about it. It can be two times, three times a week. Yeah. And I wouldn't think it would be a difference. And I've tried other things. Remember, I'm 58 now. And I started TRT when I was 20, when I was diagnosed hypogonadal, uh, varicocele when I was in college. Right. And, uh, you know, from there I've obviously did bodybuilding and did my own thing. Uh, but now that ever since I've retired from bodybuilding, I've played around with some different things and I do blood tests regularly for well over a year. I went on a cream and my testosterone never went over 600, 650. Uh, I didn't, I didn't feel as good, but you know, and it's in the normal range. Yeah. Uh, Lane Norton's natural. He's, his is 1100. Yeah. Yeah. I'm cautious about the ranges. You treat the patient, not the numbers. And if you don't feel good, you know, at 600, then maybe nine would help. Or there's other things, you know, maybe your sleep's bad or your stress is bad. I'm not saying it's a panacea. Yeah. I'm saying it's you're not getting the ideal benefit. And so I prefer to be around 1100. And so I, uh, I was unable to get there on the cream and I felt like shit. I gave it a hell of a run. Yeah. And then I was concerned about the RBC hemoglobin and hematocrit for a while. And so I did the Kaiser trex, the oral, uh, which is, uh, which reduced my hemoglobin hematocrit. Uh, but, uh, uh, and it's my fault. I went off for about 10 days when I went to the States. Is that, is that a prescription drug or is that over the counter? Yeah. That doesn't have an adverse effect on the liver, the way that it's made. It's an oral testosterone that, uh, that doesn't impact the liver negatively. Okay. Okay. And I don't know if, uh, I, I absolutely 100% know this because I didn't take it for 10 days when I went to the U S and they got my blood test and my testosterone was like 50. So three months and I didn't, I didn't feel all that great on it. And so I went back to injectables and, uh, and I, you know, I, I generally stay around 11, 1100 right in there. Can I shock you really quickly for a long time? I stopped taking testosterone. Like after I was done bodybuilding, I retired. No, I just stopped taking my shots. I just didn't want to take them anymore. And I kept, I kept like, I would do a shot then like three weeks would go by and I'd, cause I'd forget and I would do another shot. Then like two weeks ago by and it was just very sporadic, like just a horrible, horrible way of doing it. And I'm like, you know what? I'm just not going to do it anymore. I don't care. So I stopped doing it. My test levels went all the way down to one 50. I felt fine. I felt fine. I was training every day. Mind you, I wasn't obviously as strong, but like, I didn't feel all the things that people say, like I wasn't crying during commercials and I wasn't like, you know, nothing bad happened to me. I was living, it was like a happy person. And my wife actually liked that guy a little better. Cause he's a little bit more even toned. It wasn't like as edgy. So like, what is that? I mean, 150, nobody would advise that. Even my own doctor was like, Hey, you gotta, you gotta start taking your shots. Pete the person, not the numbers. And so if you don't have side effects, generally speaking, anything in the normal range, there's a wide range. I worked with a world class power lifter who was natural. His testosterone was 400. When he said the test, I'm like, is this your sister's test? I totally teased him about it. And we see that in Olympic athletes as well. But a lot of that suppression is from the overtraining leading into the Olympics when they get their blood tested. So there'll be around 400, but you don't see significant difference in terms of outcomes. This is why these test boosters are generally so, so worthless in terms of actual hypertrophy is because they don't move the needle enough. They might, they might bump you from 400 to 550. Sure. Some people potentially, and it just, it's not a significant enough difference anywhere in the normal range. People seem to get the same benefit. It's just when it starts affecting things like you said, your mood, your libido, things like that. Now we do see that, that there's some research showing that true hypogonadal males have increased cardiovascular disease risk as compared to those in normal range. But that may be one of those associative type studies where those folks also tend, because their testosterone is low because they're probably overweight and they probably have sleep apnea and, you know, they probably don't exercise. It could be associated data, but they're even strong. So I don't want to move through a whole blood panel because we could be three hours just doing that alone. But there's only a couple of other things we already talked about, lipids. Yeah. So lipids, we talked about blood sugars. So let's hit on that real quick. There's obviously a fasted glucose and an HA1C, and that can give you some good information as to your, your, your insulin resistance now. But those numbers can stay in the normal range for many months, if not years, while you can see lagging indicators. Or those are lagging indicators. While you can see leading indicators like triglycerides and fasted insulin. So triglycerides can be in your lipid test, but most people have probably seen their total cholesterol, triglyceride, HDL, LDL. That's your typical lipid panel, which is like seven. Seven days. So get one of those. I've already suggested, and we've talked about the fact that I just don't think you should let your LDL skyrocket out of control. I think that's a long problem. But the average age of first heart attack is 65, but add testosterone onto that, which causes dyslipidemia and suppresses HDL and increases LDL. And you could accelerate your potential exposure to that kind of thing, plus the high blood pressure. So, but triglycerides is in there and triglyceride is usually converting sugars into fats and shows up in that lipid test. And, and that can be an indicator that you have, you're welling up with some pre-diabetes that it looks fine with your fasted glucose and HA1C. Right. But fasted insulin is another number that may be elevated showing you that, hey, I'm on the verge of something here and those should be managed. Yeah. Yeah. And the number one thing to do there, obviously you mentioned a big one, which is, you know, apnea matters, uh, and growth hormone matters. Sorry, Stan, just to, I, just to stop you real quick before we get away from sugars. John used to tell me that fasted insulin was the most, like, I shouldn't say the most important because they're all important, but John, John used to tell me that fasted insulin was more, more of an indicator than most. Is that, do you kind of, yeah. Okay. Can you give me a couple things if you're pre-diabetic, like let's say six, whatever the, I don't know the unit of measure everywhere, but like six is like diabetes and then like 5.5 to six is, is pre-diabetic. We don't want to see 5.8 and above. Okay. Um, fasted insulin. We like to see that, like to see it under six. Normal range goes all the way up to, I think 19. We don't want to see near that. Um, so how does somebody, how does somebody, first of all, can they get there if they're not eating a bunch of crap? Like if I'm just eating a high carb diet and, and I get there because of insulin resistance from growth hormone or whatever, how do I start to change that? Do I have to go on a low carb diet? Do I have to do many cuts to get rid of my growth hormone? Like what do I have to do? It's sensible when you have insulin resistance to reduce carbohydrates because it's not that it's not that the carbohydrates cause the insulin resistance. So like some people claim on the internet, you know, your glucose goddess group, eating carbohydrates causes diabetes. That's not the case. Diabetes is caused by energy toxicity, eating too many calories and the formation of fatty liver. Okay. This is, this is how the process happens. Your liver gets over fat. It's important to mention this because different people have, have different amount of subcutaneous fat storage capacity before the body starts storing in the liver. You see from India, for instance. So you, you notice some of them suffer from what we call a toffee, uh, thin on the outside fat on the inside. Okay. Uh, and you see them, they got kind of little skinny arms and skinny legs, but they have this little pot belly. Yes. Genetically speaking, and this is true in some Asian countries as well. They don't have, uh, the genetics to store a lot of their body fat subcutaneously. Like you would see particularly in women, uh, where you have a belly that's hanging out or, or, or, or obliques, right? That kind of fat is actually not as potentially, uh, harmful as the visceral fat that gets stored in and around the organs. Um, not saying it's great, but, uh, the organ fat is the one that, that once your liver starts accumulating fat, fatty liver that flows over into the pancreas and to the hearts and the muscles. And that's your, that's what predisposes you to insulin resistance. You have no more storage. I get it. Your muscles aren't using the glycogen for, you know, for training or for, or the glucose for training or forming glycogen and your fat storage is full. Is it harder to lose? Forgive me if this is a stupid question. When you lose fat, are you losing fat everywhere or does your body lose it from the inside first or the outside first? It means you lose it everywhere. You just start losing everywhere. I start losing fat everywhere. And there are some general guidelines. You lose about 7% of your body weight and you can resolve a significant portion, at least 50 plus percent of your fatty liver, a 15% body weight loss. That's pretty big though. It's pretty big. A 300 pound person after lose 45 pounds. Yeah. But you don't have to have a six pack and you don't have to be 210. Sure. You'll be 255. But if you lose 15% of your body weight and you have diabetes, you can reverse type two diabetes. Yeah. Or some people say remission because if you overeat again, it's going to come back. Right. And you need to be able to restore pancreatic beta cell function if it hasn't been, if you haven't been diabetic for too long and then, you know, they become. Right. You're repratively damaged. So that's what some of the, that's what the research suggests. There does seem to be an independent effect for high intensity training for improving liver fat reduction at a slightly greater rate. Okay. And we see that saturated fats increase liver fat deposition at twice the rate of sugar. Really? Yeah. So again, that goes back to, you know, what to stop you. Do I have to stop eating eggs? No. Eggs are high in cholesterol that are not very high in saturated fat. Is it like three grams of saturated fat in an egg? As long as your saturated fats don't exceed say seven to 10% of total calories. Okay. Dietary cholesterol will become serum cholesterol, uh, uh, in about 20 to 25% of the population who are hyper responders to cholesterol consumption. Sure. The rest of the population, it's a, it's a little different. You're actually consuming what's called a cholesterol ester and it doesn't convert or get, uh, stored or brought into the bloodstream. Uh, unless you're eating a high saturated fat diet, then it does appear that, that it's retained, uh, absorbed at a greater rate. Most of the cholesterol in your system is recirculated by the liver. Dietary Dietary I'm never going back to the carnivore diet ever. You've convinced me. Okay. Dietary Dietary then i in a popular uh youtube influencer who had read my diet and i you know i have steak and my diet and the like but he was eating you know ribeyes and and 80 20 ground beef and i said you know you and i gave him an example you can eat top sirloin cap off three pounds a day satisfied well in excess of your protein requirement right and then have you know fruits and yogurts and carbs etc and not exceed 10 saturated so that's that's the cautionary note um after sugars what do we look at uh i think a psa test to be important we do see an increase in in prostate specific antigens with anabolic steroid users particularly as you age which generally speaking results in benign prosthetic hyperplasia which could cause you know uh some urinary problems incomplete evacuation increased sense of urgency waking up more often throughout the night right i'll say this here at this moment because i've talked about this for over a dozen years going all the way back to when i was training with flex wheeler in 2008 and 2009 flex was huge on consuming tons of water he had me drinking two gallons of water a day yeah i was pissing all the time plus my calories were pretty high and as you know you know when your calories are high you can't just like stop eating at dinner time or cut down your your volume of food you got to get your calories in right so i was waking up to pee three four times a night on flex's program and eventually got tired of getting up and walking to the bathroom so i got one of those little uh rubber made you know kitchen garbage cans and i set it next to my bed and i and if i had to wake up to pee at night i would just turn turn over over and use that and i would say so somewhat embarrassingly at the time but now that i'm 58 and i've worked with a lot of clients who suffer from some degree of bph and i am prosthetic hyperplasia they're getting up three four times a night and walking to the bathroom maybe flicking on a light that has a huge disturbance in your sleep it changes your body temperature it changes your your uh um you know your your uh all the signals for your brain to sleep uh your circadian rhythms has a huge impact on the quality of their sleep they wake up in the morning tired every morning and so uh my pops is 95 still alive he's in a retirement home next to my brother in iowa but he lived with me for damn near 10 years from the time he was 85 until he was 94 before i moved here to american samoa and he had to use one of those little urinal things that you hang on the bed because he couldn't get up in the middle of the night you know he's on a walker yeah um and my son when he was eight broke his leg and uh you know the first couple of nights i had to wake up and carry him to the bathroom and uh after that i got him one of those little urinal things and so long story you're getting where i'm headed here that if you're getting up three times a night to go to the bathroom that has a serious impact on your sleep and your quality of life and your your energy and all that stuff your recovery you can get one of those little uh urinals that they use in a hospital and put it on your end table there you will screw on cap and you don't have to get out of bed and i've made this recommendation to dozens and dozens and dozens of men over the last 10 years i've talked about it publicly on as i am now on podcasts and you wouldn't believe the amount of positive feedback i get oh my god stan i i never thought of that i'm gonna do it i'm honestly i'm in the same boat i'm like three times a night i'm like yes yeah it's life-changing you you use one of those things and then you're back to sleep like that that's my biggest you know what the times i do i do have trouble sleep i get back i get back to bed and i can't sleep sleep yes because i got up and i turned the light on and i was yeah same um so there's a couple other things you want to touch on in blood work before we move on yeah i would just say at the end of the day if you get a blood test and you see elevated creatinine it's important to talk about things that that are false flags sure if you see a creatinine as a bodybuilding that is not necessarily a kidney problem you might be taking creatinine which converts to creatinine or you're working out will put muscle tissue breaks down myoglobin into the bloodstream and the serum is reading your muscle tissue not your kidney so you may if you see elevated creatinine and your doctor's concerned get a cystatin c test it's about 40 you don't necessarily have to do that some people if you've got the money just do it initially you know the AST ALT test is like three bucks right you know for so that comprehensive metabolic panel that gives you the glucose and abundant creatinine same thing would be true for AST ALT uh for your liver yeah those are going to be elevated just from working out and so you want to get a GGT and that's only about i think only about 20 or thereabouts but just don't the prop some people get alarmed by their blood test and you got to be cautious that that uh you know we don't start taking actions that are unnecessary right i think you know stan the biggest thing i've the biggest thing i'm getting i want to get to is look i've told people till i'm blue in the face go get blood work done and we're doing kind of the same thing today we're like get your blood work done get a cpap these are all awesome this is all awesome information the thing is we've got a couple solutions like if you're you know with the the micro dosing for example is going to help with your blood pressure and we got some little tidbits with the food and the you know the less testosterone a little more masteron yeah could utilize all these yeah i think we got some good information in here yeah that people can use to change blood pressure and all that so cpap so after blood pressure i wanted to get into um we got some things that can help people get healthier i wanted to get into the kind of explosion of glp since you mentioned it earlier on i didn't think this was i i'm realizing now the more bodybuilders i talk to that this has become a normal thing in competition diets so i don't want to spend too much time because you're already i've already had you on here for an hour and a half or so and i don't want to keep you too long but i think this is an important conversation to have guys are taking uh and forgive me i'm not sure how to pronounce it but i think it's reddit retrotide orchard orchard epitide uh semaglutide some of these different glp and agonists um can you explain maybe the difference the importance if it's good or bad because i'm you know there's nightmare stories out there oh my my gut is paralyzed and i can't digest food or i got this cancer from this and i got this i don't know what's good what's bad that can you just kind of give me a rundown i guess yeah um generally speaking uh these have been revolutionary uh in a positive manner particularly for people who suffer from all the things we just discussed whether it's naffle the uh obesity diabetes um matter of fact these medications were originally approved by the fda for diabetes over 20 years ago and have been used for that purpose so they just figured out how to make them last longer or make the satiety effect last longer your body produces glp but it's gone in minutes right and so you can eat foods that raise your glp it's just dumb because it's gone uh but now they've got it so this this satiety benefit lasts a week or so the best people i think that cover this stuff and all the research behind it uh you've heard of docs who lift dr nadalski uh the nadalski brothers they're wrestlers uh they were collegiate wrestlers who went on to become mds one's an endocrinologist carl nadalski and the other is a lipidologist that spencer and they probably are the most i would say prolific they have a podcast called docs who lift uh and they uh uh they prescribe uh GLP-1 agonists and have been in this industry since its inception i talked to jordan shallow um uh the muscle doc a few years back and he said you know what do you see in the future of of you know training and nutrition and diet and this that the other and i said i don't see anything in the future in training which is it's just turned into a big clusterfuck to be honest with you the the social media with all the that's a whole other podcast yeah it's so personal now i don't see anything meaningful in terms of outcomes uh but i said at the time i said there's one thing on the horizon which is these GLP-1 agonists which originally started as semaglutide uh and uh which was a GLP-1 agonist and i said these are going to be life-changing uh for for a lot of people and they're going to make a huge impact on the obesity epidemic and as it turns out over the last five years some estimates say as many as 15 of the population that's 40 million people yeah that the u.s have already and they're international these medications have been used by certainly way way more i've already utilized these medications and initially there was it was kind of the wild wild west people were making all these claims about this that and the other happened to them uh and they've evolved now into the terzepatide which is a uh glp GIP GLP-1 GIP uh so it has a dual benefit and then you mentioned redditrutide which is not uh which is not through its trials but it's phase one and phase two i believe is done um and they're seeing significant even greater benefits than terzepatide terzepatide currently is the most effective they see up to a 23 percent weight loss so what is the second what is it you said gic a GLP-1 GIP agonism well i don't i don't want to speak out of turn here i've listened to all this stuff but whether or not i can repeat it accurately i'll hesitate uh to try and do so for fear that i would get it wrong but they act on on multiple different receptors in the body right i know initially people thought they just slowed down digestion right which they do uh initially but that that seems to to be an initial effect that that starts to to be less and less the case over time as you utilize these medications which is why we got into a little bit of trouble initially with semaglutide uh because they would pre-dose uh when they were distributing this it was in a it was in a pre-dosed pen so you could only take you know the amount that was needed i think it was two and a half milligrams at the time forgive me because it's since evolved and it would give you really bad nausea and it would really you know the side effects were huge and it blew my mind because you and i when we go back a long time with things like uh melanotan for instance and if you take a full dose of melanotan you're you're down for the count you know your gut is you're sick as a dog right you if you microdose it if you titrate the dose with tiny little doses for a few days then you can bring it up for a few days and eventually you can get to a milligram there was even a libido medication made for women utilizing uh a compound derived from melanotan called PT-141 which you've probably heard of i forget the name of it but it's a it's an fda approved medication for to improve women's libido because it acts on the brain the problem is is that the doctors were prescribing it at the one milligram dose so women were throwing up how sexy is that that's not great yeah take this medication i'll throw up i'll hold your hair but the same thing happened with semaglutide and it just boggles the mind and so now they started learning that you titrate the doses and terzepatide is even more effective so you take a tiny little amount and you get your body used to it and then you can start gradually increasing the amount so what i learned is that and i'm not sure what gips do but i learned that glps were and please forgive me again i know nothing about this i'm prefacing this all with that first i was kind of under the impression that glps helped with your appetite and gips like interest appetite help with actual fat absorption or fat burning i'm not sure if this is way out of way out of line yeah i don't they have that effect i don't think they have a lipolytic effect what about what about retitrutide because i heard that kind of attacked your fat loss from three different angles and that was kind of the benefit of it retitrutide adds uh a glucagon agonist so it's three different things GLP-1 GIP and glucagon uh it does help with uh insulin sensitivity that's what it was okay can help with liver fat and all of that kind of an indirect uh manner right uh none of them really they're not central nervous system stimulators they're not uh you know lipolytic in that they free up fatty acids it's not that's not the mechanism of action i think the glucagon in the retitrutide was what i was thinking about because i knew it was supposed to help you kind of i don't know if this is the right even way to say it but it helped you is it helped to help you absorb carbs better or utilize carbs better insulin sensitivity yeah right okay there may be an independent effect meaning independent of weight loss on fatty liver with retitrutide i i haven't seen you know the full cadre of evidence of that but this is what it's looking like uh even on small doses mostly it works on the brain on the reward center of the brain i think it may be a dopamine type uh process which fortunately doesn't seem to be the same reward center for uh libido so it doesn't suppress that but it can suppress we have seen a significant reduction or in in uh in some uh addictive behaviors alcohol that's great even uh cigarette smoking some people just don't find the same degree of pleasure from those things when they're on these medications which is certainly a good side effect that's great yeah that's not to say that that you know obviously the nausea is annoying and you can try and mitigate that but with the titration um but you look at almost every other claim that's been associated with the dr peter tia came out on the megan kelly show a couple years ago and claimed that people were losing an extraordinary amount of muscle in fact he had no research to support that he just said he was seeing that in his clinic but the thing you don't have in your clinic is a comparator group of equivalent weight loss right and now we have those studies showing that when you equate when you have equivalent weight loss between those who are using glp ones and those who are not yeah you see similar muscle tissue loss it's not an independent effect that just you know burns muscle off the body that's not how it works it's just when people lose a substantial amount of weight particularly just from calorie restriction and they don't consume enough protein and they don't work out which nobody's recommending that you know you don't have protein and work out and that problem's gone so uh that doesn't seem to be an issue it actually has been shown to decrease some uh potentially some cancers it's absolutely been uh as would weight loss in general you know so what about things like um bladder issues stomach issues you know all these different kind of like think you know on the news you see these like things that just kind of flash at you you don't know what's real what's not right again 15 million people that's no 40 plus million people have used these medications right in a subject group that large you would expect to have a whole host of different things happen heart attacks car accidents you know drowning in a group that large you're going to get and this is kind of the coveted thing do you die from it or with it i got you and uh i'm not trying to open up a can of worms there i'm just saying that that just because someone's on a GLP-1 agonist and suffers uh a particular uh pathology yeah is that at a higher percentage than a similar group of people who have lost weight who weren't using glp bugs sure and we're just not seeing that we do see um like you mentioned gallbladder issues but you see that in substantial weight loss anyhow i got you and you see fewer side effects than you see in uh in surgeries um for weight loss surgeries bariatric surgeries yeah yeah fewer side effects with the GLP-1 agonist and that's not to say that some people don't you know again it's very individualistic and some people just respond very poorly but that could be but that could be any medication like if you took if you took any medication that people generally use on a regular basis there's going to be a host of people that just can't take it they have side effects to it is that kind of accurate i 100 agree okay so the dose makes and the dose is a huge important thing that's kind of the next thing i was going to get into is i know this isn't something you want to talk about necessarily because you don't want to you don't want to come off as as uh telling anybody what dosage to take but i guess i guess i'll phrase the question this way kind of two things should you start is it is it the kind of thing where you start at a dose and stay all the way through or is titrating the number one way to do it and number two is it something that you have to stay on for the rest of your life both excellent questions now the first is the dose we want to get you to a dose that works for you right right if you take one milligram a week and you don't realize any satiety benefit and you're still over consuming food uh and hopefully you're not suffering any adverse effects from that dose because it's small uh then you can move and this is just a general example right i'm not giving a specific dose for trisepitide or red or trutide very low this some of the studies and i don't know if it's trisepitide or red or trutide but they find that there's kind of a curve usually an asymptotic curve an s-shaped curve to where you get minimal benefits down here and then you see this big inflection point where somewhere between four and eight milligrams a week is giving you the the biggest return on your investment right and then as you get higher than that you still continue to see gains but as we said earlier they become a little less and less um you know it might be linear but it's it's asymptotic and so most of the studies do show that you kind of get the biggest pain for your buck between say four and eight milligrams a week uh so start at one you know uh if you take the one milligram and it gives you really bad nausea then you got to back off to half right until because the nausea you start kind of acclimating to it and and the same one milligram a week later after taking half a milligram may have less uh nausea effects and eventually you just want to work up to where you notice uh just just subconsciously maybe hey i'm not hungry yeah that's what happens and that is life changing for some people i've i've heard many people come on i'm one of those people just hungry and i heard an influencer say one time imagine the productivity loss that we never really thought about as a result of always thinking about food and then your next meal and just food food food food food you know whether you're in college or you're at work or it's constant i've been taking truce appetite through merrick and yeah i started taking ozempic i took ozempic once it didn't really do anything for me i kind of made me nauseous and then i just kind of ate right through it and i was like this is doing nothing i i and i had heard just heard so many horror stories i'm like i don't want to take ozempic but when the people you know the people at merrick were like hey we suggest this i was like okay i trust you guys so i started taking truce appetite and i got a really good benefit from it now the thing i i started a really small dose because i didn't want to get any side effects and i didn't want to like i wanted to still be able to eat i don't want to be one of these people who doesn't eat because i still i still train every day so the biggest benefit i noticed from it is not that it stops me from eating the dose i'm on has me to the point where i can eat but i don't think about food all day number one and i don't keep eating like when i start eating like because before i would start eating and i just like i would just mow through food for like an hour whereas now i eat and i kind of get full after like a normal amount and then that's it i just don't want to eat anymore and did you find that some of those bad foods some of the cravings some of those go-to become a little less interesting particularly like desserts after a meal you're like that not interesting you know it's crazy stan i 100 noticed this at that one thing and i can tell you why i missed a shot one week and i could feel the difference the following week with my my eating habits totally went back to my old where's a bag of chips give me a bag of chips give me this i feel like this i feel like this food i feel like that food and it's been a game changer for me man now that the question i want to ask is before we go because i know brother i'm sorry stan you just answered the next question go ahead and ask it well there's no no i this is i was going to lead into um i was going to lead into competitive bodybuilding because what i've realized from talking to the guys is a lot of these people are using this are using these drugs for competition you know like we used to when we used to diet we would just suffer through a diet and like when someone's who would say what do you do in your hunger you'd say nothing you just drink some water and crystal light and hope that you can get through the next two hours yeah you just ate it well what guys are doing now i noticed is it's become pretty popular to use retitrutide or trisepatide or one of these drugs during a contest diet so how do you i guess the question sorry is how do you feel about that is that is that something you would advise in a contest diet will it change the look of the muscle will it make well well it like because you know guys get in their head like that if i'm not suffering then i'm not going to look as shredded like is that real is that just they also get pissed at somebody else that isn't suffering because they are suffering and they've acquired success to suffering and how bad you suffer that's right how many times have we been to the uh uh the press conference at the olympia and somebody's like you know i work harder than you and and i go to war and who was it that uh kevin lebrone kevin lebrone used to sleep on the floor instead of the bed because he was like taco bell at 2 a.m and um i'm gonna kill myself for not remembering his name but it was the it was it was the uh fantastic bodybuilder who was in the army who passed away uh david no what am i saying that was let's say something george uh i think he won the arnold um why is this why is this not coming to me yeah it's just why it kills me that i can't remember him he's super super nice guy and he passed away uh all too young of an age uh no dallas didn't win the arnold no he was military uh press conference one year when somebody was talking about going to war and uh and they brought the microphone over to him and he's like ain't none of y'all been to war and it's just kind of funny to listen to yeah you don't get bonus points for how much you suffer you know it's it's about but people actually i know we're joking around but people do actually think and i'm not necessarily against this like i i don't know the mechanism of it but could this drug make it easier to diet but also change the way you look is that a possibility or no i don't see an independent effect on how it could change the way you look other than maybe retitrutide for uh glucagon and insulin sensitivity but a bodybuilder is extraordinarily insulin sensitive near a bodybuilding show anyhow right um but it's it's definitely going to take a lot of the suffering away you know i've always said that i'm i'm pretty empathetic to my obese clients who have food noise who are trying to lose weight because you and i both have put ourselves through that fortunately we had a finish line and we could go gorge again afterwards these people suffer with this you know endlessly throughout their whole life they're constant even when they lose weight they're just constantly hungry they're miserable right uh but we remember what it was like to go to bed you wouldn't you wouldn't think about sex at all it's oh my god no it didn't matter i mean i might but i'm not doing any work you would dream about food yes i would literally have these 3d full-color smell-o-vision dreams of a pizza going through the you know the conveyor belt and the pepperoni curling up around the and the cheese bubbling you know i and that's all i thought about i would take my friends to a pizza place and sit and watch them eat that's how masochistic i was because i i went to a pizza place at two in the morning when it was closed and sat outside and looked at the menu it's terrible yeah that was that that's now imagine that being your whole life because you just said that you have that that circumstance and for them people to be judgmental of you they have a hormonally uh greater hunger signaling than you do do you think do you think it's that genetic though or it absolutely is there's fat people i know this is gonna be so bad to say but so fat people aren't lazy fat people are fat people for a reason like they have a hormonal imbalance they have a genetic disposition it's not their fault genetic predisposition uh for the satiety signals uh we have research showing that certain foods uh as you know the ultra process hyperpalatable uh foods you can consume those it's because it bypasses hunger signaling uh or satiety signals in the brain right and so we see a lot of uh of chemical messages going on here and some people just can go without food and some people you know it's all they think about and that uh that's what this medication mitigates and you met you made one other question that that you kind of answered and you asked do people have to be on it forever and you answered it when you said right a week and you had a recurrence of the hunger signaling but i would say this to that if you have idiopathic hypertension elevated blood pressure that you can't control without say telnisarptin or some other medication what happens when you go off if you're a a diabetic and you have to take insulin to manage the the diabetes what happens if you go off if you're uh hypogonadal and you need testosterone what happens when you go off if you're hypothyroidism you know if you suffer from uh crohn's or uh or something like that which you know look at how many women uh you know how many moms out there have are taking uh thyroid medication um you know same thing would be true for uh post menopausal uh women as it would be for hypogonadal males and estrogen therapy uh can i answer that the symptoms recur yeah i think you make an amazing point like those medications are all medications that you have to be on for the rest of your life but i just want to make a counterpoint to that or not even a counterpoint more just an observation i don't think people look at this drug the same way people look at it more as a vanity and people don't think fat people are predisposed to food problems and so they don't look at it as a they don't look at it as a disease they look at it you're lazy you're cutting a corner you can't stop eating because you have no discipline and i think that's why people think that you should if you're going to use it you should get off it like it's not something you need forever just use it get some benefit from it and then get off and and have some discipline yeah is all of that i think for the most part it is that when you talk about vanity and somebody using it to get their bikini body or a bodybuilder using it to compete in the show and just decrease the yeah the of uh uh uh uh hunger that it causes them pre-contest about suffering they have to do that's very different because uh when you look at the cost benefit ratio you know when a patient discusses any medication with their doctor they're looking at what are the benefits what are the side effects do i improve my overall uh disease risk and mortality from utilizing this medication as opposed to not uh those people who do have hypertension high blood sugars obesity in general uh because you know fats increase uh numerous cancers and they put out fat puts out uh inflammatory you know il6 and uh inflammatory uh molecules into the body those folks absolutely i mean it's a it's a no-brainer uh that they're way better off being 15 percent lighter in body weight and no longer having diabetes they might be able to go off three other medications because they're taking the perser's appetite right right amazing and for those folks you know great the other people you know uh you know we we just got done talking about uh you know bodybuilders using performance enhancing drugs to compete how is through zepatine how does that change that scenario any you know it's funny you said that stan we talked about this on the podcast about the higher the moral hierarchy that bodybuilders yes like you can use trend and snort cocaine on the weekend but you can't smoke cigarettes or you can use testosterone but you can't use your sub-patide or you can you can there's all these like rules that just are very weird and like you know they applied a conversation with a trainer friend of mine all the time regarding the people that are uh that look down their nose because you're not eating organic but they're overweight and they drink right it's like that organic thing is not going to help you buddy you know so yeah i appreciate you spending so much time with me man i do have one question before you go american samoa which is where you're living now yeah this is where it is for people who are wondering this is australia here this is new zealand and american american samoa is this little little tiny tiny little place right here yeah tiny little island right it's about it's about four miles by 18 miles it's a tiny little volcanic fiji over here there's an hour fiji yep about four hours off the coast of australia so can you please tell me something is this like the promised land is this like the land of like what is a this this place looks beautiful what why did you move there it is for me brother and i'll tell you my wife was born and raised here in a okay in a village called the here on the island and her family her 12 brothers and sisters uh you know all all grew up here she left the island when she was 26 and moved to seattle and that's when i met her okay and back and forth and visited over the years her family and the like uh and now finally 24 years later yeah uh we came down christmas before last brought the kids down just had an incredible time i mean we went golfing with views of the ocean and the mountains we went snorkeling and went hiking on a new island and uh they have this big lagoon where i ride sea doos and they then and to be honest they also have this really outstanding group of people that play pickleball here on the island old man's thing i picked up the old man's sport you know you couldn't force me to do treadmill or elliptical but i'll go out and play three hours of pickleball and and just enjoy it and they had a really good group here the pickleball association here that and they have indoor courts and they have outdoor courts that sit right on the pacific ocean up against these two thousand foot tall volcanic mountains covered in green lush and the weather is amazing it's 75 to 85 degrees 24 hours a day 365 days a year do you have kids that's the big reason why we're here we have an 11 year old and a 13 year old okay and there's no place they say it takes the village to to raise a family right now you're i mean between the the churches and the schools and the family and the cousins and the aunts and the uncles and and the the multiple generations of family around here these kids are just getting an unbelievable experience it's safe and i don't want to get too far into the fact that there's there's no guns on the island and very little crime here and a serious crime to speak of the kids you see them walking at night together and it's no big deal i'm talking elementary school age right you know they can go down to the grocery store by themselves you never worry uh the speed limit on the island is 25 miles an hour so nobody skis and uh it's a paradise to raise my kids and get them through high school and then you know we'll see where we head on from there but for right now i'm i drive a golf cart around the island that's my you really you don't have a car do you i have a car but i drive the golf cart most of the time so this literally sounds like heaven where you're living i think it is brother if i told you about my day people everybody would hate me they would hate me tell me tell me about your kids at school and i go play pickleball and then i go down to the gym and work out and then i might go swimming and then i might hit a bucket of balls and then i pick the kids up from school and we go you know back down to the park or it's it's it's paradise like i'm living a permanent vacation it's incredible is okay but let me ask you this do you have this is absolutely beautiful by the way like some of the pictures yeah do you have enough stimulation there or is it just like is it like a literally a permanent permanent vacation like are you doing stuff during the day where you're like you feel like i still run my business i have my meal prep company and i have my clients so i still stay in touch with folks and uh you know i have some real estate ventures in in the states uh we're building homes in las vegas but that's with a partner so i i keep busy that way and then i i i consume a lot of content your content and that of many others that you've heard me reference while we're talking and uh i just have plenty of time it's called island time you know nobody's in a hurry here i don't have a watch and you got nowhere to be in no hurry to get there and you know what man i don't have any kids i'm gonna tell my wife we're moving i'm coming i'm coming it's beautiful i say it's like uh honolulu without the tourism because it's uh i've never been to hawaii either i want to i want to travel to some beautiful place like this yeah it's fantastic um stan you're gonna have to come back you know one of the things i've never known about you is your entire kind of origin story and history of how you became so successful and so knowledgeable but that's probably an entire other podcast all in itself so maybe when you have time you'll come back and we can spend some time getting into that i appreciate you having me brother i'd just fade away into uh into non-existence over here if you folks didn't keep me keep me on your shows i appreciate it no i uh love having you and thank you so much for the information is there anything you want to promote or plug before we go no i we already pulled up the website and talked about the blood tests and i have my meal prep company and i do online coaching so that's that's about it for me awesome okay stan we will talk to you soon hopefully come back soon and we'll have a good time thanks brother take care look bye bye