 CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA CLA C is actually pretty amazing. I'm pretty happy. These tech joggers are also not like a windbreaker material, but close, I guess. They are very, very comfortable. The guys on the team all love them. So make sure you check out the Adaptive Collection. But more importantly, let's talk about some free supplements. Today, you can buy two free supplements, get the third one free. So you're going to pick two, and you'll get the third one of equal or lesser value for free. So I got two bloodshots in there. I'm going to pick a pre-workout, throw that in there, and I'm going to add that to cart. I'm going to check the terms here and check out. When I get to check out, they're all in there. I'm going to click. I'm going to type in free SUP, apply, and it's going to give me the hostility all in one for free. So buy two supplements, get the third one free right now at Hostile. You got that deal. But we also have some free clothing. I'm not going to walk through the whole thing with you again, but pick two articles of clothing of any articles you want. Get the third one of equal or lesser value for free. And the code for that is free BW. So free brand wear, free BW. The code for the free SUPs is free SUP. The code for the brand wear is free BW. Check it out. You can get adaptive collection. You can throw that in there. We get some new stuff coming all the time. We have new proteins coming. We have new silos coming. We have new clothing coming. So make sure you check back to hostile.com. Also sign up for emails, download the app. That way you can be first for any deals. Sometimes you run deals only on there and we don't run them publicly. So check it all out now at hostile.com. Thank you guys very much. Hello, Nicholas. I feel bad. You know what, man? It's really good to talk to you. And I want to thank you for checking on me all the time. You're a really good friend. Of course, man. I'm happy we got our friendship, you know? Yeah. There's a few people that check on me, you know, after surgeries and stuff like that. And you're one of them. And I really, really appreciate it. Of course, bro. I got to tell you, this fan reached out to me and say that I'm smoking shitty cigars. So he sent you some good cigars. Yeah, but I was already smoking. This is a Romeo and Juliet. I love this amazing cigar. So he sent me some cigars to smoke. So I'm going to smoke one for him. I don't know if it's good for my recovery, but I don't think it will impact anything. If it brings you peace, it's good for recovery. I like the hair, Nick. Better than the shaved head. Yeah, I'm growing up. Look how fast it grows, though. Like my beard, like I haven't, this is not like my hair grew back. This is like two weeks, two, three weeks of not touching it. Good. Good. Be thankful because there might come a day where you're like me. It could, but my family has always had a full head of hair. Oh, then you're good. Then you're lucky. Yeah. Well, what's going on, man? How are you? I'm good, brother. Just chilling, relaxing. So, you know, I started a new podcast, right? That's like not bodybuilding related. Everything but bodybuilding, right? Kind of thing? Yeah, yeah. Like, you know, I don't mind if I talk to bodybuilders, but it's supposed to be like just other stuff I'm interested in. Did you film any yet? I did two episodes so far, and I got to tell you, man, it's fucking hard. Because you don't know anything about it, right? I don't know. I don't know shit. Care you out to say who or no? No, no. Yeah, I already had. I did one episode. It's already live. It's a... Is it? What'd you do? I got to watch it. Yeah, I did. You're not going to watch. It's two and a half hours long. You know, while I'm eating, you know. It was with Johnny Lieberman, who's the editor-in-chief at Motor Trend, because I like cars. Yeah. No, you like cars. You probably know who he is if you see him. Yeah. Anyways, we did two and a half hours. It was fun. He did a lot of talking, so it was pretty easy for me. But it's, like, hard to do it when you're unsure. Like, when we talk bodybuilding, I'm certain about 100% of the things I say. Like, I know I've been on every side of bodybuilding, whether it's supplements or media or competing or fucking everywhere. You're a little clueless here. Yeah, now I'm fucking, like, asking people questions. Like, oh, shit. No, no, no, shit. Yeah, so today I did one with Arnold Allen, who's probably, I think, ranked top five or maybe six featherweight UFC fighter. Oh, that's awesome. I like that. I definitely watched that one. Yeah, but I don't know shit about fighting. So we're just, like, I'm, like, have you ever been in a street fight? Like, just asking them, like, yeah, like, random fucking rando questions. What are your stats? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, but it's just weird. Like, I'm having fun doing it, but it's hard doing a podcast that you don't know, like, the topic as well as when you do bodybuilding and you're, like, 100% certain of things you're saying. And then you do this. Yeah, it's just, like, a different thing. So I'm, like, I'm trying to learn. It's, like, a new challenge for you. Yeah, yeah. So. But you'll have to get really good at that now. So what's going on with you? We talked, you were on last week or the week before. Yeah. You fucker, you left me. You know exactly what I'm talking about. I, yep. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. I do. So. I'm just going to say it. I don't care. We were talking about coaches, and I said something about leaving coaches, and you didn't say anything, and you had already, like, left your coach. Yeah. Which, look, look, I don't blame you for anything, but do you want to talk about it at all? Because I don't know what happened. Hi, Guy. How are you? Hi. Hi, Nick. Here's the thing on the topic. I don't. I don't. I don't. Because if I start, it's just, I'm going to literally go the fuck in. So, I'm going to be the bigger person, again, for the thousandth time in my life. And I'm just going to say I just did not like the way his methods were. It didn't align with what I do. And it was just best that I started to do my own thing. Okay. That's fair. You don't want to get into it. We don't have to dig into it. I don't want to, like, I don't want to throw anybody under the bus or, like, make anybody, like, you know, look bad or whatever. I'll be professional. You know what I mean? I thought his video was a little on the degrading side. Hi. Hi, Ian. How are you? Hey, guys. Good to see y'all. It's a long time no see. It's like the original bro chat. I know. Seriously. You know what I'll say is that this bodybuilding industry. Before you say that. Go ahead, guys. Sorry. No, no. Me and Nick said we're going to try and interrupt you as much as possible. You accomplished that last podcast. We did such a good job of it, didn't we? We fucked you up big time. Sorry. What were you going to say? Go ahead. Like, things, there are personal things, and not everything that we do has to be put on display or highlighted. And I will say that I think Nick's way of going about it was very mature, the conversation that I know he had. And I think if everything was left well enough alone, that everything would have been fine. But I feel like, and I'd say it directly to him, I think it was very selfish to go online and do what he did because it actually doesn't benefit him. And it doesn't really make Nick look a certain way. Besides, Nick was just unhappy with how he looked. And I don't know why people can't just, like, walk away amicably. Like, I understand the Chris Tuttle, James Hollingshead thing. That was out of the blue. He left Chris on red. I understand Chris's frustration. I think the way Nick handled it was very respectful. I don't think he disrespected him at all. And I think coaches putting out videos like that is just fucking asinine. There's no need to, it's a coach and a client. Nobody broke up. Nobody got a divorce. Like, let it go. Nice. Okay, my turn now. Can I, before, like I said, I don't want to, I don't want to, like, yeah, I do actually. Hi, Ian, we're talking about, um. Oh, my butt's that sweaty. I'm sure he figured it out by now. I know what you're talking about. Can somebody tell me what he said? Because I have no, I didn't watch his video. I have no idea what was said. Oh, he went in and said a lot of shit. Can somebody fill me in, like, bullet points? I, I, go watch it, man. You know what I mean? Like, I don't, yeah. Hmm. Hmm. You know what's going to happen, Fuad? Well, this is the problem. If Nick says bullet points and puts his twist on it. I know. Then things are going to come out that, well, now Nick's saying this. And Nick's saying, it's a lose-lose for Nick. So it's not worth it. This is the problem. If you're Kyle and you get a shot at coaching one of the best in the world, you're on display for the world. Right? E.M.B. and you have talked about this. And that can make or break you. And he's just playing defense. Right? Guy gets the chance, the opportunity to work with one of the best in the world. Kind of botches it. And then he now needs to save face for his business. So he's going to say whatever he has. I'm sorry. I don't agree. I'm not saying he should. I'm saying that's where it's coming from, obviously. Right? You're like, okay, I made a fucking, I made a mistake. And instead of saying like, instead of, instead of owning it and taking responsibility, you have to, you know, maybe that, maybe the, maybe the, maybe the way he's going about it is I'm going to play defense and save my business. And I just think he did it in a very disrespectful, degrading way that I would never do to somebody. Yeah. And I think a lot of it to be transparent was bullshit. Okay. Just to move on. I'm just going to say one more thing about it. We'll move on. I think people in the industry have to stop looking at coaches like a family member. Coaching is a fucking service. If you want to make it a family thing, cool. Like if you're, you know, guy and Chris Asito, you guys are like cool. We're like brothers. That's awesome. Whatever. Right. But I think part of the problem is people are trying to make this coaching thing like, oh, this guy's my buddy and he's my family and he's my friend and he's my, you know, I'm going for dinner and we're fucking having Thanksgiving together. It's like, look, sometimes it's easier, especially at your level, Nick, to just say, and people need to understand. It's not you, Nick, that needs to understand. It's people like that are in the industry watching need to understand. It's a fucking service. This is what you're paying for. You're paying for a service. I'm paying you. And somebody said this to me on a podcast and I did not agree at all. Somebody said that you should not expect to look the way you want to look if you hire a coach because coaches don't know exactly like, listen, I think it was, I don't know if it was Ben and Stefan that were talking to me. I don't remember who was talking to me. They were like, yeah, I think it was. And they were like, you shouldn't expect to get a perfect look from the first time you hire a coach because it takes them time to figure you out. And I'm like, wait a minute. And I pushed back on him because I was like, hold on a minute. You're selling me a service. You're saying to me, you're not telling me it's going to take me four tries. If I go to hire you as a coach and you say to me, hey, it's going to take me four shows to figure things out. That's a different story. But if I come to you and you say, yeah, I can figure out your body. I can get you shredded for the stage. No problem. And then you botch it. I'm sorry. It's a service. I'm moving on then. I'm going to say, okay, well, you, your service sucks. You didn't do what you claimed you could do. I'm moving on. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. The only thing I would ask to that in response is, and I don't want, I hate to use this. Like now, if that's your expectation, because most coaches will say that. Are you just going to then just one show coach doesn't hit it. Next coach doesn't hit it. Next coach doesn't hit it. Next coach. No, no, no, no, no. I'm not talking about you, Nick. I'm just asking a rebuttal. No, but this is the, because now that's the rep I have now. So let me, I'm going to chime in a little bit. Yeah. I will never leave a coach. Yeah. Well, we spoke about this this weekend. So I understand. That I feel went fully all the way in and was fully aware and fully paid attention and missed the mark a little bit. Cool. Let's fix it. In my opinion, that's not what happened. Yeah. And that's why this situation occurred. Yeah. So, yeah. And me and I, Nick saw each other this weekend. We spoke about that. So I understand his perspective. I was just answering it as a hypothetical to what exactly you said. And I wasn't relating that to Nick. I was just saying, if you're saying, you know, if you say that you can get me in shape and they don't get me in shape, you said, I'm moving on. Well, if the next coach doesn't get you in shape, show one, do you move on? And then continue forever? You know? I'll answer that. So I think there's a little bit of nuance. Sorry, guy. Give me like two seconds to put your hand down. I think there's a little bit of nuance involved. It's not as black and white as like you did or didn't get me in shape. I think there's things that happen in a prep. Like I can tell you if like maybe I didn't do what I should have did or maybe somebody in my family died and I was fucking fucked up in my head and I wasn't focused. Whatever. Maybe you're somebody in your family died and you weren't focused or whatever. Like there are things like that happen in every prep. Right. That can. And even if I even let's say I got close, let's say you got me 90% in shape and he's like, oh, I know what we did wrong. We can like fix it for the next time. And I'm cool. Okay. Let's do a second show together. But if you keep selling me that thing and you keep missing, you know, I'm not, I'm not going to be happy. It might be like, okay, how many excuses do you get? Yeah. You know what I mean? I really think as a coach, you should never sell something you can't guarantee and you can never guarantee you'll be able to get someone in shape saying I will 100% or I can get you in shape in one show or four shows. You literally cannot guarantee that ever, no matter who it is. No coach in the world can guarantee that. So I think it should never be like, it should be like, yo, I'm going to try my fucking best. I can't say it'll be one show, four shows. Hopefully we fucking hit it right. The first show and we fucking just get better and better from there, but you can't sell. Okay. I have a question then. You can't say that. You know, I have a question then. Yeah. If you're somebody at Nick's level, right? You're arguably fighting for the top spot. A hundred percent. Yeah. Why the fuck am I paying you? I want to guarantee. I, I, but no one can guarantee you that. And that's a pipe dream of you just wanting like reassurance for your own self. Hold on. Hold on. That's true. It's true to a certain extent. Yeah. There are certain coaches that do have the confidence in themselves to say, yes, if you do everything I say to you, you are going to be right where you want to be. And most of, most of the time they do a good job of it. Yeah. Okay. Look, all I'm saying is. You can't. There's so many unpredictables in that. You can't guarantee that. So it's like, for me, I don't think anyone should be saying that they'll do nothing other than put their full fledged effort forward, which is, you know, a Nick, like he was saying, like, that's really what, you know, and what I would like to see as a client and like same with Patrick, you know, when I worked with Patrick first show we did together, we botched our first prep together. Yeah. But you knew what you did wrong. But you knew what you did wrong. Yes. Okay. That's fine. Yeah. That's understandable. But if he had said, if he had said to me in your case of I'm going to hit it for show. No, no, no. I said, there's, I said, there's nuance. I said, there's nuance, right? Like I said, there's nuance. And like you said, you guys knew what you did wrong and you corrected it and then you, you got better. Yeah. So yes, there's nuance involved in what I'm saying, but at the end of the day, coaches are making you pay a lot of money for a service that, well, I'll, I'll make one small argument to that. I know. I don't think most top pros are paying any coaches, but I get your sentiment behind that. Yeah. You get what I'm saying. You got my, what I was going to say is this, and I've said this to people, you, as a coach, I think you always want to get it right. But I think, of course, I think people view coaches in a way that shouldn't be viewed because, and I've said this to my, to clients that I have, a coach is somebody that you're going to hire that you think is going to make the best guess at the right moment, because that's all it is. I can say, eat this. I think you're going to look this way. Take this diuretic. I think you're going to lose this water. Eat this. I think it's going to fill you out. So coaching is, is a lot of guessing. Yes. There's knowledge and science behind it, but it's also, you don't have a crystal ball and know that if you, if you do this, it's going to go that way. Sometimes we make a decision and it goes the wrong way. So it's a, it's a, it's a very big guessing game. And I think a lot of people expect that the coach is going to guarantee something when it's never a guarantee. But the only thing you can guarantee is that the coach is giving you a hundred percent focus and effort and attention during that time of making a guess. And I think that's more of the line where Nick is referring to. Okay. But hold on a minute. You hire somebody like Hany, right? The guessing becomes the, the variance of the guests is far smaller. I don't think guess is the right word, but I understand what you're saying. It has to be. It is a guess. Guys, the decision, what I'm saying is the decision I make, whether to feed you or not feed you or whatever before a show that comes from my 30, 40 years of intuition. That's right. So if you hire a coach with more experience, your obvious, you know, thought process would be this guy's got more experience. So he's got a better guess, which is a smaller variance of mistakes. So certain coaches can make a stronger guarantee than other coaches. Cause they're like, look, I got, that's why you hire somebody with 30 years experience, 40 fucking athletes that have all been like, you know, as far as Hany goes, they're all fucking Olympians. Like you take the, you take the strongest case for the smallest variance of guests. And when you hire that guy, you expect that you're going to be in that small variance. Yeah. I mean, generally what you hire a coach off of is what you see, especially now with social media is what you see in their body of work and what you, how you feel that they operate as a coach from what you can observe, you know, like when I, any coach I've hired, it was strictly based off of like the athletes that they were working at, at the time and how I felt that they operated, you know, like it's, you know, when I first started Jansen, when I first hired Patrick, like those guys, it was based off of, you know, when Jansen at the time was working with Dallas, like he was a young guy, like my similar to my age, he was fucking killing it. I'm like, I want to be this guy, you know, if he's nailing with this guy, he was bigger than me, which is harder to land that ship. He can fucking do it with me. And with Patrick at the time, he was like creating looks from bodybuilders that I really liked, you know, and I was like, I think that he's worked with a lot of guys that I can kind of relate to in their style of physique and you know how they might be to work with. And that was what the draw was for me. Yeah. Right. Right. I get it. So you're looking, this is what I'm saying. So you're looking and you see a body. I don't think anybody here is disagreeing with anything yet. Okay. But that's the thing, right? Like when I was with Matt, I think we can all agree that my best looks were probably with Matt. Yeah. And I'll just say this. Whenever we did miss, like when we lost to Samson or if we had just a vaguely off look, did I ever leave him because of it? No. Our falling outs were due to other situations. Never because of a missed peak. Right. Right. So. That's fine. All I'm saying, all I'm saying is I'm trying to, I'm trying to look at this like a product. If you're a coach, you're selling a product. And so some coaches can go to an athlete and say, I can guarantee you within this variance and other coaches have to go and say, I can guarantee you within this fucking variance. But like, you have to have some assurance. Like, Oh, why else am I putting my faith in you? Like, even if it's not money, even if it's not money, even if it's not money and you got to think Nick hadn't been on stage in two fucking years. I agree with you. The only thing is that usually it's the client picking the coach, not the coach picking the client, you know? So like, if I'm going to you and being like, I want to work with you, it's my choice. You know, like I have to use my intuition as an adult and what I think is right for me, not what you may or may not say. You know, if you say I'm going to get it the first time, that doesn't mean anything to me, you know, like that's like, it could be, you could be saying that because you want to work with me or Nick, because we are top bodybuilders. That's a huge promotional aspect. Of course it is. You know? So, I mean, I completely understand that. I mean, it's, it's the onus is on the athlete. In my opinion, I do think that there is a lot of coaches that can deliver on those things. I think there's lots that, you know, sell delusions of grandeur and that are people that are, you know, really looking to bring on clients and not, you know, like it's, there is different dynamics to coaches. So I think it depends. Yeah. I think it's different than guaranteeing like this car goes zero to 60 and. Well, yeah, that's tested and tangible with that exact. It is. It is different. There's more nuance for sure. That's, that's what I mean when I say it's a guess. I guess, I guess ultimately it comes back to what Nick said, which is if you feel like your coach isn't giving a hundred percent, that's a, that's a, that's a whole, that's a whole different thing. It's a right. If a coach has given you a hundred percent of attention, answering you in a timely manner is on top of your diet, your eye checking your, you're making sure your tan is good. Making sure there's no hiccups is on, on time. Like that's, you can guarantee those things. Right. Right. Well, but you also have to guarantee, but you can't guarantee what the outcome is going to be. But as a coach, I also, or sorry, as an athlete, I also get to be critical of the decisions that person made. A hundred percent. So if like, so if like, so let's say there was your career, let's say guy, they were punctual. Thank you. Let's say guy, they were punctual. They fucking were there every day. They give you a hundred percent attention. You could still be a bad coach and have all of those things. Well, I mean, I can hire a fucking Johnny fucking from good life down the street. Who's going to give me Ian Valliere every fucking minute of his day. It doesn't mean he's going to be good. A hundred percent. So it's the athlete's job at the end of the prep to look back and go these six decisions or these three decisions or whatever were the, were not made in the correct fashion. And it led to X. Yep. And then you decide what you want to do from there. Yeah. It is. It is interesting though. Like how in this world of bodybuilding, how like coaching changes and like, you know, decisions become such a big topic of like conversation. I think it's like that. I think that's like that in fighting too. Any individual sport is like that. I just think any, when you have an individual sport, it's because the, the athlete coach relationship becomes, um, synonymous with the success of the athlete. Yeah. Yeah. No, no. It becomes, um, like a family-ish kind of thing. Like if you, like if George St. Pierre left for Ross Zahabi at TriStar, that was his coach for his whole career. If he left him, you'd be like, what the fuck? I thought they were like best friends. So it's, I don't think it's just bodybuilding. I think it's like individual sports. Yeah. Yeah. Well, one thing that Chris taught me is that you have to, as a coach, you have to draw a line from a coach and personal relationship. Me and Chris were close when I competed. When my competitive years ended, we got much closer because he never blurred that line from coach and personal friendship. Because when you blur that line, that's when I think we get, get very sticky. I think it's hard. I think it's gotta be hard though. Like if you're, if I'm a coach, like I've coached before I stopped coaching, but I coached for like 10 years. When you put your, like everything into an athlete and they win, like you feel like a sense of pride and like, it gets you closer to that person. It's hard to draw that. Like, don't. I also, I also think when you have a personal relationship with someone and I can, I can speak to this a hundred percent. Cause I've literally coached Melissa and Chris who are my, as close as, you know, um, it, it changes your decision-making, you know, there's a different personal aspect to it. Like of, you don't, you don't go as hard on them. Yeah. It's, there's an emotionality behind it that changes how you coach people, you know, and like, you don't want to look as dumb. You don't want to be as hard on them. You like, you know, or, or sometimes you want to go too hard on them cause you want to prove a point. Like, you know, I think there's sometimes, I think that's hard to remove when there is like this underlying, you know, personal relationship, um, which I think it's good to have a good relationship with your coach. And I think trust is absolutely crucial. Um, and I think you can have good relationships with coaches, you know, I mean, you know, at the time me and Matt and, or Patrick or anything were, you know, we're close, but close in the aspect of a coach client relationship, you know? So it was different, right? It's like when, when I was coming up in Pop Warner, right? My dad coached me for the first couple of years playing football. He was the hardest coach I've ever had. Yeah. My brother did that to me too. He was so hard on me. Like, that's what I'm saying. It sometimes goes overboard. Everybody else. Yeah. My brother did that to me too. He was like, he's like, if I coach, if I'm soft on you, they're going to think I'm fucking, I'm being nice to you. So I don't know if it's as much about your, your, your brother coaching you and wanting to be soft on you as so much your brother seeing the potential you had and wanting to bring that out of you, which is why he was harder on you. Because my dad was hard on me. Yeah. Like, see with me, I would have gone extra hard on Chris and under hard on Melissa. You know? Like, go ahead, Nick. What were you going to say? Yeah. I said, to the guy's point, it could be both. Cause even like when my dad coached, um, some of my baseball teams, he, he got on me the hardest and you could, you could tell. But I, I don't think that's because he didn't want to go soft and have people think like, Oh, it's a, he knew what I was capable of. And if he saw me slack a little bit, he was like, you know what I mean? Yeah. So my dad didn't even start me my first year playing football in third grade, third grade. He's like, I'm going to teach him a lesson in third grade. Yeah. You're benched motherfucker. Third grader. Sit your ass on the bench boy. You become a man guy. I started, did I tell you I started coaching football? Yeah. You said something about it the other day. Yeah. Fifth grade. How's that feel? Good. It's cool, man. It's, it's, I think it's, it's, I gotta be careful what I say. Cause I don't know who on the team, like the coaches watch this, but it's when you watch, you know, I played football for 15 years. I'm, I'm very knowledgeable in the area of football. And when you watch coaches, some of the coaches that coach kids not doing things correctly and then getting upset at the kids for not doing it the right way in my head, I'm like, well, you're not teaching them the right way. Yeah. But it's cause these guys are just trying to help. They're volunteers trying to help out. They're not like, I'm a volunteer. Yeah. But you're a 15 year fucking. Yeah. We are. Yeah. You're a vet. These guys are just like somebody's dad wants to fucking help out. Probably never played football. Yeah. You can't like John, John used to fucking watch the other teams plays. I'm like, your kid's eight, dude. I got, I have, I have an, I'm on an app called huddle and we get the, like, we get videos we watch. And this is what I mean. Like there's some coaches that are like, you know, going to go above and beyond. And there are the coaches that are just there to like make the kids run. You know what I mean? Yeah. They're no shit. Anyway. So what now, Nick? What, uh, is there under other people on the horizon? Have you picked somebody else already? Like, I'm right now, I'm just doing my own thing. I know, you know, obviously I'm, I'm no, I'm no dumb, dumb here. I know how to do a rebound phase and shit like that. So I'm just kind of doing my own thing. And honestly, I feel really good. So what, um, have you, you haven't announced what shows you're doing or anything like that? No, I have a couple in mind, but I haven't, I'm not a hundred. I haven't done a hundred percent on them yet. Okay. Do you think, I'm not going to ask you cause I know you probably don't want to really reveal it, but do you, I wasn't going to, I promised. Will you do Detroit pro? Yeah. Detroit. You already fucking said Nick that if you do the Arnold, you do Detroit. It's a fucking, it's a fucking week later. It's a week later. We also, we also had a side agreement. Why wouldn't you do Detroit? It's your fucking friends show. You wouldn't show up to your fucking friends show. I'd show up and say, hi. Okay. You can do that. Okay. If you just want to be in the audience, that's fair. Why the fuck do I got to do it? You don't got to do it. You can just show up with, you know, Samson's going to show up. You can just show up and say, hi, and hang out with all of us. I'll be there. Guy's going to be there. Ian's going to be there. Well, I can't, I can come hang out. I don't, you know what I mean? You're like pressuring me. I don't like it. What do you mean, Ian? You're going to be there. I'm just assuming. Maybe I shouldn't assume. Yeah. How dare you assume. I shouldn't assume. Sorry. I'm a busy guy. I got to check my schedule here. I want to show this post. The one I did yesterday. This is for sure. Actually. That was a good one. Yeah. This is actually the way I picture your life. That's like Tuesday for Ian. Yeah. Yes. This is your life. This is it. Yeah. Well, I want to know who you, I want to know who you had to fucking ask to take. You guys make fun of me taking pictures on my lawnmower. Who the fuck took these goddamn pictures? Mark. My video guy. That's hilarious. He's got a pack of cigarettes next. There's something wrong with you. Yeah. Yeah. That's hilarious. Camel crushes, bro. Yeah. You really smoke them a lot. You smoke them a lot. Do I? Yeah. Well, I can't answer that question because it's like, this is the bit. And like, I can't, I can't ruin it either way. You know? Yeah. Because if I say I don't actually smoke, the bit's not quite as funny. But if I say I smoke all the time, I'm like a smoker. So it's like, I'm not going to answer that. You know? Well, I'll just leave it up. I'll just leave it up to the viewer's imagination. If you think I smoke when you look at that, great. That's, that's cool. You know? If you think it's just funny and enjoy the content, then that's great too. You know? Either way. Enjoy. Just, just enjoy it for, just enjoy it for what it is. You know? All right. So I'm going to picture, I'm just going to count the three of you in for Detroit Pro on March 14th. Yeah. I'll send you an invoice for it. Fucking asshole. Oh yeah. Invoice. That's right. Yeah. Do you want me to guest pose? Five grand. Five grand. You don't want to pay it for free around here? Guy, if you guest pose, I will pay you. Do you think I could be ready to guest pose at your show? Oh, wait, wait, wait. What if I guest pose? What if I guest pose? I want Guy to guest pose. That was a complete joke. You don't, you don't want me? No, I want Guy to guest pose. No. Who had, who had, who had lived? Only old people guest pose at my show. Who had lives off my embarrassment. Yeah. I have noticed that you fixed your hair ever since we talked about it. It looks a lot better now, right? Yeah. You don't, yeah. Guy was doing like the swoop back thing and now he's doing it like the. Guy would just do the normal, check out my quads. I still got quads. I'll guest pose with a big baggy shirt. He's wearing posing trunks. He's so funny. His quads are shredded. So he's like. He's the only guy I know that'll do a full chest workout and be like, look at my quads. Because all the blood's out of his quads. Because nothing's happened to his chest. Yeah. Yeah. Holy fuck guy. Should I tell you what my blood work was before my surgery? Well, your kidney numbers. Yeah. You told us. Yeah. Oh, I did. The last podcast. Remember I said if you could change. No. No, no, no. Since the surgery I had last week. Oh, no. Oh, no. So I thought. So my kidney numbers that came back when I was in California after that surgery. I thought I can't be legit. Like, I'm like, I'm sure when I do blood work again in a few months, it's going to be back to normal. Like, you can't. It's back to back to being fucked up is what I thought. Well, I did surgery on the fucking weekend. They did my blood work and my fucking kidney numbers were normal. Normal. Like, like normal people. Normal. I was like. Yeah. My potassium. My losing muscle. I think I'm good now. I think I'm at the 180. I think 220 is like a good, good place to stay. Yeah. I can't be lighter than guy. 180. Imagine that. Little spot, bro. 220. I think 220 is a good spot to stay. Your 220 is guys 180. That's what I'm saying. Same thing. Guy came to my gym to train last week and I swear from the back, he looked like a little 10-year-old. I'm fucking stabbing. Guy was going on your life. Who's this little kid in my gym? You know? Yeah. I was like, who the fuck is that? You know what I was going to say? I miss the, what I miss about bodybuilding is it's not so much like the muscle. But like, you know, my girl, her kids, my nieces and nephews are like older. They're 10, 11, 12. And it's like, they don't do shit. No, but I'm saying they never saw me in that element. Like they can look at pictures and videos, but like nobody knows that. It's better that they don't know that guy. Why? Because they don't need to know the guy that's filled with halo, you know? Because they know you now. They know you for you. First of all, this guy is probably way nicer. Second of all. I don't think I was ever a dick. First of all. Second of all, 10 year old, 10 year old girls. There's some videos on the internet that say otherwise guy. I scream at one person in my entire career. I screamed at everybody. Nobody ever caught it on video. Yeah, I screamed at one guy. That was one incident. Your dumb ass was the only guy who posted it. You posted your own video making you look like an idiot. Do it to the side. I honestly, I didn't think. When I posted it. You thought it was going to be funny. That's why. Well, before I posted it, Branch is like, I don't know if you should post that. It might not go fucking so well. I'm like, I don't give a fuck. And then I woke up the next morning and I was like, YouTube. Roasted. Roy rage. Guy screams. Guy freaks out. And I was like, what did I do? Anyway, the point is I have nieces too. And I showed them my bodybuilding videos and they laughed. Because they're like, why the fuck are you in your underwear? Yeah. My niece thinks it's the coolest thing ever. She tells everyone. My niece is great. My niece is my sister's kid says I'm the strongest guy in the world. Everybody at her school. Really? My brother sends me pictures of my nephew fucking working out in the basement, flexing, fucking doing this. Fucking I love it. That's awesome. We had a big upset on the weekend. Anybody want to talk about that? Right. Fucking Samson came back after the Olympia. He wanted to. We talked about it. He said to me, I want to get back. I want to get like, I just want to get back to it. Right. Because he felt like he kind of missed the mark a little bit at the Olympia. A little bit. Missed the mark at the Olympia. Yeah. And got back right to it. But he ran the risk. Right. You run the risk before your body's ready. And Martin, I think, came back better than he was at the Olympia. I think that was Martin's best package. Yeah. A hundred percent. Yeah. That's the best Martin we've ever seen in Prague. For sure. He was super crisp. Yeah. So, yeah. Big fucking upset. Yeah. Crazy. A little. So. Yeah. No. I think, I think I look, I give props to Samson for being that guy that is like, out of all the people out there, he's one of the people that puts himself out there for these things to happen more than anybody, which is commendable, you know, whether it's, he just won the Olympia and he goes to Arnold or he, you know, just had a not great showing at the Olympia and he puts himself out there again. That is super commendable. But like you said, you always put yourself at that risk. And I think he just needed a bit more time, you know? Yeah. I think, you know, he was obviously a little over dieted for the Olympia and certain things that are like, you know, key pieces in his physique, like the size of his legs and certain things like that weren't quite back there. They were coming back, but not quite there yet. So I think just, you know, a little more time to like get that physique back to life a little more was needed, you know? Nick, what did you think? I agree. I mean, I love Samson. I think two weeks was too soon. Yeah. I would have probably picked a later date to get back the improvements that's needed so he can dominate like he always does. And yeah, I think Martin looked his best. Guy? Anything? Did anybody, did anybody sitting here, sorry, Guy, say what you were going to say. No, go ahead. Ask. I was going to ask, did anybody out of the four of us think that it was the wrong call? I didn't. No, I think it was the wrong call, but I don't think many would have been that upset if Samson won. I agree. I thought, I thought Samson at prejudging. I thought Martin at finals. That's what I thought. Yeah. I thought at prejudging. I think this, I think this is prejudging or is this finals? This looks like prejudging to me. I think Samson was a little drier the first day and was a little bit more watery the second day. And I thought that hurt him. Did you happen to see the scorecards? The scorecards had Martin. Yeah. Had Martin ahead in both. Yeah. It was a split score both days by one point. Yeah. Yeah. Really? Yeah. So it's like, you know, out of say five judges, I mean, you had three to two for Martin both days. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I think the, I don't know, for me, it was the finals package. That wasn't quite as good as the prejudge for me that put Martin ahead. But Martin looked fucking awesome both days. He was bang on. Have you just spoke to Samson? Briefly. Briefly. I just said, you know, we're still, obviously we love you, 100% support you. You just need to rest and recover. You know? So. You know what? It's, I, I agree with the call. I don't think that this showing or the Olympia for Samson is a testament to the great bodybuilder that he is. Oh. And for me, right. Listen, we've seen it. Martin has gotten hate on the internet. Some people have said negative shit about him. But when I talk about bodybuilding, I talk about the physique. Yeah. And what I see. And, you know, I've been around Martin since he was, you know, you know, almost before he was a pro. And there aren't many guys like Martin, like Nick, like Samson that truly fucking love. Like Martin was coached by Branch Warren, like trained by Brian Dobson forever. Got his fucking ass kicked inside and out in the gym and came back for more. There's, you know, to see somebody that is so passionate about bodybuilding the way Martin is and still is somebody that walks into the gym with that crazy intensity and works out and fucking grinds it out. Like, I love that. That's why I love bodybuilding is because of what I see those guys do in the gym. And, you know, Martin put in the fucking work and trains his balls off. And I, you know, regardless of, you know, people, you know, that don't like his attitude or this or that, like, I love that about Martin. I do. I love it. I think a couple things. I think Samson at his best is still number one or two or three in the world. I agree with that as well. For me personally, he's probably number one in the world, but that obviously there's a bias there that people will never agree with me on or whatever. But Samson at his best is obviously at the very top, in my opinion. And the second thing I think that we got from this is this kind of puts Martin in the conversation. You know, come next year at the Olympia, he's going to have a hole. It has to. I don't know if he's, I think he's doing the Arnold. I think he said he was going to do the Arnold. I don't, I wish he wouldn't because to me, the only thing holding Martin back from being a solid contender. Yeah. Being a solid contender is more muscle. So I think him doing the Arnold and dieting again might be holding him back from putting on that mass he needs. I think another long offseason and Martin's in that top five call out every fucking time. You know, like he's. Martin's weakest shot to me is his front double. That's his work. That to me. What do you mean? No way. I think his front double. I think his, his weakest shot. What are you talking about? What do you think his weakest shot is for it? I would have to say something fucking stupid like his ab and thigh. There's no way. His front double, he's got tiny little waist, huge quads. The only thing, the only part of his front double that could be any better is if his lats were a little wider, it would frame it better. But his arms maybe had a bit more detail. But like, yeah, exactly. Listen, I think he looks great in all his shots. I'm nitpicking. I think his worst shot is his front double bicep. I think this is a good debate to have. I don't agree with you. I kind of agree. I kind of agree with Guy, actually. I don't know. Let's go through him. One second. I'm going to find that video. Where the fuck did that video go of him? It was right in the middle. Let's see. Okay. I'm actually curious now. I want to, I want to take a good look at this with you. Take a good look at me now. Let's see if you're right, Guy. I personally think like that, that there is like, wow. Right. It's just, I like the, like you put that next to Samson. It's Samson's bigger, wider, bigger arms, bigger lats. I think his legs look tremendous. Hold on a minute. Hold on a minute. If you put it. It's just Martin's lowest detail pose. Yes. Hold on a minute. Yes. If you put that next to Samson Guy, it would look identical, but smaller. I don't agree there, but I think. Why don't you agree? Well, I don't think they look identical because they don't have identical shapes and physiques, but I think. Okay. Hold on. We're comparing it to Martin's other shots. Jesus Christ. Are you serious? Wait, wait. You know why I'm frustrated? Because he takes it so literally, like they're not identical. But what are you saying? You said it's identical. I mean, identical. Like they're. Okay. Sorry. I should use better word. You're right. I shouldn't use a word. That is not what it means. Their shapes are very similar. They have sweeping quads, small waists. Like their arms are similar in that they don't have a ton of detail. Well, they have a very similar front double. It's no, it's not identical. Yeah. No, it's, it's, they both have very good aesthetic front doubles and no, and I don't think guy, and I'm not certainly saying that Martin has a bad front double. This is. I didn't say that either. Insanely good front double. I'd only think is Martin in certain areas, like from the side and the back is extremely detailed. Yes. Side shots and his back shots are crazy levels. Yeah. But from, but from the front, this is extremely beautiful shape. Extremely beautiful. I didn't say he didn't have a gorgeous shape. I didn't say. 100% agree. Don't say gorgeous. Cause that makes it gay, but yeah. Super, super nice, super nice shape. But I think when you're comparing it only in the context of two other poses. Let's go through his other poses and see. I would say front double or front ladders weakest one or two. I like his front double better than his front lat. They're automatically. The front. I don't like how he poses the front lat. Okay. So we all agree his front lat's the worst. Yeah. I think you get a little more detail in the chest, but I think between those two. Yeah. I won. I just won. Like one, one pose guy. Well, you said Aventai. So. No, I said, wait. No, you did. You did. I picked a random one, but what I said. No, you said Aventai. Shut up. No, I think either way, one of his front shots, other than his most muscular, will be front lat, front double, or Aventai are kind of what you're wants to choose from. It's not going to be a side chest, side try, back double, back lat, or most muscular. Hold on. Just relax. You can't. You're not the authority. Shut up. Yes, I am. We all are the authority together. You don't get to get the. I do agree. That's great. His side chest might be the best. The fucking IFPB. His side tricep is great too. Okay. Okay. When it comes to the back, it's a crazy detail. The only reason, and I'm not saying it's the front double. I'm not saying this is worse than the front double. What I am saying is he's got a lot of trap, mid trap. That's super wide. Yeah. And he's more lat. Yeah. Yeah. Crazy detail. Which is why I think his front double is the worst because I think if he had more of that lat sweep and width. Yeah. I said that. I wouldn't say that. Yeah. I agreed with you on that. Like his front double, like this is worse than his front double in my opinion. I love his front double. I don't agree. Really? Just because he's got lines in his glutes? No. Just the whole back, the whole back side of the shot. He's got a lot of detail. His back might not be super wide, but it's dense. His front double is fucking like picturesque. What are you talking about? You're acting as if we're saying that it's a bad shot. Yeah. And I didn't say that. But we're comparing. It's a great shot. We're comparing the two. Right? Nick, what do you think? I don't. I think a majority of all his shots are good. Yeah. But that's kind of what we're saying. I think all his shots are good. Well, of course. We're nitpicking them. But is it better from the front or from the back? I would generally think a front double. I think when he does a front double, I think he has to hit a vacuum because if he tries to do the ab and thigh with kind of the way I do it, because I don't think his lats are that wide. It doesn't look good on that. He'll hold the set of this for this. He loses too much size. He's got to hit the vacuum. You know why? You know why? Just one guy. He didn't even do an ab and thigh because he doesn't like it. That's how I know I won. Okay. Yeah. I'm certainly not going to ab and thigh. You could win. How's that? Well, I already won anyway because the lat spread was worse. Yeah, it was. It's on my side. The front lat spread. Not the back lat spread. The front lat spread. We all agreed the front lat spread was worse than the front double. Did you say that, Ian? Yes. I don't know. I mean, like, look, I'm not going to take sides here. They're all great shots. I think the front shots are weaker than the side or the back. Exhibit A. Exhibit A. God's laughing his ass off. Exhibit A. Okay? You can't take it out. I win. There's no fucking way. I don't think he's posing that lat spread. It's the lighting. Hey, we can do what the other fucking morons do. We can ask AI because apparently that fucking answers every goddamn question these days. That tells the truth. Bunch of fucking douchebags. I'm biased. You know what? I'm biased. I really like. No, you? I really like his front double. What do you want from me? I like his front double too. I like it more than you. That's the thing. That's true. That's true. Fuck. Okay. Well, anyway, congratulations to Martin. I think it's fucking awesome. What did you think of Keon's debut in? Yeah, we're going to look at the rest here right now. I think Keon, as I suspected, and this is no knock on Keon, but man, the internet is a funny fucking thing. They put a picture of Samson, and they put a picture of fucking Keon, and they put a picture of fucking Keon, the same size, and then they go, okay, compare. And I'm like, guys, there's a fucking 90 pound difference here. Like, there's 90 fucking pounds. Like, it's almost a whole other person. Yeah. Like, so. Yeah, size matters at a point, 100%. So what happened is what I expected. You have an absolutely beautiful physique walkout, but these guys are really fucking big. Yep. And so when you have. I mean, even the fact that he plays fourth is crazy. So just to, I'll finish my point, and then you guys say whatever I'm going to say. The fact that your physique is beautiful will get you as high as a point where there's other beautiful physiques. That are bigger. That are bigger. And then you have a problem, right? Yeah. And that's what happened. He beat all the guys that had lesser physiques, even though they were bigger. And then he got to the guys that, like, had pretty good shape, and then the size mattered. Yeah. Right? Yep. So. No, I mean, all these factors and criteria in bodybuilding matter to a point. You know? It's like a really shapely, really conditioned physique can beat a big one depending on the shape and the condition. And then a really, you know, big one can beat a shapely one depending on how big it is. I love Keon's shape. I just feel like in the pictures we see in the locker room, he looks a lot harder and grainier than he does on stage. Hmm. I think you're right, guy. But I also think in a locker room after a workout, when you're full and pumped or whatever, like, everybody can look awesome. I think on stage, it's all equal. Now you're looking at everybody. The bats are fucking insane, eh? Yeah. Yeah. He's got one of the best front doubles that I've seen in a while. No way. I'll get back a little bit. Obviously, the thing he'll just have to watch is that midsection, like, spacing as that develops, especially if he starts to try and get bigger. You know, that's just something you've got to be super careful about. That doesn't get worse, you know? Do you guys think now that he did this and took, like, fourth or third? Fourth. Fourth. Fourth. Oh, fuck it sideways. Chris was third. Do you think now that he did this and took fourth, he's going to stay in the 212? Or do you think he's going to continue to try and... I think he'll probably stay in the 212, maybe jump in an open show here and there. That's right. Open Olympia. And then progress upwards after that. Can I tell you guys something? Somebody I picked at the beginning of the year for our fantasy league was Juan. And Juan Perdelis, this guy here. Guy's sick. I picked him at the beginning of the year in my fantasy league because I thought he was incredible. Man, this guy is the most impressive fucking bodybuilder of the year to me. Like, I know he needs more condition, but, like, the body parts are all there. The size is there. Shape's nice. Weren't they comparing him to, like, a young Jay Cutler when he first was on the scene? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, look, he's a freak. He's only, like, 27 or 26 or some shit. He's a massive fucking guy, man, with, like, good shape. Condition's not bad. Obviously, he has to be a little better from the back. But, like, look, it's all there. More hamstrings, probably. Yeah. Ham's and adductors need a bit more, but. Yeah. Yeah. Lots of potential there, for sure. Have you guys seen these videos going around of that fucking Sergei guy that won the show earlier in the year at Dubai? No. Something of him and another guy walking going around? Yeah. Him and that other gigantic fucking Russian guy walking around. No. I saw a couple posts. What's that about? They're just fucking gigantic freaks. It's hilarious. Oh, okay. I'm trying to find more pictures of Juan. And then, uh, Caruso looked good, too. Nobody's talking about him because of all the other, like, debuts. Caruso looked great. I mean, he was fucking hard as rocks. He looked good. Yeah. I was impressed by him, actually. Yeah. He looked really good. There he is. Freak. Fucking freak. And he's learning. Conditioning was exceptional, too. He's learning how to pose better and stuff. Like, that side chest is pretty good. Yeah. From the back. Like, he's still not getting that back double fully open. This is what hurts him the most, obviously, is that midsection. And that the Latin assertions from the front is a bit funky. But, yeah. Then something has. Speaking of midsection, something happened to Keon's. Like, his abs almost, like, separated more. That's what I was just mentioning. Yeah. I don't know. I think that's just kind of like a. Like, doesn't it happen to the birth that, like, it tears? Look at this kid's progress in three years. That's wild. He's a fucking animal, man. I don't know. This kid. This guy's one to watch, man. Next year, I'm telling you. I'm going to let him out. Anyway, overall thoughts, Nick? On what? On the show. It was a great show. Okay. Awesome. Guy? Oh, I think they got it. I think they got it right. Yeah. Yeah. Who else? Juan, Jan Turek. Let's go through and see, Ian, how he did. Jan Turek looked good, too. Jan surprised everybody. Let's see. Predictions. Past results. View. I think I might have lost this one. Holy shit, I won again. This is fucking unreal. I beat you by one and a half points. Point and a half. You suck. That's okay. Global results. Yeah. Delved. He's an avid follower. Winners. Shoot me a message. I'll get you a gift card for Hostile. And let's look at the overall points, Ian. Am I fucking beating you now or what? Nope. Fuck you. Yes, I am. No, you're not. Go to what place I'm in. You're 274. Oh, you're ahead by seven points. You fucking suck. Is there any more shows this year? Yeah. Oh, there's Romania. And Poland. Oh. Yeah, there's Romania. Yeah. I can still beat you. Let's see where Guy is. I missed half the show. Yeah, it's not going to work. You're a 664 guy. You're way back there. There you go. You're beating someone, which is crazy because you predicted like a quarter of the shows. Yeah. No, I. Yeah. And I fucking. And I screwed up my Olympia placing because I wasn't counting and you all fucking let me do it. All right. Let's see here. Poland. I think Akeem is doing that next. Sorry. Debbie, it's this weekend. Is that before Romania? Yeah. Yeah. I thought Akeem looked great at the L. I think he got overlooked a little bit. Me too. Guy. Nick. Who's Nick? That's. Who the fuck is Ian? You passed me already. Oh. Okay. Let's do it. Did you click Walker? Yeah. I clicked Walker. Who's doing a show? The guys on the left? Yeah. Yeah. Sheesh. Yeah. I. Do you want me to go for. I'll go first. Man. Is this what happens when you get old? Is like you don't know any of the guys anymore? Well, it's a lot of European guys. I think it's a lot of European. I don't know anyone but Akeem. You do. Like if I look at. Like look at Pablo. You've seen Pablo. You know this guy. You've seen this guy on stage before. Nope. Really? Okay. He used to be a 212 guy, right? Okay. Akeem. And then isn't Juan doing it? Yeah. I'm going to put Juan in second. I think. Sit down. Oh, wait. I think I know who. Pete. Is that Pete Thor? Pete Thor? Where? Where? At the bottom. This guy? Yeah. Yeah. I think I know who that is. I didn't know you went to his pause. I thought he was just talking. Don't know him. No, me neither. Nope. Me either. Yeah. I don't know. Those are polling guys. He needs to know what a fucking turkey. That guy. Where's Juan Perdilla? The Damien Kuffel guy actually looked pretty good too in Prague. Yeah, he did. Yeah. Where's Pablo? Pablo. And then who's running out the top five here? Pablo. Yossi. Hey, Pablo. Hey, Pablo. I'll go for it. Roman. Roman Fritz. Okay. Oh, shit. Roman. Okay. I think I'm good for now. Who's next? Oh, Andre Presti is doing it too. Okay. I'll go. Roman's on there. Ian. Akeem. Yep. Juan. Okay. Where is Juan? I hear Juan Perdillas. Andrea. Andrea. Then I'm going to go Jan Turek. Ooh. Inside the top five. Actually, no. Sorry. No. It's in the box. Fuck you. Okay. Then I'm going to go Damien. Then Roman. Damien. Damien Cuffel? Yep. Cuffel. You got to shit the bed on this one. I'm going to fucking make up my points right here. Then I'm going to go Roberto Buonomo. Roman. Oh, I forgot about Buonomo. Are you just looking at the names and see what you like? I forgot about Buonomo. Okay. Oh, wait. Sorry. I was mixing him up with Pablo Munoz. I forgot him. Sorry. It's in the box too late. No, no, no. Come on. It's in the box. Where's Roman on the list? Down. Where is he? Right here. Oh. Yeah. We can't see that. Well, I have to scroll. Yeah. There's a lot of guys. That's a crazy fucking amount of people. She's. Yeah. I'll let somebody else go because I'm going to change mine a little bit, but let somebody else go. You can't change it. It's in the box. Who? Did Akeem place ahead of Andrea at the Olympia? Yes. Andrea didn't do the Olympia this year. He didn't, but he would. Yeah. He has. Guy, go ahead. Do I have to start a shot clock for you? No. I'm just wondering if I should put Andrea first or Akeem, but I do think Akeem got overlooked at the O. So I'll go Akeem one. Yeah. I feel like if Juan could come in harder, he could be second. Right. But Andrea Presti is really good. Say. Is Andrea or no? Yeah. And then I'm going to go Juan and then I'm going to go Roman. Oops. Sorry. Wait. I didn't say that guy. I know. One second. Where'd you say Juan? Okay. Juan and then Roman. Yeah. I think Roman's a dark horse, man. He always comes in fucking peeled. He's got some weak shots, but. Okay. I'll go Pablo. Pablo here. I don't know the rest of the guys. Well, who do you want to look at? You want to look at somebody? Let's go Roberto. No, no, no. Yeah. Yeah. And who's Seth? Yosef? Yeah. So you just copied my picks. No, I didn't. Oh, shit. No, I put Roman in there. I know. You switched them. And Pablo's different. Okay. Go ahead, Nick. Anybody? I'm going to go Akeem. Yeah. I'm going to go Andrea. Andrea. I'll put one third. I'm going to go. I'll put Roman in fourth. You fucking. Oh, is this your same pick? Go ahead. Scroll up a little bit. Who's Patrick? Let me see Patrick. Patrick. Golimsky. Up, up, up, up, up. No. No, not. Yeah. Patrick Golimsky. Oh, he looks good. Yeah, this guy's pretty good. He works with Patrick Tour. I'm going to throw him in there. One second. See, if we would have looked at all the guys, I think my picks would be very different. This guy looks great. Yeah, he's a little flat there, so that's good. I want to throw him in the fifth spot. Ian's like doing homework. He doesn't want to look at the picks with us. He's looking at them on his own, so he can try and place better. I think he looks good, man. I follow more people from doing this because I don't follow half these people, so I end up following them because I don't know who they are. All right, you're putting Patrick Golimsky in fifth. Correct. Okay. I'm going to put him in eighth. I'm going to go Roberto. Roberto. Buonomo. And then I'm going to put Damien Kuffel. Who's Derek Olara? Oh, this guy. Oh, this guy. He just did Prague to you. How do you do? I don't know. People were talking about him, though, that he looked good. He's peeled, but he's just very tall. Looks like. A lot of weak points, but he looks good. Yeah, no. Not for me. Hmm. Who's Sahar? Sahar. Sahar. Okay. Not bad. That was at a guest posing, it said. Oh. Yeah, that's guest posing. Fuck, he looks pretty good. Oh, this guy is actually pretty good. I've seen him before. Yeah. I'm going to put Sahar ahead of Damien Kuffel. I'm going to put. Oh, you know what? He didn't change it. Fuck. I'll put him in my second spot. No, you can put him wherever you want. You're welcome, Ian. I've got to change all my stuff. No, no, no. Guy's right. No, but I didn't know half these guys. I wasn't looking at the show. Too bad. Can you put him in my seventh spot? Who? Sahar? Sahar. You should do your homework with the team, Ian. Well, we were discovering new guys as we went here, so. Well, you shouldn't rush to make your picks then. I see Joseph. Joseph. Or Joseph, I'm sorry. Joseph Kvetin. Best delts in the IFBB. Really? Oh, my God. Yeah. Shoulders are wild, yeah. Dude, his delts are fucking retarded. Like, he just. It's like his. Ultimately. He's like tall, tall. I'll put him. I'll give him eighth. He's a safe top ten, I think. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. I'll throw him in eighth spot. I think he's going to beat Sahar, though. Joseph Kvetin. Okay. Next. Let me see. David. David. Where is he? I'm going to be a king. David. Dawid. Balzrak. Not bad. A little small still. No, no, no. No. Okay. Who's Ahmet Kosek? Yeah. Let's see Ahmet. Hard. Let's see something else. You got a better video or something? He's very hard. That's not gay. Come on, bro. I don't know. He's kind of small, though. Yeah, a little small still. I don't know. I can't tell for sure how big, but let's see. He's got a small friend. Great condition, though. Yeah. Okay. Lucas Precott. Lucas. Holy shit. Grain Train. Maybe thin, though. Small, though. He looks small, though. Yeah. Still too thin. Oh, no, no, no. Uh, who's Bart Malajesh? What the hell is this muscle insight shit that keeps popping up? It wants me to follow them. Oh. No. Yeah. I don't know. It's weird. Small. Weird angle, too, with the camera. Uh, Carol. Carol Malecki. Carol. Carol. Carol. This is him in Prague. What is this? Oh, I saw this. Do you guys see this guy posing? No. He was, like, running around the stage at first? Watch. People don't realize. Watch the beginning of this. Watch. He did, like, he did, like... Mortal Kombat! He did, like, all these running... He's thick, but he's a 212 guy. Oh, he's 212? Yeah. So he's probably doing open here. Uh, who's Kazasi? Kazosi. Oh, this guy looks good. I remember coming across this guy. Oh, this Drago guy here. I'm gonna put him in 10th. I'm gonna put him 9th. He's all a little gyno. Oh, I already got my 10. Fuck. Okay. Yeah, you're fucked. You're putting him 9th for me. Who was I? Carol? No. Carol. Kazosi. Oh, yeah. Drago. Okay. Jan Turek's gotta be in there, Nick. He's good. He just placed, like... He just placed, like, 5th in fucking Prague. Oh, I... Well, I don't know him. Yeah, well, you... I guess I'll give him the 10th spot. You botched that one, but I'll put him in there. 10th spot. I think I... I did, too. I didn't put him in my top 10. Fuck. Yeah, you're an asshole. Yeah. Ian, are you gonna finish your top 8, 9, 10? Can I actually not change anything? Yeah, we're gonna stick here. That's it. Ugh. Okay. Fuck. I don't even know here. Okay, give me... God, I don't even know where to start. Patrick Glimsky. Patrick Glimsky? Yeah. Then give me Pablo. Pablo Luposi? Then give me Jan Turek. Jan... Because I'm brutal. Oh, no. I already have Jan Turek. You already have Jan. Fucking fourth. Oh, my God. That's crazy. I have him in fourth. Okay. I mean, that's not that crazy, I guess. No, it's not bad. Then I'll do... I don't even have him in the top 10. I'm gonna fuck that one. That one's gonna fuck me. Then I'll do Sahar. Sahar. Kazas. Sure. Guy, three more spots. Okay. Come on. I'm gonna pick them for you if you don't... No. Kazosi? Scroll. Um... I'm not going through them all again. No, no. Scroll down to Nick's pick, because I remember the names based off of looking at Nick's picks. You're just gonna copy what Nick's doing? No, no, no. Pretty much. I wanna put... Yeah, he's gonna copy. 100%. Drago. Sahar. And Jan Turek. Okay. You're good. You're a real piece of work. Why? You're just copying Nick's picks anyway. I wasn't. No, I was saying I... Nick was asking the guy, so I was looking at the names, because I remember... Don't put me in this. Don't put me in this. Don't be upset. All right. Let's do some questions. Let's do some questions. What are you making, guy? Dogs. Dinner. Daylight. As soon as it's 7 o'clock, they... What are you having for dinner? The dogs? You. I'll eat after this. I'll probably have some beef, broccolini, and rice or sweet potatoes. What are you making for the dogs? I thought sweet potatoes bothered you. They get venison. I only do it... If I do it, like, once a day, I can't have it, like, two, three times a day. Uh-oh. They get half an apple. I buy big vads of frozen veggies. They get that. Half an apple, eight ounces of venison. Dude, I love apple. And a slice of fat-free cheese. Yeah, I return apple whenever I want it. I'm craving something. And then... I do apple, like, twice a day. Yeah. It's easy. It is. I started doing frozen banana because of Nick. Tell me it ain't fucking good. It's good, and my dogs love it. They love it as a treat. Fantastic. Frozen fruit over fresh fruit any day of the week. I agree. I just wasn't doing... I was doing a lot of frozen fruit. I just wasn't doing frozen banana. That's a good call. Frozen bananas. The only frozen fruit I probably wouldn't do because I don't think it would be any good frozen is an apple. Pineapple frozen. Oh, no, pineapple frozen. Pineapple frozen is good. Oh, regular apple, but pineapple frozen is good. Listen, pineapple frozen. It's fire. Do your grilled chicken, then throw in the frozen pineapple with rice and fucking olive oil. Oh, my God. So, wait. Do you put the pineapple in the pan and heat it up? Once the chicken's almost done being cooked? Yeah. It's called frozen for a fucking reason. What do you mean? I know that. You don't put it on a heating pad or heating thing. It's frozen. Well, how do you thaw it? You want to eat it frozen. Why do you eat it frozen? You don't thaw it, don't you? No. You're not eating frozen bananas right out of your rice. Yeah, but even if you put frozen bananas on your rice, it thaws. Yeah, but it's still very cold. Yeah, but I want it grilled. And frozen. But I just got frozen pineapple. So, then you don't enjoy frozen pineapple. You just enjoy pineapple sautéed into your meals. 100%. Why not just buy fresh cut pineapple, then? Because I get way more in a bag of frozen. It's already cut. And it's a lot easier to keep. This is true. It's a lot easier to keep a bunch of frozen pineapple in your freezer than it is to put Don't go bad as fast. Thank you. You know what I don't like, though? Is frozen strawberries, because it's like biting into a fucking brick. You know what I mean? No, dude. Frozen strawberries are fantastic. I don't eat any frozen fruit now that I think about it. None. Even like frozen blueberries and oats? Oh, that's so refreshing. I started that, actually. You were the original, eh? Million views. You can check it on Muscle and Strength. Anyways. The blueberries saw in the fucking oatmeal. You're not eating frozen blueberries. No, but they stay like... You know what I do? They don't fall fully. No, no, no. You got to let the oatmeal sit and cool off. That's the worst point. The reason you use the frozen blueberries is to cool off the oatmeal. No. I want frozen blueberries because I like frozen blueberries. Listen. See, I eat my cream of rice cold. Oh, my God. Yeah, bro. Listen. I put my cream of rice after it's cooked in the fridge until it's cold and then eat it. The technique is you take hot fucking oatmeal and you throw frozen blueberries in there. It thaws the blueberries, cools the oatmeal, and you... But I don't want to thaw the blueberry. I like it frozen. But it hurts your teeth. No. I chew ice for a living. No. You need some Sensodyne to it. No. No. Sensodyne. Fucking Nick. Jesus Christ. Okay. Well, I don't eat any frozen fruit now that I think about it. I buy a lot of frozen. I like a good bowl of frozen. Frozen fruits are good. How do you eat a bowl of frozen fruit? I don't understand. What do you mean? Like in my mouth? Doesn't it hurt your mouth? No. It's so refreshing. I'm going to try it tonight. I think it's just going to hurt my teeth. It's not. Bro, it doesn't. I promise. And then I give them this. Oh, that's delicious. You're a pumpkin. Ian, do you eat frozen fruit? Yeah. Really? Yeah. Like frozen like that. Like still frozen. Yeah. I would eat frozen blueberries for sure. Huh. See? Interesting. You're the weird one. You're the weird one. I enjoy that. Yeah. Nobody eats frozen fruit. I do every day. Pretty common. Pretty common with bodybuilding. I put frozen fruit in my fucking cream of rice. That's not what I'm saying, guy. Everybody puts frozen fruit in their fucking cream of rice. I invented that shit. Oh, here we go. But you don't eat it frozen. No. It's not completely thawed when I eat it. Thank you. It's not frozen. Frozen. It's frozen. Mine's frozen. I watched Nick put frozen blueberries. I mean, frozen bananas. I believe. I believe. Chicken and rice. I believe Nick. After it was at the bowl. I believe Nick is a fucking dinosaur. You are not like Nick. How dare you? You're not. You're not eating frozen vegetable berries. I know you're not. You're old. You're eating it. I'll do it right now. Do it. Frozen vegetables would be crazy. That would be crazy. Yeah. No. That's weird. Frozen broccoli. Frozen fucking asparagus. That's a little weird. That's brutal. Yeah. That's not refreshing. Okay, guy. Let's go. Handful. I snack on these all day. Hey, do it. Handful. Go ahead. No, no. Handful. More than one. What is it? Banana. He's totally not. Oh, dude. You got the big bag. I'm joking. He's totally not enjoying that. Dude, half the bag's gone. Yeah, that's banana. That's different. Go grab a handful of berries. We're going to be this guy eating fucking four pounds of frozen fruit to prove the point. Yeah. I mix. I mix them. Reach in. And. Why does it have to be a handful? So corny. All right. Okay. You guys eat frozen vegetable fruit. I don't. I legit eat. I legit eat fruit with every meal right now. I buy a lot of frozen fruit. I don't eat any frozen fruit. I'm going to try it though, because you guys said it's so good. Right now, the only fruit I ever eat is pineapple. Frozen? No. Right now, I don't eat frozen pineapple. I like to eat all the berries. I'm a berry guy. It's probably the best. Trader Joe's has a cherry berry mix. That's what I added here. Well, you ruined it with cherries. I don't need cherries. I'm not a big cherry guy. Cherries are gay. Cherries are disgusting. You're probably getting dark, dark cherries though. Not the berries. We're talking about berries. And he's like, I'll get the cherry berry mix. This is getting so gay. Cherries. Why are you coming inside with me? Have that with your red velvet cake or what? Hey. Guy's like, cherries are delicious. Nick's like, cherries are fucking disgusting. Have you seen these? No, the worst. What is that? Yeah, this guy gave me some of these. What is this? Dude, this guy, he was at my house. He stopped by because he went to my gym. Oh, is that the, yeah. The heavyweight bars. They're not, no protein, but these things, bro. They're fucking good. What is it? Just like a chocolate bar. This one's white, dark chocolate stuffed with peanut butter, banana chips, canned pecans, roasted with bread. Oh, fuck yeah. This one's dark chocolate stuffed with mint Oreos. No, no, no, no. Candy's mint and dark chocolate ganache. He's got, he's got carrot cake. Bro, these things are nine ounces. Where do you get that? Where do you get these heavyweight bars from? The owner. Do they ship them? Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure. I want to fuck. I want some for free for the podcast plug. He gave me the pink one. Heavyweight. They're so good. Heavyweight bars. I like, do you like cranberries? It's heavyweight without the vowels. Heavyweight chocolate dot com. Oh, okay. Does anyone like cranberries? I don't, I'm not a big cranberry guy. I'm not cranberry guy. I like it like on fucking like Thanksgiving dinner. Yeah. He's doing so good. He was a deputy in Dallas and he quit his job last week to go all in with this because it's blowing up. Yeah. I had the pink one. Oh, okay. I want a pod. I want a podcast freebie for the, for the. I'll have them. Can I send them your number? Yes. Okay. No, but like I legit have fruit with every meal right now. That's good. That's good for you. I have a, you know what I noticed? I have noticed since doing it though, like digestion and I just feel better. This is going to sound really fucking stupid because it's so obvious, but I'm just going to say it anyway. Okay. Your body doesn't recognize what the sugar is that you're getting. It just, you get sugar cravings. So whenever I have an apple, I'm just like, I'm cool. I haven't been eating any junk food or anything. I have a fucking apple. You probably, you probably feel way better though. That's what I'm saying. Like you feel better. Cause like your body's craving sugar. I reach for an apple. I have that. And I'm like, I'm fucking good. I'm not really craving any shit anymore. And it, but then if you were to eat shit, you'd feel like shit. No. Yeah, of course. So, but I'm just saying like people think they're craving a sugar because of whatever. You're not, it doesn't matter what your body's craving sugar. It's not craving like a chocolate bar necessarily. So you could have any sugar and it will kill that craving. Yeah. That's why I like frozen blueberries. I snack on these too. I got to try this frozen blueberry situation. What is that? Protein pudding? Are you? The protein in this low fat, low carb. It's fucking. Are you plugging all your sponsors right now or what? No, they're not a sponsor. There's just stuff that I fucking use. I love it. What was the question you just asked me before that food? The sugar thing, the craving thing. Oh. I don't crave anything. I know you don't. You're fucking like a robot. Anyway. Guy, do you do a lot of like of those different protein snack things? I never, ever do that shit. Not when I was bodybuilding because they were like, they weren't around as much as they are now. I know. But like for me, like if I'm going to eat something shitty, I just want to eat that shitty thing. Like I don't want to eat a fucking shitty protein version of it. Some things can be pretty good though. I actually really enjoy the protein puddings. Like if I, at night, if I want to eat something, I want to have a shake. Those protein puddings are fucking great. Like if you make, if you got a creamy now and you know how to make a good fucking creamy, you can make that shit and you're like, this is just as fucking good for the way. I like doing the, uh, the whey drip, you know? Yeah. Like that's super popular. What's the whey drip? You mix whey like almost like a, like a thick and then drizzle it on, you know? Yeah. That's been doing that for fucking 25 years. What do you mean? Is that new? So it's like a, it's more popular now. Yeah. You weren't quite influential enough to make it popular. Like you did the frozen blueberries. So yeah, you didn't make shit popular for the way drip. That's what they call it. Wait, I didn't even know that either. Fucking hilarious. Are you fucking crazy? It's like a new thing now. Well, it's not a new thing, but it's become more mainstream. Well, it's got a name. So it's obviously. It's got a name now. Yeah. We used to do that with our, like with our oatmeal, you'd make your oatmeal and then you would like, if you had 50 grams of protein or whatever, you'd make a pudding out of it and then just like pour it on top. Yeah. Yeah. That was normal. Yeah. Okay. But now it's like a thing for everybody. Now it's called whey drip. I literally do that like twice a day. It's really good. It's called whey drip. It's called whey drip mutant style. Yeah. I literally mix it with regular rice or cream of rice. I'm getting fucking really old. Holy shit. Okay. Let's do some questions. Uh, you want for vegetables? What? We're doing questions, guy. Put your fucking fruit away. Artichoke hearts. That's disgusting. That's gross. Yeah. Prague Martin versus Olympia Derek. Derek. Yeah. I think Derek still wins. I think Martin still needs some more mass. He's still too big. Yeah. Before he's in that mix in that competition. He's close though. Um, would Ian, Paul and Fouad go to an ayahuasca ceremony with a shaman and take part in it? If you guys knew you were in a, in safe hands. A hundred percent. So I know a lot of people that have done them and like, I've never done anything close to those kinds of drugs. It actually, I've heard so many good things about it. And the, um, guys at MIT 45, we own the CEO actually will pay for any employees to go to the whole thing if they want to go. And it just, I don't know, man, I'm kind of a pussy. It scares me. I don't know if I really care to go. I definitely don't care to go. Like, what are you going to just going to trip out, trip your balls off? And like, I have no interest in that shit. I know it says like, it changes you as a person and this and that. It does. Yeah. I mean, like doing like DMT or ayahuasca. It's like, it's the idea of it is interesting to me, but the potential for fucking my brain up is a little too scary to me. I'm like, I'm not that bad that I maybe want to take. I haven't heard anybody fucking their brain up. What you have? Yeah. I think it's guy. Why are you talking about it? Like it's the greatest thing ever. You don't have no idea what it's about. No, no, no. Everybody that I've talked to that. I've definitely talked to a lot of people with good experiences. Yeah. That's what I'm, that's why I'm saying. Guy, you're saying, guy, you're saying everybody you've talked to that's gone as what? I said it like a tremendous experience. And they actually. In what way? Do you know? Dealing with, with quote unquote, past demons, things that they compartmentalized, like now comes to fruition. And they like deal with it. And they come back as a better person. And their outlook on life is a lot different and more clear. I've heard that too. Yeah. And I think a lot of people have like. Why did you question me? You thought I was lying? No, no. I didn't say, I didn't think you were lying. I've heard the same thing. What I'm wondering is out of a hundred people that go, how many experienced that versus like, it's just a fucking thing. I haven't heard one person that say they haven't gotten anything from it, if that matters. Well, the only reason I'm skeptical about that is like people go into those things with these positive experiences already in their mind. Like they already want to, you know what I mean? Like they're already trying. I would go into it scared out of my mind to be dead serious. I'd be freaking out. I think I would go into it. You know, people like when they get hallucinated or. I've never hallucinated a day in my life. Not hallucinated. I just don't have an interest. Hypnotized. Hypnotized. You know, people get hypnotized. Yeah. Like some people go into it wanting to be hypnotized and they feel like they got hypnotized. And some people go into it and are like, I don't expect anything and nothing happens to them. Yeah. I think you need to be open for it. Yeah. But that's what I'm saying. Like, the only thing that scares me is like, I, like I said, I've, I've had some pretty bad mushroom trips before. So I'm like, I'd be scared. What is that? When you say, can I ask, when you say like a bad mushroom trip, like, what does that mean? Just like absolute anxiety fucking city. I was like, oh my God, dude, every bad thing going on in your life is amplified to the fucking to 11. Everything, like everything is just like bad times 10, you know? I've been there. Yeah. It's just fucking like stress, fear, fucking brutality, you know? I don't know. Even with like, you know, I've, I've done almost all drugs. I still don't really think like I care to do ayahuasca. Really? I think if it happened, if we were gone somewhere and we were like, we're going to try this shit out, like whatever, we're all going to do it. Like, I don't know. I would go only if it was like a group of like, there had to be people there that I'm friends with and that I trust, or I wouldn't go. I don't think I would do it. Yeah. I'm kind of with Nick on this one. Yeah. I don't know if I give shit. I don't know. I'll just pass and I'm good. Yeah. I've been offered to go multiple times and I have not once taken anybody up on it. I know Chris, Chris really wants to do it. Every time he like brings up in conversation with Melissa. Does he really? Yeah. He wants to do it. Did you ever see Enigma? DMT though. DMT, not Ayahuasca. Did you ever see Enigma, the Aaron Rodgers thing on Netflix? Yes. No. Half of it is about Ayahuasca. He talks all about it. He shows where he goes. So if you're interested, watch Enigma on Netflix. It's Aaron Rodgers one. Maybe I'm interested. I'm not sold, but I'm interested. I'm not even like the slightest bit interested. We can go do it together and cry and hold each other, you know? I would do that. Only if Ian holds me. Sweaty, shirtless, crying in the fucking jungle. I'll go if Ian goes. What is one good thing that has happened in each of your lives recently? Joseba. Joseba is the best, the number one podcast fan of podcasts. Yeah, we got to have him on the podcast at some point. One day we'll have him on. He just gets to make like a quick 10 minute appearance. You're going to do that, and then you know how many people are going to flood you with wanting to come on? They can't, because Joseba is like at every event. He's way more diehard than everybody. They have to do what he does. He can't. Anyway, Nick, what's one good thing that's happened to you in your life recently? Recently? Recently, yes. Or has it been a string of shit? It's been about a string of shit. Yeah. Yeah. I got to be honest with you. Listen to me. I got fucking one arm over here, all right? Give me one thing that's a good thing that's happened to you. I wake up every morning. Okay. Beautiful. Give me one thing. Come on. I'm being serious, bro. You know what? You know what? No, no. I was able to take my parents to Canada so they can experience Niagara Falls. Oh, that's awesome. How was it? I've already seen it. I didn't see it, but they loved it. That's great, though. Yeah, I wanted them to get out of the fucking country and explore a little bit. So when I had to go for Dorian's show, I said, we're all going. And then Friday, I had to do content for HD, and I know how I am. It's cold as shit. So I was like, I'm not going. I'll be a party pooper. Yeah. I said, you two go and enjoy. And they had a blast. Who took them? Did they just like take a new tour? We drove there. We drove there. Oh, you drove there? Yeah, it was only like a seven-hour drive. It's not too bad. Yeah, they... Hey, was this only seven hours, Nick? Yeah. No. Oh, your dad thought it was like eight and a half. No, it was seven. It was closer than that. From Toronto to Niagara Falls? No, no, no. He's saying from his place to Niagara Falls. Oh, your place to Niagara Falls. On the American tour? We drove to the event we were doing. We drove to Toronto. Oh, to Dorian's. Okay, I got you. I got you. Sorry. And then from where we were staying to Niagara Falls, for them, was about a 45-minute drive. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, shit. That's fucking awesome, man. So, was that your parents' first time out of the country? My mom's. Yeah, she's never been out of the U.S. You know what I think is crazy? This is Walker H. flying. The whole time. He's just like, I can't believe I'm in another country right now. I know, but you know what's so crazy? Like, other people in other countries hear that, and they think, like, it's wild that you haven't left your country. But those people in other countries also don't understand there is everything in the U.S. Yeah. Like, if you live in the U.S., there's every type of climate. There's every type of fucking, like, terrain. There's every type of, like, politics. Like, everywhere. You can experience everything in fucking the U.S. without leaving. So, anyway, it was their first time out, and they had a good time. Yeah, they went to Niagara Falls. They went to that little, like, strip thing that's along. Yeah, along the way. They went down there. Yeah. They were there for, I guess, like, three or four hours. That's awesome, man. Good for you. Yeah, they had a good time. Guy? Yes, sir. Anything recently good that's happened to you? Well, I told you about the whole walking onto the field thing, right, with my girl's daughter for the – remember we talked about it in the last podcast? No, I don't remember what you're talking about. Remember where, like, she brought me out, and, like, they were, like, stepdad guys? No, I don't remember. Tell me what you did. Yeah, we talked about it in the last – she had a cheering thing for eighth grade, and her mother walked her out, and then she asked if I would walk her out as, like, her stepdad. Oh, yeah, that's right. That's right. That's right. I said that in the last podcast, right? No, we can't use it again. Oh, I said that – well, you didn't ask that question. Honestly, I think coaching for me – like, I went to college to be a history teacher and to coach football. Right. And I, you know, I don't have a lot of time, you know, like, free time throughout my day, but I really do enjoy coaching the kids and, like, giving back to the community and, like, you know, coaching the kids. Like, I actually – I didn't know if I was going to enjoy it, but, you know, the guy came up to me at a cheering event, asked if I'd be interested, and I was just like, oh, like, you know, kind of in passing. I'm like, yeah, you know, call me. They know if you ever need anything. Guy, Nick wants to ask something. No, no, I don't. Yeah. What was the face you were making? What? What, Nick? Bro, you tell a story like my mom, dude. This shit drags the fuck on. Oh, no. Bro, first of all, I make fun of Nicole for that. No, your stories are good, guys. Thank you. Nick, you fucking got attention span of a field mouse. Nick is really abrupt with his stories. They're just like – I just – beginning, middle, end. Guy's got to include every fucking detail known to that. No, that I don't do, you fuck. I don't fucking do that. I do not – You were just doing it. Because I'm answering a fucking question, you douche. I answered it. Beginning, middle, end. Nick's like, we went to Niagara Falls. End of story. We went to Niagara Falls. My parents in Niagara Falls, they loved it. They enjoyed it. Done. Ian, anything good happen to you recently? I froze some good quality sperm. Oh, yeah. That's right. I forgot about that. Yeah. The one I froze this week was my all-time best. I'm hitting PRs over here. Are you? Oh, yeah. Are you done now? I'm done now. Back to action, baby. So you're done now. Back to normal. I got a fuckload frozen now, probably. So much that the doctor, when she called me, saw that I had another one booked to freeze it, she called me to talk me out of freezing more. She's like, you don't need more frozen, bro. You got lots. You got lots. You got lots. She's like, save the 900 bucks and use it for something else. But man, are you trying to have a kid? Are you freezing them for like, because you're not sure? No, I'm freezing them to do IVF. I mean, I could keep trying to get my count high enough that we'd have good odds of natural conception. And they're actually getting reasonably close. But I also don't want this to like be a chasing the fucking carrot forever. You know? Because it's like, I've been kind of doing that. It's like, I could keep chasing, keep chasing, keep chasing, never get there. And like, we're 35 almost, you know? It's like, if we're going to have kids and you're most as a girl, it's like, now's kind of the time to do it. So we're going to just fuck. So what's going on? Are you going to do the IVF or what? You're right. Yeah. Okay. So now it's time to get back on the juice. Yeah, I guess so. And draw 50, baby. I don't know about that. Is it safer to do? I like, I hear people like, you know, I hear both sides, like people that try to do like natural conception. Like I have friends that I have friends that have literally told me that they like got so turned off with like trying to get their girl pregnant because like they plan it. They're looking at a calendar. It's like, well, the thing is the thing like, is I know because I'm in a different position than a lot of those people. They're trying without the amount of Intel that I have. Like those people will try and be unsuccessful. I've been testing my sperm every three months for like two and a half years. So I know exactly like the parameters and what my odds of natural conception are. And right now it's like, there's not a zero chance, but it would be pretty low. And I don't think I'm like, look, in the meantime, and while we're doing the process, we'll keep trying to naturally conceive. And that's great. And if we get lucky, we get lucky, whatever. Yeah. Um, but I'm also like at the point where, where the odds are that low, I don't want to leave that to those odds being that low. Now, isn't it, isn't it also safer because like when you do IVF, like you can, you can check like the trinomcy genes and make sure that that's not there. And they're only going to pick the healthiest sperm and the healthiest, healthiest egg. And then they basically categorize them by like AB, whatever, you know, and they're going to obviously implant the one that is the best one. That's going to have your highest odds with no genetic defaults and whatever. So what I'm saying is there's a, there's a 0% chance. Like, let's say you did IVF. Like, is there any chance that like the kid could come out like with down syndrome or like something like, or that's kind of impossible doing IVF. I, I'm not 100% sure if they know that until, but I think most of that stuff can be genetically tested on the embryo before it's implanted. Okay. That was more my question. It's a more traumatic-y kind of process for the girl, you know, like they have to, you know, deal with the egg retrieval and the implantation. Then it, you know, you could do this process multiple times and it can be stressful not having success. But, you know, we've kind of committed to that process now. So we're kind of like, this is, this is where we're at now. So, yeah. Okay. If you could pick anywhere to live in the world, Nick, where would your ideal location be? In the world or the U.S.? In the world. In the world. Like, while I'm competing or I'm retired and living life? Right now. Here. Where are you guys? Where is that? Yeah. I mean, I'm probably here. Okay. What about after? Bora Bora. Bora Bora. Yeah. You can't live in Bora Bora. You've been to Bora Bora? I can. Yeah. That's fine. Peace. What about me? Be by himself. We talk on the phone every day. We do now. Can you live in Jersey? Guy. If you could pick anywhere to live in the world, where would it be? Why? In the world? Yes. Anywhere and why? I'd probably go with Italy. Why? Because I've been there. I love the culture. I love the food. I love the slow pace. I'm very high strung. I'm go, go, go. I was there for 10 days with my parents two years ago. And, like, just the way my attitude was, I slowed down. I enjoyed the food. That happens on every vacation. No. No. Not for me. Hmm. Okay. Ian? I don't really know. Right now, I don't think I would want to live anywhere different. You know, like, my family's here, and I think I'd like to be here. We're here intentionally right now, you know? So I don't think now in my life I would change where I'm living. Maybe later. I don't know. See, for me, most of the things is like. Guy, what are you doing? I'm just, I just got done making the dogs for me. Sit down. I am. People get so mad that, like, I do stuff on the podcast. It's distracting. You're on a podcast. You're fucking cleaning your house. Yeah, but I got my dogs out to eat, and there was shit all over the place. Yeah, but dude, just sit the fuck down and clean it up. I'm going! Jesus Christ. Go ahead, Ian. Sorry. But most of the answer for me is, like, the people, you know? Like, I think, like, kind of, it's where you make it, you know? Like, I think you can, like, look, Canada isn't necessarily climate-wise the best place ever, but I enjoy being here because of what is here. You know, like, politically, tax-wise, you know, climate-wise, there's a lot of reasons I wouldn't want to live here, but it's still where I would choose to be right now. So, I don't know. I mean, maybe down the road it would change, but as of now, I don't think I would want to live anywhere different. I mean, it would be cool to live, you know, somewhere, like, fucking southern Spain or something for a bit or, like, whatever, or go live in fucking, you know, Bora Bora or Australia or, like, do something cool like that, but no, I don't think. Honestly, it would just be even nice to live in, like, fucking Alaska, you know what I mean? Like. No fucking way, dude. I heard Alaska, oh my God. Or, like, Tennessee or, like, fucking, you know. Tennessee, okay. Somewhere that's just, like, a little more quiet, chill with a little more land, a little more quiet, you know, like, you know, be able to have, like, some nice property. And fucking, you know, like, hunt and fucking grow your food and do all that kind of fucking manly shit. I do that here. Yeah. But, I mean, you can do that anywhere, but I'm saying it would be nice to, like, have it all in one spot, you know? Well, look, rephrase the question. If you could live anywhere in the U.S. No. The question is anywhere in the world. No, I know, but I want to hear everybody's answer if it was just in the U.S. Well, I'm going to give my answer for anywhere in the world. I'm going to live. To Lebanon, to the motherland. You live in Lebanon, no. I want to live in Northern California. That's where I want to live. Forever. Yes. Northern California is pretty fucking awesome. I have to agree there. It's fucking beautiful there. It's amazing. The weather's amazing. The climate, the fucking. Dude, if you live. So, I was in Northern. I was in. I was north of Sacramento in a place called Roseville. Uh-huh. If you live in Roseville. And this probably seems normal to the people that live there. If you go an hour that way, it's like Lake Tahoe, mountains, fucking lakes. Fucking beautiful shit. If you go an hour that way, you're at the Pacific Ocean on the coast. And it's like, it's just beautiful shit everywhere. And it's good weather all year round. It's good weather all the time. Minus the politics in California. The coldest. Who gives a fuck about the politics? But we get that. We get that already in Canada. I get that here. We get worse in Canada. So, it's. Yeah. I'm like the worst. The coldest fucking day there is like 40 degrees Fahrenheit, which is nothing. So, it's like. That's not bad. Yeah. The only thing for me, like how I answer my question is like, and I've had friends that have done this to move to places that are like the ultimate place they'd want to live. But then when you don't have like your circle or other people there, it changes the dynamic a lot. This is the beauty thing. The beautiful thing for me. I have friends in Northern California. Yeah. That I love. That you love too. Sure. So, you would come visit. Paul knows them too. Paul would come visit. I don't. The only thing is. No, I'm not speaking to you, California. I'm just saying. Yeah. Like answering my own question. It's like. The only thing. I'm basing my whole thing off of who's there. You know? See, for you, it's different. You're going to have kids. You're probably going to want your parents around for that. Like, you know what I mean? I'm not going to have kids. I can move. If I want to see my family, it's a five hour flight back. Yeah. Absolutely. You know? Yeah. So. You don't think you would get bored of like. I like change of season. So, that's one thing I love about where I live is the change of season. Like, I enjoy winter and springtime and fall. You know what? Something's happened to me, guys. I've gotten older. Gray skies immediately. Fuck with my emotions. I get like depressed. Really? I can't understand that. If it's fucking. It's a very real thing. If it's fucking raining, I'm fucking. Don't talk. Don't talk to me. Did you know Sweden has like a very high suicide rate? Because like they don't get a lot of sun. And in the winter, they have like two hours of like light a day. And the suicide rate is like through the roof. Yeah. Seasonal affective disorder is like a real thing for people. Yeah. Dude. When I look outside, like when I was in California. So we stayed in a hotel near the hospital for a month and a half almost. Every fucking day. Every single day. Not a cloud in the sky. I'm like, this is heaven. Do you think that helped like your mental state? Like why? Yeah. Yeah. I would get out and walk around. Like that was, that was my, like my rehab. Like for sure. If I was in a fucking rainy, shitty climate. Oh my God. Who the fuck? Obviously for us, where we live to like anywhere you could ride bikes. 365 days a year is like the most desirable thing ever for people that ride motorcycles. You know? 100%. Cause like we get like, we get like seven months of riding here, you know, at best. So it's like when you extend that by five months, it's like, fuck, that's sick. You know? Well, and the type of riding. Like when I ride here, good riding. I'm riding like in a fucking straight line on a fucking highway. I'm riding California. It's like riding on the 401, you know? Maybe you can stick to this for a while. I know. Everybody doesn't want me to ride. I get it. I know. We already had this conversation on the phone. How can I stop binge eating? I did a show a couple months ago. And since then I can't follow a diet. I'm out. I'm out on this one. You guys can answer that. It's literally a choice. Yeah. Don't be a fat fuck. Just don't. I don't know if that's that simple. It is. I mean, dude, it's a choice. It's a choice. I know. But there are ways that you can help yourself. But you made the choice to stop. You know what? You know you do? You know you do? What? What, Nick? Eat frozen fruit. Eat frozen fruit. That's it. Hell yeah, brother. Frozen fruit. You want chocolate or craving sugar? Have an apple. Frozen fruit. I'm going to tell you guys one thing that I know helps with binge eating. I'm not sure. Ian is right that you have to decide to not do it. But there's one thing that definitely helps. And it's not letting yourself get hungry. When I'm, when I'm, when I don't have it in the house. Just don't get it. Yeah, that too. But I'm saying like, when I have food prepared. I'm not saying you have to meal prep each meal individually. Like if I just have like a bunch of chicken in the fridge or I got some steaks or whatever I can cook or whatever. As long as I can eat it. Yeah, as long as like, if I'm fucking starving, I'm going to reach for anything that's in front of me. Yeah. Like when you're hungry and then you go to the fridge, there's nothing. You're like, I'll get Uber Eats. But I also think people's version of binging is a lot different because I've heard people tell me, oh man, I ate a ton last night. And they would tell me like they, and I'm like, that's like, I know. If they heard my version. That's not a binge. Well, that's what I want to know. Like what is. Bodybuilders are fucked up for that. That's a normal meal right there. What's your version for you of like binging versus just like. Oh my God. Bro, this is going to get. That's serious. My version is like four different orders, like Uber Eats and like four different drivers. He's eating like a full pizza, a full thing of pasta, a full thing of ice cream. Okay. I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you a regular binge before, like before my accident or just after my accident, before I decided to stop doing all this shit. A regular binge would be like a large pizza. And from the same restaurant, they make a really good pasta with like a rosé sauce. So I'd order like spaghetti with rosés, a rosé sauce. And then I would probably do wings and then like a pint of Ben and Jerry's. And I might want a bag of chips with that. A full bag, full, full size bag of chips. That would be like one night. That's a lot. That's a lot. How many calories do you think that is? Like 4,000? I know a large pizza, wings, and a pint of Ben and Jerry's is like 5,000 calories on average. It's going to change. And that pasta is definitely a couple K. It's going to change obviously depending on like the type of toppings you have on a pizza and like all that shit. But like it's an easy 5K. Easy 5K. See, I feel bad when I eat like a bag of like cheddar rice cakes. Dude. Trust me. I look back like it's only been a couple months since a couple month and a half since I stopped. And I'm like, I got really out of control there for a while. Yeah. Like I just, I rebelled against everything I was when I was a bodybuilder. I'm like, no. I'm like for 20 years, I was forced to diet. Like somebody holding a gun to my head. That was my excuse. So I was like, I'm going to eat whatever I want. And I would like, and I just got out of hand. Just got out of hand. How often did you do it? Like if I do that, it's like once a week. Dude. For a while. It was like Uber eats at my house every night. No, that amount. I wasn't, it wasn't eating that amount of food every night. But I was eating every out of eating out every night. Were you still eating throughout the day? No, that was the thing. Like for a while. Or you were just not eat and then just pig out. There was like almost a whole year where there was like, I would eat two meals a day. One would be like protein and oatmeal for breakfast. And then I would have like a pizza at night. Yeah. So, but, but I think if, if so, for somebody that's binging, I would say if you're consistent eating throughout the day, you're not going to binge as bad as you. Yeah. That's what I said about being hungry. But a lot of people post content, post show, they'll have like one meal and then go up a snippet of time of not eating and then slam food. I do a lot better when I'm, I'm having meals. A thousand percent. That's why I said the number one trick is to not let yourself get hungry. Yeah. If you let yourself get hungry, it's like Ian said, you're like, you open the fridge, you go, Oh, there's nothing cooked. You're going to close the fridge. You're going to fucking pick up the phone. Cause easier to like Uber eats to be your house in 10 minutes. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? So you see my Uber eats thing? No, they don't come to your house. Will they? No. Never use Uber eats a day in my life. Yeah. Well, they don't come to Florida. I was in Vegas. The watching. Oh, I saw this story. So I tried to get in and out in and out doesn't do delivery. So we went to, I think it was shake shack or I forget. I think it was shake shack. And it was like $112. Cause I bought all the food for the guys I was with. And then I get a text and it literally said, I'm stuck at the pond. And I was like, what? I was stuck at the pond. I'm like, we're in fucking Vegas. Yeah. And then she was, she had about that much water inside her car by where her feet are, where she drives. And the water went, got in the intake under the hood. There was two guys pushing her out the fucking ground. I was like, how is this happening? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's, that's fucked up, dude. That's like your life. You're just bad luck for everybody. Not everybody. Not everybody. Not everybody. I had bad luck for you. Was it? Which one? Which one? No, you're good luck for me. Did you hear that? Which one was this? One of me laughing. Which one? Nicole said, I'm not bad luck. She's sitting on the couch. No, you're not bad luck. I don't know. Oh, it's this one. Yeah. Yeah. You're walking up to it. Dude, that was a fire truck. This is your Uber Eats guy fucking stuck in this. The fire truck is, is, is right where the puddle like ends. Go to the next one. The next one. This is, you'll see her getting pushed out. This lady goes, can you move the dumpster? I go, it's a thousand pounds. I'm not fucking moving the dumpster. I got your, she's not even in the water. What the fuck? No, that's not her. That's, that's people trying to get through. The people are doing the normal thing. The lady drove straight. Oh, she drove right into the puddle. You'll see her getting pushed out. The one. When they pan back. Hold on. There might be the. Oh, there. She's getting pushed. Look at the water coming out of her car. There's water coming out of her car. What the fuck? Well, that shows us. It's nice having a truck. That would be no issue ever. You know? Yeah. Okay. Let's do a few more. Then we'll go. This one's interesting, Nick. What's the happiest day of your life? Well. Happiest day of my life? Yeah. That's a good question. And that's a very simple one, too. I'm going to say the day I got married. That way I don't have to. Me too. Kill my wife being angry. I don't know. You don't know? I really don't know. You don't know? What's that? It is so hard to pinpoint that. Just give me a happy day. Pick one. Give us three really happy days. Happy, happy. You can't even find one. You want me to give you three? You can't find one? Well, like you have happy days. Like, obviously, the day you won the Arnold. The day you won New York. Yeah. Yeah. Obviously, it's always going to be my first New York Pro win. I mean, the day you won the Arnold probably wasn't a big deal because you only beat Ian. So it wasn't like. Yeah, it beat me. Yeah. It wasn't like. Yeah. I mean, that was a piece of cake, you know? Yeah. Yeah. He won that before he even showed up, you know? Okay. Fucking. Ian always rubs it. Wait. Before we move on. Before we move on. Ian always rubs it in my face that he was second at the Arnold. Now you're here so I can use you against him. Yeah. Fucking asshole. Still better than you're like 12th or whatever it was. I don't care. I don't care. He'd beat you. Hey, but it was the all-time best Nick there, you know? Like we're talking. We're talking peak Nick at this Arnold. Okay. It was a very. We can't forget. I'm pretty sure Ian was at third after prejudging. He came back and said, no, no, no. No, no, no. That was a Chad moment to keep Kuklo out of the fucking Olympia there, you know? Oh, that was so bad. Yeah. That was a rough, rough run on Steve. Well, he wouldn't have won the Olympia. He wouldn't have got to the Olympia if he took second. He would have. He would have to win. No. He would have qualified on points. He was. That was when they still had the points. Oh, my God. His points from that for second combined with his points from coming second to be in Texas would have been enough. You made him retire. Yeah. He's so happy. I had just beat him earlier in the year on home court in Texas, which was like the upset of the year. I remember that. And then at the Arnold, he's like, I finally got him. It's me and Nick at a two-man call out. Yeah. I fucking, and then back at night, I'm like, nope. You know? See it. Final. Such an asshole. It's even cooler because I said it on camera after prejudging. What'd you say? Even though they had done a two-man call out with Nick and Steve. So most of the time you'd be like, okay, I'm third. Yeah. Yeah. And I was cool with that. But I went on camera. Like I was doing, you know, vlogging, whatever. And I went on. I was like, you know what? I think I'm third right now, but I'm pretty, like, pretty confident. I can come back and I can be second tonight. I'm like, I feel it in my bones. Like I'm bringing this. I'm manifesting this right now. And I did come back and come second. I manifested that. You're so hilarious. Literally word for word. I said, I'm going to come back and I'm going to come second tonight. And I did. Okay. Nick, your happiest moments were winning the shows. What else? Anything else? The day you met Guy? That was the worst day of my life. Is there a moment? All downhill from there. It's all been bad. I think any time, like, I just see my parents happy and enjoying themselves always just make things better for me. Yeah. I know. I could see that. Guy? Happy? Um, one of the happiest days I would say when I, when I took my parents to Italy, like on all expense paid, like paid for the flight, the hotels, the food, like they didn't open their wallet once like that. You know, my parents, my grandparents go to Italy and, um, they always wanted to go and they'd never been there before. I would say that. And then I think the day, uh, probably, I can't say the day I met Nicole because I met her for like seven months and didn't know like what was going on. Once I figured, you can't say that. You can't say that. Once I figured, well, once I figured out she, she wanted to find me. You can't say the day you met Nicole. You can't say that. Why? Oh, you can cause she's sitting there. Forget it. What? No, that's not. No, no. No, no. He's right. He's right. He's right. I'd never say it if I wasn't here. He would. We swear. He swore. Yeah, it was. He told us. He told us in private before. It's just been one of my longest relationships. If I wasn't happy, I wouldn't. I remember that. Yeah, but come on. Let's be honest. What? You didn't know. It's now become great. You didn't know it was going to be great. Like the first time we hung out and like you, you feel that certain way, like that you knew like this was going to be a long-term thing. Like, you know, like this might be the one, like I don't have to worry. And like, you know, well, so yeah. Yeah. I remember you saying that. What are you doing, Ian? What's your favorite day? I already said. Oh, the day you got married. Uh, no, I would actually put. Wait, just wait. I'm going to go down that track. I actually think getting engaged was getting better, was better than getting married. I'm going to say my first marriage is better than my second. Like your first wife. Well, I only have one wife. We got married twice. You're not telling us. Yeah. We got married. I actually thought, I thought like when we got engaged in like that whole thing, like a wedding is like, you're kind of like having a party for everybody else. It's like, it's cool and it's fun. And I did enjoy it. It wasn't, ours wasn't stressful. It was very laid back. Cause we like, we don't give a fuck if people like, you know what I mean? We're not like, it has to be perfect. We don't really care. Yeah. But it was a, it was a fun day for sure. But it's like, you know, you have a hundred people there. You want to make sure that everyone's having a good time. You kind of like, you're entertaining. It's like, you know, it's kind of like that. And it was still a great day. But the actual engagement was like just us. And like, we had gone away and it was like a thing and it was a very big moment. So I think that was actually like, was it just like, oh, we don't need to tell the whole story, but yeah, it was, it was cute. You know, I did a cute thing. That's the same thing as what I'm saying. My first marriage was the Muslim style ceremony and it was just my family and her family. And that's it. And like my two or three best friends. And that was all that was there. It was like, yeah. Yeah. It's always better the first time, I think. No, it's not just that it's better. Cause it's more private and it's just like the people that are closest to you. You know what I mean? Instead of having like a hotter people that like, you know, I think it would be pretty, it was pretty cool too. The first year, Chris, Melissa, and I all did the Olympia together. And Chris also won one of those years, you know? So like us all competing together, we're all doing the Olympia. Chris is winning. Like it was like those, that was like pretty cool. And at that point I actually felt very low stress as a coach. Like it wasn't like it got later, you know, I was just like doing it. And like, I didn't feel the, oh my God, this is the most famous bodybuilder in the fucking history of the universe. Like it's, it's a little bit different, you know? Okay. Let's, let's, let's wrap it. Wait, real quick. You were married before? Oh no. I'm so confused. We got married twice. We got married twice. We had a wedding ceremony on January. We had a brown wedding and a white wedding. We had a brown wedding. Thank you. There you go. We had a brown wedding. When you said my first marriage, I'm going, you're fucked. I'm like, I can't believe you're saying it on the camera. Place these in order of most to least important for a pro picking what shows to compete in. Who will be judging how great the promoter is with the athletes? How much prize money is offered? How easy it is for the athlete to travel to said show? How big and competitive the renowned show is? Oh, this is too long. I honestly, maybe you guys can agree with me. I think it depends on the level of athlete you are. The higher, obviously things will change, but I think probably the most important thing, the higher you get is like the accolade, what it is, and then the timing of the show. I don't think we know or we're caring who the judges are in a lot of cases. I will say this. Especially if you're good, like it doesn't really matter. I don't think the venue and all these things we usually pick. I think it's what time is it and does it make sense for my schedule? And is this a big fucking title to add to my resume? Like Nick wants more fucking New York. He wants Olympias, Arnold's. Like, you know, you're talking about the fucking big, the big boys, you know? Yeah. I mean, look, it depends what level you're at. The same goes as a promoter. I know that the people coming to Detroit don't care that I'm there. They don't care what judges are there. They don't care that it's in a theater. They care that it's after the Arnold's is convenient. And they want big dollars. Yeah. Because like bodybuilders plan their year kind of like in, you know, it's like, okay, you know, I just finished the Olympia. I need to like, you know, I'm going to plan my offseason until about this time. I'm going to do, you know, blah, blah, blah. You kind of plan it other than with the really big shows, which you plan your schedule around those, the Olympia, the Arnold, whatever those you're going to move your schedule to fit those. All the others shows is kind of like you're, you know, basically picking them on how big of an accolade or an accolade that you want. Maybe prize money. Now that some of the shows are getting rapid fire, rapid fire. These are supposed to be rapid fire. Okay. Moving on. Best villain of all time, Nick. Bane. Bane. That's good. That actually was what came into my head before he said it. Or even the Joker that was in that. That's what I was going to say. That was Joker. Yeah. Yeah. The Joker from like the whatever fucking buddy's name is. Okay. Heath Ledger Joker. Thoughts on fake ass Jimmy Quentin pretending to be, pretending to be quality brands. Are the no name brands just as good? Guy? No. No. No. No. No. Has Paul? No. It doesn't matter. If you had two lives, one that you're living now and the other is when you go to sleep, the life you have when you sleep is the life of your choice. Either that single and rich, hot wife, hit man, or gay porn star, Ian's choice. So when you wake up, you always wake up to each life. And you know when you have these two lives. This fuck is happening. So this is like severance. So no one else does. Would you, what would your second life be? So basically they're saying when you go to sleep, you have a second life. What would that second life be? And like, and your first life doesn't know about your second life. Yeah. They're separate. Like you'd be Wolverine. It's still something real. It can't be fake. It can't be fake. Well, the concept is fake. It's pretty fucking real. Yeah. Okay. It's pretty fucking real. I would be like the fucking Hulk and just go around town, just smashing shit. And then I think, uh, I would just be the opposite of who I am now in my other life. Because why would I be the same guy? Yeah. I'm married and fucking pretty smart, handsome. So I would be, I would be, uh, I would be jacked. I would be jacked, single, ugly. And like all, you know, not smart. I would be all the things I'm not now. Yeah. That's all. I live my life that way. Um, is Ian back on the sauce? Not yet. Uh, on the turd. Last question. Should I do my first shot right now on the podcast or what? Yes. No, no. Right, right. With your pants at your ankles, full butt cheeks. I'll do it in my glute on the podcast. Okay. What's round of imposter with the homies? What? That's where you like, we can't do it, but there's a, a word. And then we all have to like put out a, a co like a corroborating word. Haven't we done this before? Yeah. We did do it. What? Forget it. Let's just do last question. Would you rather have uncontrollable sneezes, burps, or farts? Farts. Farts. Farts. You'd rather have farts. I want to go farts too, because it feels good. Yeah. Sneezing sucks. Sneezing's the worst. Sneezing sucks. Burping just gets annoying. But every time you let a fart out, it's like, ugh. Nick doesn't care about anybody else. He's like, I don't give a fuck. It feels good. I fart around my wife enough anyways. I don't give a fuck. I gotta do it all day, right? So it's, I matter. No. You can sneeze? I don't want to sneeze, but I don't want to fart. Oh, dude. Could you imagine like making out and you're like, oh. Oh, jeez. Yeah, what if you're making out and you fart? That's not that bad. Could you imagine eating vagina and being like, silent fart, silent fart? Well, yeah. Are you serious? Sneezing on a vagina? Silent fart. Spitting and sneezing is not very different. Huh? Okay. Honest question. Honest question. Could you imagine like getting ahead and you burp? You're like, ugh. No, you get ahead and you fart. What about sneezing? Silent fart. I heard what you said, guy. I said sneezing and spitting is not very different. No, sneezing. Dude, I sneeze every morning like five times. Nick is hurting. What I'm saying to you is if you sneeze on a pussy and you spit on a pussy, it's not very different. No, going like this. I ain't going. I done that. I done that. It's okay. I think it's all right. That's good stuff. I think both work. Yeah. Yeah. I'm fucking on that thing. I mean, actually burping wouldn't be that bad. I'm taking burping. I'm not fucking farting. Just like a little like. No, no. If you uncontrollably fart. Yeah, but you can't fucking do anything. You're trying to fuck your wife and you're uncontrollably. But they're silent and they don't stink. No, no. You're saying they don't stink. Now you've just eliminated all of the bad things. No, Nick found it a loophole. You didn't say. Nick's creating that. He can't add that. You can't add that shit. You can't be like it doesn't stink. You didn't say I couldn't, motherfucker. So then is the sneeze one of these like, ah, chew or ah, hit? No, it's like a legit sneeze. Maybe I can go with burping. I'm going with burping. But then you can't talk to anybody. You're like, hey. How often? It's not uncontrollably. Does that mean it's every second of the day or is it just randomly here and there? It says like back to back. Like all day, every day. It says like back to back. Yeah, bro. Imagine trying to sleep. Yeah. Then you got to pick farting because then it's like fucks with communication, everything. So you got to take farting. So you can never. That means you can never get hit. No, you can control a fart. I'll fart while my wife's sucking my dick. No, you will not. You would bring a Melissa in right now. No, you will not. I've got to hear this. She would just get used to it. No, a thousand percent. Ian's full shit. Get used to you blowing fucking air dust. He's such a liar. I just have to really. I just really clean up my diet. So it's minimally invasive. This guy is making out and doing missionary. He's not farting while she'll get in the head. There's no way. Every time you do it. You can't beat both people. You can't beat both people. Why? Because you're lying. So you're saying you wouldn't let your wife suck your dick if you had to fart? No. Oh. I would. You're a lying motherfucker. You're gross. You're such a lying asshole. I don't think I care that much. Oh, of course you do. You're just playing a kid's character. Fuck off. Fucking. Okay. I'm fine with it. Listen. Moving on. You're such an asshole. Moving on. Okay. Moving on. One more. Okay. No, that's it. No, that's it. That's it. Okay. Okay. Oh, we're going to say prayers here. Yeah. Guy's saying it. No, Guy's going to say a really serious prayer. All right. How about Nick? Nick, go to church. No, no. Put this on me. Yeah, yeah. Nick, say a prayer. Don't put this on me. Don't put this on me. Come on. It'll be quick. It'll be quick. Guy did a good one. How about doing no goddamn prayer? Come on. Yes, you can do it. Don't use the Lord's name in vain. What are you doing? No, no. That's why I don't do prayer. How about you give us like a traditional Muslim prayer? Yeah. I don't even know. I don't even know what the fuck I feel. Get out your rug and just give us like a... Five points. Yeah. We're not praying tonight. Have a good night, guys. Dear leader, good night.