 All right, all right, guys, we're at the grocery store, we're gonna do some food prep today, but I don't have any food at home, so we're gonna do a little bit of a grocery haul, we're gonna get home, we're gonna make some meals, and I show you guys how it's done, and how I'm getting myself back in shape. All right, one of the things I like the most, when I'm dieting is whitefish, and this is wild soul, and this is wild soul, I think in the US, you guys also call it flounder, the really thin fillets, this whole thing is one pound, so, this is just one meal for me, by the time I cook it down, it goes from 400 grams to about 250, so, the reason I do this fish over any other is just, I don't like really strong fish, this is a really light fish, tasting fish, and they're really thin fillets, so they're easy to fry up in the frying pan, and mash it with some avocado and some rice, this is really, really good. Do you guys slice these up or no? Oh, you do? Sourdough is probably my favorite bread, digest really, really easily for me, and they have a bunch of loaves here, so, I'm gonna get them to slice them up for me. We're doing some flank, because it's a leaner cut of meat, we're also doing grass fed, I do grass fed because there's more omega 3's in grass fed than otherwise, so, doing a couple, do a couple flanks, and then also, we don't have any grass fed ground beef today, so we're gonna skip the grass fed ground beef. They do actually. So, they got some grass fed ground beef, I don't eat a lot of ground beef right now, because I'm not doing a high fat diet, I'm doing a low to moderate fat, but I do try and get in grass fed beef whenever I do, just so I get some more omega 3's in my diet. I've been doing a lot of chicken, so, just straight up, chicken breast. Eggs are an absolute staple of my diet. I don't do a lot of, um, I don't do a lot of egg whites anymore, I do mostly whole eggs, and I'm eating smaller meals right now, so I used to do like, six eggs per meal, now I probably do four. So, it's not, I'm not eating a ton of food right now, I'm probably eating like, three or four meals a day. But I'm getting in my nutritional requirements, so that's what matters the most. Oh, wait, do do do, you take a piece of me. I probably do more rice than anything right now, but I do also still love getting my rice pasta in. This is rice, it's brown rice pasta, it, if I do white rice pasta, it digests too quickly. So, I do brown rice pasta, it's really calorie dense. If you're in the offseason, and you want to get a lot of calories in, this is a really good way to do it. Digests really well, and it's really, really calorie dense. For me, I'm not doing it because I want a ton of calories, I just like to get a lot of variety in my diet right now. So, this is a good way to go. A little bit of fruit, berries are really good for you, high in antioxidants, but also makes your oatmeal taste better. So, a little bit of frozen blueberries in my oatmeal or cream of rice every day. And one thing I'm eating a ton of is frozen vegetables. So, I still can do the chopping board thing and cut up my vegetables fresh, but it's a little bit harder for me right now. So, I do a lot of frozen vegetables. It makes my food taste better, gives me more volume, so I don't have to add more carbs, so I feel full. And I don't have to chop anything up, it's already there for me. Peas. Peas are pretty high in sugar, but they make everything taste better. So, usually in whatever vegetables I'm adding to my food, I always add some frozen vegetables, some frozen peas. Frank's Red Hot is probably the condiment I use the most. I use it on everything. And it just makes everything taste a little bit better, gives me a little bit of flavor. I'm not big on sauces, just this is really easy. It's just a little bit on each meal kind of thing. I like to use Calrose rice. Calrose rice is a short grain rice. I think it's the same rice they use to make sushi rice. So, it just tastes better, easier to eat. I mix it up though, sometimes I'll go with basmati. So, see this? See what they started doing? They started putting like my two favorite flavors in one bag. The temptation. They're always trying to tempt me. I love these. I'll leave these at work. When I'm at work and I have to have a meal before I train or something like that, I always have rice there because I'll just bring my chicken with me and then when I'm at work I'll heat this up. Or if I'm at home and for some reason I didn't make rice and I'm in a rush, these are really easy. There is six grams of fat in here. So, it's not like a good thing to add all the time unless you're going to add that into your plan. But I think it's like a waste of six grams of rice that you, or six grams of fat that you could probably be getting the fat from somewhere else. It's probably a better source. So, I wouldn't say that this is a good idea all the time for all your meals, but it's really good if you're in a pinch and you need a carb source really quickly. This is the way I go. Flavoured water, can't do without it. I always have some on hand. It helps me get in my water requirement for the day. If I don't have flavoured water, I generally don't drink as much water as I should. So, I like having these on hand to make sure I'm always drinking water. all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all I'm okay, thank you. See that? I bought so much stuff they gave me free hangers and I got a free scale. It's pretty badass. It's funny how just stuff like getting groceries can be a challenge in some ways. Something as stupid as just pushing the cart is a challenge. Okay, that's groceries. As you can see I used boxes instead of bags because I can't really bag groceries with one hand so I just throw them in boxes that way it's easier. And yeah, now let's go cook some food. Okay guys, we're back in the kitchen. But we're back in the kitchen minus one arm. I'm not going to cook like six meals that are all the same. I'm going to try and make a variety of meals here so you can see what kind of different foods I eat. They're kind of all the same foods. Just kind of try and make them in a little bit of a different way each time. Maybe with rice, maybe with pasta, maybe with potatoes, but no matter how I'm doing it, it's almost like the same ingredients every time. I do things in a really simple way. I try not to make my food prep harder than it has to be. A lot of you might find it to be boring or not enough, but for me this is what works and this is what makes my life simple. If I try and just do too much crazy stuff, if I keep my meals simple, it keeps me away from eating junk food. If I start adding a lot of sauces, a lot of cheeses, a lot of things like that, that makes me want to start getting into more cheats and more variety as a food. So I keep things simple. I get my meals down and I enjoy them and that's kind of how I do it. So I'm going to show you guys how I do it. Hopefully it'll help you guys out a little bit and we're back in the kitchen. Okay, I got the oven heating to 405. I'm going to put some chicken in the oven. That's really simple, but I'm also going to show you guys a different way to make chicken at the same time. So one of the things I use that I love, if you guys know me, if you follow my podcast or follow, have been following me for any significant amount of time, I love cooking appliances and I actually just bought a new rice cooker that like measures the water for you. It's super high tech, but I don't have it in yet. So I have this old school, just simple, super simple rice cooker that I use, but I also have this grill. This is one of the things I use to make chicken and I'm going to show you guys how easy it is. So this thing is made by T-Fal and you plug it in, you set it up, put the tray in there just like a George Foreman grill. You turn it on and there's a bunch of buttons here with different symbols on them. You just press chicken and you press okay. That's going to heat up and as it's heating up, it'll tell me, it'll make a little song and do a little dance and it'll tell me when it's ready and I'll throw the chicken on that thing's super simple. The oven's on also super simple. So we're going to use those two things to make chicken. Now, one of the things I do with my chicken is I like to cook it on a tray with some tin foil because that makes it easier to clean up afterwards. Now tin foil is not easy with one hand, but I try and I take my other hand out and I can place it there. I put some weight on it with my body, then I can get the tin foil out. It's not pretty, but it works. And then I got to reconnect my arm because it's not good. They don't want me to just let it dangle. So I got to try and keep it hooked up. Now on the tin foil, so your chicken doesn't stick. A little bit of cooking spray on the tin foil. We'll make sure the chicken's good. Now this is whitefish. This is not going to be ready in time for us to cook during the video because it's not thawed, but I have it taken out for later. I'm just going to throw that. I'm just going to throw it in a bowl and leave it there. That will thaw. I got my chicken here. Now one of the things you guys are going to notice is I do everything with scissors. I didn't really like using a cutting board before. If you've watched any of my videos, you know I use scissors all the time anyways, but now I use them even more because using a cutting board right now is a bitch. Now I'm going to show you guys something interesting. They make this cutting board for people with any type of disability. Now this cutting board is cool because it has surfaces here that stop the vegetables from kind of rolling off and I can use it to cut something. Now the other thing they have is here. It has four little spikes. So if I'm cutting like a green pepper or something, I can stick it on here and I can use that to chop the green pepper. So they do make things that kind of make life a little bit easier. But for me, I just do scissors and it's the simplest way. Now some people like to wash their chicken before they prep it. I don't do that. So if that bothers you, I apologize, but I'm just straight up chicken on the pan. We're going to do three chicken breasts in the oven. Some spices for taste. Salt. I always salt everything. Make sure you salt all your food. It's good for you for your training. You need salt for muscle contraction, muscle pumps, everything needs salt. Little bit of garlic powder. Not too much because you don't want to stink and you don't want everybody else around you to be annoyed by your smell. So just a little bit, a little bit of paprika or paprika, however you want to say it. Because I like a little bit of color on my chicken. I don't like it to be white. It bothers me. I need it to have a tan. So a little bit of paprika. And then my favorite, this is interesting. Check this out. So sometimes I have trouble opening bottles like this. Now you would say like you can stick it between your legs and try and open it that way. They make these things here. See this little pad? This little pad is like a rubber silicone thing and you can stick stuff on it so that it doesn't move and then you can open it. So they make cool shit like that for people with disabilities. So I've had to learn kind of all this stuff. Little bit of oregano. Little bit of oregano. Okay. Okay. That's ready for the stove. Now while that is, while I'm waiting for that. I'm going to start making the pasta and the rice. Now, don't forget you need a different set of scissors than the scissors you cut your chicken with because you don't want to get chicken all over the place. So I've got a dry pair of scissors. Cut that. Get my rice. Eventually I'll put this into a smaller container so it's simple but for now I'm just going to do this because I don't want to waste any time. I'll put that out of the way. I've got water here for my pasta. Now, I know some of you probably don't do this. I like to wash out my rice, get all the starch and everything off it. So you don't have to do anything crazy with it. I just kind of swirl it around. You can kind of wash it around with your fingers a little bit. And then you see the water there is like cloudy white. So you're just going to kind of rinse it around like that until the water is no longer. Just wash it around a bit. Get all that white nasty shit and do it again. And you're probably going to do it like. You're probably going to end up doing it three or four or five times until you see that water. See every time you do it the water gets a little more clear. And I'm not trying to make it like clear clear like it's not you know. I just want it to be not like that milky gross color. I'm trying to get as much of that starch and nastiness off the rice. As I can see now it's like it's that's clear enough. Like obviously it's still cloudy but that's kind of good enough for me. And then to measure it I don't actually measure which you're going to find crazy. So this is my measurement tool. My mom taught me this a long time ago. I level the rice and then my pinky finger I go one knuckle. So the water once I put my finger in the water has to be one knuckle from the top of the rice. And honest to God I know it sounds crazy. But it works every time. So thank you mama. Okay. Okay. That's in. Press the button. That's done. Rice. Simple. Okay. The stove is now heated to 405. I'm going to throw the chicken in there. And I'm going to set the timer to 25 minutes. That will let me know when it's done. And then I'm going to season the rest of this chicken. And get another pair of scissors for my flank. So for those of you who don't know. I was in a motorcycle accident and my arm is like 90% paralyzed. So I can use my hand still. I can't open my fingers but I can close them. So if I need to hold on to something. If I place my arm in the right place. I can hold this here. So that way I can cut the package. So I do make some use of my arm. When I have to. When I'm stuck and I can't do it with one arm. I'll use the second arm to kind of make it work. It's not pretty. But I make it work. I'm going to wet this paper towel. I'm going to wet this paper towel. Okay. The reason I did that this way when I cut something on the cutting board. It won't slide. So that's for those of you who don't know. It's a little trick. I'm going to put a little trick. I'm going to put a little trick. I'm going to put a little trick. Ok. I'm just going to stick that on those four spikes. Now this won't move so I can just... As you can see, it's not perfect. But I'll try and make it work. I'll probably end up cutting the rest of this with the scissors. Shit. Shit. Shit. accident, I kind of said to myself, it doesn't matter how you look or what you eat or how you act because you're disabled now and nobody cares. And maybe nobody does care, but I care. But I acted like it didn't matter because I was being, I had like all this self-pity, like, oh, you have a, you have a disability now. So you get to be a complete asshole and just do whatever you want, eat whatever you want, you know, train half-assed, you know, do it all kind of like halfway. And it caught up with me. Months have passed. It's been about six months, six months now or more since the accident. And, uh, I've been feeling kind of depressed about myself and the way I'm behaving. And I said to myself, that's enough, you know, that's enough. It's time to, this isn't who I am. This isn't how I behave. This isn't how I live my life. So there's no excuses for being, you know, having zero discipline and just doing whatever you want to be acting like an asshole. And just all that self-pity is no, there's no excuse for that. There's no, it doesn't do anything for you. It doesn't help you in life. So I decided that enough was enough. And I was going to go back to my roots and back to what I knew. And that's bodybuilding and that's having discipline and, and eating the right way and training hard and not just going in there and going through the motions and, you know, eating the right foods. And it feels better. It ought, it automatically feels better. And I'll tell anybody who tell anybody who doesn't, you know, follow a plan and is having trouble with their life and these things. It's like, look, it might not be a direct solution, but I'll tell you one thing, not having any discipline and eating whatever you want, doing whatever you want is definitely not going to lead to a better result. Okay. Let's move this. One of the other things I've been doing is I enjoy cooking with steel pans. Now it's not something I really knew how to do. It takes a little bit of skill. You got to heat the pan properly and you got it. It's not as easy. Just, I don't know. It's a little different than cooking with a nonstick pan. So, but I'll tell you this, the food tastes better. It's weird. Just cooking on a different pan, the food tastes better. So we're going to do that with our flank steak. We're going to cook it in the steel pan. Okay. So one of the ways you check if your pan is hot and ready to go, splash a little bit of water, a couple of drops of water on it. If the water evaporates, if the water evaporates, it's not the right temperature. What should happen is once you put the water in there, the water should kind of bead and kind of roll around. So watch, I'm going to show you right now. If I take this water, I drop it in there. See, I would just evaporate it. That's not right. They see there's beating over there. It's getting there. So the water shouldn't evaporate. You'll see what I mean in a minute. It's almost, it's almost hot enough. See there, see that bead of water. That's what you're looking for. That means the pan's hot enough. Then what we're going to do is turn down the heat just a little bit because we don't want the pan to be too hot. We want it to be hot enough, but not too hot. Get rid of that water. What we're going to do is we're going to use a little bit of oil. I'm going to swirl around that oil a little bit, cover the bottom of the pan. And then we're going to put in our beef. all right. all right Try washing your hand with one hand. You can't. I've got to wash my hand. My thumb washes my other fingers. It's really weird, man. The things that you realize when something's taken away from you, then you realize kind of how bad you needed it, right? All right. We're going to get rid of this because we're not chopping any vegetables. We are going to do frozen vegetables all the way because it's just easier. We're going to do a little bit of garlic on our flank. We're going to do a lot of salt. We don't need the paprika. Oh, we're going to do a little bit of pepper. Okay. These are our dry scissors. We're going to do a little bit of pepper. Put the rice pasta in. Can we edit this part so it looks like I did it perfectly? I know. I hear you. Fuck. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, well. Okay, that will tell me when it's ready. We're gonna turn this down a little bit so that it boils but doesn't boil over. And once you get it here to this point, you wanna put it at like a three quarters full and then it will just boil like this but it won't boil all the way over and you won't make a mess of your stove. The flank on the other hand, we wanna crank up because we don't wanna like, we don't wanna just have it well done and kind of sit there cooking for the next 20 minutes and end up with little rock hard pieces of flank. We wanna cook it fast on high heat, get it nice and cooked in almost like a medium and then it's done. We'll crank this up a bit. I'll let it cook on that side for a bit before we move it. Vegetables. Okay, we're gonna put a little bit of oil in the pan for the vegetables. If you are trying to watch your meal, watch your weight, you're trying to lose a little bit of weight, trust me, even though obviously they're not free calories, they're calories in your vegetables, but to me, it's better than eating more starch. So if I'm gonna have a moderate amount of carbs and I'm gonna have a moderate amount of protein, I wanna make sure that I'm still full after my meal is done so I'm not cheating. One of the ways I do that is by adding a lot more vegetables in my meals than I used to when I was dieting, or sorry, when I was bodybuilding. When I was in my prime bodybuilding, my meals were so big, I had so much protein and so much carbs that I didn't really need a lot of vegetables. But now I don't have that much protein, I don't have that much carbs, so I add more in vegetables to try and increase the volume of my meal so that I'm not cheating afterwards. And it seems to be working for me. I feel good after I eat, I'm not searching for more food. And if I am hungry in between meals now, if I just have an apple or something in between, I'm good. I reach for an apple, I have a tangerine, something like that gets me through to the next meal. But I just, I don't think I utilized vegetables enough when I was bodybuilding. Not even to say that there's a lot of micronutrients that are very usable by your body from the vegetables that I wasn't getting either. But just for the sheer ease of which dieting becomes when you have more vegetables in your meals and you're not, that way the volume of the meal is bigger. I got a few different types of veg here. That one is kind of mixed with a lot of carrots and some onions. This one is just pure broccoli. And then I got some peas because I love peas. Now, one of the things I like to do, this flank is almost done. Okay. We need to scale out. We're going to go ounces. Okay. Six ounces. Which is perfect because the rest will be for my wife. And then one of the things I like to do, you see that? A little bit of water. Kind of starts to take the flavor off it. And I put that over the vegetables. Chicken's done. This is scary. So, I did this for the first time the other day because usually, you know, my wife will be down here helping me or something like that. The other day, I was making dinner for us and she wasn't here and I had to take the boiling pot of water and dump it with one hand. And it seems like it wouldn't be a big deal, but it was a big deal because I didn't have, I didn't have a glove like I don't now. I was using a napkin like I am now. And it scared the fuck out of me, but now I'm, I guess it, I made that a little more dramatic than it was, but it scared me at the time. Anyway. Oh, fuck, that would burn my ass off. Shit, don't put that in there. Now, one of the things is I do now, I don't measure all my meals exactly. Okay. I kind of know what I want to eat. Usually one pretty good sized chicken breast is a meal for me. And as long as I can get that in, I'm pretty happy. That bag of pasta is usually three meals. Okay. So that's how I work that out. So vegetables are still cooking. Cutting up chicken is not as easy for me anymore because I used to hold it with a fork with one hand and cut it with another. So now instead, I just put the chicken in a bowl and then I cut it the way I need to cut it. Because what I'm going to do with it after I cut it into little pieces because I'm going to put it back in that pot. So that cooked in the oven pretty good. It's juicy. 25 minutes is usually perfect. Like it's cooked almost perfect. The chicken is still really juicy. It's not dried out. Okay. That's two. Take the pasta. Right back on top. Okay. Vegetables are almost thawed. I'm going to put this back on. Okay. Like I told you, I am not putting this back on low because this stuff's already all cooked. Like I said, I'm not eating for perfection. Okay. I'm just eating clean. Make sure my meals are a certain size. I can give you kind of some of the macros later. And then I just make sure I have three or four meals a day. The meals are a little bit bigger than you would expect because if I was eating six meals, you know, I'm only looking for about 150 to 200 grams of protein a day. And I'm looking for two or 300 grams of carbs a day. And I'm probably getting that in two or three meals. My other meals are literally just eggs. I probably have like six eggs with maybe an apple, but that's about it. And then that's done. So anyway, what I do here is because it's chicken and pasta, I do need a little bit of fat. So this is olive oil and I don't measure. I usually just drizzle a little bit of olive oil. That's three meals worth of olive oil. Okay. A little bit more salt because when you're cooking with salt, the salt kind of dissipates. So you add a little bit more salt after the fact. And then the final touch. You hear the other chickens done too. The final touch, a little bit of Frank's Red Hot. We're going to add some vegetables. Honestly, one of my favorite meals, a little bit of pasta, a little bit of chicken, a little bit of vegetables with some olive oil and some Frank's Red Hot. And it goes down really easy. It's very satisfying. And I don't feel like I'm dieting. Like the meal tastes good. So, you know, simple. Now in the past, if I wasn't dieting or something like that, or I didn't care, I was training really hard and I was burning off a ton of calories, I would probably just use pasta sauce. But I just like the Frank's Red Hot with the olive oil mix and a little bit of salt. That tastes great. That's finished. This chicken's finished. I'm going to unplug this. Now, this thing's not going to cook it the way the oven cooks it. It dries it out a little bit, but it's finished. And that's all I care about. Now, these meals. Bang. Bang. Look at that shit. That's beautiful. I like to measure my rice because I feel like if you're hungry, you can end up putting a ton more than you really need to. So with our flank, we're going to do 250 grams of rice. And then I'm going to do some veg. And the last one. Or sorry, 250 grams of rice. So all right. Do a chicken breast. A little bit of Franks. Boom. That's it. These are all off. Okay, done. So, what do we got here? I got five meals. Three are the same. Okay, I got three chicken breasts here. I got a bag of pasta. So, let's just check this out. This whole bag, 91 grams, has 70 grams of carbs. There's 454 grams. That's times five. So, there's 391 times five. Yeah, it's 450. So, 70 times, so 350 grams. So, in that bag of pasta, there's 350 grams of carbs. That's three meals here. I'm not going to eat. Now, I'm not going to eat all five of these meals in one day. I'm probably going to eat three of these meals, and then I'll have a whole egg meal, like six whole eggs. But what I'm showing you is, like, if you eat five meals in a day, and you're in the offseason, you want to eat clean. Here's five meals. I got 350 grams of carbs here. I got 250 grams of rice in each of these. I believe that's around 80 to 100 grams of carbs. So, that would put you at, let's say it's 80. That puts you at 160 and 350. That puts you, so total, you're around 500 grams of carbs here. Okay? I got 500 grams of carbs. I probably have about 250 grams of protein to 300 grams of protein. That's a day's worth of meals. And I got olive oil in these. You could probably add some olive oil to these. I got flank here, so I don't need to add olive oil here. I could probably add a drizzle of olive oil to this chicken meal. So, you have a little bit of fat in each meal. I have about 500 grams of carbs, about 250 grams of protein. This is a full day's eating for a clean, offseason bodybuilder. So, there you go. Simple. Knocked it out in half an hour. And it's going to taste good. And that's the most important thing. And it's clean, nutritious. You knocked out all your macros. And you got some vegetables in there for your micronutrients. There's really nothing else you need. So, that's it guys. Simple, easy. The most important thing I want to just get across is. I'm going through something here. This is really shit. And I can sit there and I can feel sorry for myself. And I can order pizzas and I can not give a fuck. But, I choose not to live my life that way. So, back to being disciplined. Back to cooking up my meals the way I want to eat them. Back to focusing on feeling good. And feeling healthy. And training hard. And that's kind of. Everybody has something that makes them feel good. And puts them in a groove. And for me. Having a little bit of discipline. And eating the right foods. And being like. On the ball with everything. Puts me in the right mindset. To do everything else in my life the right way. And that's the most important thing. So. For now. For next time guys. Subscribe, like, share. Thank you for watching. We'll catch you guys on the next one.