 s242424, damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp damp And here we go. Question number one is, how are you doing, Fuad? That's a loaded one. I'm feeling pretty good. I'm feeling focused on my recovery. My arm, my left arm still obviously is not working. I don't know if it's going to ever work. I don't know. I think I'm starting to cope. I think I'm starting to figure things out. I think I'm starting to figure life out. I got my bikes. I know this is going to sound crazy to you guys out there that don't think I should ride ever again, but I am going to ride. And I got my bikes converted all in a way that I can ride each of them with one arm. Now, obviously it's going to take a lot of practice and a lot of, you know, ups and downs, but I think it's, you know, people fit people say, well, why would you ride again? And it's like, you know, when something like this happens to you and something you love gets taken away from you, your identity, you don't just lose like the bikes and lose the riding. You lose your identity with it. And I've already lost my bodybuilding identity. And now for me to lose my motorcycle riding identity as well, another passion in life that I have, uh, is just too much. And that's why I still train. Like people say, well, why would you work out with one arm? Because I love it. I love going in the gym and training. So even if I go into the gym with one arm, it's part of who I am. It's what I'm going to do, you know? And I think riding is the same way. So when you say, how am I doing? Not great, man. Not great. Life is hard. Finding a new way to live is hard. If I told you that I cried eight out of 10 days, eight out of every 10 days, uh, that would be the truth. There's a day, there's a point at some, there's a point somewhere in the day where I just tank and hit rock bottom. That's the negative side of it. And the sad side of it, the positive side of it is that I'm trying to figure out a way to live. And so I, I hope, I know those of you who don't want me to ride are, you know, thinking of my best interest, like, Oh, I, we want you to be safe and you only do this. I hope that you people watching, uh, that don't think I should ever ride again can just understand what it would be like to lose a piece of who you are. And like, just imagine waking up tomorrow and not being able to do something you love. I went for a ride yesterday for an hour and a half or two hours with my brother. Cause I kind of figured out how to ride my Kawasaki with one hand, I got the clutch brake and throttle all set up with one, one hand. It was the most freeing, exhilarating, happy time I've had since my accident. And that's not because I was on a motorcycle. It's just because for, for that one to two hours, I kind of just felt like myself again and I didn't feel handicapped. I didn't feel crippled. I didn't feel like something was missing in my life. I just felt so good. So all I ask is that when people see things online, they try to think and put yourself in other person's shoes before you pass judgment and, uh, try to understand a little bit of what they might, might be going through. That's, that's it. That's, um, that's how I'm doing. I'm doing, um, doing the best I can. Okay. Um, would hostile do a Martian collection that collabs with Martin's own brand? I would love a crossover with both logos. You have an eye for talent. Who had? Yes, I do have an eye for talent and Martin is going to be a great bodybuilder. Martin will not be a great bodybuilder with hostile though. And it's because we're going through some budget cuts at hostile and, you know, Martin's contract came due. He wanted to make some, some changes. Uh, he asked for some things to ask for some increases and our budgets is not, um, it's just not our budget right now to do that. So I have no, uh, I'm I wish Martin the best and Martin is going to do great things with some other company. Um, he didn't want to stay for the current contract and that's okay. You know, these athletes I noticed, you know, kind of bounce around from company to company and, you know, they're with four or five, six companies. I kind of want to ride with the athletes that have been with us the longest, you know, Ben's with me, been with me for five years. He's a top Olympia level coach. Samson's been with me for four or five years now. He's, you know, Mr. Olympia and still, you know, the top in the game, if not going to be the best again, one day, uh, Nick justice was a men's physique competitor. When I signed him, I think he weighed like a hundred and fucking 80 pounds or some shit, 150 pounds. Now he's like a 270 pound monster. Um, you know, Carlos Philbrick has been with us for a year or so, but these three guys, especially Samson, Ben and Nick have been with me for four or five years. These guys, you know, when you, these guys really feel the brand, they, they like the brand, they like the formulations, they like the products, they see the vision, they like the clothing. And that's what I want. And that's what we're going to do. So hostile for the first three or four or five years of the brand's existence has been heavily focused on athletes and signing athletes and picking up athletes. And I acted like a general manager of a general manager of a fucking baseball team trying to find the next prospect, you know, Sam and Nick and Shire and all these guys. And you know what? I've been doing the wrong thing. I think we're going to pull all the way back. We're going to focus on the people we have and we're going to reinvest our money into products. And that's what 2026 is about. 2026 is going to be about just releasing products and flavors. I want you guys to have the best of what we can do. And we haven't been doing that because we've been focused on athletes and putting out products with athletes and showing you guys like a team of athletes. And I just don't want to do that anymore. I just don't want to do that anymore. I like the people we have. They love what we're doing. And I want to put all my money and effort into new products because I think that's what is going to help the brand. And that's what's going to be best for the brand. I don't think having athletes just jump from company to company to company to company to company. Nobody's buying that anymore. Nobody's buying that anymore. When an athlete jumps from a company to company, oh, we love that person's products. Nobody's buying that shit. You know? So I'm done. I'm just like, I'm going to put my best foot forward into products and I'm going to drop as many new products as possible and as many new flavors as possible. And we're going to do the best we can with hostile and releasing products. And we're going to go with the people that love our brand. And that's it. That's what the company is going to be about from now on. It's going to be about products, not athletes. And the athletes that are with us and love us and want to stay with us, great. The ones who don't, my focus is on the end consumer and the customer and giving them new things and, but the best things that I can put forward myself. And that's, that's going to be hostile from now on. All right. Moving forward. If bodybuilding didn't work out for you, where do you think you would be in life without it? I think if I wasn't bodybuilding, I would be a police officer. I went to university. I finished two years at university in, um, uh, what was that course called? Honors criminal? No, I don't know. Law and criminality, something like that. Anyway, I finished two years at university and if it wasn't for bodybuilding, I probably just kept going. I would have finished university. I would have joined the police force and hopefully I would be on part of the SWAT team right now. And that would be where I'd be because that was my goal before bodybuilding. I think I would have just continued down that line. Do you ever think about coaching athletes, doing seminars and passing your knowledge about bodybuilding to the next generation of not PDs, but your experience and what you've learned throughout your career? Uh, I definitely do. I enjoy, I enjoy teaching. I enjoy helping people that want to learn. I enjoy passing on the knowledge I've learned from all the great coaches I've had, like honey, like John Meadows, like, you know, Chris Asito, like all the different coaches I've worked with. Plus what I've kind of learned on my own. I enjoy that. I think I enjoy it more in a podcast level though, because I feel like on a podcast level, I can reach thousands of people. Whereas, uh, if I'm just coaching one-on-one, I'm just reaching that one person and it doesn't, it gives me satisfaction, but it gives me more satisfaction to one, reach people with my own knowledge, but two, I'm able to bring in specialized people that can also reach that audience. So it gives me kind of pleasure in both ways. I can bring that person on. They can teach you what they know, because there's people that are much more knowledgeable than I am. And then I also can just bring, you know, my friends in and we can just shoot the shit and you guys can learn that way. I think, honestly, I think I've helped more people through the podcast than I ever could imagine helping if I was just, if I would have stayed coaching. Cause I coached for 10 years. I think if I would have kept coaching, I, you know, reach a hundred people, a thousand people, maybe who knows, but like through the podcast, it's like countless people have picked up tips here and there and diet things here and there. I've brought on people who've helped. And I just think there's no way I could compare. So this is kind of my, my medium medium of how I like to disperse information. Are there still pharma grade gear? If yes, what brands, if not, what UGL brands offer high quality gear? I honestly don't know, man. I'm not really in the gear game anymore, but I will tell you this pharma gear is not necessarily better than underground gear, depending on the lab. If you find a good underground lab, that gear sometimes can be as good or better than the pharma grade shit. I've definitely tried testosterone from the pharmacy and pharmacy and testosterone from a underground lab. And I've definitely, I could feel more with an underground lab. So I don't, I used to subscribe to the thought process that pharma is always better. And I don't necessarily subscribe to that anymore unless we're talking about GH. We're talking about GH that I'm like, yes, definitely get pharma grade if you can afford it. Uh, if that's the way you want to go, but underground, like when it comes to just regular anabolics, I don't know. A good underground lab can be very, very good, but I don't know any names of any out there that I want to promote or anything. Cause I don't really, I don't really take gear anymore. Um, let's see. How's your progress food? It's coming along, coming along slowly. Muscle Inc says, would you ever offer a mentorship program? I know you don't coach bodybuilders like you used to, but I think a lot of people would love to be able to be mentored by you. I don't know what a mentorship program means. You mean like life coaching, like, you know, help people, you know, get through their day and tell them what to tell them what to eat and how to, what decisions to make and what to wear. I mean, look, if people want to, if people want mentorship, I'm happy to offer it. I don't know in what capacity I would offer that, to be honest with you. How many partial reps would you, especially would you do, especially on movements for back as you can squeeze a lot other than on pressing movements, for example? I don't know, man. Honestly, I don't think there's an exact number. I think for partial reps, usually three or four, like if I was, I would usually burn out a muscle as much as I could. And then at the very end of the set, if I could do three or four, I'm good. If I could do more than that, then I probably didn't do enough during my set. I think that's kind of the number that works for me. How do you feel about Sharia law in Michigan? We're getting into the politics. I don't think there is Sharia law in Michigan. So let's skip that one. If you started your bodybuilding career over, again, is there anything you would change? I believe what we learn along the way makes us who we are. Josh, if I could start my bodybuilding career over again, I would be a lot more diligent from 20 years old. If I'm being honest, I didn't necessarily do all the things I should have done throughout my entire career. I got by, I think because I had pretty good genetics. I worked really hard, but I could have, I could have worked harder outside the gym, put it that way. In the gym, I was a monster. Okay. Did everything I should do in more. So outside the gym, I think I could have done more. Like, you know, I drank a lot during, in my twenties. That definitely slowed me down. I think if I didn't drink, I probably could have turned pro at 24 instead of 27. Um, I binged a lot in my twenties. Every Saturday and Sunday was just a shit fest of food. I think had I been on a more regimented eating program, I probably could have gotten, turned pro faster and been a better pro at a younger age. I guess what I'm trying to say is I think I had all the tools to be a great pro. I had a good physique. I had all the muscle bellies I needed. I didn't have any weak points. I think I didn't do what I had to do to really get everything out of my physique that I could have gotten out of it. I think that's a hard thing for a lot of pros to accept or admit, but I think had I been better from the beginning, I think I could have achieved a much higher status in bodybuilding. I think I probably could have been a top 10 Olympian. I think I probably could have been at least 10th or ninth, eighth at the Olympia. If, if I'm just saying, if I don't want anybody to take this the wrong way, if I had done everything I should have done. And I'm only saying this based on the fact that I think my physique, when you look at the earlier physique, 27, 28, maybe 30 year old who had, when you look at that physique, I think I could have, I think I had all the body parts I needed. I think I had the structure I needed and I don't think I developed it the way I should have. So I think had I'd made all the right decisions earlier on in my career. I could have been a much better bodybuilder competitively. Um, I would have looked better. It would have grown a lot better. And, um, I think eliminating drinking, alcohol, drugs, eliminating all those things would have played a huge part. And then if you already do, if you guys are already eliminating those things, great. If we're looking at food, I probably should have been more diligent with my diet and not been so reckless with my eating. If we're looking at drugs, I don't think I was particularly overboard with my drugs until later in my career. Uh, so I don't know if it's something I would change. I was pretty average with my drugs through my twenties. And that's the part, those are the areas I would change is from 20 to 30. I think I could have done a lot of things different that would have made 30 to 40 much better competitively. Uh, where's big Mike? Mike will be on the podcast tomorrow. I think I have experience running events in Texas with bro chat North American tour be something you'd be interested in. I think it'd be awesome to properly plan live bro chat events with the crew. I am 100% in, I think the only thing holding me back or not holding me back, we're holding it back. Uh, if we're talking about Seth, Seth has three kids, so that could be iffy with touring too much. Paul has two kids. That's also one we have to watch out for. He also has a full-time job, but if we're talking about weekends, we might be able to kind of squeeze those in. Um, so those are two we have to look out for. Mike works full-time mostly during the week though. So I think he'd be free on the weekends. Anyway, we could talk about it. I'm interested. The guys probably have a little bit busier schedule than I do, or like say Ian does, but let's talk about it and try and figure it out. I think it'd be great. Uh, why do some pros go crazy high volume on the carbs when they could just add things like dates, raisins, et cetera, and keep the carbs high, but the volume low example, why eat 200 grams of oats Dylan? It's because complex carbs and simple carbs are two different things and they process differently in the body. Simple carbs or simple sugars, things like fruit, uh, like you said, dates, raisins, uh, glucose, like we're talking about chocolate bars and shit like that. Those are all simple sugars. And what bodybuilders feel is when you eat simple sugars, you get the carbs, but you also get like an insulin spike and a crash. So kind of like peaks in your body and then leaves. You don't really feel like the carbs are sticking for lack of a better word. When you eat things like oats or rice or potato or sweet potato or pasta, those things are considered complex carbs and they tend to again, stick pro bro science word. They tend to stick and give you a kind of a flatter, um, satiation than say simple carbs. So it's better for bodybuilders when they're eating 500, 600, 700 grams of carbs a day to eat rice, potato, sweet potato, pasta, oatmeal, cream of rice, things like that. Cause it gives them a longer, flatter line of energy and not just a peak and drop. Right? So it's good to eat fruits, dates, raisins, those things that you talked about. It's good to eat those things too. There's a lot of micronutrients in there that are very valuable as well as the carbs, but you want the complex carbs to get that longer sustained energy and not just peaks and valleys through your day. Uh, if you could pick one lift to be crazy strong guy, what would it be? Squat. Who wants to tell me who doesn't want to squat a thousand pounds? I mean, listen, the bench press is the one everybody asks about how much you bench, how much you bench. That's the one I've been asked about like 8,000 times in my career. Uh, it'd be cool to say I bench 700 pounds. So that's one, I guess. But for me personally, I would rather say I could squat. Even if I could squat like seven 50, you know, like James, that's fucking awesome. Right. Like be able to say you could squat 750 pounds, 800 pounds. I wish that's, that's the one I would take. Cause that's like, that takes a lot of balls. Like putting 800 pounds on a bar, like a team or James, these guys or Ian and just walking it back and then, or even Ben can do it too. And then just dropping to the floor. That's crazy. It's crazy. It takes a, you gotta be a little bit fucked to do that. How is the new diet being? And what are you enjoying about it? I am enjoying the discipline. The discipline is, it's so funny. We all do things and we think like, oh, I like fish or I like, I like my new diet or I like this or I like that. If you kind of look at everything with a macro view, it's not the one thing about your diet. Like it's not, it's not that I love the fish in my diet or I love, I love the ground beef in my diet. It's if you pull back, it's just the discipline and the feeling good overall. So there's two reasons. One, I felt like I had lost all the discipline in my life. I was smoking and Uber eats and like fucking barely eating. And like I wasn't, I just wasn't focused. After the accident, I quit smoking and I got serious about things and I was like, okay, you know, that's it. No more crap, no more Uber eats, no more pizza, no more McDonald's, no more nothing. Just time to clean things up. And I feel like myself again a little bit, you know, cause it's like I talked about when you lose the accident, you kind of lose yourself. You lose a bit of your identity. You lose a little bit of who you are. So I'm like, how can I get some of that back? And discipline was one of the things that made me who I was. So I was like, okay, we're going to be more disciplined. We're not going to just give in to every urge that we have. We're going to say no sometimes to ourselves and we're going to do things that we don't want to do. So that was one is the discipline. And two, I also believe that if you have an injury, it's good to have a holistic approach to recovery. So what I, what I mean by that is a healthy body, a healthy mind is going to recover faster than a body that's not healthy and a mind that's warped. So if I'm eating pizza and I'm fucking smoking and I'm doing all this shit, I just don't think a health that that's a healthy body. And I don't think that leads to a faster recovery. I think not smoking, I think not, not letting toxins enter my body or eating shitty food. That's going to spike my insulin and make me fat. And like, it's just not doing those things is going to lead to a more holistic, healthy body, healthy mind. And I believe will lead to a faster recovery. So what I'm enjoying about it the most is just having that discipline and control over myself so that I don't give in to every negative urge I can think of. What products can we expect in upcoming months from your brand, Fuad? Well, like I talked about, we're focusing heavily on products. And in 2026, there's one thing I'm really proud of. I'm happy about we're doing a flavor of the month for protein every single month to be a new flavor dropped and they're all fucking awesome. That's for the protein. I think every other month we're doing a new flavor of EAAs, the silo, which is EAAshydration mix. Every other month there'll be a new flavor of silo. Every other month we'll do a new flavor of hostility foundation. We're still running our RTD, which has a new flavor of sour watermelon. That's dropped actually currently. And then we also have our health line starting, hydration packs coming. There's a lot of, just a lot of good stuff on the go. I'm really, really excited about 2026. All of that's going to start in January. And don't forget, if you're buying the flavor of the month products, if you collect all 12 flavors of the month, there's going to be a huge prize pack for the person who has all of them. They're going to be entered into a rally, a rally, entered into a raffle that we will be giving something great away at the end of the year, which I can't divulge yet. Did Ian inspire you to try to have a kid of your own? It's never too late with the advances of science and science these days. No, I think me and my wife are good. You know, there was a period there. I'm 47 now. I think most of the reason why we're good is I don't want to, I don't want to raise a kid at 60 years old. You know, like if I have a kid now, I'm 60. Let's say I have a kid at 48. I'm 60. That kid's 12. That's fucking horrible, man. That sounds horrible for me and for him. Think about it. He's 60 years old or he's 12 years old. He wants to play catch and run around and do stupid shit. I'm 60. I'm like, man, I'm fucking tired. I just think I'm too old at this point. I think there was a period there between 42 and 45 where me and my wife were still kind of playing with the idea. But I think now at this point, I'm happy for Ian. I hope he has a kid as soon as possible. But for me myself, I think I'm good. I'm happy. I'm happy, you know, when Paul comes over with his kids, I'm happy to see, you know, if Ian has a kid, I'd love to be there for him. Ben has Phoenix. I'm his godfather. I'm happy to just be happy for my friends and their kids. As far as my kids go, I'm good. Me and my wife are solid. Fouad, where do you think the best Cedric would have placed in this year's Mr. Olympia? Cedric would be up there with Samson and Andrew. I believe he's just as good as Samson and Andrew. They all have kind of different physiques, but I feel like he's on par with them. I think he would have been ahead of Nick and Martin and right there with Andrew and Samson. Had he been ahead of Hottie and Derek? I don't know. Those things come down to like peaks. We're talking about the best Cedric ever. He probably could have won. The best Cedric ever probably could have won. But yeah, he's in that mix with Andrew and Samson. Let's see here. Where did I? Oh shit, I lost it. One sec. Okay. Most shocking thing you found out about the bodybuilding industry after retiring? Not really anything shocking, dude. Everything's kind of out in the open. Have you tried to get Phil Heath on for a one-on-one episode and interview? Yes, me and Phil were going to do one a couple weeks ago. Our schedules kind of got mishmashed. I'm going to try and get Phil on again. I think he's a... You know, he's arguably one and two, him and Ronnie. Arguably like one of the best, or not one, but some people would say the best bodybuilder to ever step on stage. Some people, I think the majority think Ronnie's the greatest, but there's a very good argument for people that say Phil is the greatest bodybuilder of all time. So yes, I would definitely love to have Phil on my channel for a discussion. I think Phil had a really bad go at being Mr. Olympia, being the first social media Mr. Olympia. And I don't think he got a fair shake in a lot of the way he had to handle his bodybuilding career. There's a lot to talk about there, and I think it'd be a lot of fun. Is MK-677 worth it? I started a month ago. You know what? I don't know. I'm not a big, big fan of SARMs. I don't use them myself, but I think because we're all trying to learn together, I think it would be interesting if we looked at this at the same time. MK-677. Let's see. Is it worth it? Let's just take your question for example. Medical and anti-doping experts strongly advise against the use of MK-677, concluding that the significant health and legal risks far away any potential benefits. Let's not worry about that. It can decrease insulin sensitivity and increase fasting blood glucose levels, potentially leading to pre-diabetes or type 2 diabetes over time. That would be, you know what, you could say the same thing about growth hormone in general, so I would leave that alone for a second. Increased risk of congenital heart failure in certain patients. I've never heard that. Increased appetite, we want. Significant weight gain, we want. Water retention, we want. I know this sounds crazy, but we want all these side effects. Elevated levels of IGF-1, a consequence of MK-677 use, might contribute to growth of cancerous tumors. Okay, this is also the same thing they would say about GH. This is actually, I know it sounds stupid, but this is actually a good sign. So let's do this. Is MK-677 worth it? MK-677 worth it to elevate GH? That's why we really want it, right? Elevating growth hormone levels using investigational drug MK-677 may not be worth it. Okay, let's just come on. Give me something here. How about we change this? Does MK-677 raise GH levels? Increase GH? Okay, let's see. Yes, MK-677 is a potent growth hormone secretive drug that has been shown in numerous clinical studies to significantly increase growth hormone levels in humans and animals. It achieves this by mimicking the action of the hormone ghrelin to stimulate the release of GH from the pituitary gland. Okay, this is what we want to know. So I know we read all those side effects and all that, which is horrible. And you think it's horrible, but growth hormone does, you know, make you retain water. It does have an effect on your insulin sensitivity. It does have all those things. And the reason we're taking MK-677 is to get the elevation of our growth hormone. And it's just a different way to do it. So we don't have to buy growth hormone. Is it going to be as good as growth hormone? There's no way possible. But it obviously shows that it elevates growth hormone. So is it worth it? Yes. How much you're going to see from it? That's going to be up to you over time. You're going to have to see over the next four to six weeks kind of what changes you have in your body. Have you noticed your body fat level might be a little lower? Are you sleeping a little bit better? Like all of these things, are you noticing them? Those are the things that come with GH use or elevated GH. So that's kind of what you have to look for while you use the MK-677. What is Martin's story on Giles? We are only hearing Giles' side. So you're referring to the Martin tapping Giles' phone story and Martin and Giles claiming like he got assaulted. Listen, it's not a big deal, man. It's not a big fucking deal. Martin touched his phone. I'm actually more embarrassed for Giles that he released the video and is demanding an apology. It's like, give me a fucking break. What is your, what is your like, what are you trying to get out of this? You're not going to press charges, right? You're like, I want a public apology. What are you fucking, like, I don't understand. What, what, like, do I think it was right? Let's just start there. Do I think it was right? No. Martin shouldn't have touched his phone. Shouldn't touch them at all. Maybe he could talk shit back to him, but he shouldn't have touched them. A hundred percent on everybody's side there. Do I think it was a problem? No. No, no, I don't. I don't think anybody should be arrested. I don't think he should be fined. I don't think he should be banned from the IFBB. I don't think he should be suspended. I don't think any of those things. And I don't think he should be required to give an apology. I think Giles should have never released a video. He just got over it like an adult. Been like, oh, he touched my phone. Okay, not cool, but it's just not cool. It's not that big a deal. It's just not cool. So, I don't know. There is no Martin side of the story. I think things like this are just small, insignificant little things that bodybuilding, the bodybuilding, some people in the bodybuilding world like to blow up and make massive issues of. And they're just not that big a deal. Okay, we'll do a couple more. What advice can you give for someone starting a business for the first time? I'm sinking every penny I have into a possibility in hopes that it works out in my favor. I'm afraid that if it fails, the money that I have invested could have made my life a little easier as I struggle daily to make ends meet. Is it okay to have doubts or do I have the wrong mindset and should I be going into this with 110% belief in the process? Barry, I don't think any entrepreneur that has an idea for a business ever has 110% belief at all times. You might have 110% belief sometimes. Going into it, you might be like, you know what? I know fucking hostile is going to make it. I know we're going to have the best formulas. I know we're going to put our best foot forward. And I know we care enough that hostile is going to be fucking huge. 110% belief. The very next day I might wake up and go, fuck man, you know, there's a lot of supplement companies out there. Maybe my company is going to fail. Maybe nobody will care. Maybe people don't care about formulas. Maybe people don't care about products. Maybe people just want cheap stuff. Maybe we're not going to be able to make cheap stuff. Maybe it's not going to work. That's the very next day. That might be fucking an hour later. Right? It's totally normal, man. Look, anybody who tells you, like, you got to be hard, man. You got to be 100% fucking belief all the time. They're full shit. Okay? You're going to have ups and downs. You're going to have days where you think you're a failure. You're going to have days where you think your ideas are horrible. You're going to have days where you think nobody gives a fuck about you or your company. All of those things are going to happen. Okay? But you're also going to have days where you crush it. You're going to have days where you drop a new product and people love it. They fucking buy all of it. And then they send you messages. Man, I love your product. Your product is so good. Like, you're going to have days where you sell out of stuff. You're going to have days where you don't sell anything. It's totally normal. What you want to pay attention to and where your belief should be is it should always be going on this scale. Right? The line doesn't go like this. The line isn't just a straight shot. Right? The line goes like this. Right? So you're going up and down. But the curve is always going up. That's what you want. So you have days where you're down. Oh, I don't feel good, man. My products aren't great. My idea wasn't that great. Nobody bought my stuff. And you have days where you feel great. Oh, man. We're the fucking best, man. The companies, we're going to crush everybody. Neither of those emotions are important. Okay? Business, bodybuilding, life should not be run on emotions because your emotions go up and down. Emotions are all over the place. You may be happy one hour and pissed off the next. Your business, your bodybuilding career, your life should be emotionless. And emotions only should be called on when needed. When you're facing a project like a business or your physique, those aren't emotional things. Those are data driven. My business is doing well. Here's my products. I'm going to keep putting up my products. I'm going to keep being very consistent. I'm going to offer good customer service. I'm going to take care of people when they want to be taken care of. And I am going to keep putting my best foot forward and watch that arc just keep going like this. It's not emotional. That is discipline. That is giving all you got. That is always showing up. Right? That's the important thing. Do I think you're making a mistake by putting the money you have into something new instead of just saving it for your family? That's the decision you have to make, dude. And you obviously made it. And you're going to be entering this new thing. My advice to you is don't worry about feeling down. Don't worry about feeling up. Both of those emotions are just are fleeting. The thing that stays is the discipline. Right? Same thing we talk about in bodybuilding. When we say motivation is just the spark. Discipline is the fuel. You understand? The motivation just click. Gone. The thing that sticks around is the discipline. That's the gas. It's always there. Right? So it's the same thing in your business. That motivation, the days where you feel really good about yourself or the days where you feel really bad about yourself, those are going to come and go. Everything else, the discipline that you put in, the consistency that you put in, that's what matters. Okay? That's all I have to say about that. Okay. Last question. I think. How to combine bodybuilding lifestyle when working night shifts as an event manager on Friday or Saturday. Normally sleep around 9 a.m. Train those days, for example, only on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday with upper-lower split. Also the meals on the days that you sleep at 9 a.m. until 2 p.m. and need to get to bed around 11 p.m. Okay. There's a lot in there, man. I guess all I can say to you is this. It doesn't matter where you work. If you're an event manager, that's even easier. It doesn't matter where you work. You should be able to have a break every two hours, every three hours max. Even if you work shift work like line work, they usually give you like a 15-minute break and then a lunch, then another 15-minute break, and then you're off. So every job you have usually has like a break somewhere every two or three hours. So as a bouncer for me, I used to be able to eat whenever I wanted to or a bartender or something like that. Same thing. Event manager. I'm assuming you're kind of free roaming. I used to just put oatmeal and whey in a shaker cup. And then when I was ready to eat, I would just put water in there, shake it up, and I would just drink it. And I would actually eat the oatmeal like it would be soggy in my shake, and I would just eat it while I was drinking. And that was it. I would just eat, just drink one of those every two hours until I was done work. When I got home, I would just eat every two hours. So I don't know about your timeline here. It's kind of like all over the place. All I would say to you is make sure you're getting a meal in every three hours. Every two to three hours, make sure you're getting a meal in, and then count your total calories. So your calories for the day are, say, 4,000 or whatever they are, 3,000, 2,000, 2,500. Just make sure you spread out your meals, spread out the calories, and make sure you get in something to eat every two to three hours. If you have to spread to four, you can probably spread to four, but I wouldn't go past four hours. Okay, last question. What is something you see changing or want to see have a change in the future of bodybuilding? I would like fans to be able to be more involved. At the Detroit Pro, we did a thing at the end of the show called The King of Detroit. And what we did there was we took the classic physique winner, which was Matt Grego, and we took the men's open bodybuilding winner, which was William Bonac. And we had them compete against each other, which is awesome to begin with, right? The judges put them through their poses. The best part of that was the judges weren't judging. The judges were just calling out the poses. The best part of that is that the audience was voting. So the winner of Matt Grego and William Bonac, when they were done posing, I did a poll. I said, okay, everybody go on your phones. Everybody's got a phone. Everybody go on your phones and click William or Matt vote. And then we did something else, like we awarded some prizes or some shit while the voting was happening. I think we threw out some prizes. We threw out prizes. We were throwing like shirts or whatever into the audience. That happened for five or ten minutes. And then when we were done, I said, okay, guys, there was also the poll. And it was something like 2,000 people because people that were on the live stream were able to vote as well. So something like 2,000 or 5,000 on camera people voted. And William Bonac won. But the coolest part about the whole thing was just that it was the fan interaction. Imagine at the end of the Arnold Classic, one of the biggest shows in bodybuilding. You took the men's physique winner, the classic physique winner, and the open bodybuilding winner. And you put them all on stage. And you had Steve Weinberger call out certain poses that they could all do. Because men's physique guys know how to pose. You put out certain poses that they could all do. And imagine 100,000, 200,000, 300,000 people watching the Arnold Classic all got to vote on their phones for the winner. Imagine how cool that would be. Because it doesn't matter. Nobody gives a fuck. That's not an actual prize, right? They're not actually competing against each other. But it's really, really fun for the audience. So that is one thing I would like to see change in bodybuilding. I would like to see a way for the fans to be more involved. You know what's really cool? Think of this, too. I thought of this one. Think of, you know, you got your TV screens, right? And, you know, you're showing the bodybuilders as they pose. And they're on the screens. I don't know if they could do it in a section of the screen or maybe one or two of the screens instead of all the screens. They would have this. Imagine they all do a front double and you see the scores. Right? Just like figure skating. You know, you put up tens or whatever. So imagine, like, they all do a front double and it shows the five judges' scores. 9.3, 9.4, 9.6, 9.2, 10. Then you're watching as a fan and you're like, holy fuck, I can see who's winning each pose. Right? I know that's really, like, I know it's really out there. I don't even know how that would be done. That's totally, like, just in my own head. I'm like, imagine you could score poses and people could watch it. Imagine how cool that would be. Anyway, that's me just daydreaming. Listen, guys, I really, really appreciate you watching. get to if you go to hostile.com right now we have awesome black friday deals there's so many deals all week long buy this get this there's a lot of bogos going on there's a lot of bundle deals going on don't miss out on the deals you go to hostile.com this week support me support the brand and we're going to um we're going to keep doing really big things and uh giving you guys our best thanks for watching you