 What's going on guys? Welcome back to the podcast and I want to thank Manscaped for sponsoring the show. If you go to manscaped.com forward slash RBP, you can get anything you want. Use code RBP, you get 20% off plus free shipping. If I take you to the website, I'm going to show you what they got. They're the best in men's hygiene. They got all the tools, trimmers, the Lawn Mower 5.0 is amazing, but my favorite thing is the beard trimmer, which is here, that has the adjustment on it already so you're not going to lose any of your guards or anything like that because that always happens to me. They also have some really good beard oils. If I can find them here, they got the lipids, lip balm, a foil blade, and all that stuff, but the beard conditioner. There it is. This is one of my favorite things they make. Also, guys, if you go to manscaped.com forward slash RBP or use code RBP at checkout, you get 20% off plus free shipping. Support them, support the podcast, and thank you guys very much. Get the best in men's hygiene. I'm good. I like this new camera you got with the blurry background and it's very, very focused on you. It's completely unintentional. I can see your tattoo very clearly now. I got it. I forget. I forget it's there. Phoenix, I was grabbing it. I was like, what's this? It's my throat. He said, no, this. I want to show you something I'm getting done. I finally figured out what I want to get. And I'm getting my forearm done. You're probably going to make fun of it, but whatever. I don't care. You're going to make fun of whatever I get. Wait, wait, wait. Before you show me. Is it a Harley tattoo? But instead, you've done the hostile H. It's exactly what it is. It's a Harley tattoo with a motorcycle behind it. And then it says mom underneath it. Yeah. It says bad to the born to be free. It says something like that. No, you fucking asshole. You're going to make fun of me for this even worse, but it's okay. So, okay. I'm just going to show you whatever. Even if I like it, you will never know. This is an art. Gay? This is a... Shut up for a second. This is a... Women. This is an artist. Oh, this is a guy here. This is an artist. Kind of a man. Just shut up for a second. Okay, wait. I got to let stuff in. One second. I knew no matter what I showed you, it was going to be gay. It doesn't matter. For sure. Call me Elon Musk. It's better, right? Yeah. Oh, that's so much better. Now I can hear you totally clearly. Yeah. I have no idea. It must be a buck or something. Yeah. It was... It sounded like it was just picking up your computer audio, but now you're like, sound awesome. Okay. So, Stefan, you actually would be interested in this too, because you have tattoos everywhere, right? Yes. Let me just message James and make sure he's coming, if he remembers, because the time difference sometimes he forgets. Why is it now six hours and in another time of the year, five hours? Because they do daylight savings here still for no reason at all. I don't know. We have that also. We also have that. Surprise, surprise. Surprise, surprise. Stefan's in the house. All right. Yeah. I didn't tell you something in the morning. Tell me. All right. Before we get into any of the bullshit I was going to talk about, James, you... Actually, I just want to show it. James posted this this morning. For those of you who aren't on Instagram. I've not seen it. Let me see. Boom. Yay. Oh, hey. There's a little baby in here. In here. Embryotic. Somewhere in there. Human creature thing with heartbeat. Look at you. You slid one past the fucking goalie. Mate. Super chop. That's what they call me. Actually, they call me chop. Chop master. What happened to steroids being a contraceptive? It's not working. Dude, like, everyone I know that's, like, pro bodybuilders during their career all gets people... So it's weird. I know, obviously... Listen, very fortunate to be in this situation because a lot of people don't have that happening. Ah, here's the mama. Yes. Congratulations. Yeah, we're live, I think, now. No, we're not live. We're not. I don't get notifications. Oh, she wants to watch this one. Oh, I'm sorry. No, I decided to record her because I don't think people know to go to the live tab and we're not getting as many views as we would if I just post the recording. Recording today because live people don't quite get onto it as often. You can go now. I just want to say hi. Hi. I'm going to book tickets to Vienna. You've served your purpose. You've served your purpose. So have you. You've served your purpose. It hasn't served her purpose yet. She's got nine months to go. Yeah, no, it's a little bit longer. But yeah, I'll be honest. I wasn't like, oh, we're going to have a kid. None of that shit. It wasn't planned or nothing. Yeah, but okay. It wasn't planned, but you were like trying. Well, I'll be real with you. Well, she... Yannick will be honest. She has really irregular periods anyway. Right. If I'm going into too deep. So the contraceptive pill was affected in quite negative ways. Yeah. So she discontinued it anyway. And I was like, well, I'm on gear. We're going to be fine. I've been bodybuilding since I was 17. That doesn't mean anything, by the way. Well, I know. And I just assumed. I just assumed. And then, yeah, lo and behold, one morning she woke up and she was like vomiting. And I was like, I made a joke. I was like, you're definitely up the duff. And then she laughed. And then a few days later, she was like, you need to come upstairs. I want to show you something. And I went, you ain't fucking pregnant, are you? No way. And she whipped out a fucking test. And I was like, no way. And I was like, do another one just to make sure. And then she did another one and the same thing. And then I didn't obviously speak about it for a while because you've got to give it up to a certain point. Yeah. So, yeah. So you kind of knew, even though like. I don't know. Do you know what? I say this is weird. There was a period. There was. Wait, I just saw something. Why does it show that I'm not following you? Because you don't. You do this. You unfollow your friends. No, I swear to God. He's a bad person. I swear to God. Oh, man. He's just stalking. He's just stalking. Okay, wait a second. Okay, wait a second. Time out. Time out. Please. Just time out. I don't know if anybody else is. Just hold on a minute. I don't know if anybody else is experiencing this on Instagram. But I swear to God, I'll go through my. I like, you know, when like sometimes like I put a picture up, I'll check who liked it or whatever. And it'll be like, it'll be people I know, but it'll be unfollowed. And I'm like, how the fuck did that happen? I have it happen the other way around sometimes. I've got people unfollowing. I don't know. That's happened to me too. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Anyway, I'm, I'm sorry, James. I, you know, it's fine. Ben, you're such an asshole. Wait, you're the fucker. I'm following. I didn't unfollow him. I'm the asshole. I've seen enough. I've seen enough of this guy's posts. Okay. Anyways. So you kind of knew, you kind of knew. Well, I, I had like a really randy month. Oh, okay. In September, I was like just horny as hell all the time. Is that part of your protocol? Did you do something? Always. We have, we have the horny factor. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, and it was the first time in my life. Yeah. Like I was doing the business and I was like, get pregnant. You bastard. Really? Yeah. Like, I feel a little bit like manly. Like a bit like, you had it in your head. You had it in your head. You're like, this is the one. Yeah. Yeah. Like after, you know, like when you have wank after, you're not interested. Yeah. It was kind of that, like during, I was like, yeah. And then after I was like, well, that's a bad thought. Careful. Careful what you wish for. I know. And then I think, I feel like the symbiotic, like kind of relationship between the desire was so peak that I must've pushed out the fucking projectile and it just hit the mark. It's because it's what we talked about. It's like you said about excitement. The more excited you are, the more, the more. I was clearly very excited. Intention is everything, right? Right. I feel like it is. So, yeah. Well, Stefan can tell us. He's got a medical background. If you're more excited, you're probably produce more sperm, correct? I don't think so. Well, Chad GBT says I'm right. Oh, yeah. But I got to another quite crazy theory. Imagine, because actually that happens very often to pro bodybuilders or good bodybuilders that women get pregnant while being fully on gear. But it doesn't happen very often in average people. Maybe that brings or the idea comes up in my head that, you know, in one podcast we discussed about how can you tolerate steroids. Right. I remember we talked about that. Yeah. Maybe that could be a good proof for how good can you tolerate and how bad are the side effects on steroids? How big can you get? Does that relate to it affecting your ability to get somebody pregnant? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. The fertility. See, I've been, not to that depth, but I remember talking to Scott Stevenson about this and he was saying that like genetically, some people are predisposed to handle and utilize steroids much, much better. Right. Their cholesterol, their cholesterol is impacted way less than he, he was suggesting a theory that they have a genetic component that cleaves the steroid away from the ester much more efficiently. So I don't know what that, no, that's what, and that's what we, right. No, it does. And that's what we, me and Stefan were talking about when we did our one-on-one podcast. I asked him about hyper-responders and Stefan's answer was he didn't believe in hyper-responders as much as hyper-clearers. Hyper-tolerators, right? Yeah. Hyper-tolerators. Yeah. Hyper-tolerators. Sorry. Hyper-tolerators is a better way to put it. But yeah. So James, you're just clearing the drugs out and you're able to just fucking pound through it. That's why I'm not big. No, that is why you're, that is why you're big. I'm, to clear it. No, because there's another, there's another broad sign. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Just for people at home, don't understand what we're talking about. What we mean, what we mean by hyper-tolerators, like Stefan was saying, is you, you reduce your chances of side effects and you reduce your chances of it affecting you internally as far as your organs, your kidneys, your liver. And in James' case, his fertility. Yeah. So you can still just be a normal human being and be totally healthy, even though you're on a bunch of gear. I got another theory. Your maximum contraction increases when you're on cycle. So you get that extra pump and it pushes it. It pushes it further. So it pushes it up further towards the egg. Yeah. You got more. It was a crusher. Yeah. You got more velocity. You got more velocity. That's it. And combine that with what position you do. It makes a massive deal. Can you give us some insight on that? Like what was the... I'm just a one leg cocked up kind of guy. One leg cocked up? Really? Well, you or her? Her. Maybe. But you know. Oh, I thought he was talking about me. I thought he. Yeah. Imagine. Fucking hell. James, I actually pictured it. I was imagining. I was imagining. No, I pictured it because I'm like, James got big fucking legs. How the fuck is he putting one leg up? You'll be surprised. He just wants to show the whole inside of his legs folded up from attacks. You got about 20 seconds before your hip flexor cramps during that. Yep. Yep. Absolutely. See ya. Okay. So now the main questions. Number one, are you fucking ready to be a dad? Is anyone? I don't know. Ben. From what I understand, people just adjust. Stefan and Ben can speak to this. I think he is ready. You know, I know him as a person. I know him since several years. I know how he thinks. And I know how his views are on mankind and how his ethic morals are. So I think he is definitely ready. And that's the only thing which has to be ready. Okay. But hold on, Stefan. I know, okay, you speaking about him, I would say the same thing. But I'm saying, like, you as a person, when you were having your first child, did you feel ready to be a dad? Ah, me? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you knew. You did. Yeah. Ben, you know, I always take the tasks. I get a trustee with it. Yeah. So knowing, I don't know Stefan that well, but knowing how he is, knowing James, I feel like James is more like me, where he's going to be like, whoa, this is a whole world of, like, I don't know what the fuck I'm doing. And only after, like, for me, it was, like, two or three years in where I was, like, actually became a father. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like with me, it's like a combination of the two. It's like you said there, Ben. I know I'm a useless bastard. I can't even do DIY. But also, I know that the way I am is that I have this real deep, I'm a very emotional person in regards to, like, I have strong feelings towards things. So I know that that will, I think that'll be in my favor to a sense that I'm going to feel very desirable towards protection of whatever I create. And I think that'll steer me, which I don't know how it will, but I know it will. So who knows? There's something that eats away at me real quick. Sorry. Something that eats away at me. No matter what I do with my family during the day, I could spend 100% of the time with them and be fully present. It will still never feel enough at the end of the day. And I feel like that might start to, like, in your head, you'd be like. For sure. You know what I mean? Stefan, do you go through that or no? Do you feel like you've done enough, like, when you spend quality time with them? I did a lot of mistakes, especially when my daughter was born. I would say in the first three, four years, I wasn't able to connect with her. Why? Just on an emotional side. You know, I was stuck. Back then, I was working in the hospital as a director of the hospital, working 100 hours, but different than now. I work the same or the same amount right now. But back then, I had to sit in the office. I had to deal with the authorities about building the hospitals and all that fucking shit. So, actually, that's my working background. Or I never did anything else like work. And in the first, I loved her from the first seconds of time. But it was really hard to build up connection to her. Right. Because, you know, maybe also because I'm autistic, I wait a response of the person. Yeah. Yeah, it sounds very, very strange. But I never got, you know, it's a little baby. You don't get responses. Instead of shitting in the pants and all that stuff. So, sometimes I sit in the airplane now. When I travel, I always have no phone. And that's actually the only time I don't work is when I travel. And I sit in the plane and start to cry. Really? Because I think back of all the moments I've lost or not. Where I just haven't been there because I did useless other fucking stuff. Yeah. You know? So, yeah. That's the only thing I really regret. But that's also nothing you can be prepared of. Because it's something. How are you? How are you dealing with it? And how does it come from the inside? So, that's why I think that James will be a 10 times better father than me at that period of time. Because I think he has that thing from the inside. Okay. But question aside from regrets. When you're spending time now. And you spend, let's say you spend three hours with your kid. And then you're busy the rest of the day. Do you still feel like that's not enough? Or do you feel like fulfilled that you've spent time? I really think it's good. Because actually I would spend the whole day with her. Because we have kind of the same interests. We have the same hobbies. She's working for me. She's doing all my book work, for example. Since she's 13. Right. She's employed at the company. And so, she's my left hand when it comes to the... She's overviewing my budget and all that stuff. So that I really can focus just on coaching. Right, right. And it's her who decides how much time she will spend with me. Okay. Because me, she could have 24 hours. Right. But she most of the time decides to be in her own floor the whole day. Right, right. But I think what Ben is getting at is Ben thinks... And Ben said this to me before. It's like... And sorry to speak for you, Ben. But I was trying to emphasize this point. He's saying that no matter how much time he spends, he feels like it's not enough. And you don't feel that way. But I'll say this. It gets... For me, anyway, it's getting better. Okay. So, because I'm getting better at the time I'm spending with... Because, again, like Stefan was saying, there's a lot of parallels here. Like, where Phoenix is now just turned four, I'm connecting. Like, I've loved him from day one, like, without question. Yeah, yeah, of course. Right? Yeah. Yeah. But now there's a relationship in the... Like, because the mum and the child is there, right? And then you're just like... That's portion must be very... Yeah. Yeah, for like 18 months, you're like, oh, like, what do you want me to do? Right. What can I do? What? I'll make you dinner. Fuck it. Whatever. Yes. And then I'm like, you know, my phone's always... My watch is going off all the time. So if I'm in his room and my watch is going off, I'm half checking it and this and that. Now my watch... If I'm with him, I take my watch off. My phone's fuck off. Like, I'm with him. So now, if I only get three hours with him or two hours, whatever it might be, I'm actually with him. Like, I'll take him into the gym with me, but I actually will stop and engage with him. So the time I am spending with him is real time versus what I was doing maybe last year or the year before. I was spending time with him in his presence, but I wasn't with him. You know, I wasn't engaging actually like... So it sounds to me... I'll put my hand up. You don't have to raise your hand. Go ahead. Yeah. So it sounds to me that raising children, the longer they're around you for and the more they develop, the better it gets. It's in a sense for the fathers because obviously Stefan's... The way Stefan's speaking and the relationship he has now with his daughter and Ben's saying it's getting easier. Obviously, he's earlier in the process than Stefan is. But it definitely sounds like the more they develop their own personality and character, the more you enjoy them. And that sounds awesome. And that's probably what you've got to look forward to, I suppose. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to... I'm reminded of a moment that is for some reason really clear in my mind. We were on the bus going to the Arnold Classic in 2012 or 11. I can't remember. And I was sitting with Branch and he had just had his first baby. And I asked him, I said, you know, how's everything going? And he goes, man, he's like, I love her to death, but I have nothing to do with her. I'm like, I just like... He's like, Trish. Trish is like feeding her and taking care of her. And they have this emotional connection. And he's like, I don't know what the fuck can do. I'm just there. And obviously, he said... I talked to him about it years later. And he was like, yeah, it's different now. Now she can talk. And we have a relationship. And we have a... So I think what everybody is saying and what you just said, James, is obviously makes sense because everybody I've spoken to... I think Evan said the same thing to me a while back. So I think everybody I've spoken to says the same thing. Paul was the same way too. It's like the first year or two until there's any interaction. I don't know any dads that I've spoken to that really have a connection. There's a very maternal thing in the beginning, isn't there? And that's like the mother's part really in the beginning is to get past that initial period, it feels like. But it could also be really an evolutionary thing. If you think about, okay, the wife is giving birth and the man has to focus on hunting, bringing the things back, getting that things going on. So maybe it's a little bit of that ancient habits, which is in our mind. But nevertheless, for sure, even without having that bullshit, I don't care attitude, I think that's just something I could say. Use like Ben is having it right now much earlier than I had it. Use every moment of quality time possible because you never know how life is going. So James, and I don't want to get too deep on you, but I'm just wondering how this works sometimes because I had a normal childhood with two parents that were married till death. Yeah, yeah, sure. And I know you didn't have a relationship with your father. So how does that come into your mind at all now? The weird one, a lot of emotions because I haven't spoke about it. So even now, but it's good. I'm happy to speak about it. I kind of get a little bit flooded with like a feeling of like, it's quite an oxymoron, isn't it? It's kind of like you can learn from your experiences and you can do two things. You go one way or the other. And it's like, I know in my mind, because of the way I am as a person, you do what's best. And I would never, I would never put on somebody something just because I had it and I would want to be, you know, you get those types of people that if they get treated bad, they treat others bad. Yeah. And they don't believe. Yeah. They almost rest on that. Yeah. And I see that a lot. And I just don't believe in that. And I think if you're going to make change be that change from this point forward, my family can have good things happen. You know, if I raise a child, then my child can do the same. And then none of them have to experience that. So all I can do is work with what I think is best. And I know that what's best is having a parent there. Because listen, there's a lot of times in life I'm confused because I didn't have a male figure to tell me what to do. Still now, there's some things in life I've really struggled to decide upon. I still don't know how to approach certain things. And it'll be interesting for me to learn delivering that to a child. And it'll benefit me learning to do that as much as it'll benefit the child. So there's a win-win really because I've got to now figure it out. And hopefully then that will obviously give my child the best possible future and chances they have. It made me fill in some gaps that I had very quickly. Well, Ben, and I know for people who don't follow the podcast regularly, I know you obviously have a father that you have a relationship with. But it's also been some tumultuous at times, I guess I could say, right? My dad watches this. So I think he's – yeah, he's a nightmare. I didn't say anything bad. So don't pick me up. No, I'll say it all bad. He's a fucking dick. But I love him. He has a temper on him. And I grew up with some things where I'm like, okay, I learned a lot about him in terms of discipline, you know, in a productive way and how to achieve things. But he had a temper on him and very aggressive. So some of my emotional response can be quite angry. It's definitely very easy. You know, I'll get like worked up and things turn to like physical solutions much quicker than they need to. I think that's what James is talking about. You kind of like – when James is talking about you can choose to follow the way you grew up or choose to change it, sometimes it's not as easy a choice as you think. Sometimes you just do it because that's all you know. Well, mine's in the absence of something. So it's probably easier for me to avoid because learning from the absence of something is hard – it's easier than learning in the presence of something. I know, but I guess – He's experienced that and that rubs off on you. I guess what I'm saying, I guess, is your situation is so extreme that it's like, okay, I can follow and not be there or I can be there. It's such a black and white decision. Yeah, for sure. Whereas with Ben's, it's kind of hazy because it's like I don't necessarily want to raise the same way, but it's in me. There's two things. There's another part to it. There's good and bad within it. There's qualities that I admire immensely within my dad that I want to keep hold of and pass those on and carry them on. And then there's stuff I want to remove and be like, okay, I can do this better. So I'm trying to become an evolution of that, right? Right, right. For my son. Right. Right. But in doing so, it makes me a better person. So before I end up like, I just get away with being an arsehole because no one's looking at me as a role model per se day in, day out in my own house. Right. Right. Right. Now, because, you know, you can, everyone can act accordingly in social environment, you know, to the public and to people they respect because it's a short period of time. So when you go behind closed doors and then you're like, you're, you know, relaxing. Sometimes you, if you're not really. That's when the, the, the bad qualities that you have come out when you're relaxing. Yeah. The bad habits and whatever else you have in there that you, you're too lazy sometimes to fix because you don't have anyone holding you accountable for. Now you've got this little person that's watching from when, as soon as they come out, they're observing. They might not be able to engage and, and talk and give you, but they are fucking seeing everything. Yeah. Yeah. And their brain is a sponge. They're just like picking up everything. There are little things that I do. I'm like, where the fuck did he learn that from? Like it's me. I see a little, like he walks around. Like I do this thing on the doorframe where I'll crack my back. Right. And I'm just like, I've got to be like, daddy takes his shirt off and cracks his back on the fucking doorframe. I'm like, God, these tiny little things that they copy. And so then you have to be careful with what you're showing them. Even the things you don't see though, like I have some traits about me that are like my dad, even though he wasn't around. And one of them that's terrible is that when I sometimes face confrontation and stuff, I just exit. So I'm quite bad. I could just easily just, you know what? I don't want to deal with it. I'll just go that way. And then I leave things unfinished. And that's a bad trait that I have. And that's because I kind of picked up that from when things were difficult for him. His option was, okay, I'll just fuck off. And I hate that about me because I do that a lot. There's a lot of situations where I could just deal with it in the moment. And I don't because there's a part of me that just doesn't approach things in that way. And that's something I definitely need to work on if I'm going to be a good dad. Hey, Stefan, what was your upbringing? Your parents were together, not together? Very classical Catholic family. Yeah. But as you can imagine, being an autistic child in the 1980s, coming from the countryside where nobody ever will understand you or question why you are that way and why you are not normal, it can be quite difficult. I love my parents and I'm really thankful that they are my parents, but it was not easy. No way. So do you have a good relationship with both parents? I have quite now. I always had a quite complicated relationship with my father, with my mother. Not, it was quite crazy. I was born dead. So there is a quite close relationship to her. Wait. And for example, we were still. What did you say? You were born dead? Yeah. Yeah. My mother lost the placenta 40 minutes before me. So you were a stillborn? No oxygen. No, nothing. No. It was a medical miracle. Why I still was alive. I just had the, not actually dead. I just had the heartbeat. Nothing else. There is, in Europe, we have the upgas core, which is nine points of if the child is healthy or not. I had one point. No breath. Just the heartbeat. No nothing. Just the heart was still beating after 40 minutes without energy. That's crazy. So how did they, did you just come back or did they revive you or like, how does that work? Yeah. My mother nearly died because she lost so much blood. Wow. Because she lost the, she was, she was, it was the Sunday before Easter and she lost the placenta at home. And as we are in the countryside, it took 40 minutes to get into the hospital. Right. So she had C-section and gave birth to me. And actually they said that child is not going to survive. And if you, if you take a look at the medical exams back then, they, there are a lot of holes in it. I, I don't know everything because you know, it, back then, um, it, it was quite strange that, that I turned out to be normal. Um, but, uh, my mother had a very close relationship to me. So I would say even too close. Right. Right. Right. Because I just needed to do that. And I just got everything I wanted. Yeah. You know, well, she's going to be overprotective considering how you were. Yes. And there's a very freak, freaky story because it's bodybuilding related. I need to tell you. It's so funny. Yeah. You know, I, I, I, I had an abscess because of a, a wrong going injection. Mm-hmm. Um, and for sure nobody in my family ever knew that then when I did bodybuilding, my father wasn't talking to me anymore because I, I acquitted medical studies. I was going to be a doctor. Then I said, I don't give a fuck. I'm going to be bodybuilder. So quite a weird shit. I would stop talking to you too. I'd be like, what the fuck is wrong with you? And I even wasn't good in it. So a complete idiot story. But, um, I had to go because I had that abscess and like always I was quite freaky and I got temperature in Celsius of 41.5 degrees. So nearly to being on the other side. And I even went with the public transport to the hospital because a friend, which was a doctor said they need to cut me off immediately because otherwise I will have organ failure and all that fucking stuff. Yeah. Um, so they, they, they, they, they cut me off there and remove that and everything was fine then, but nobody knew it except my wife. Okay. And on that day, my mother called my wife and told she had a dream. No way. And in her dream, I had bulbs everywhere. Bulbs, like light bulbs. Yeah. Because, you know, the, the swelling on my glutes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I had, I had 700 ml of puss in it. Wow. Holy shit. That's like 700. Did you say 300? That's what? Three, uh, three syringes. A pint. It's like 500. 700. It's like a fucking job. 700. Oh, that's like 700. 700. Yeah. Yeah. That's a shit. Yeah. So that's only, that's only about. Yes. That's five, that's 500. Yeah. A little bit more than that. Yeah. Yeah. A little bit more than that. So, so I had, so, so I had, so I had a third, uh, S, uh, cheek. Wait, wait, wait. I gotta ask you something. Yeah. Before they cut it out, did you ever try and drain it by yourself? For sure. You did, didn't you? I'll drain stuff. So how much did you, so there's 700 when they cut it out, but you must. Yeah. Now, and again, now they have part of my gluteus medius is missing on the right side. Yeah. I know. But you probably drained like a few hundred milligram milliliters before. It didn't work out well. And because the temperature was then that high, I, I quite fast went then to the doctor. But this is, can I just, this is a teaching moment for a second for anybody watching who is ever going to go to the doctor. If, if, if something starts to hurt the third day after injection, please go to the doctor. The other thing is if you, if you think you're going to aspirate it yourself, it's not going to work because when the infection happens, and I'm sure Stefan can speak to this because he's actually got a medical background, but I know this from my own personal experience. When the infection happens, it's going to keep creating more pus. So even if you aspirate it, if the infection's not taken care of, it's just going to refill with more pus and you're going to keep having to aspirate again and again and again until you actually go to the doctor and get fucking antibiotics. And there's a, there's a risk, right? That you, when you're aspirating that you, you go. Yeah. The, the, the risk of a sepsis is much, it's no, the risk of the sepsis is much bigger. Yeah. Cause you're going to leach it into out of that capsule. Yes. And that was actually the problem. Why I got that fucking high temperature. Yeah. Yeah. But, but the funny thing about it is she dreamed about it. Yeah. That's crazy. She didn't know the correlation that that could be an abscess, but she dreamed about having. Yeah. It's a random dream to have, isn't it? Without some sort of, yeah. I wonder, and I don't know if I'm going too far with this, but I wonder if we should explain how you get that abscess just so people watching are like, what the fuck are they talking about? You know, actually, actually. Some people probably have no idea what we're talking about. You know, as, as I studied medicine, one of the first thing in, not one of the, it's in the second part of the study. Um, you have, uh, uh, you have, uh, one of the, how is it called in English? Um, one of the, yeah. One of the chapters you have is, uh, hygiene. Yeah. Yeah. How is it in English? Hygiene. Hygiene. Hygiene. Yeah, you're right. So it's totally funny because a room of students are running around with sirens and, uh, trying to do different kinds of injections on each other with, uh, with, uh, uh, and, uh, NACL solutions. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And back then, um, you know, the main topic is how do you have to work, uh, to not get an infection? Right. But actually like, like most of my professors, that one was also quite cool and realistic one. And he said, no matter how clean you work, one of every thousand injections will go wrong. Yeah. Yeah. It makes sense. I'm due. I'm due. And that's something out there. People, people, and now comes a little bit of the, of, of the Stefan education process. Yeah. Uh, now a little advice to everything out there. If you don't have to inject, don't do it because the risk will increase, you know, um, it's, it's cool to have a high injection frequency sometimes because blood levels, but you will get scar tissue. The chance of infection is higher. Yeah. It's cool to have L-carnitine injections, but the risk you go for the daily injections, um, instead of the, the results you get from it, you know, correlated, you know, you're still injecting something into the body. You are giving a hole into your body. You're giving bacteria the possibility to access your body. That's just, just something which is present and which you can eliminate totally. Right. I'm glad you brought this up, Stefan. I wanted to ask, uh, about this because, and James, we'll get back to your awesome news in a second, but this is, this is fun. This is, this is, I just want to touch, I just want to touch on this because we have, we talk about this a lot because the common, the common practice now amongst gear users is, uh, micro inject micro dosing and multiple injections a week, because you want to keep from getting those peaks and valleys with your gear and it reduces side effects and all these other things. So there's some good, there's some good advice and things to back up why people do it. But I also wondered to myself, cause I was never able to do it. I'm like, the most I could do is like every other day. I could never like the everyday thing just kind of was too much for me. Even every other day was too much for me. But where do you, where do you stand on that? Like seeing that there is some benefit to micro dosing and daily injections, is it worth it? Or do you, would you advise people to go, like you said, as little as possible? I, I, I see it that way in prep where I really want to eliminate water storage of, of blood level fluctuations, having everything fine. I really like to go, uh, to the highest frequency possible. Even, even to daily. But in the offseason, I just don't see it as necessary. And there, there, there, the cycle will close itself. If you have that immense side effects of blood level fluctuations, you are probably not a hyper tolerator and won't come far in that sport. That's pretty black and white. You're like, Hey, if you're getting side effects, you suck. Yeah. Yeah. It was now a little bit extreme, but actually it goes into that direction. If you are a racing driver, you know, and you want to drive a corner and you can drive the corner, you, you're driving. You're driving. Oh, you are dead. Yeah. You suck. You suck. It's part of, it's part of the unseen limitation, right? Of, of our genetics. I get it. It just, it's so interesting. Like I wish I was autistic so I could just say things like that and people are. It's refreshing to hear it just so obvious. No, because he's got the autism thing to fall back on. So he's like, if he says something, if he says something, if he says something mean, he could be like, I'm autistic. It doesn't count. It's fine. No, it's not like that. I really think, I really think like that. No, but you know, you know, what's really interesting is, um, the, the contrast or the comparison you made with the, the race car driving thing. It's so interesting that in bodybuilding, we're not able to do that. Like you're right. If you're a race car driver and you're too fucking scared to take that corner the way the other guys are, that's it. You're not going to be a fucking race car driver. This is true. But we don't have that black and white decision-making and bodybuilding. We always find a new way. Well, that's one of the thing. And I need just to point it out, sorry to interrupt and coming back from the topic. But, and the second thing is what's, what's kind of that bodybuilding science industry, which is quite popular right now. Right. Bodybuilding science is just always one view. I mean, what way? What do you mean? Well, now for example, let's go to the microdosing. Yeah. You have more stable blood levels of, uh, with microdose. Right. You're not talking about the scar tissue. You're not talking about the irritation of, of the tissue. You're not talking about the possible infections. You're just seeing it from one side. Right. You're not talking about metformin. They just see, okay, maybe you will have, um, a better insulin sensitivity. Right. You don't see that the digestion gets, uh, way slower. You will have digestive issues. Right. You will have one medication more, which has the possibility risk to have interactions with the other medications you do. Right. Our medication in the human body is, um, is, um, broke down with the enzymatic system. Right. So everything you take has an interaction with something else you take, and that's based in your genetic, how you do it. So with everything you add, you have the risk of a more negative outcome in the other hand. So bodybuilders just go there and see one thing. You know, let's go to the race driver. Yeah. It's just, we say, okay, um, you need to go the corner faster. Right. And you, you, you eliminate the thinking that if you go with too fast, you will fall out. Right. Right. Everything has a consequence, but I think that's, and you guys can correct me if I'm wrong. I don't know what Ben and James also, I don't know what you think, but to me, I feel like the science community grabs the lowest hanging fruit for their answers. And I don't think enough of them have enough of a background to understand the other connections. Exactly. Like you, unless you go ahead, James. Sorry. The issue I find typically is that typically it's not everybody, but typically experience takes time. And a lot of time there is lack of experience, but knowledge is still pressed on you from people that haven't actually spent 15 years in the industry. It's different when it comes from someone who's been in the industry for 15, 20 years. I can take that. But if someone's only been in the industry for two years and then they're taking everything they know from literature only, there is no example of because long-term, long-term studies are only ones that are done by us who actually go through it. That's my issue. Well, and this is why I always liked working with John because John had a lot of, John had done a lot of reading and written books and knew all the studies, but he also could apply his own 25, 30 years of bodybuilding plus thousands of clients that he worked to get worked with. Same with Stefan. Same thing, isn't it? And this is what he said. It shouldn't be just one thing. Should it? I just, I just want to add one more thing to that. If you are interested in one thing and if you read a lot of things, you read everything in towards the direction you want to hear or you want to see. If you study something on a university, you learn all the bullshit you don't want to know. Right, right, right. But you need that bullshit to understand the whole picture. Yeah. And that's the fucking thing. What's that called? Confirmation bias. So when you're looking for it, when you're looking for it, bodybuilding is just confirmation. Bodybuilding is 97% confirmation bias. Right, right, right. Well, not for, but not for guys like us who've been doing it for 20 years, because for us, even, even we trap, even we trap, we still have a, we trap in the, in the mistake. Sometimes you're a hundred percent, right? Sometimes I'll eat fucking cream of rice and I'll be like, Oh, I feel better because of the cream of rice. So it could be like 10 other things. I get it. So the confirmation bias is still there. But I think after you put in a decade or two decades of work, you're able to look back with a little bit more of an open mind. Yeah, sure. Right. In the first five years, when you're first starting out, you think, you know, everything you're like, Oh, I, it is all confirmation bias, but I think it's like that bell curve. I forget what that bell curve is called where you like, you think, you know, everything. And then after you've done something long enough, you're like, you realize, you know, nothing. And then you slowly come back to actually knowing everything. I think that's what it is, is after a decade, two decades, you can look back with an open mind and go, Oh, I don't really know much. And you're able to like formulate a real opinion about what works and what doesn't. I, I, I noticed that now, like with more of my stuff, if I look back at, say, like, if I go my, my spreadsheets and my notes, how complicated I made things to where it's actually come back to being very simple, very like, there's not much over thought going on. Stefan, did you do that too, as a coach? Like, you know, Ben's talked to me about that many times. Was there, was there a period of time in your coaching where you over complicated things? Yeah, for sure. Especially with the background I have, you know, in the, in the, in the beginning, I really tried to reinvent the fucking wheel and it's just complete nonsense. It's just complete nonsense. I've been saying that for years. Bodybuilding is such a beautiful, very, very easy things where it just lays down to consistency and having simple things. You can really give a feedback on and, and things which are objective, small things, then you, you have to change and just a little, a little room for different things that you, can have a good picture. Mm-hmm. When you over complicate everything, you are doomed. And, and modern bodybuilding very often, even in competitive stage shows that people are randomly in shape. One time they are, then they are not, then they are not, then they are, then they are not. Because everything is done too fucking way complicated, but also our, I would say our community or, or, or the, the industry asks for that because you are the idiot coach when you don't do complicated things. Right. You know, I'm, I'm, I'm over that now. I'm just saying, okay, I don't give a fuck. I do things like I do. And, and if, if, if, if, if you don't like it, it's, it's fine for me. But, but, but that's, that's one of the main issues that people just don't understand. Yeah. Um, that it's just consistency, genetic and getting better in, in the things you do every day, which leads you to a champion. It's funny. You said that. I remember back in the day when I was coaching, uh, I had a fellow competitor. He wasn't a pro yet. He was a top amateur and I was a pro at the time. And he's like, you know, what are you eating in the offseason? Cause there was an offseason where I made a pretty big jump. So I wrote him, I'm like, I'll write you out my diet. Like I wrote him a diet, you know, supplements included, whatever, not gear. It was literally like just the supplements you would take and the food. And, uh, I know he never spoke to me again. I didn't talk to him for like 10 more years. And I asked him about it and he goes, well, you just gave me some fucking cookie cutter diet. I asked you for help. And I was like, that was my fucking diet, man. I didn't, it was that fucking simple. It was just that. Like. The fan is running to that point. There's this pressure. Like, especially when I first started coaching, like people would send check-ins and I'm like, Oh, everything's good. I kind of feel obligated to make a change just because they're paying me for a service. And, but, but there's nothing needed doing. Like, so you kind of get this like conflict of like, Oh, I have to add value. I have to give them something more. No. And I'm over that right now because the value you have to give is your decision. Right. I used to help people. That's what that's what's about. Yeah. I used to help people and I stopped because I'm a very simple person in the approach. And I would have people that came to me said, yeah, but what about this? And they would throw, you know, things at me, L-carnitine injectable, for example, or a peptide or this or that. And I, I would just be like, I, I can only speak from experience, but I managed to get some British titles and turn pro without the use of any of these things. So I'm only going to teach you within the parameters of what I know can get you there. And it's kind of like you said earlier, if you can't, we said this so many times, but if you can't get there on some of those basic things, you ain't getting there. Yeah. Yeah. And that's the thing. And people realize that after a while, cause they'll spend 10 years taking everything under the sun and then they'll realize there's still nowhere. And it'd be like, Oh, okay, well. I tried. Well, and that's, and I think that's what I wish, I wish it was that simple though. Cause that's not what happens. I think sometimes that happens, but I think most of the time what happens is they'll blame it on genetics, which is somewhat true. And then, and then other times they'll blame it on. Well, I didn't take the amounts of gear that those guys are taking. It's pretty consistent. I think half the time. Yeah. And Stefan will be able to do this more. And I think what I said earlier about hyper tolerators, like a little goes a much, much further in a genetic elite person. So it's funny. Cause I know we've done this over and over again, where we've talked about those Jews and then people are like, Oh, they're bullshit. And they're lying because I'll look at amateurs and they're like running huge amounts. And I'm like, man, they've got the top pros that are on a fraction of that. And there's no way they can connect the two and actually see that there's a difference between what their body is taking and using because they're like, well, I train just as hard and I diet just as hard. I mean, you do, but your body just isn't the same. Also there's time. And there is the time aspect. But let me, I'll answer it this way. I consider myself like a bro, right? Like whatever I know in bodybuilding is from my own experience. I don't read. I don't read studies. I don't fucking, I don't have a medical background, none of that shit. Right. If you said to me five years ago, well, that guy's just got elite genetics and he's not using a thousand milligrams of test. He's using 500. I don't know if I believe you, but after doing a podcast for five years and talking to people like Stefan and talking to people like fucking Justin Harris and talking to people like a Brad Schoenfeld and like listening to people like Derek for more plates, more dates, and actually understanding the way your body utilizes the steroids. Now I'm like, oh, they were fucking telling me the truth all along. I just didn't believe it because I didn't have enough of an understanding about how the body utilize the drugs. So it's not, I don't think it's that people don't believe us because they think we're all I think they just don't know. They just don't understand that there's something they don't understand that there's something like called a hyper tolerator or somebody that can even even let's not even talk about drugs. Ben, you've said to me before training with Luke, you've said to me, he would do a set of squats and he would be fucking his legs would be fucking pumped and he'd be fucking like he just finished a workout. You would do a set of squats and you'd be ready for more. Like, so, and it's, it's the same thing when we trained with Martin, like Martin did the same. Well, his was the amount of muscle mass he had these all the oxygen demand he had on that set was fucking way above us. I know, but I'm just saying the amount of utilization. Some of these guys can get out of an exercise and a rep is more than that. But that's why you and I had the argument about skill. And I said that bodybuilding is a skill because they're, they're, they're, they're Don't push, don't push me. Their ability to contract the muscle and connect with it. Go ahead, Stefan. Go ahead, Stefan. Before I argue with Ben, go ahead, Stefan. Ben, you're brilliant. Uh, first, first thing I had, I have to say, um, clip that out and we'll save that. Let's replay that part. Yeah. Because, because that's one of the biggest factor. If you're going to be good or not be good. I trained really with thousands of people. Yeah. Yeah. The point is, and that's also something when it comes to, to, to training plans, you know, it must be complicated. It must be the exercise from around the corner, standing on the head, contracting it, blah, blah, blah, all that fucking shit. Um, and you need to change your training plan because you get used to it and all that fucking, uh, bro science shit. The point is you will be good in something when you perfect a movement and it's going to be kind of a talent genetic or as, as, as, uh, what, what you did, you did a brilliant word. A skill. A skill you have, how you are able to contract that fucking muscle. It has nothing to do with speed. It has nothing to do with range of motion. It's the skill, how you can contract and people won't understand it. And the bigger problem that they don't understand it. They don't want to learn it. You know, if they are shit in an exercise or if they don't grow it. They don't do it or blame the exercise or want to change it, the split or whatever, get the fucking skill. If you are a tennis player, you will probably practice that fucking forehand until the eternity ends. Okay. Can I, can I, can I, but in bodybuilding, you're going to have to get, let's go stick up for himself now. Okay. Time out. And I just go back for one second. Okay. Let me breathe. I never said that there was no skill in bodybuilding. What I said was the skill to be an Olympic gymnast is a much greater than the skill to be a bodybuilder. That's all I said. The skill, the talent of being a bodybuilder is to me more entrenched in the discipline, being able to go through the monotony, being able to do the same thing day in, day out. And genetic, there's a genetic component. No, it's, it's, it's the skill, how, how you can train, contract your fucking muscle. Really? That's the most under, underrated thing. Okay. Hold on a minute. So you're telling me the skill of contracting my bicep when I do a curl. Okay. Is equal to the difficulty level of doing a triple backflip off a fucking horse in the Olympics. Yeah. No, not the biceps. Maybe not as a triple backflip, but the single backflip. The triple backflip, the triple backflip, the triple backflip is a perfectly done squat or a perfectly done deadlift. No, it's not. I'm sorry. I can't agree with you, but you know why there is, I was able to do a fucking backflip with a snowboard, but I never was able to contract my biceps because I'm fucking retarded. Okay. Hold on. I'll, I'll tell you this. You could be 30 years old. Yeah. And learn how to properly squat in a year if you really paid attention to it. Yeah, but there's a bit. No, hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Oh no, don't interrupt. Don't interrupt. There is a difference between doing it visible from the outside perfectly or really use the fucking fibers of the contraction. I get it. But what I'm saying is you can't tell me that that's equally as hard as learning how to do fucking gymnastics. Some people never will learn doing it right. Okay. But what you just said is you get it because you are able to go, okay, I need to contract this harder and then make it make sense to you. Some people cannot do that. Okay. But hold on. Let's take when we, when we speak about something, you have to speak of the averages. You don't speak of the out, you don't speak of the outliers. So let's say you took a hundred fucking people over here and a hundred people over here and you try to teach these hundred to do gymnastics and you try to teach these hundred how to fucking do a squat. How much success are you going to get on either side? And be honest. Cause I'm telling you out of the hundred over here doing gymnastics, five are going to maybe get it. Maybe five over here. You're going to get 50, maybe 10, but you're going to get 50 fucking guys. Maybe a little bit more, but still a little bit more, but you're not a little bit more, a lot more, but you're also missing the point that stuff. And I'm not missing the point. No, no, no, no, no. Where he said, yeah, you can get everybody to go through that movement. Like I'm very, very, very skilled. I've been wanting a lot of what, hang on. Wait, hear me out. Hear me out. Hear me out. I'm very skillful at squatting a lot of weight from here down to here and then back up again. What I'm not good at, which is what your point was. I'm not as skillful as Luke as taking that movement and that weight and directing it into those muscle fibers of my quads and the targeting those that becomes a much harder skill for me. You're arguing a point. We agree on. I already said there is skill in bodybuilding. What I'm telling you is there are varying degrees of skill. All skill is not created equal. A guy who gets on a fucking motorcycle and is, does a 300 foot jump with four backflips on the motorcycle and lands it perfectly. I'm sorry, takes a lot more skill than learning how to squat. Yeah, but that's why they, that's why, that's why in the Olympics when they're doing figure, when you're doing figure skating. But the 700 backflip guy is the Mr. Olympia. Hold on a minute. And we don't have so many Mr. Olympia. It's not the same. It's not the same. So like in the Olympics, for example, when you do, if you're looking at figure skating, they judge them. What we learn about that discussion is that is obsessed with backflips. No, no, hold on a minute. I have one more point and then we'll move on. Cause I don't want to debate this forever. If you're looking at figure skating, right. They have varying degrees of difficulty in figure skating that they are judged on. That's because there are varying degrees of skill across sports in general. There are varying degrees of skill. Not all sports are created equal. One skill is not equal to another skill, right? That doesn't mean it's easy to be a bodybuilder. It doesn't mean it doesn't take a lot of work. It doesn't mean there's not a ton of discipline, consistency, fucking all of that shit. I'm talking strictly about skill. All skill, all skills are not created equal. But take a look at the stages of the bodybuilding world. Let's take two muscles which are, if you don't have the skill in it, very hard to develop. Hamstrings and luts. Okay. But take a look on the pro stage. How many guys have lacking hamstrings or lacking luts? Yeah, but I can tell you why. Don't you think that they try? Not like they try when it's quad day. I promise you that. And I've seen it numerous times in amateurs as they're coming up. Hamstring day, throw in an exercise. Maybe I'll throw into quad day. We're getting riled up for two days straight. Yeah, but even when it... No, no, no. Now we go to a point. Even when it comes to hamstring, you know? Yeah. The lower body is different than the upper body. Sure. In upper body, we have push and we don't need to pull at the same time. So I showed it differently. Excuse me. We have the pull and you don't need to push at the same time. Right. When we have legs and when we need to stand up from the floor, we need both. Okay. Okay. Because we can't get up without extending the knee. Yeah. And we can't get up without the retro version of the upper leg. Right. Which does the hamstring and the glutes. Right. So standing up when you have shit hamstrings, the bigger problem is that the knee extension is the dominant movement in your standing up process. And the retro version of the leg, which is glutes and hamstring, is the shit version. So you have to get back 700 steps to learn that movement new, which is a skill. To emphasize in that movement, the hamstrings and the glutes more. You're still- And there are people who can't do that easily and fast. You guys are still- And there are some who never will challenge that thing. You guys are still arguing a point that I'm not arguing. I already said it was a skill. I said not all skills are equal. And that seems like a very moderate stance to take. The fact that you guys- But your stance changed though from bodybuilding is not a skill to it's not as hard of a skill as a triple backflip. No, no, no. Hold on, Ben. The very first time we had this argument, you're right. I said it's not a skill. But very, very quickly after we started that debate, I agreed with you guys. I said there is skill. But I still will hold true that not all skills are equal. And that seems like a very common sense stance to have. Okay. We go away from gymnastics, which is most probably your addiction. We understand. I love gymnastics. But what about soccer? Compare bodybuilding with soccer. Look, I'm not going to compare every sport. It's a very simple debate to have. Are all skills equal or not? You're right. You're right. You're right. That's all I'm trying to say. You guys are arguing with me. It's all equal. It's can't be. But going back to what you said about quad day and these guys are going hard on quads. Again, quads for a lot of people, not all people, are very easily accessible in terms of their engagement, their ability to recruit. Right? Yeah. Most people can sit on a leg extension. They can see the quad. They can engage it. So then that starts to filter through to over the years. It gets very easy for them to feel and contract their quads. I understand that. So therefore their training sessions become better and better because it was good to train it. It was easy to train it. Okay. I'm going to use myself as an example because I don't want to speak ill of anybody else. For once. For once. And anybody. For once. Yeah. And anybody who says the opposite, I'm fucking vehemently going to disagree with them because I know you guys are very similar to the way I am when it comes to bodybuilding. When quad day came around the day before I started getting ready and I wasn't getting ready because I'm like, oh, hamstrings is going to kill me. No, there is a different emphasis placed on certain body parts. If it was back day, like, oh, it's fucking back day. I got to fucking get ready. It's going to be a killer. When it was fucking arm day, I would just stroll in and fucking do arms. It's you can't tell me that guys don't have days of the week where they're they turn it up a bit. Oh, yeah. Listen, yeah, because for me, quad day was always like legs. Yeah, but that's not the biggest problem. The bigger problem is more like that. I take first the back day out and then I go back to the to the lower day. Let's call it lower day. With the back day, we have also the ego of the bodybuilder, which is the biggest problem. So let's go like I would say the majority of bodybuilders have good upper back with good tears, good rhomboids, good traps, good rear shoulders, fucking weak legs. Yeah. Though they are going to do forever and ever and ever and ever all their back exercises in a movement which emphasizes the upper back, but not the legs. Right. And that's the problem. Their ego that they are not willing to go seven steps back and do the exercises in the matter they would need it. And the same is for the same is for the same is for legs. When it comes to all the compound exercises, squatting, hex quad, leg press, whatever, they will still always have the dominant quad in the movement. They are never willing to get the steps back to emphasize the hamstrings the same way they emphasize the quads in their exercise. Like they would, they would just benefit from it and the fucking hands would grow. But we're saying the same thing then. We're saying the same thing. Yeah. Guys are, guys are emphasizing the shit they're good at and the shit they like. They're not emphasizing the things that are harder or they don't necessarily feel or they don't. When it comes to that, you're right. Yeah. And that's what I mean because I knew if I was going to go in for a fucking back day, I'm like, this is a thing I need. I knew if I looked at a T bar row, I was like, man, I don't want to do T bar rows. They suck. But then I would force myself to do them because I knew they sucked. But that's why most of the time I bring in another dimension. And most of the time they do the T bar row then like that, that they still emphasize the upper back. Yeah. So they are doing it, but they do it for shit. Yeah. It's the same thing where if you say you have a basketball player who is really good at shooting from like a two point, but it sucks at three points. So the champions will go out there and put the time in rebuilding that three point. Whereas the other guys going out there, he just wants to enjoy his practice time. So he goes and choose the good thing he's good at because he enjoys it the most. And that's why, like, if I'm looking at my guys trying to bring them up, a lot of them that good body parts, I almost sometimes I just take away their strong body part altogether for three or four months. You're not going to train the legs because your legs are crazy. You're not going to train legs until you've brought the other body parts up. But this conversation in total is what is the determining factor between the good bodybuilders and the ones aren't so good. I know people very close to me that just won't accept what's just been said. Yeah. Well, if they did, if they did, they would have had better careers and they would have made it. The thing is, because they had to take two steps back in order to progress, but people don't know. Well, because number one, they don't want to do the exercises that hurt. Or like, or like Stefan, they don't want to do the exercises they don't feel. Or they also, yes, most of the time, because the general population is quite, they're not very privy to bodybuilding. They see someone lift heavy and they assume that's what makes you a good bodybuilder. So your social media will blow up because you're strong. Right. What are you doing on the bodybuilding stage? Yeah. Or, or, or, or are you only showing the exercises that you're strong at because you want your social media to blow up and you're not focusing on the ones you're not strong at because nobody will watch your shit if you post those. Oh, of course. Because my stuff gets far less interaction than it used to because I've chose to train how I need to train in order to be a better bodybuilder. Right. But that's leading these younger guys are like, Oh, well, I know my six plate squat or whatever exercise. Hey, like Ben, like Ben just post squat videos all day long. That's real bodybuilding real bodybuilding isn't sexy. No, like there's a certain level of this. You have to have the discipline to be able to reign it back and focus. And some people just haven't got that in their mind. Go ahead. I'm going to separate that out to what James just said, though, because there is bodybuilding. And over here, and then there's competitive bodybuilding. Well, I think when we're talking about bodybuilding lifestyle, like if we go back to like, hold on a minute. I think when we're talking about bodybuilding in this conversation, competitive. Yeah. Just so people know what we're talking about. We're talking about building a balanced physique. Yeah. But if we're talking about everyone that's watching this podcast, I never want to compete. I know I never want to compete. I know I never want to compete. So therefore, like if we're talking about like hyper tolerators, there are some guys that are like, oh, well, I don't have the genetics to be an Olympian. That doesn't mean bodybuilding is close to you now. No, no, I understand that. You know what I mean? Yeah. That's why I said, that's why I said, if you're, if you're trying to do well on stage, you need to accept that there's certain things you have to do in order to be good on stage. Yeah. I, if I weren't competing, man, my training would look very different because it would all be about what do I enjoy and what can I see my own progression in. But bodybuilding on a competitive level is not just that as you, as you will know. There always has to be an argument. Every time I have, every time I have gymnastics. We are talking about the Olympians. The reason that the reason I keep going back to gymnastics is because to me, it seems like the hardest fucking sport there is. I can't. Yeah, because you are bloke. You're a geezer. No, seriously. Think about it. If you had to rank, if you had, okay, let's play a game. If you had to rank since we've already kind of all agreed. I'm good. I'm going to supersede. Wait, wait. I think we all kind of agreed that there are varying skills, right? Did we all agree on that? I know Stefan did. Oh, 100%. Okay. Yeah. If we had to rank sports by skill, what would be at your top? I thought I thought that one's right near the top. Formula one's pretty hard. Formula one's pretty hard. Yeah. But I say now something completely awkward. I don't know if you even know it in America, but I just don't get it how it works. What? It's so super complicated. Ski jumping. Ski jumping. Eh, doesn't seem that hard. No, no, no. You need to find that point of lifting that fucking shit within one centimeter and I would say one hundredth of a time. It's just if you have that skill, I think. Yeah. I agree with you, but it's completely crazy. The formula one thing I didn't even think of those guys lose like 20 fucking pounds in a race. Yeah. Yeah. Constantly. I'm going to, I'm going to say high level MMA. Yeah, that's a good, that's a good one. Because you're cutting weight the day before as well. Well, but no, but that's not. Training. And then someone's trying to fucking take your head off. Wait a minute. Now you're talking about, now you're talking about the work and the danger. No, no, no. I'm talking about just the talent. Yeah. I'm talking about the skill discussion. But you're walking in that cage. In most sports you walk in at your prime, like peaked. No, no, no. I know. In MMA, you walk into the cage to perform your skill slightly hurt from the day before. I know. You should argue though, the MMA isn't even as dangerous as Formula One. But hold on a minute. But especially in MMA, I think you can outwork others better than in different sports. That's what I'm trying to say, Ben. What you're talking about, Ben, is conflating talent and work ethic. I'm talking about strictly the talent. So what I mean by that is like learning jujitsu. Not in a ring, not fighting. Just the talent of learning jujitsu. How hard is that? How hard is jujitsu? The skill level is very high. That's why I said MMA and not one single discipline. Because now you're going into a realm where you're going against an opponent that is well-equipped in multiple different aspects. I'm agreeing with you. All I'm saying is you have to take out the part of cutting away. Okay, so take it out. Yeah. Walking a cage with someone else that's been training their whole life and is trying to take your head off in any which way he can. James, what do you think? James, what do you think? Formula One or MMA? I think MMA is right there. But I do think Formula One requires probably the utmost. Only because I know quite a lot of people that have worked with in Formula One. And a good friend of mine, James, I have really good conversations with him. And like the shit that he tells me about some of the drivers, like down to the finest details of how they perform and why they were the best. Yeah. Like, well, reaction times, endurance, like all of it. See the training they do for their necks even. Yeah. That car, you've got to think as well. Well, I mean. Every day they're in that thing. One mistake, they're dead. Well, Stefan, you've raced, right? So you can speak to this. Stefan loves racing. Yeah. No, the point is with racing. And I think I have a quite good story about that. I always was the worker guy. I never was talented, never skilled, but I was the worker. And when I come to the racetrack, I always came on Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday were the racings. And I did long distance, a car racing. So you need a little bit besides the skill, also the endurance and the power which you can work for. But I always came to the track on Wednesday and started to train. And I always was one of the last in the races. And with my work ethic, I was able to get in the lower half. So a little bit better, but still. And in my team, I had a genetically gifted guy who always came on the racetrack on Friday. So he sat into the cart and drove. And I've used hours to learn how the track goes and everything. And he got into the cart, never had been there, and setting the record on the circuit. And when you ask him, how do you do it? Yeah, I feel it. I just know where to break. I just know where the apex is. I don't have to think about it. The only thing those guys then have to do is to get to the power, the endurance and all that stuff for the race. But how you race or how you set it up and how you drive is pure skill. Yeah, it's a world I would love to. It's a world I would love to. It's a world I would love to. It's a world I would love to. I wish I grew up with rich parents who pushed me into that. That's what I wanted to do. I wanted to race and my dad was like, we're poor, fuck off, go do something. You can't afford it, no. I'm not rich, but I am building a racetrack out of the back. I can't wait. I'm going to be there all the time. Like Super Mario Kart. It'll be fucking... Yeah, there's a couple of Bowser in the fucking little kart. That's right. Yeah. I'm still going to stick with gymnastics. What about diving? Diving is quite fucking skillful. I don't know. I think I'm just going to stick with gymnastics to piss off Stefan. She seems great. Yeah, and to be fair, gymnastics has multiple disciplines. I really want to see Fuad in that. Oh, that's a bad thing. I want to see Fuad in that spandex. That's the next thing. Oh, gymnastic fucking stuff. I mean, you two got to put a little wager on. James, are you going to have a boy or a girl? I don't know. What do you want? A baby that's not troublesome. You don't have a preference. Not really, but my feelings is they'll probably be a girl. Just because everyone I know that does get people pregnant on the cycle. Often when they're on cycle before they're retired, they have girls. It's just really common. Yeah. Those are the cycle. I got boy. Yeah, that's true. Yeah. Ben's like one of the only people that I know who's had a boy. Little Michael. Michael, the box also has a boy. So Michael had a boy. So Evan, Evan had two girls branches. First was the girl. Michael who? Michael, the box. A small to 12 bodybuilder. Maybe that's what it is, James. Maybe it's the size of the bodybuilder. Yeah. They're 212. They have boys. Ben was 212 at the time. Ben. Maybe the more muscle you have depends on if it's a girl or a boy. I was 280. I don't know how fat I was. I still have one. I don't know why. Part of me does like the idea of a girl, but I'm not fussed. You'd rather have a girl. I wouldn't rather, but there's part of me that likes the idea of it because I think being a dad, for some reason, that's kind of appeals to me. I don't know why. I can see that. It's more to worry about, but then it's also there's. Yeah, I can see that. I think it's for me to say two things. It's almost like a reincarnation of my mother. Sounds weird. But also like it's her life continuing into my child. Right. And also, I think it would help me understand them as a species more. I don't think so. These girls, I just don't understand them. I don't think it will, man. I don't think it will, man. Stefan is a girl. Does that help you understand? Stefan knows. Well, I don't know. You know, when they get into the teenage age, it's just getting a horrible kind of, you know? I was just going to say. You are sitting on the table and look in the face and the face is like, what's wrong? Nothing. Can I help you with something? No. What are you going to do today? Nothing. It's crazy. Do you think boys will be the same as that in teenage years? Do you think that's just a teenager? No, I think they are different. No, boys are different. I think too. Yeah. Listen, Ben will let us know in a few years when he's reached his team. Well, I got 12, I got 12 year olds or 13. Yeah, to be fair. Yeah. So he's a bad. Listen, all I know is Paul, I talk to Paul every day about this and he's got two daughters and he understands them no better than when he had them. So what? So he's still, he's still lost. He's like, I got, I got three women. I want to crack that code. You're not going to crack the code, dude. There's no way. Um, okay. Okay. Oh, well, you don't have, you obviously don't have any names picked out because you don't know the sex. What's the female version of James? Yeah. Is there a female version of James? I don't think so. No. I don't know. I'd like it to maybe have a Norwegian name because of Janika. What's a Norwegian name? Can you give me an example? Freya. Freya would be cool. Freya is nice. Freya is super nice. I have a problem with that. Donis' brother has a dog called Freya, so I'm like, that's a dog's name. I don't know, but there's some interesting names in Norway. So I'll find out and see. All right. I think it's a nice thing to pay homage to. It's like nationality. Yeah. You know what? Internet says what the female version of James is. James is Ina. That's a, that's weird. That's a bullshit. Yeah. They just put an Ina on the end of it. They just do that for everything. Uh, okay. I want to show you guys this before we go to more bodybuilding. Is your shit tattooed? No. Did you get a shit tattoo, did you say? I'm not kidding. I'm not showing you anymore, Ben. Fuck you. What do we, uh, what do we think of this? Turn it around. Let me see. In that pose, it's, it's, it's, it's incredible, but it emphasizes his strengths completely. So I see even in that pose, he has incredible arms, but even when he, when he opens it, I see two small shoulders for that arms. Um, I see the gap in the chest, but, uh, the frame and the structure he has is just crazy, insane. And the amount of muscle he carries, um, is, is, is outstanding, but, uh, it's a front double and we have, uh, six other poses, uh, we're going to see and, and, uh, most muscular, which is also very impressive, but I want to see side chest, triceps, back double. Uh, and then we know more. Well, we know the back is not going to be a, is not going to match the front. I mean, even if he's brought it up, the front is like world-class. Yeah. That's one of the best. Yeah. His front's like a Derek Lunsford, uh, you know, up there with those guys. Well, I think his front's, well, I don't want to say better than Derek's, but I think he has the reverse problem from Derek. Derek has a better back than he does front. And I think, uh, Carlos has, is better from the front than he is from the back. Um, I just, and I think the side shots, he's going to be crazy too, because where's that other update that he posted? Fuck. Um, I think from the side, he's going to be great too, because he's so fucking thick. So anytime you have a 24 inch arm and a 35 inch quad and a tiny little waist, those sides to look good. Yeah. Those side shots are going to look nuts. The only problem is if the back doesn't have any thickness to it, that could hurt his side shots a little bit. Cause then you're kind of just going like this massive chest, massive dealt, and then it just drops off at the back. More for me, more depends on detail. More depends on detail. The delta is a problem. The delta is a problem. The delta is way too small. And like, uh, you think the delta is too small? Yeah. Compared to the arm. What we see here? Yes. Let me see. Uh, I don't know. When he got into the most muscular, I didn't think so. Uh huh. Take a look. I'm gonna, I'm gonna. Okay. If you compare it to the quads and the arms. I don't know. I don't, I don't feel like, I mean, his arms are obviously massive, but I don't feel like, I don't feel like it's a small dealt. I just feel like maybe it's not the same caliber as the arm, which I do agree with. Or the quad or the chest. Yeah. You know what? The more I look at it, you're right. The arms, the chest and the quad are definitely overdeveloped compared to the delta. But we can't see it from, we can't see it from the side. So I don't know. What's it look like from the side? This is like two years ago. Yeah, I know, but we'll get an idea at least. I mean, his arms are nuts. So it's like. It's definitely a freak. Yeah. Yeah, completely. Yeah. Also his front relaxed is crazy good. Yeah. Well, his waist is so small. His quads are so big. He's got a really nice X frame. Yeah. His lats from the front look pretty good. I mean, that's a nice shot for him. I just don't know. Is he going to be the dark horse? Is he going to be the one that upsets the top? He is. He is definitely a guy we need to watch out. But as James said, it's about the details and if he brings the quality, because he always missed in that point until now. Well, the reason. Which always could happen. You know, we saw it at the classic division where Mike Sommerfeld always was underrated because he never brought the condition he needed to bring on stage. And when he brought the condition, it was bang on and he was ready to battle for the win. And Carlos could be exactly the same. Well, the reason I'm leaning that way is because of the work that Patrick did with Keon. So I'm kind of leaning towards if Patrick can do that same thing with Carlos. Yeah, it depends a little bit. I think the most of progression with Keon was the mental aspect. That before he wasn't able to stick with everything like it should be. And Patrick found the way to get in his head that he responded. But I don't know if Carlos, what is Carlos problem? Is Carlos problem that he was more the lazy guy or is the problem somewhere else? You know, I was working with Patrick back when he was working with Carlos for his national room. Because Patrick prepped him for the for him to turn pro nationals up until a week out. And then Carlos. So he has had some issues there, which I don't know where he's at with that. But I know he was working a lot. Again, I think he did when he pulled out in New York last year. He had a lot on with some health, but a lot of it was just like he was so busy working and this and that. So I think he I think he's in a more stable position from what I understand now, which is. Exciting to see how that's going to. Yeah, we have to. That is one of the nicest people. Yeah, completely. Yeah, completely. This is totally. This is totally my own guess and have no inside information on it. But I have a feeling it's not going to be a conditioning thing that doesn't put him in the top placings. It's going to be if anything holds him back. I think it's going to be his back. Because. Yeah, but more the condition. Well, if you if he's in this condition, yes, but I don't think he's going to be in this condition. I have a feeling Patrick's going to figure it out. Yeah, Patrick for sure knows his work. That's no doubt. Right. But the back. It's like you said we were talking about earlier, you know, you got great rhomboids, great traps. You know, Terry's is good, but then it kind of drops off there. Hmm. And then especially when I do it to that lower body, you know, how much of that holds up with the digger, the harder they dig him down, you know, for that condition. Like how much. Yeah. How much back. How much of whatever he has put on in terms of that back depth, how much it stays. Yeah. In getting that crisp condition from the back. He's certainly a species, a specimen, not species. He's a specimen. If he's crazy, he's crazy good. The potential is. But I know. I know what you're saying, Ben, because you're only, you know, we've talked about that many times on the podcast. You're only as good as your weakest body part. Mm hmm. So the weaker the body part, the more it's going to disappear. Like, especially when you're trying to dig somebody down that's never been in shape. And then you're trying to get them to that really crisp, you know, shredded look. And then you're like, okay, we lost some lat, you know? So we'll see. But Stefan, since you're here. Hmm. We're going to press you on your predictions. Oh, cool. So this is the Arnold list right here. These are all the guys. Mm hmm. And this is your top 10. So I'm going to ask you to place your top 10. Here, just some other, some other guys. Where's the list? If I'm lost, it's okay, Stefan. Well, this is, these are the guys here, right? Yeah. Yeah. Go down there. And then I still see it. I think. Yeah. It's right here. Uh, Samsung. Okay. Okay. You don't think, you don't think Derek can bring it back. I mean, not that I, not that I do. I think everybody has Samson in first, but just curious. Okay. Go ahead. Um, Derek. Are you coaching anybody in the open for this? I have no idea. Oh, you got James. Yeah. For James. That's what I said. I said, I said, if I'm. And William too. That's right. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Go on. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Brandon Brandon you think Sean's going to beat Brandon yes you're going to lose this thing for sure I even think about Sean Sean and William will be a tough battle okay go on two more then we have Akeem and Patrick no we have more we just do top 10 Akeem and Patrick Akeem and Patrick okay I don't see Patrick too late it's locked in now let me see the others okay these are mine and Mike's I don't know if you know Mike Mike Van Wick you probably know Mike Van Wick and then Ian and James are down here Ian had Samson Derek Andrew Brandon Carlos William James Akeem John Sean and Sean was 10th I had Samson Derek Andrew James Carlos Brandon William Akeem John Sean and 10th and then James here Samson Andrew Derek William James Akeem John Brandon I don't know if I agree with this one either and then we had Paul who's also a judge Samson Derek Andrew Carlos Brandon James John William Akeem and Sean these are pretty good picks I think Ben Ben was here Samson Derek Andrew Carlos James John William Brandon Akeem I don't I think Ben shit the bed on this Brett and Martin already show me they they they did there no they didn't do they didn't do theirs yet they didn't do theirs yet Samson did his Samson Andrew Derek William Brandon James Sean Akeem John and Carl this is these are pretty good picks too except Carlos could be a dark horse yeah he's he's more the same than me he's just don't believe in James and he has Brandon more in front yeah but yours throws me off because why because I don't see Patrick in 10th I don't see you you think that Justin Rodriguez is better no I think John De La Rosa is better um number two I don't see Sean beating Brandon Curry I see it uh and Brandon and also Brandon just beat William at the Olympia no he didn't what what no no no no no no what are you talking no way I love how emphatic no way wasn't Brandon 8th and William 9th or 7th and 8th no 7th was William I gotta check this I don't believe yeah check it I know it 2020 exactly you should know it I love how it was Andrew and William uh it was close with Andrew and William ah this only has the top 6 here fuck yeah and Andrew was 6th right Andrew was 5th no you said Hunter was 6th yeah Hunter was 6th yeah let me see here Andrew should have been 6th does anybody else have it okay wait what do I have here Miss Olympia no James James had him 2nd fuck this has only got the top 5 he didn't bring it he could have been higher he didn't bring it MPC News just go to the MPC yeah yeah that's gotta have it okay let's see uh 2024 Mr. Olympia Samson uh William oh you're right William was 7th yeah I didn't say you were wrong such a child William had a really good year man but fuck William was 7th and uh Brandon was 9th yes all right well I still don't see Sean beating Brandon easy you haven't seen him easy easy easy holy fuck you're talking about a former Mr. Olympia all right are we gonna I'm talking about the 2 times 2 times to 12 Olympia okay Stefan all I have to say is still you talk a big game but the last 2 bets we made you lost both of them to me my wife forbid me she even said it before that podcast don't do do stupid things again with him I was just gonna try and get you to do one so for those people who don't know Stefan bet me the first time James did the Arnold and I bet him that James would be in the top 5 and Stefan said he wouldn't and James was nice enough to forgive him and work with him now but he lost that bet he had to grow his hair out for what 3 months it was 3 months yeah it was 3 months he looked like a serial killer it was great and then the 2nd bet was he thought Andrew was gonna be in the top 3 at the Olympia yeah no no no it was totally yeah it was yeah you are not good in remembering things I am great at remembering you said no no no the idea was so let's point it out it was the day or 2 days after Texas yeah you said he was gonna be top 3 wait wait no no no everybody had the impression that he was good nobody has seen anything of Samson except perhaps Fouad he says he didn't see something I know he saw something I swear to god I did he asked me the question is Andrew beating Samson and I said yeah I think after Texas he can beat Samson that was the bet and then he said okay we are back I said that was that was the bet if Andrew beats Samson if Andrew beats Samson then was Frost and Samson won and I wrote you immediately a message I think Samson can win the Mr. Olympia but you we the bet was under false circumstances yeah I had information you lead me into the false thinking of yeah you know that's how inside inside inside information listen James and Ben I'm gonna tell you something you choose to believe me or not okay he's he's misremembering he that's how the bet started and then we kept talking about it and it ended up being okay let's just say is Andrew gonna be top three or not and he said he would and I said he wouldn't and that's where the bet landed we started with Samson Andrew but the bet finished would Andrew be top three or not and it was an over under bet that's where we finished now the second thing is you guys don't know this but Samson doesn't send me update photos anymore for the last two years he sent me one fucking photo this past Olympia and it was like a week out so I had no inside information yeah so we had already made the bet way before that so anything I saw online was the same thing you saw online okay let's bet this is a you know you want to you want to get back at me we can bet at the bet on this Arnold I think I think it's Ben's turn why are you why are you going to drag me down you know what though I mean he's you know what though to be honest you looked good with a mustache yeah it was quite okay even my wife liked it afterwards yeah you like that bet didn't really help me it helped you made it more attractive let's see if we can find the mustache Stefan there it is yeah look at let's look at this mustache wow that looks great on you rockin' up rockin' up rockin' up all right uh the big one okay no here with the picture with Martin it looked quite incredible where the next picture oh this one yeah there you go look that suits you but I was I was uh banned from schools in a circumstance of one so so I got a question for you Stefan that I've been you know we've been talking about a lot on the podcast and other people have been talking about the podcast I want to ask you directly how the fuck are you going to coach the entire IFBB and not fuck somebody up you know it's um actually one of the points is I have less customers than I had the years before yeah no but now it's it's it's it's it's less it's less work um the amount of the amount of work has nothing to do with if I fuck somebody up or not yeah the uh the fact if somebody gets fucked up is just because I did a mistake and people could do mistakes uh but it has nothing to do with the amount of of work I had because I I just the person Stefan Kinzel just works when he has to work because it has been my whole life like that I need the pressure I need uh the the facility of different people I need the the challenge that's where I come to my best okay let me ask you this so what's the most amount of clients you've ever had a lot 100 200 150 approximately do you have a ballpark number you can give me more than 200 more than 200 okay um so you obviously have probably less than that now I'm not going to guess yes okay you have less than that now but does it matter that they're of much higher caliber like there's a lot more riding it makes it easier well I I I I I I talk, I talk, no, really, I talk with, with at least the amount of people I talk with who are knowing what it is about is much higher than years before. Right, right, right. Much higher. And, and I eliminate people who don't understand that. Okay. So that's, that's, that's just the point. I, the requests I get, I, I have to eliminate, I would say at least 70% of that. Because it's not my idea of working. And, and as always, as I'm, as you know, in the discussions, I'm quite strict in how I do things, how I think things should be done. And I know that for, for, that I can give quality work. It's very, very important to, to assess that. Right. Right. Does it matter that the pressure is greater because the livelihoods are on the line? Yeah, I think that makes me better. It's, it's nothing which keeps me sleeping good. Yeah. But, you know, my whole life I, I was born and raised up and just used to pressure. That's something I need to, to work. I need to get into it and feel the tension and, and suck that energy up and use it. Yeah. Yeah. Um, I think the most trickiest thing is, is, is not the Olympia. The most trickiest thing is it's to do the, so actually I need to start different. Um, for me, I would never say to an athlete, you need to do that show and not that. Okay. Because it's in the free choice of the athlete and he must stand in the center. And when he wants to do a show, um, he should do the show and, and, and not that show. But when they ask me which show they, they, they do, then for me, it's the hardest task to do the, the strategic right decision. Right, right, right, right, right. So the first principle is I let them choose which shows they want to do. Sure. But if they ask me what show should I do, that's the hardest part of coaching for me. Right. That's the part. If I can interject for a second, that's the part I don't like. I've actually seen athletes say, I want to do this or that show. And then heard them also say, my coach told me not to. And I actually, I find it strange at this point in bodybuilding that we've come to that athletes give their coaches that much power over their year. Right. I wouldn't, I can't do that. The athlete, the athlete needs to do the decision. It's, it's his life. It's his career. He needs to do the decision. If he asked me for my, for my advice, you know, opinion, I will point it out strategically and transparent. I said, I would always do it. But that's the most, the thing I hate most. Go ahead, Ben. Sorry. I feel like my input is more warranted or valuable, the less experienced the athlete. So if they're an amateur and they're, they're going through the ranks that way, then there's a little bit more input. But if I'm talking to somebody that's more seasoned than on a pro level. Yeah. That's sort of, you know, I'm more. So I, so I agree with that. And I also agree that a coach should have input because he is a coach and he's, you know, you guys are kind of working together. But when I see a coach tell an athlete, not advise. Yeah. Yeah. Tell an athlete, don't do that show. It's not good for you. And the athlete does want to do the show, but they take. Do it. Yeah. But that's, this is a, this is what I'm saying is we've come to a point now where some athletes have given up so much control to their coach that the coach is deciding when and when, when they do and don't get off stage. And I feel like it's just a really strange thing. I mean, maybe it's just, maybe it's just the way it is now. And I don't, I don't understand it because I wasn't like that, but I feel like it's a weird thing to give up that much control to your coach. The only thing I do mostly is I would like, we could probably look at shows in this time of year, the way you're at right now, if we're going through a health phase, you know, or we'll basically put, let's aim at the end of the year or like in the September, October, November time, have a look at what shows are there for you, which ones suit you. Just an example. Originally for Sean, we plan to have a longer offseason. Right. You know, and, and really to focus on that to 12th Olympia. But then in December, Sean wrote me, Hey Stefan, from the Arnold, they called me and they asked if I can do the show. And I knew I have, ah, I forgot Sean before. I have Sean also for sure. Yeah, that's right. So, so I knew James is doing it. I knew William is doing it. So for me is no problem. I said, I think business wise, I think for you as a brand, Sean Clarita going to be the giant killer, get into, it's a wise decision just to do it. And if your heart leads it to it, we will find a way to get the best out of the Arnold and to get the best out of the Olympia. Right. Because actually that's my job. I need to, to, to, to, to, to, to find solutions for the problems or for the schedule or for whatever the athlete wants. Right. Right. So I'm the guy who needs to serve, you know? Yeah. It's an interesting point, right? Say you're in another team sport and you're like, well, we have games scheduled like here, here and here, but this is the big game. You don't just avoid those other games because you've got the Olympia, you know, you're a competitor and you compete. Listen, I totally agree with what you said earlier about like, Hey, you know what? If you want to win a show, if you want to be your best, let's aim for like the fall or let's aim for the summer or whatever. Like you're advising as a coach, but if the athlete comes to you and says, you know what? I know you're probably right, but I really got a fucking itch to get on stage. And this show looks like it might be a good one for me. I want to, I feel like it's wrong for a coach to say, no, you shouldn't do it. I'm not going to help you do it. I'm not going to help you with that show because I don't agree with that. I, cause the thing is the coach is more worried about themselves because the coat I've, I've, and I've, this is a real scenario I'm talking about. This isn't one I'm just making up. The coach is more concerned that the athlete won't look their best and it's going to look bad on them coaching. And I'm like, and I'm kind of in the camp of what Stefan said, which is like, Hey, it's your job. He's paying you for a service. It's your job to make sure he looks good. But aren't we in this weird, the best he can, you know, and actually about the reviews of the internet. I don't give a fuck. Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead, Ben. Are we not in this like weird era now where coaching is, or the coach gets more praise than the athlete in some instances? In some instances. Yeah. I see. I do see that. And I think it's really refreshing to me when you or Stefan or some other coaches I've seen step out of the limelight and they're like, yes, I, I advised him. I helped him choose his food and his gear. And, but that's the guy that did the fucking work. I said, it's very easy for me to sit in my recliner, do more cardio and eat less. I can't fucking pat myself on the back. Add an extra 20 minutes. I think, I think, I think for me personally, it depends on where the person is as an athlete, like mentally. What do you mean, James? Well, so for example, I know that when I worked with Patrick, he was a really good person to me in regards to like, brought me out of a time that was difficult. Right. So the feats that were managed to be conquered were like more sentimental to me. So I do feel like it was 50, 50. And even now, like we've been with Stefan, it's come at a time where I kind of feel similar. And I know that if anything goes well this year, whatever that may be, I will feel extreme gratitude. Yeah. Yeah. So, because, because, because like I said to you, I find it hard to find the right coach because I do feel that way. I am very emotional and personal. Right. So the reason things don't work out in me saying coaches is if I don't have that connection. So a guy that doesn't have that much emotion and connection, I think it's a lot easier to just not feel like it's 50, 50. Right, right, right. Because if you're just following orders and that's it. Whereas I know that I could message Stefan and talk about anything. Yeah. And it might not even be bodybuilding, but it'll help them listen to me about other shit. That's a contributing factor to my success. But James. So for me, it's like, I like that. Yeah. But it's the difference. It's the difference when the athlete gives the coach praise. Oh, for sure. Yeah. Versus, versus when the coach is out there taking it. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Like if you do a post and you're like, I want to give 50% of whatever I did to Stefan. Like Samson does that with Mel. Yeah. Samson's constantly talking about Mel and her coaching and how much it meant to him and how much it helped him. And, you know, but that's his prerogative. But you don't see Mel out there online going, it's 50% because of me. Well, for sure. And that's what good human morals should be like. Right. Never expect. But because I never expect anything in return ever. But when someone does go out there and says, thanks, it goes a long way and it should be the same. Right. So I would always, yeah, me personally, I'd always make it apparent. Like if I've done well, they're going to, they just know they're going to hear about it. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah. To take, to take it and be like, yeah, like, of course, like I would, I would feel very bad if I basically said yes. Cause some people get shitty and they're like, yes, because of me. I wonder, I wonder though. I wonder like, you know, the public sometimes puts a lot of the blame on coaches or like coaches seem to be in the forefront of like social media now, just as much as the athlete. Oh, absolutely. And I'm wondering if that's warranted, like, should a coach be as to blame as the athlete or as rewarded as the athlete? Is it, is it equal? I think there, there, there is the chance that they just do wrong decisions. As we said before, the main job of a coach is to do decisions. That's also a thing, uh, which, which doesn't need time. It just needs a clear vision. It needs a clear perspective and the guts to, to decide the thing and decisions can be wrong. And when you do wrong decisions, it's, it's your fault because you do wrong decision and you are responsible for it. But I also think that it is human and that it is in kind of nature that some of the decisions you do are just wrong. You know, you'll be, it's, it's, it's an illusion to always do the right decisions. How, how can that, uh, if you are a good coach or not, is the question, do you learn from the wrong decision? And do you know why the decision is wrong? Right. That you can't do it the right the next time. So that's one of the factors. One of the second factors is there are things you can't control. And the outcome on stage can very, very often just be in the, in, in the atmosphere of things you can't control. The, the athlete could have got sick. The athlete could have got an injury. The athlete could have got an intolerance. The athlete could have had so much stress and mental struggles. There are so many things you can't control totally. And then it's no fault of everyone. Right. And then there can be things where the athlete makes the mistakes. If he's not sticking to the, to the plan, if he's lying on his coach, uh, all that thing. So it's, it's part of together. The atmosphere, uh, there can be wrong decisions from the coach. There can be wrong executions from the athlete, but there can also be a lot of things. And they are most of the time responsible for if something doesn't go right in the high level of competitive bodybuilding, which you can't just control. Right. I guess what I'm saying though, and I just, I kind of want to finish with this point because I want to do a couple of questions before we go. But I guess what I'm saying is I don't remember a time in bodybuilding up until the last couple of years where coaches were as prominently featured as the athletes. They're almost. When you put two coaches on a fucking podcast, then what do you expect? No, listen, putting coaches on a podcast is a good thing because you can teach. Right. You do it so you can teach the audience. What I'm saying is in social media world, like honey, for example, is seen as a 24 or five or six, however many Olympians he has 26 time Olympia winner. And yes, he should get that credit because he was the coach of those Olympians. But we live in a time where the coaches are almost on, on par with the athlete. And I don't remember that ever happening before. I feel like because honey owns a supplement company, that was kind of his, he kind of built a brand on that. Listen, I'm not saying he doesn't deserve it. I don't want anybody. No, no, no, for sure. But I think he capitalized it also. I think he's smart enough to make that the way that he would be the only spot in bodybuilding. But I mean, I'll use a different example. Take Matt Jansen, right? Yeah. There's Matt Jansen, Nick Walker. Yeah. They're seen as equal pair and equally at fault for whatever is going on. And I'm like, and I don't remember that ever being the case. In previous years, the coach is kind of a small extension of the athlete. Of the athlete. Yeah. I hear that. So, but there, there are times, and I agree. I think the current, like, climate is strange to me. But there are times where you'll take a very talented athlete that, and like we said, maybe, maybe Kieran's an example of this, right? Yeah. Where you take a super talented athlete and then you pair him with the correct coach. Right. And the synergy that they become and the respect that goes both ways. Like, say you had an athlete that wasn't adhering to everything, right? And now you put him with a coach that, we're talking about, you put him on a pedestal. You, you're now looking to please him. You're not looking just to please the judge. I spoke on this. Like, when I was working with Patrick, I didn't care what the judges thought. I only cared what Patrick. Right, right, right. Like, so I was constantly in this, like, it was holding me to a higher standard. So sometimes that comes from a different synergy that you get with a, with a certain coach. Right. Versus, I mean, at that point, I think it is, I don't want to say equal, but the coach, that, that relationship allows that athlete to start realizing their potential. I'm in no way, shape or form taking away. I had coaches my entire career. Sure. I understand the value of a coach. I understand the importance of a coach. The social media emphasis on a coach is where I'm a little bit. I think that's just, I think that's just hand in hand. I just hand in hand. Social media is shit there, though. One at a, one at a, one at a time. Everybody just went out there. I know, sorry. James, what are you going to say? It just came with the influx of social media, didn't it? It just did. Like social media just gave more presence to everybody. Yeah, I get it. And then that includes, obviously, coaches, because coaches have their own profiles. You can now watch the coach, see what they're about, obviously, which is a great thing for business. But it also gave eyes to everybody. Just like we see shit every day we don't like to see. There's shit coaches. There's good coaches. We just see more. Right. You just see the shit and the good, whereas before I end, you'd only see the good. We kind of only saw people do well. And then if we were interested in their coach, we'd ask the person. Like, you know, back in the day, like you'd see a Cito had done a prep or something for somebody. And you'd be like, okay, you know what? I might try and get Cito's email and email him. Right, right, right, right. It was a very different time, wasn't it? Right. Okay. You know? Let's do a few questions before we go. Stefan, let me give you one. The first question is, do you think gymnastics is very difficult? Yeah, I do. Thoughts on BPC-157 and other compounds like it? The point is just very, very easy. If you have problems with your joints, erase the problem you have while you've got the problems with the joints. So, BPC, for example, won't solve a joint problem. It's like a plaster you put on a wound that heals faster. So, you're saying find the root of the problem? Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes. But what I guess what I want to ask is, like, I've heard it's good for healing tendinitis. Digestion a little bit. Yeah, or maybe tear. Yeah, but you've got the tendinitis because of a reason. And in bodybuilding, modern bodybuilding, you just take the BBC and it's a little bit better. But the problem isn't solved that you have it forever. So, BBC is never a solution and the people need to start to think differently. Right. And I'm not disagreeing with that. What I'm asking is, do you think somebody can use it on their way to changing their… Yes, they can. Yeah, yeah. They can. But it doesn't have that miracle healing purpose than people think. Right. And I think the problem on that substance is that they're coming out of companies who never knows what they do. Yeah, yeah, yeah. They're underground and you can't… The validity of it is always in question. What does Andrew have to do to get to a top comparison with Samson? More hamstrings. Bad tradition. Well, he's already been in a top comparison with Samson. I mean, they're both in the first call out. I think he's saying, what does he have to do to compare more favorably to him? I think most of all better posing. Yeah, his posing is… I always wondered that. Why? You know, he's doing his split and then people think he's a good poser. But his comparison poses, Lutzpred, kind of his side chest, he could do it so much better. It's not… To me, it's not necessarily… Well, the side chest needs a lot of work. But like the front Lutzpred, for example, is a good pose. To me, the problem I have when I watch him is it's very slow and like lazy posing. No energy on stage. Yeah, and it really like you take something away from that. It's almost like he doesn't care or… Which I know is not true, but like just the feeling you get. So, I don't know if that matters. I think that's the most important thing for him. And then a little bit of conditioning. And as James said, a little bit of hamstring. But actually, I see his body as really good and really balanced. And I still think he can be absolutely top Olympian contender when he's able to fix that problem. But, you know, in the end, bodybuilding is a presentation sport. And the magic you create on stage will always have a big impact on the people who touch you. And there is the question if he ever can have that. The one time I saw him really make a good impact, and I feel like he displayed himself probably his best, was the Arnold 2023. Yeah. Yeah, he was a little too… I think he was confident because he was in shape. So, I think he presented himself better because he knew no matter how he kind of stood… He was good in Texas this last year. I was there. And his energy… Every time I've seen him do Texas, I've seen all three of them. Because he's been the star of the show, his energy, his confidence has been, like, sky high. He's walked out. He's like, struts out. You're like, Jesus Christ, this guy's a little… And the Olympians are a different kind of fish. Yeah, but then you've got to ask yourself, is it the chicken or the egg? Because it's like, well, if you're walking out with low confidence, then you're not going to… You know, they're going to… Right? That's peaking, isn't it? That's peaking. He's a very… He's a very… He's very confident, orientated. Like, if he's… He knows his body. He knows when he's in a good spot. Yeah, we all do. Yeah, when you're in shape, you know it. But he cannot hide it. Yeah. Most of us can't, but he really cannot hide it. I know that, Finn. And there's been probably two shows in my life where I'm nailed on. Yeah. So, whatever I do now, even wherever I stand, whatever direction I face… It doesn't matter. I'm going to be the best at all my angles that I can be possibly in this moment. Therefore, my presentation will be better. Same for me. And because of that… That's the same for me, James. Two shows. Because of that… Because of that, did you care as… I don't care as much, but there wasn't as much anxiety about where you were going to place. For sure. For sure. You knew you were maximized. I had no fear of any of my shots looking bad because I was like… I knew I was in my best condition from all possible angles. And actually, the funniest… One of the shows I felt like that was the 2019 Big Man Weekend. I got third to Josh and Akeem. I was a little bit small, but I beat a lot of good people. Rafa, Asamo Bade. Like, really good people. And I was just in a good level of condition there where I just felt really good in my body. And I posed very confidently because of it. And that's always a nice thing. I think this is one aspect, but I still think Stefan's right. There are some poses he has that just need to be corrected. Oh, yeah. So, it's a combination of the two. And I think… But the nice thing about that is… It's an easy fix. Yeah. It's not like you're saying, hey, you've got to build a whole new body part. It's like, hey, we can tweak a few things and you can look totally different. We've even discussed that myself and Stefan. And that's something I want to do with my pose and just tweak it a little bit, you know? Wow, that's a really deep one. Is there anyone in your life you have beef with that if they died tomorrow you would wish you spoke to them sooner? No. Sometimes mine's the other way around. Sometimes there's some people I just wish did die and I just fuck off. No, no. Honestly, there are some people that I'm just like… I hate to sound like an arsehole, but there are some people that the world would be better off about. We need names, James. I think I can think of one or two of those. No names, but there are some people like that. And that is what it is. You know, we can't like everybody. Stefan knows our film. All right, we'll leave that one there. What's your best moment of 2024? Who wants to… In bodyboarding? No. No. Getting the smile of my wife back. That's what? Getting the smile of my wife back. We had a tough year in the beginning. Oh, okay. So seeing her back, that most beautiful, wonderful smile for me, getting that back was the moment I'm always thankful for. That's good. Because that carries some weight as well. That's not just like some shallow. That's a big thing. It has to be deep for James Farid Becker. So mine's going to sound like shit now. So, James, yours has to be getting Yannicka pregnant. It might not be, mate. Okay, what is it? No, I don't know. To be fair. I should say that, shouldn't I? Because it'll keep her happy. Yannicka, yeah. You're like, fuck that. It's kind of a bit of both. It's almost like knowing my... Doing it is part of it. But it's also like I feel quite proud of myself that actually you fucking know it does work. Yeah, that's got to be a good feeling. I don't know that feeling. That's what I'm saying. But I moved house this year. I bought a new house. That's a big thing. There's a lot of big moments for you, man. Wait, the gym was last year, right? No, January this year. That was this year as well. Yeah, you got the gym, the fucking house, the baby. Fucking quite a lot, to be fair. Fifth at the Arnold. The Arnold. Fifth at the Arnold. But it's a whole package. Yeah, and you know what? Still, I did a post over there. I still feel like I haven't done what I want to do. Because I am a bodybuilder through and through. James. We're all bodybuilders here. And we're never satisfied unless we get the result in bodybuilding. Can I pretend? No, it's not. Okay. That is that to me. That's that to me. I'm going to impart some... I am 10 years older than you, so I'm going to impart some wisdom from my old age. Tell me, old man. That will never go away. Okay. Who is any of us? You or me? I don't know. How old are you? I'm born 81. I'm born 78. Oh. He's the old fuck. So, it's basically... I wouldn't call that imposter syndrome, but always wanting more is just part of being an ambitious person. And it doesn't matter if it's bodybuilding or if it's your gym or if it's a different entrepreneurial thing you get into. I do notice, though. I do notice when I win a show of the year, my year does feel better. There is something about it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, no. James. Yeah, I've got this thing where I just... Okay, wait. No, but listen. You'll go like this, right? Yeah. But then you'll win and then you'll ride that for a bit and then it'll start to go like this and you're like, what's next? Yeah, for sure. But it does last me a while because I will say, because we've all been involved in it for so long, it's such a major part of who we are. Yeah. And we have... All of us have based a level of our value. Yeah. No, we shouldn't, but we do base a level of our value off of our achievements in bodybuilding. So, whenever I've won a show, I do look like that entire year was a successful year. I agree. Even if I don't do well at the Olympia, it's fine. But if I get to the fucking Olympia, I'm like, that was a good year. Okay, but hear me out. So, I do what you do, but now I do it because I'm not a bodybuilder anymore. You do it business now. I do it outside of bodybuilding. So, what I'm trying to say to you is... It won't change. Yeah. You're just going to be this person forever that's like... Chasing. Yeah. And it's like you learn... Like, I've learned to be happier. Like, when I was bodybuilding, it was all a blur. I was like, where's the next show? How can I be better? Blah, blah. And then you learn to be a little different, but I don't know if that shit ever goes away, man. For me, one of the biggest struggles, actually, is... I call that Falco syndrome. Falco was an Austrian pop artist who was the first German-speaking guy who got the number one in the States. Okay. With Rock Me Amadeus. Maybe you... I remember that song. Yeah. Yeah. Remember that song. It's annoying as fuck, that song. And at the moment, they told him that he has the number one. Yeah. He sniffed all the cocaine he had, drank all the alcohol he had, destroyed his own flat, got super depressed. Yeah. And then they asked him, what is your problem? Right. And he said, I have no idea how that should get better. It just can't go downwards anymore. And that's actually one thing I struggle most, especially in my success times, that I'm super, super, super afraid what the future will bring. Well, they tell you, learning to deal with failure is just as important as learning to deal with success. Because learning to deal with major success is very hard because at first, you're like, you feel like you don't deserve it. You feel like it's not real. You feel like it could come crashing down on you. There's so many things that come... People think success is easy, and it is in some aspects, but in others, you're like, it comes with its own pressure. Yeah. So... But it's also, it depends if you look at like, sometimes you can look at life from, oh, I've got all this ahead of me. But then other times, you're like, I've only got this left in front of me. Yeah. Because I do that a lot. I do this thing where I'm like... I've done everything. Well, and I'm always like, yeah, you get to a certain age and a certain feeling, and you're like, you feel like you're on the second half of the clock, where you're counting down now, not counting up. Yeah. James, let me tell you, that feeling got worse when we had feelings. Oh, shit. Fucking way worse. Yeah. And I got jealous of his youth at times. I'm like, fuck, man. If I could just go back. And I know, Ben, if you also have that feeling, that comes with being in the second half of the life. So I call it my personal midlife crisis. It's not about the things I still want to do or the things I missed. It's all about the things I fucked up. I just think you're fucking idiot. You fucked up so many times in life. And that's not about business success. That's now about relationship things, how you behave and that stuff. I just think, oh, fuck. Okay. The half of the life for sure is gone. Yeah. You fucked up most of the time of the half-life because you're just a fucking asshole idiot guy. And then you think, okay, you just have a little bit of time. What if I die in the next month or in the next 10 years or one year or whatever? And you fucked it all up. And that's one of the most toughest things for me. That's a real fucking feeling, man. Because I know, like, I had a bad reputation coming up when I first turned pro. I was a fucking asshole to everybody. And I wasn't very- Well, and now it's good. Ben. I knew I was setting you up for that. But somewhere around 34, 35, I was like, I think I need- It was actually when I met John. John was the one who was the catalyst to me being like, oh, that's the proper way to live. And then it's the same thing you're talking about, Stefan. You think to yourself, you're like, okay, well, I fucked all that up. So how long is it going to take me to correct and make up for it? So yeah, no, I know. That's a real thing. So yeah, there's no happiness anywhere, James. It's just work. It's all just work. There's a lot of work with little bouts of happiness sprinkled in there. My happiness is a very simple one. It's literally me just- I'm joking. I'm joking. This cupboard in front of me, like I said to you, that's my little happiness cabinet. Yeah, but it's going to get confusing for you now because it's like a dog that chases one car, right? He knows that's the car he's got to chase. Now you're going to get another car coming. You're going to be like, whoa, hang on a second. Which one do I- Well, the problem for me, James, was I was chasing that one car and then the car fucking stopped. And I ran by it and I had nothing to chase. And I was like, and then I got depressed for two years and I started taking- And I had to get on fucking medication because it's all I knew. Yeah. You have to somehow find something else also during this, don't you? All I knew for 20 years was bodybuilding. That's all I fucking- Nothing. That's what I mean. That's why I say to it, there's such heavy importance on its- Right, but I think the fact that you're having a child and I don't want to, you know, I don't know because I don't have my own kids, but I'm assuming that having your own child will give you new purpose, obviously, so you won't go through what I went through. Because when bodybuilding was done, I was like, what the fuck is my life about? Yeah. Right? If I had a child, then I might have been able to sink my- Focus. Sink my focus into that, right? So I don't know. It's weird. There's a lot of- Well, this is the thing with life, isn't it? Everyone, so many people have walked through it and are further ahead or even a little bit behind, but no one walks the same path, exactly. So no matter how much we discuss this, our experiences will vary, and that's the whole point of having these conversations and being friends. Right. Because there'll be times where we can relate to each other and there'll be times where we can't. Yeah. But that's just as good to talk about. Yeah, yeah. James, it's like the text I sent you the other day, right? And it was based on this whole conversation right now. And it's like, the way I look at it, it's like sometimes I see a lot of, or hear you say, like, that doubt, right? That should I, shouldn't I? Mm-hmm. Sometimes. And then it evolves for me, and what I think or what I hope for you is it becomes less of should I, shouldn't I, now I must. Mm-hmm. Like, now it all just makes sense. This is what I'm doing because I'm going to, I've got something bigger than just myself to worry about. Absolutely. You know? And I do look forward to a time after my competitive bodybuilding where I can really nurture that part of me, for sure. But, you know, in the meantime... No, but what I mean is just what I mean is you must be your bodybuilding. Oh, yeah, yeah, no, my bodybuilding, yeah, yeah. But, I mean, I'm actually even more excited as well about after I'm competitive and I can really spend time and energy, you know, and be fully committed to something a little bit different. But, again, like I said, I think I've got, in my mind, I've got, like, two years now where I'm really keen on... Because my amateur career was nine years to ten years, roughly. And I'm like, my pro career, I turned pro eight years ago. If I can get another two years out of this and do well, that's a good run. That's what I did. I've got high ambitions. I did ten years. Yeah. I don't know if I achieved the level I wanted to, but I'm proud of my career, but I did ten years. For sure. Yeah, and I think that's a good... I think that's a healthy length for a pro career. Yeah, I mean... Yeah, I would have liked to go longer, but, you know, your body really determines when it's time. You know what I mean? Okay, before we go, really quickly, James is always in his underwear. It's hot in Britain. He needs to shoot fast, you know? Does your new house have air conditioning or no? Don't kick me out, bro. Not that it's hot there, but I'm just curious. I just always sit in pants. No, I know, but I know a lot of homes in Britain don't have... You don't have air conditioning. I've got a window to open there, and I spare it. But Yannick is hoovering, so I closed the door. Oh, okay. So he's making noise, love. Is that what you call it, hoovering? You don't call it vacuuming? No, hoovering. You want to know how it's called in German? It's a very good word. What? Staubsaugen. Staubsaugen. Staubsaugen. Staubsaugen. Staubsaugen. Staubsaugen. Staubsaugen. I got it. Staubsaugen. Yeah, we call it hoover because of the brand, Hoover. When I think of Hoover, I think of blowjobs. What do you call it? It would be funny. It would be funny if James just closes the door when she's hoovering. If I just poke the ornament through the door and pass for a moment. It's like a glory hole, yeah. Like a glory hole. That's exactly it. Okay, before we go, New Year's resolutions. Anybody have anything or just don't give a fuck? Don't give a fuck. Don't give a fuck. James, don't give a fuck. Ben, don't give a fuck. You guys suck. I need to stay up for it. Today's another day. Next day. You guys suck. We don't have to wait for a new year to be a fucking, well, that kind of guy. I mean, come on. Why are you guys so hardcore? You're too hardcore to say like, you know what? James's got to be the hardcore guy. It's another fucking day. Who cares? Fuck that. And Hoover getting into gymnastics? I'm going to start gymnastics tomorrow. I already booked my class. You have the skills. I'm waiting to see this. No, my New Year's resolution is to ride my motorcycle across America. That's my New Year's resolution. Is that a resolution? Is that a trip you want to do? Okay, well, it's a goal. It's a goal for 25. Resolution is like change. You have to change your habit. He's relying on the work on you and he goes with his motorcycle through there. Let me know how you're getting on. Well done. Okay, well, what's a resolution? Is that a resolution something you're going to change? Yeah, like a habit. You need to install a good habit. I'm not going to eat pizza this year. I'm going to... All right. I'm going to only order from Uber Eats once a month. That's a good resolution. And then DoorDash on the other day. Yeah, the other day. There's lots of companies you can spread it around. No, the other days I'll get in my car and I'll go get it. That's fine. I need to stop buying gaming consoles because I'm on internet every day buying something new and it's just stupid. Are you in one of those bodybuilding phases where you're just buying things? Oh, every prep. Every prep. Every prep. I've literally got this screen open now with loads of stuff on. That's the most expensive part of prep is that fucking OCD brain that just starts buying useless shit. Yeah, yeah. I actually do have a resolution, but I put it in place like after Christmas. So it's not really... Oh, fuck it. My VO2 max is not going to be under 48. That's such a fucking Ben thing to say. I don't even know what that means. It's like a Ben is a Ben thing. You asked me. I don't even know what that means. What does that mean? Yeah. That's my basic, my cardiovascular fitness. So you're going to breathe. Your new year's resolution is to breathe better. I know at 48, I can run a 5K if I have to. And I can still... Why don't you just say I want to run a 5K? Because I don't want to run a 5K. I can drive a 5K. I did a 5K spot on, but it sucked. No, I can drive it. Wait, Stefan, what did you say? I can drive a 5K. Yeah, that's about it. Yeah. All right. Okay, boys. Thanks, Stefan, for coming on. It's been fun, man. Yeah, man. James and Ben, love you guys. You too, man. I'll see you guys next week. And congratulations, James, again. Thank you, man. Have you thought of Fuad as the name? I said if it's brown. It's much too complicated to write, really. If it's brown, I'll die laughing. If it's brown, I'll feel really bad. If it's brown, I will call it Fuad. I'll feel really bad. Or if it comes out of the beard. It's brown. Oh, my God. I can't believe you said that. Okay. All right, guys. We'll talk to you next week. All right, guys. Bye. Bye. See you, everybody. Bye. Bye. Thank you.