 What's going on everybody? Welcome back to the Real Bodybuilding Podcast. I'm here with the legend Justin Compton to get your thoughts on all things bodybuilding. How are you, brother? I'm doing good, man. I'm doing good, man. I can't complain. Life's been pretty good here lately. I missed the big hurricane came through, so I'm happy about that, too. Where are you living now? I'm in Florida. I'm in more South Florida than I am North Florida, where I used to be. Okay. What are you, what are you doing now? We haven't talked in a while. Are you still coaching a ton of people? Are you doing something else? Not as many as I have been. I'm probably around 50 to 60. I'd like to bump that back up to 100, but I am constantly just, like, my brain is like an entrepreneurial brain. Like, I'm always looking for something that I can either buy a business or flip something, like for property. So, like, I'm always open to ideas on that. What is it that you're doing right now other than coaching? Are you doing, you got anything else going on? That's actually it right now. That's the only avenue at the moment. I want to know your entrepreneurial brain. What other ideas have you, have come and gone that you either invested in or what, you know what, can you name something that you might have missed out on? Yes, I can name a couple actually. Okay, go ahead. So, when I first moved here to Port St. Lucie, there was an area, this little plot that it's, like, commercial property. It's in a really hot spot too. Yeah. Of course, somebody else bought it. They put a damn Wawa's and a Chick-fil-A. So, there's that. But what I wanted to do with it was, I didn't have the funding for this much because this was going to be a pretty big investment. Yeah. I wanted to get a few guys together, like, not like big investors, but like guys that's like on my level, like three to four people. Yeah. And because people are always moving around right now, I wanted to have storage units. I wanted to put like 500 to 1,000 storage units on that property because there's no overheads net, right? Yep, yep, yep. And you got like one employee, you have a camera system that handles everything else. Like, it's kind of a no-brainer and it's not that expensive to get it up either. So, once you buy the property, you get the permitting and stuff, it's not that bad. So, that was idea number one that slipped past me. And that's just because I didn't have the funds to do it all by myself. Before you go on to two, that's actually a really big business I've heard. Like, it's like… It's blowing up, yeah. Yeah, a lot of people are doing the storage unit thing, but I don't think you need prime location for that, do you? Well, you actually don't need prime location, but where this one was at, I feel like it may have given me the exposure to probably have filled every single slot like within an electric month or two. Yeah, yeah. All right. So, one of them went by. What was number two? So, the other one is coffee, but not the little local coffee shops that, you know, you're probably thinking of in your head. Yeah. So, Dunkin' and Starbucks are very saturated. Right. So, I started thinking about this. And there's a coffee company that's really, really big in the Midwest. It's owned or maybe it's founded in back by Warren Buffett. It's called Scooters. Okay. So, it's essentially like a Dunkin', a Starbucks, a Krispy Kreme. They have breakfast sandwiches, donuts, that kind of good stuff, but it's cheaper, like significantly cheaper. Because if you think about in today's market, people are pinching pennies, right? Right. So, they're, you know, they're going to, if they can save two or three dollars a year, they'll probably go with you. Not to mention, I've had it before and it is good quality. It's great, actually. Yeah. And it's the only place that I know that you can go in and get a $1 coffee. Nobody can do that anymore. Right. Think about that. You kind of bait and switch people. You get them in the door with the $1 coffee, but then they're buying a dozen donuts and a couple sandwiches. That's where your actual cash flow is going to be. Right. So, I wanted to bring that to Florida because as of right now, there's only, I think, two locations. So, when I had to consult with them in June, she told me in April, they have an entrepreneur that he's obviously got a little bit more money than me, too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But he's going to bring 12 of them to this area and he bought the, sorry, he bought the territorial franchise rights. Yeah. So, I can't touch it from zero all the way down to like Riviera Beach. So, if I want one, I'm going to have to drive like three hours from my house to run it. I can't do six hours on the road every day. Right, right. They offered me a location in Okeechobee and I'm like, dude, I'm not driving to the swamp. Yeah, but do you, is that something you need to be there for? I mean, those kind of things kind of, once you hire a general manager, they kind of run themselves, no? I feel like the first three to six months of just getting all the kinks, because that was my intentions, was I want to be there and make sure everything is perfect. Right. But absolutely perfect. And after that, yes. That's when you're going to have management come in and take over. Yeah. So, realistically, that could have turned, one location could turn anywhere between 200 to 350 a year. Yeah. I wanted like five. Yeah. I wanted like five of them. Like, so, needless to say, that didn't happen because someone beat me to the punch. Well, it's funny you said that, the dollar coffee. So, that, it's kind of like, I don't know if you guys have Tim Hortons there. Do you have Tim Hortons? No. I wanted a Tim Hortons here, but they won't franchise the Florida. So, Tim Hortons is like that. Like, you can buy a coffee for like $1.50, where Starbucks is like four or five bucks. Yeah. But what I've heard is like, coffee is like five cents a cup. Like, it's not, like, you're still making a lot of money on the coffee itself. I don't know if you know this on your end or not, but okay, you're moving now. You were frozen for a sec. Yeah, you froze for a sec too. I don't know if it's my fault or your fault. Did you hear what I said or no? I heard you, yes. You were talking about how it's like five cents a cup. Yeah. Is that accurate or no? Oh, I think it'll cost a little bit more than that. But I mean, if you're selling it for a dollar, realistically, they probably have between 10 to 15 cents. Yeah. Because the cup itself, you've got two or three pennies in that, maybe like three, four cents because you're buying it in bulk. Right. And then the coffee, you're also buying the coffee in huge amounts, huge bulk. Yeah. So I'm going to say 15 cents tops. That's just something like a plain black coffee. Now, obviously, you know, you're doing your macchiatos and all that good stuff. Yeah. But the thing is, then your price goes three, four, five, six, seven bucks. I know. Realistically, you have like 50 cents to 75 cents in that. I know. It bothers me when I go to Starbucks and I pay like four bucks for this. And I know it costs them like 30 cents. Yeah. The same thing happened to me with five guys. I wanted a five guys because I'm like, I've never seen a five. Well, and speaking of coffee, that's a recession-proof business, in my opinion. Because even during like the 2008 recession, every coffee shop I drove by still had a lineup. Like people will still save the buck or two or three for coffee. That's what I was thinking. It's like, think about during the COVID time, right? When everything was shut down, coffee shops were still open. Yeah. And I also think about people, no matter how little money they got, they're still going to drink coffee. There's always going to be people that is like, they woke up late. They got to stop and get it on the way to work. Or better yet, you know, because we'd have like donuts and sandwiches. Maybe they'll bring and buy like a couple dozen donuts for people at work. I mean, I think it's a great idea. But like, I also think starting your own little small mom and pop shop, it'll make money. I have no doubt. But like, I'm not looking to make 50 to 75,000 a year. Like that's, I'm not trying to invest my time for that much return. Well, unless you own like 10 of them. Like Tim Hortons here. Yeah. I think the Tim Hortons here average like 80 to 100K profit a year on average. But like, I have a friend of a friend owns like 12 of them. So it's like, you know what I mean? If you're doing that, then you're doing okay, right? Yeah. So, but I was going to do the same thing with five guys because I figured I've never seen a five guys that's not busy. And the same thing happened to me. I called them or I messaged them. I can't remember. And they said that my territory was already purchased. And then like three years later, one went up. And I was like, fuck, man. And it's busy all the time. So, you know, there was another restaurant back in 2019 that I actually wanted to look into. And it was up in your area, but it's down. Like it's like permanently shut down because of COVID, but it was called Cacao 70. Okay. You remember this by any chance? No. Is it a chain? It was. Yeah. They were not huge in Canada yet, but it was like a brunch eatery. Yeah. But they're completely gone now. And you wanted to open one of those? Yeah. I had actually talked to the owner and whatnot, and he was going to sell me the master franchise rights for the state of Florida. Wow. But I would have the whole entire state. So like, if you want to purchase one, I'd get cuts off of everything you make. Right, right, right. Which I realistically think the way that that restaurant was set up and the quality of the food, putting that on a beach, like in a beach town, getting it close to the beach, they have ice cream and stuff too. Yeah. Like it's a goldmine. Like up in Canada, like I'm sure it makes money, but not what it would make here in Florida. Right, right. Okay. I got to ask you, because we're talking about all these business ideas and you buying things. Where's the money come from? Did, is this a lot, is a lot of this money from your bodybuilding career or is a lot of from coaching? Both. Can you walk me through that? Like, did you save a lot of your money? Like, so I'm like, um, I'm a tight ass when it comes to certain things. There's only one thing that I'm just like kind of loose on and that's like my main hobby. That's offshore fishing. Okay. So like every time I walk into a Bass Pro shop, it's two or 300 bucks. It never fails. I'm constantly buying something. But outside of that, I would consider myself to be incredibly conservative with how I spend money. Like I'm not the guy who's going to go buy like thousand dollar outfits. Like I don't drive fancy vehicles. I don't take like exotic vacations. Like I'm the type, even when I go out to eat, like I'm not the guy that's going to get the $60 meal. I'm going to get the $15 meal. Like I'm one of those people. So like I've saved money by doing that and not to mention like, I, I think a lot of my success as far as like financial and I'm by no means am I rich, but like I am at a point where I can buy a share now. Right. Right. But I think a lot of it is whenever I got my first few big contracts, I just took that money, put it in the bank, didn't touch it. And then I use my guest posing money to live on. So all that money to set there and accumulate it. So I was able to buy my house. And then when I bought that house, I made a huge chunk of change and selling the first one to the second one. Right. So again, I just compounded it. Like I'm not one of those people that when I get money, I have to find something to buy and have to spend it. Like I tend to keep it until it's the right move. So let me ask you this. I don't know how detailed you want to, you want to get to this, but I know people out there are just curious. And so am I, uh, when you say you're living off guest posing, how many guest posings were doing, were you doing a year at the time? And just so people don't, you know, there's a lot of new listeners that are probably a little younger. Don't know. Maybe you don't know how good you were. This is Justin Compton and his, this would be at your prime, right? In your peak? Yeah. That was a good showing for me there. Yeah. Like these are, you know, you were considered, you were considered, you know, somebody who could possibly win an Olympia, um, in your prime. Um, so how often were you guest posing? Like when you finally reached like your, you know, you reached the height of your career. So I had to kind of weigh things out in the beginning of my career. You know, we've all heard Sean raise a little spill of how he made money and how he built himself. Right. No. Tell me what you mean. Well, okay. So Sean actually got me my first contract and I think Sean had a lot of incentive behind that, but that's irrelevant. And he told me, uh, yeah, I know. Right. But he told me, he's like, you know, back in his time, how we didn't have internet and have cell phones. He was writing letters to supplement stores, promoters, all this stuff and gyms. Yep. And he's doing appearances. He's like, you know, I can travel this weekend and make a thousand dollars or I can sit at home and make no dollars. Right. So in other words, start your price as high as you possibly can, but don't, don't say no. Like keep coming down because like, if you have nothing going on that weekend, I mean, cause that's when all the events are, it's going to be on the weekend. So you have to take advantage of it when you get the opportunity. So if I have nothing going on that weekend, I don't have two or three shows that I have the option. I could go here. I could go here. I could go here. If this guy says, Hey, I can't do three grand. Okay. That's two sound. Two can't do two. That's 1500 sound. You're paying for my flats. You're paying for my hotels. I get to meet a lot of awesome, cool people. I get to have a good time. It's not really work. Right. You know, I go on stage and I pose what I do anyway. So I was probably getting, I'm going to say. There was times that I would do four in a month, like this back weekend, back to back to back to back. And then during the slow months of competition, you know, I may go four to six weeks and not do anything. Right. But I would start high, man. I would gouge. Because what is gouge? Tell me. Because I know what guys are getting now. I would get five grand off some people. Okay. Okay. That's. I thought that was gouging. That's. They're gouging more now. Oh, shit. Yeah. Yeah. I remember like, I know at the time I heard just because one of the promoters told me that like Phil and Kai was getting like eight to 10 grand. So I was like, okay, understandably Kai, most pop, one of the most popular bodybuilders, Phil, Mr. Olympia. I get it. Right. But I also knew that like, I've made a few covers and I was the number one most searched athlete on muscular development. I was like, yeah, my name is hot. I was like, I'm not going to do this for $1,500. Right. Like, right. If it came down to me and I want to do it for that. Sure. But I'm not going to start low. I'm going to start as high as I can. Right. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. I think now, you know, guys that were that are guys now that are at the level you were at are probably between five and eight. Yeah. On average. On average. Yeah. On average. And then I don't know what like the top guys are getting like the top top, like, I don't know what Derek's charging probably 10. I don't know. But I know I've paid up to seven for a top 10 athlete. So, yeah, I think, you know, all the all the prices go up with inflation. But yeah. Yeah. So you're probably just right there with, you know, with the times. Right. Right. So you use that money. To spend on all of your life and then all of your lifestyle things and then all of the money that came through with contracts, you just put in the bank. Yes. So pretty much every bit of that just went right in my bank account. How many contracts did you have at your peak? At one point, I think I had like four going at one time. Obviously, Evagen was my bread and butter. So I had to make sure that nothing conflicted with that because that was my highest paid contract. But Evagen, I had Muscle Development. I had Iron Rebel and I actually had and you're going to recognize his name, but Tracy Ferguson with Mama T just passed. Oh, yeah. Last week. Oh, yeah. That's right. Yeah. I was with her for a little period of time. The cookie company, right? Yeah. Yeah. Right. Right. Right. She passed away. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It completely took me by shock. It was. So her kids, one of her daughter posted like a GoFundMe because I was, you know, as human beings, we can't help but wonder what happened. Right. Because we all want to know, you know, because she was young, I think early 40s. Right. In that range. Like our birthday was the same birthday. Really? Really? It was like who woke up that morning earliest would text happy birthday to the other one. Oh, okay. But she had a blood clot, if I'm not mistaken, and it went to the brain and they had to put in a coma. They were trying to fix it, but couldn't do anything. I didn't know her. I just know the brand. You knew her well? Yeah. I've been up there, hung out with them several times. Like me and her spent like hours on the phone on the floor. Oh, okay. I probably consider Tracy more of a friend than anything else. Yeah. I'm sorry, dude. I'm sorry for your loss. I didn't really know her at all. I just knew the company. Yeah. I think they're probably, are they still in like Sobeys and places like that? I don't, honestly, I don't know. I know she sold it. She didn't own it. Yeah. Yeah. So you had four, you had Musker Development, Evagen. Do you want to talk about pay at all or no? I don't know if I can show, I don't know how that works. Let's just do this. Let's just do, let's just do this. I don't want to talk about specific. Were you making well into six figures at your peak? Yes. Well, just from contracts. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. That's all. That's all. I just want to give people an idea of kind of like what it means to be at that level. Six figures off of one contract. I can say that. Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So you're doing really well. Yeah. I was doing better than most bodybuilders. Can I ask you, so I think we've talked previously and I don't know how much you want to get into this, but the reason you retired was health. Partially. Yes. Partially. About 75% of it. Yeah. What was the other 25%? It wasn't like what people think. I had, so in 2017, I had to put on like a, thank it till you make it smile. Okay. I was not mentally too well in 2017 with everything that was going on in my life. So like, if you saw me, I may like, if somebody said, Justin's an asshole, believe it. He said, he's a nice guy. I believe that too, because you never knew what you're going to get from him. Okay. It did start out, you know, it started out with an infection, took two, three months before things were like bright after that. And then shoulder went out, had a minor bicep tear, ended up in the hospital twice with pneumonia that year, had to have colon surgery. I just got to the point, like leading up to that, I had never had a layoff from the gym for no reason. I had my wisdom teeth taken out, took me out like three days. I had a septum surgery, took me out a few days, not a big deal. Right. Right. But for something to knock you out completely, I didn't, because bodybuilding was my life. I did it since I was 14 years old. I didn't know any other way of living. Right. So when this left shoulder went out, I'm left-handed. So to try to drive, I couldn't take a right turn because my arm would hurt to the over. Needless to say, I didn't even bother going to the gym. I pretty much just stopped eating, downsized. I didn't even take TRT for like six months and let my test levels get to 81. So you can imagine what that did to me mentally. Right. Yeah. 81. And then the doctor actually told me. Sorry. Sorry, Justin. Just for people watching who might not know. Normal. The low end of normal is like 200. Yeah. So 81, you're like a 15-year-old girl. Yes. Okay. Go on. Yeah. Yeah. So ironically, my doctor told me, he's like, oh, we're going to give you 25 milligrams of Clomid three times a week, and that's going to bring you back. I just laughed at him, and I literally did laugh in the office. Yeah. And I told him, I was like, I use 100 milligrams a day on my own PCT. Right. And it doesn't work. Right. Like, I'm not getting recovery. I'm not, like, my LSH and FH come up, but my testosterone does not. Yeah. Like, so we did that, and I went from 81 to 92. Yeah. Something like that. So I was like, okay. And then he wanted to actually give me a test at that point. So we were good to go. Got things cleared up. 2018, I ended up coming back up to, like, 265, 270 range. And then I really wanted it, but, like, I guess I really didn't after I kind of fell out of it for a bit. And I kept thinking, like, yeah, you'll do it again. You'll do it again. And then you just didn't. Like, because my life was so fixated that, like, if you were to talk to probably Matt, because he was closest to me at that time. Matt Jansen? Yeah. Yeah. The moment I walked off one stage, I was planning the next stage. Like, I knew the next show before I even left the, like, the building at the one I'm currently at. Yeah. Yeah. So, like, my whole life was very structured and planned. So when I got the rug ripped out from underneath of me, I just lost my mental, I don't want to use the word mental health because everyone talks about that, but I lost my sanity. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think people understand. I said this to somebody. Somebody, I told somebody after I retired, I went through, like, a couple years of, I don't want to, there was some, there was some times of, deep depression, but overall, it was a mild depression. Yes. But it's because you're kind of lost. Because my life was like yours. It was so structured every single day. Same thing as you, you get off the stage, you might take a day off, and then you're kind of, like, you're back to work. And you just don't know what to do with yourself. So is that kind of where you were at? You're just kind of, like, lost in limbo? I was constantly, you know, I was, I was working, doing some stock stuff at the time, but, like, I was really trying to just find ways to fill my day. Like, I was still making money, but, like, I was bored, you know? Right, right. I'm not eating six times a day. I'm not doing anything. I'm not traveling. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going to the gym. Ironically, you mentioned that because I think it's a thing, and it's pretty common amongst bodybuilders that's been doing it a long time. You remember Dorian's story, right? Same, yeah. Like, doing, like, drugs, ayahuasca, and stuff like that. Like, just went off the whole deep end. And I'm like, at the time, I was like, sounds like a great idea. I mean, it still doesn't sound like a horrible idea to do it, but I've never done anything like that. Yeah, yeah. Did you go through a period of, so I went through, like, and people who watch the podcast know this, I went through a period of, like, oh, I'm going to try marathon running. And then I went through, oh, I'm going to try jiu-jitsu. And then I was like, oh, I'm going to try boxing. And I was like, I went through, like, these phases of things that I thought would fill the void of bodybuilding. Did you go through any of that where you were trying to, like, fill the void, or were you just like? Yes, and maybe no, but mostly no. And the reason I say that is because, you know, and you were at a very, very high level, too. So it's like when you've reached the pinnacle of whatever your objective is. So I cannot accept anything less than that to be good. Like, I can't accept to be, I can't expect or accept mediocrity. Right. So for me, it's like I've always liked boxing. But I know for a fact I'm 5'9", and I would have to, like, I'd have to not eat for a year to get to, like, 170 pounds. Right. If you're 5'9", you can't box at 220. Right. You're fighting guys 6'6". Right, right. You know, that ain't going to work. Yeah, yeah. So I knew that that was not going to be a meal ticket for me, and I wouldn't have done it for the money anyways. I literally just enjoyed doing it. Right. However, I do think in 2025, I'm going to start doing some offshore fishing tournaments. Okay. It's not going to be big money, you know, could be a $10,000 prize up to maybe a $50,000 prize. Some of the guys that I'm acquainted with and know, they can go $300,000 or $400,000 a year by winning tournaments. But they're also, like, the Mr. Olympias of, like, that world, too. Right, right, right, right. It's funny. I had this conversation with Ian, because Ian, you know, retired recently. And it's almost like because we're used to progression in bodybuilding. Yes. Whatever it is we put our mind to, it's not good enough to just do it. You have to do it and have progression with it. Yes. Like, when I did jiu-jitsu, I did it for, like, four months, and I told my coach, I'm like, I want to compete. And he's like, you don't know what the fuck you're doing yet. And I was like, but it was, like, the only way for me to see progression. Yeah. You had a goal, an end goal to look forward to. Right. You can't just, it's like, it's almost like because we're used to being bodybuilders, we can't just do something for fun. There has to be, like, an end goal. It's not just, like, we just enjoy it. You know what I mean? Yeah. I can't. I have a hard time just doing anything just to do it. Yeah. Yeah. I got you. Like, I can have fun and do something, you know, as, like, hey, this is a fun little weekend activity. But if I'm going to, like, actually dedicate time to put aside, I don't want to do it to be mediocre. I want to do it to be good or be the best. Right. Right. Right. But that's also why I think when it comes to bodybuilding, to be the best, like, in bodybuilding, you can't really have a whole lot of other avenues. No. Because it requires everything you have to be good at one thing. Well, I had this debate on the podcast a long time ago, and it was a long fucking debate. It was like a 45-minute debate about balance. And I think I was the only guy, as normal, the only guy fighting against the other three. I can't remember who the other three guys were and saying that there is no such thing as balance if you want to be the best at something. And I was using bodybuilding as an example, but I guess it kind of goes for anything. Like, if you're going to be the best in the world at anything, I don't think, I personally don't believe balance exists. Where do you sit on that topic? Is there, is it, can you be a great bodybuilder? Can you be one of the best in the world and have a balanced life? I think there's a minor fraction of people that can, but the vast majority speaking here, I feel like the answer is no. There is no balance. The one person that always comes to mind who had a mind-blowingly successful career, but now granted, I'm not like super close to it, but we've had a lot of conversation. But it's Flex Lewis. Yeah. You know, Flex was married. He's got a kid. He's got a family. He's got dogs. He's got a couple of businesses that he was able to do all this and still be Mr. Olympian. So kudos for Flex for having, you know, some moderation. Now, I don't know this to be factual. I'm just making my own assumptions based on the things that he said, like on shows. Flex couldn't grow anymore because he was at the top of that 212 class. Yeah, he told me that too. He was able to be a little bit more relaxed, eat less food. If he misses meals, not a big deal. You know, but like for me, that I couldn't do that. I couldn't do it physically, but I also couldn't break down and do it in an instance. Right. See, I'm not saying that you can't have a wife or kids. Like, you know, like Cedric had a wife. There's a lot of bodybuilders I can name that had a wife and kids. Because I guess I mean, like when you are trying to do something great, like I guess I'd say it like this. I wouldn't try and become a professional bodybuilder and then try and start a business at the same time. Like some people say to me, why didn't you start Hostile when you were 30? And I'm like, there's just not enough to go on, not enough bandwidth to do both things at a high enough level. And you're probably doing like all the legwork behind the scenes of yourself, right? Well, I wouldn't say that. I don't want to I do I work, but my wife is a huge part of the company, too. So like, but I just couldn't I couldn't invest the time in bodybuilding and the time in the company that they both needed to be to make them both successful. One of them would one of them would suffer. Yes, correct. I think that's valid. I think it goes across the board with most people. Yeah, I do think you're right, though. I think some of the guys like Flex is a good example. If your genetics are. Of that caliber, if you can afford to miss a meal, like you said, because he can't get any bigger because he's stuck in the 212. Well, even Jay made a comment one time. This was a it was still bodybuilding. It was a business side of bodybuilding and not the competitive side. It was 2008, the year that he he lost and he deserved to lose, too, because he was way, way off. But regardless of that, he kind of made the comment on a show one time that he kind of let business get carried away. And he forgot he didn't forget like he was not training as hard, not dieting as hard. He was not putting as much emphasis to becoming Mr. Olympia as he was these other avenues. And obviously that cost it in the title. Right. Right. And yeah, no, that's that's what I mean. Like you can do them, but something's going to suffer. Yes. Going back to your career, I have a question that's like my own deep curiosity, because we spend a lot of time on the podcast talking about health and blood work and all these different things. What could you and I'm sure you've been asked this a million times, I'm going to ask it again. Looking back at your career and looking back at any of the health issues you had, is there anything you could have done or advised yourself of to change the outcome? Or do you think it was kind of more more just genetic or freakish things with your shoulder and your bicep? Or is there things you could have done to mitigate? OK, so the infection was a big deal. That was the biggest deal. Can you explain that a little bit? It was literally. Yeah, it was literally a shot. Oh, OK. So if you get a local infection, most of it and that's what it started out as. But me being stubborn, maybe because I'm a Taurus, I don't know, but I am a very stubborn human being. Yeah. Yeah. And it started out. It was like, I don't have anything here, but like not a baseball or a golf ball, but a softball. OK. In my glute. And if I would have just went in and got that taken care of, there probably would have been. I mean, I would have had a little incision, you know, maybe a drain hose or something like that. But I didn't. And I'll let it get septic. So when you get septic, most people will die from that. Like you will literally not just go to the hospital. Most people will die. Right. So that was just me being stubborn. That's not something that I could have. That's not something that like, oh, I should have been taking precautions here. That's something. Hey, dude, you're sick. Do something. Sorry to interrupt you, but Justin, you're a fucking smart guy. Like I've had infections before for shots. As soon as they get red and puffy, I'm like, I got to fucking do something. I was a dumbass. You just completely ignored it? Well, yes and no. So this thing popped. And I don't mean like popped like a pimple and shot out. It popped and just collapsed. And my body just absorbed. So the next day I felt perfectly fine. I'm like, oh, I'm good to go. But around day three, I was like, I felt like I had a combination of like getting my ass beat, getting into a car wreck and having the flu all at the same time. Like everything hurt and I couldn't figure out what was going on. And yeah, obviously the symptoms just continue to progress up. So, yes, I have actually helped people with infections. Like I have one guy that I coach. And this is one of the things, I guess, having life experiences can help you as a coach. Right. I had a kid send me his check-ins one time and one leg was probably three inches bigger than the other one because it was so swollen. Yeah. I was like, dude, what happened to your quad? He goes, oh, it's just a shot. I'm like, it ain't just a shot. Yeah. So he ended up having a six inch incision. And they told him if he had waited much longer, he was going to have to have an amputation. Holy fuck. Like he was going to lose his leg. Holy fuck. So I was like, and he thanked me afterwards. Like, I'm glad you made me go to the hospital. I'm like, yeah, don't be retarded like I was. You know, actually take care of yourself here. But I was just stubborn. Can I ask, sorry, before we skip over, and this is for you and I want to know what you think about your clients. Why do people ignore that? Is it just because they don't want to go to the doctor? Is it because they think the antibiotics is going to slow them down? Like, what is it? It's, I think it could be two things. A lot of bodybuilders are anti-doctor and I'm not, I'm not anti-doctor by any means. I do think doctors, a lot of them are just full of shit. Like they don't know what they're doing. We have a lot of like just bullshit doctors. Right. But I think money comes to a lot of, you know, I said I'm really tight with money. And I hate the idea because you know when you walk into a hospital, you're going to meet your deductible. Which I don't like, you being in Canada, you guys have like a universal healthcare system. Yeah, it's free for, if I go to the doctor and I need antibiotics, I just get it for free. Well, you have to pay for the medication. I don't have to pay for the, I don't have to pay for the visit. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, so if you go to the ER here, assuming that you get admitted, my deductible at the time was like five grand. And I was like, man, I don't want to pay five grand. Like I don't want to deal with this shit. So that was one thing. And a lot of guys, they don't want to shell out the money. But at the same time, I want to slap myself in the face for this too. It's like, dude, you're buying all the top end food. You're buying all the top end supplements. Like you're buying all this, but you're too tight to go pay a doctor to get. Right. Like I did my blood work. I did that very frequently because that was like a couple hundred bucks. Right. It wasn't a big deal. Just keep an eye on things. Right. But I really do think a lot of it is just guys, they're too tight with either one, they're broke or two, they just don't feel that it's necessary. And from direct experience, it's very necessary. Do you think it's laziness? No, I don't think it's lazy. Do you mean blood work or like? No, I mean, do you think they're like, oh, I got an infection. It's not a big deal. Fuck it. I don't want to go to the doctor. It's like they're being lazy about it. They're afraid of what the doctor might tell them. Like, hey, that's a good course. But the thing is, that's not a valid, even though that's what people tell themselves, it's not a valid excuse because it does not go away on its own. Right. It's not going to get better. So you may as well face the music and just do what you have to do. Right. Right. But it's like, I know a couple of guys that I won't name them, but they are pros and they're getting in that upper 30, lower 40 range. And they've been doing this for a very long time. And I keep telling them, like, hey, you ever get an echo? Nope. I'm like, you should. Why? I'm like, because they're like, oh, I checked my cholesterol. I'm like, yeah, that's not even close to being okay. Yeah. And I think they're afraid of what may come back. And I'm like, okay, well, be afraid. Still do it. And then if there's a problem, you might be alive at 60 instead of dead at 41 to 45. Right. Right. Right. Yeah, I think you're right. I think nobody wants to be told that they have to stop. Yes. So I think that's a lot of the, it's almost like ignorance is bliss kind of thing, which I totally get on the everyday blood work thing. I just never got it when it came to infections. Because I'm like, like you said, this thing is not going to heal itself. Like if you have an infection in your shoulder, wherever you have it, it's just going to get puffier and puffier and puffier, like you said, and then you're going to end up with an issue. So fast forward, your body absorbs it. You end up sick. So at the end of the day, if you could look back to your career, you were getting regular blood work. In that instance, you would have just said, do you think had you just gone to the doctor and got that taken care of, you would have kept on competing? No. No. Why not? I think the other issues, assuming that these other issues still happen, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The shoulder. The shoulder 100. Actually, the shoulder happened a week out from the Ferrigno and I still competed and it just progressively got worse and worse and worse. I had surgery on it last April. Fine. Okay. Okay. What was it with your shoulder? Surprisingly, it wasn't what I thought it was. I had an AC joint separation. It was like five millimeters. That was at the time of the injury because I did get an MRI on that. Yeah. All they did was stick it full of cortisone and said, you're good to go. I'm like, okay, it felt good. But once that wore off, I just had to continue working around it. And by that time, I had developed a calcium deposit and a bone spurt. Both were about an inch long, 2.3 and 2.5 centimeters. So, and they're rubbing against each other. So, needless to say, anything at all with this rotator moving was just, let's say this. Was it February, January or February of last year? I was going to, I got up at like 4 o'clock in the morning to go fishing. My usual routine, you know, get up, load the boat, load all the shit. My dad was over here that day because my dad's like my number one fishing buddy. He always goes with me. Yeah, that's awesome. I wake up and like, if I tell you I'm in too much pain and I can't go fishing, I'm in a lot of pain. So, and I have electric reels as well. So, if I want to be lazy, I can just push a button. It'll cast for you. No, it doesn't cast. Like, I'm in the ocean. So, we're either throwing lures or we're dropping on the bottom. Okay, okay, I got you. It retrieves it. Okay, okay. I got you. I wake up and I'm like, God, I can't move this thing. And I just felt really bad. And it got to the point I literally could not move the arm. It was frozen. So, when I went to the ER, that's how bad the pain was. I didn't have any pain meds. I didn't have anything at all at the house. So, I go to the ER and my blood pressure was high as fuck just from the pain. Right. Like, they admitted me because of the blood pressure. Right. Like, I think I was pushing like 180 something. I was going to ask you. Yeah, holy shit. It was like 180 over 100 or something. So, they admitted me. They said I was at like stroke level. And they said, what is your normal blood pressure? I was like, you all can look at my records. Like, I literally went to like my family physician like three weeks or a month prior. I normally go 120, 130, over 70. Yeah. But the pain factor caused my blood pressure to go up high. So, essentially, I don't look back and regret that decision. Yeah, I meant my deductible because they held me for like four days in the hospital. Yeah. Granted, I think my attitude probably didn't help those four days because I was not nice at all. Like, once I found out like, hey, you don't have a full tear. They thought it was an infection because when they ran the MRI on me, they saw a fluid pocket. Right. And I was like, oh, shit. If it's an infection, I'll stay. Yeah. I'll stay. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, once we found out that was not it, I wanted to go home. And then they kept making a haggle about it and stuff. So, like, I wasn't very nice about it. But on the flip side, if you go to a standard orthopedic, he's going to send you for an x-ray. And then the x-ray would have obviously cleared and came back good. Right. Then he's going to send me to probably physical therapy for six weeks and see if that gets any better. When that don't get any better, then you're going to get an MRI. Then you're going to get surgery. So, essentially, you have like a six to eight month process sometimes. Right, right, right. So, I'm just glad I went to the hospital, got the x-ray, got the MRI, realized I have to have surgery. Let's just do it and get it over with. You skipped all the crap in between. Yeah, I just bypassed all the other shit. I mean, I'm going to meet my deductible anyway. So, let's just do it. Yeah, yeah. Get it back to normal. And thankfully, I will say, I got to plug BPC-157 on this because I used that in high amounts right after the surgery. Yeah. I was supposed to do eight weeks of PT. They discharged me in three and a half. They said, we have nothing left for you. Like, you can do everything in here. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's awesome. They healed me really quick. You were probably, like, you're very meticulous, though, with your diet and shit. Were you perfect eating and all that, too? No. Oh, no? No. See, this is something else. Like, I'm either a guy who's all in or all out. So, like, if I'm training and I'm eating, I still weigh things. But whenever I get into, like, a depression, I'm just going to call that because that's what it is. So, January of this year, I had a grade one teres minor tear on the good shoulder. Sure. And I was probably, I looked like I was about three to four weeks out. And I can maintain that easily and comfortably. Yeah. Yeah. And now, granted, that's me calculating my workouts, doing it right, doing my diet right. I can't just, I can't eat like Roman and stay four weeks out. Not many people can. Yeah, yeah. So, when this happened, my dog, I had to put my dog down the very next day. He had cancer. So, I was like, fuck me. I was like, I screwed my shoulder up and I lose my best friend all in a 24-hour period. Just went off the rails of eating and got out of shape. And then, about six weeks ago, I decided I'm going to do it again. So, I feel like right now, I'm probably like an eight-week outlook. So, you're an emotional leader like I am. Yes. Yes, I am. If you were to ask me that question like five years ago, I'd be like, hell no, no. Yeah, yeah. But if I had to come to terms with it, I am. Let me ask you, have you found, so you still haven't found a place. You've been retired for how long now? Seven years? Seven, yeah. So, you've been retired for seven years. Pretty much the same as me. My last competition was 2017, even though it took me a couple years to fucking retire. Yeah, because I was like, I'm going to come back. I swear I am. And then, I just never did. But anyways, it's taken me a long time to find a middle ground between emotional eating and eating like a bodybuilder. Have you found the middle yet or are you still one or the other? So, when I'm doing it right, I have found the middle ground. When I'm having like an emotional breakdown, it's just cakes, pies, cheesecakes. Like, I could eat a Costco cheesecake in a whole day. You have exactly what I'm doing. But I have the appetite of the old 300-pound Justin. There's no problem with that. I know. Fuck, man. Paul said to me. Surprisingly enough, this is going to come as a huge shocker to a lot of people. The maintenance diet that I like is not a bodybuilding keto, but a real keto diet. Yeah. Where I eat about 120 to 150 grams of protein and about 250 to 280 grams of fat. Yeah. And I'm not hungry. Yeah. I'm not moody. That's the thing with carbs. It's like my energy is up and down, up and down. I know. I can get a little edgy. I can get a little pissy at times, but I can be in a deficit in keto and not be upset, not be angry. Right. It doesn't bother me. We're almost, dude, we're almost exactly the same when it comes to food. I'm like, everything you're saying is like exactly my life. I did, I did, uh, I did carnivore, carnivore for like six weeks. Yep. And I lost like 35 pounds. Best I've ever felt. Best. And it wasn't just because the weight dropped. It was like, I wasn't hungry. I wasn't thinking about food. I wasn't like, it was just, you know, and I, and I talked to Dave Palumbo recently, Adam on the show. And he said, keto is better than carnivore because you're getting more variety of fats, which makes sense. Um, but I do notice the same thing you notice when I'm having carbs. It's like my moods, if I'm not having enough fats, my moods go up and down. And it's, it's a little bit more difficult. The hunger, the hunger seems to be higher too. I think that's why I had so much of a hard time with relationships when I was still competing because I was a very low to no fat diet guy. Granted, I look my best, like from a physical standpoint, I look my absolute best on protein and carbs. Right. I don't function my best and I'm not the nicest guy with that, but that's when I physically hit my peak. So I had to do what I had to do, but I will say that like people that saw me at shows and stuff, they got to see the happy side of me, but my family and like my significant other at the time did not see a very happy side of me. And I do attribute that whole hard way to diet. Yeah. You know, the average person will look at it, like say they had, say they see a bodybuilder having a tantrum. Yeah. It's like, Oh, that's Roy Brage. I'm like, no, man, it's really not. There's a lot more that goes into that. Yeah. Like if you, you run me into the shoulder on the road and I get mad at you and start flipping you off, that ain't Roy Brage. It's because you did something to trigger. Yeah. Yeah. You know, and it's just like somebody does something stupid that I'd normally let roll off my shoulders and I smart off to them when I say something. It's like, you kind of caused this. That's not really my fault, but I do know I was much more edgy with specific diets. The reaction. You're right about what you're saying, but the reaction is different. Like when I was in, did you ever, where was your highest A1c? So for people who don't know that it's a measure of like your, your pre-diabetic or diabetic number, were you ever close? I think my highest ever saw was like a 5.6, 5.5, 5.6. So that's like pre-diabetic. No, I think you got to be over six. You got to be over six? I think six is like pretty diabetic. I was like a 5.5. I still think 5.5 is high. No. Cause I think I was around like 5.3, 5.5, somewhere in there. My doctor was like, we got to bring this down. He wanted to see it under five. I don't know if that's weird. I think mine hangs around about five. And oh, it could be. And I don't know this for a fact that we may use different units from Canada to U.S. Potentially. Yeah. Potentially. Because I know like certain units, like the cholesterol, like when I see like some of my Canadian clients, I have to be like, okay, I got to go over and Google and put all this stuff in. Cause I see like an HDL of like 1.3. I'm like, that can't be right. Well, the reason I brought it up is cause during when I was competing, I was like pre-diabetic. Like my, my blood sugar was too high on a regular basis. And I know that contributes to mood. Yeah. So I'm like, okay, so now I've noticed being on lower carb and being with more fat and my A1c being lower, I've noticed my mood is better, but you do, do you feel any different being off drugs or being on just TRT? Because I know for me, I feel very different, uh, emotionally. It's been so long since I've actually used anything that I kind of forgot what it was like. As far as the feeling goes, uh, say just walking around the house doing regular stuff. No, I don't notice it. Right. I will say in the gym, it's a very noticeable difference. Like when I'm training, like the, the mental intensity that I had is it's not, I have to force it now, but it's still, the pumps are not as good. Strength is not, strength is not as good, but the endurance, like I tap out a whole lot faster. Right. And it's like a natural athlete compared to, you know, a Mr. Olympian, like they're not going to be doing the same set for set. Right. Right. Right. Um, as far as any other type of feel, I can't say that now, obviously when you're not taking anything and your chest is tanked, that's, that's a disaster. Right. But TRT to being on cycle, I actually looked forward to coming off when I was competing because I felt better when I was on two to 300. Right. Right. I genuinely felt better on that than I ever did on a thousand. Right. Right. Right. Right. It could be, granted, I would lower my food when I would come off as well. So maybe just not stuffing myself all day, every day, maybe that played a big role into it. Getting rid of some water retention. Yeah. Played a big role into it. Like back to the A1c thing. I don't, I'll have to go back when we get off there and look at my numbers specifically. Yeah. But I do remember that my fasting glucose, I never saw one over 90. Ever. Okay. And then like after eating meals, like I didn't, I wasn't as regular with checking it as some people. Yeah. Like I would check it from time to time, but this is on 10 IU GH as well. Okay. And I think I would get to like 120, 125. Is that high? I don't know. That's not like, so you, to be like, if you're above one, I think 120 to 140 is considered pre-diabetic. Okay. 140 and up, like you probably need some help. That's fasting. Right. Right. Now, once you're eating, I think it's like anything above like 160. Don't quote me on the exact numbers, but it's in that range is when you start to have a problem. Okay. Okay. I mean, ideally you want to keep it in the double digits under a hundred all the time, but like, I don't tell people, Hey, you need metformin. Hey, you need insulin because your glucose is one 105 after you just ate a hundred carbs. Like that's not a problem. Right. Right. So many of these guys, um, I've seen some blackie protocols online where it's like, check your glucose. And if your glucose is above whatever, don't eat. I'm like, so make it make sense. And I've seen people, I won't name his name either. Cause I don't want to bash anyone, but he told his clients or he probably still does when they do fast and cardio in the morning, they have to check your glucose first. If they're not under 65, which is on the low end of things, very low. If they're not under 65, take two units of Humalog, check it again in 30 minutes until you get it under 65 and then do your cardio. I'm like, what the fuck? And this is like, you will. And this guy doesn't produce champions. He doesn't produce results. Like people always overthink everything. Yeah. And I've seen, I actually don't know this person. So he's telling people to take insulin and not eat. Yes. To get that, to get the glucose down as low as he can. So basically you're doing cardio when you're almost hypo. And you're hypo. Yeah. Yes. Holy fuck. But I had a guy, I don't know him. He was at the show, but I didn't meet the guy because I wasn't even interested. But I met a couple of his clients backstage. It was just crazy. Yeah. And every morning they had a protocol. They checked their temperature. If it's like 98.1, you have to do this. If it's 98.4, you have to do this. Like 98.6. I'm like, man, it just sounds like you got sold some nice snake oil. Yeah. It's not that fucking complicated, man. It's not that. No, bodybuilding is not that sophisticated. Man, I'm going to just put out a statement to people now. If your fucking coach is making shit that complicated, you need a new coach. Yes. It's not. Bodybuilding is not that fucking hard, man. But in coaching, since you coach like 50 people, do you make things pretty easy for your clients? Are you a basics, like a back to basics kind of bodybuilder kind of coach? Yes. Do you have some things that are a little bit more intricate in your programs? So I don't do like the PDF files. Like I said, my stuff is basic all across the board. Now, I keep my communication open. That's obviously important as a coach. So like. Right. I may not be as fast as Chris Aceto because I've been told if you text Chris, you get a response in 30 seconds. Not that fast. But, you know, I keep the communication open. Everything is through WhatsApp. So like the actual plan is going to be in one message and I'm going to like when I make changes, I highlight it and I put it in bold. Right. So that way you can see exactly what I've changed. Chemical wise, it's not rocket science. I hate to be like Ronnie and say it's nothing but the basics, but it is basic stuff. Yeah. It's not rocket science. Yeah. Training wise, again, it's not like I don't have people do back flips in the gym or weird stupid shit. You know, it's go to the gym, lift some heavy ass weights. That's what's going to get you big. Right. And here's your diet. Eat this diet. Check back in with me. Let me know your concerns. That's like, so I try to make it as simple as I can. And then if they need to have like, so do work with a few people, have some complicated schedules, people, some health concerns, health issues. Yeah. That's a different story that I have to kind of deviate from my usual. Right. Right. And at this point, I'm pretty familiar with working with that kind of stuff too. So it's whatever comes my way. Sure. Are you still an avid follower of all the shows and all the guys, or are you more just interested in doing? I would say it's both. I mean, because I mean, I watched Brett's show when Brett won the Legion this past weekend. He looked great. And then Samson won a show in France somewhere. Yeah. Yeah. France. I think. So yeah, I keep up with it. Like I keep up with bodybuilding and I keep up with classic, but I'm more focused on bodybuilding. Yeah. Okay. So let's, let's take a, let's take a look at yesterday's shows. We're going to talk some bodybuilding. All right. What do you think about Samson doing the show? Everybody has kind of has their own opinion about him doing a show two weeks for the Olympia, whether it was good or bad, or what do you think about it? Correct me if I'm wrong, but like, isn't he a guy who supposedly gets better with more shows? Yes, he is. So I'm cool with him doing that. Like I support it because is he back with just his wife coaching him? Is that right? Yeah. His wife. And there's a, another gentleman, Michael Warner, I believe is his name from Merrick health is also working with them on blood work and things like that. So I think it's a good idea for them to do the show because the chances of him losing here was slim to none. So he gets a, regardless of how he places at the Olympia, he's, he's 2025 Olympia qualified. So you get that out, get that out of the way. Right. I don't think he's a hundred percent here, but I also don't think he needed to be a hundred percent here for one. He didn't have to have it to win. And two, I know what it's like to try to peak back to back and it's not fun. Right. So. Right. Overall, like when I saw the stage shots, I actually was not that impressed with the stage shots. When I saw that, I think it was a lighting thing here because he looks much better backstage than he does right here. Right. Right. I agree. So I think he actually looked a whole lot better because when I first saw it, I was kind of like, and I'm kind of disappointed. Yeah. But when I saw the video with the good lights, because he has such dark skin that if he's under the wrong lights, it washes him out. Right. Right. I would like to see him eight to 10 pounds lighter at the Olympia. I think I personally think he's going to battle with Andrew for third and fourth. Is that where you have him? I have him. If Samson can bring it, I have him in third, potentially second, but I have him in third. But if he, if he's off by anything, I think Andrew might get ahead of him. Do you think. So let me ask you this question. Is this the best Samson you've seen or do you think there was a better Samson in previous years? He did a show last year. There was like, it was one of those post Olympia shows when he did a couple of them. Yeah. I don't remember which one off the top of my head, but there was one that I thought the one that he did with Beirut. I was kind of like, I don't know, man, I could probably give this to Beirut because Samson was a little off at that show. Right. But then he got redemption like a week or two later. And I was like, shit, that's the best version we've ever seen of him. Okay. Okay. I thought this version was equal to the Arnold UK. And I thought the Arnold UK was kind of the best Samson we've seen. I thought he, he looked a little bigger everywhere. He looked. Was that, was that just a couple of weeks after the, no, that was like mid-year. It wasn't. No, there was the Arnold Ohio. And then two weeks later, there was Arnold UK and he lost to Hottie by like a point or two or something like that. I can't remember. Hottie was not as good in the UK as he was in Ohio, but Samson got better and Hottie got a little worse. And then they were, they were pretty close. Yeah. But I thought he was equal to that here, which is good considering he had two more weeks. Yeah. If he can come down, I said somewhere between a five to 10 pound range. Yeah. I mean, if Samson could actually bring like Derek and Hottie level hardness in his lower body, he's winning the whole thing. That's what I think. There's nobody going to get his way. That's kind of what I think is if he can just bring a little bit extra from where, I don't even know if he has to be as hard as they are. If he's close, because I think he beats them both in shape and maybe muscularity in some shots. Yeah. He's got them both in shape and muscularity. So I feel like if he can get his condition, like even close to where they are, it'll be an interesting show. The only thing I can say, because he's a tall guy, which is kind of odd because he does have good arms and he has good legs. Right. But I think the area that's going to hurt him standing next to the shorter guys is going to be his back. When he turns around, like I can give him several of the front poses. I can give him some of the side poses. Right. But I think when he turns to the back, because Derek's back is pretty wacky and so is Hottie's. Right. I think that's the only area that they can expose him on. So on the flip side, he can expose Hottie because Hottie's a little blocky. Right. And then Derek is not as hard from the front as he is from the back. So everyone has a weakness here. This is the thing. And I told people, and we'll get into the Olympia in a second, but I've been kind of telling people, like, look, the top five guys, if you consider the top five being Samson, Hottie, Derek, Nick, Andrew, is that kind of what you think? That's who I was going to pick. Yeah. Right. So if you consider those the top five, I can make a case for each one of those people winning. You know what I mean? Like, I don't know if you feel that way, but I feel like there's, I could probably make a case depending on who looks like how they peak for each one of those guys potentially winning the Olympia. Yeah. I mean, with Andrew, he's going to have to still show more improvements on conditioning with Nick. I would like to see Nick have that. Was it 2021 when he got third? Yes. If Nick can bring that back, I think Nick could move up significantly. You know, I wouldn't, I, right now I've got Nick in fifth, but like Nick could climb that significantly higher if he can bring that back. So imagine this scenario. To me, if Nick can bring his waist in to the way it looked at the very first New York show he did or the Arnold, because he had like his waist actually worked to the strength for him then because he had like really tight waist, not tight waist, but really detailed waist and blocky abs that were very detailed. So like the waist almost like looked good on him. It almost had like a hottie effect where it was so detailed that it was like a strong suit. I think if he can bring that, he, the only shot, the only shot he loses is the front lat spread. Yeah. That's not a good one for him. Right. And then let's say he takes second or third or something in the other front shots. He's going to win the side shots. And from the back, he's pretty incredible. I think from the back, I think he can hang with anyone from the rear. And from the side? From the side, I mean, he actually has a little bit of an old school Jay Cutler look. I mean, cut the head off, obviously, because they don't look at him. But like the actual body is similar to Jay from the side, at least the arms, pecs. That's what I'm saying, though. So then you got you got four shots there, plus the most muscular. You could potentially be like, hey, this guy's fucking. I'm curious to see how they're going to bring it, because at the New York. I feel like his stomach was a little bit off in New York. If he can bring that in. But like, I don't know anything about Nick and metabolism wise, because I'm just thinking, OK, you could probably scale his food way the hell back. Yeah. But then I'm like, OK, we know a flat version of Nick is not a good version of Nick. Yeah. We've seen that. We've seen the flat version, and that didn't work out so much. Right. So it's going to be a matter of being able to find the balance to be able to bring him in full and keep that really, really tight and controlled. But yeah, if he could take the new muscle that he has, the maturity that he's got, and bring like that 2021 New York pro or ultimately Olympia look that year. Yeah. I could see him going in front of Andrew and Samson both. And I could. I could probably see him standing beside Derek on it. I think so. Stand up there between Derek and Heidi. I mean, it would be an interesting battle. It's three completely different physiques. Derek's, Derek's prettier, but he doesn't really have a ton of detail from the front, or at least he didn't last year. And I don't know, like Nick can stand with him from the back, and I think he beats him in the sides. So I don't know. Yeah, Nick's got a lot of density, especially like when he hits like the side chest, the back double. Even the rear lat spread is a strong point for him too. I guess the front lat spread is just because of the midsection maybe. I think he has trouble because he's so big. I think he just has trouble getting into it. Don't look like he opens up all the way. Yeah, he feels very, he looks very uncomfortable in that shot. Yeah. It looks like his scapules are kind of like pinched back a little bit, like he's not showing his last. Because when he turns around, he's got a lot of meat back there on his back. Right. But you can't see it in that front pose. I think the same thing you said goes for Andrew. I think we've seen a flat version of Andrew at the Arnold, I think it was, was it two years ago? Yeah. He looks a little stringier when he's not filled out. So I don't know how they're going to get the back as conditioned as the front, because I feel like that's his weak point. Would you, do you, let me ask you, where do you think Andrew suffers against the other four guys? Probably detail the lower body, especially the backside, you know, the hamstrings and the glutes, because right now I could say Samson will get him in that area because he's a little bit more polished, a little bit more detailed. Andrew from the front, I could almost just give Andrew the title from the front shots alone. Like from the front, he's very hard to beat. I said the same thing to the guys the other day we were talking. I said front lat, front double, front ab and thigh. It's just so aesthetic along with the fact that he's like six, three, six, four. He's big. So he makes these other guys look like little small action figures, you know, like, right. He makes, he doesn't make them look like normal bodyguards. Do you think though, and I'm just going to play devil's advocate. Do you think because they're shorter and I've witnessed this with hottie and Derek versus Samson, do you think they will look more muscular because they're more compact? Yes. Do you think that will hurt Andrew because it'll look like he has more gaps? Well, this is the thing with Andrew. It's like, Andrew's quite muscular to be tall, right? You know, like a lot of the taller guys, they don't really look as filled out, but like, I think the fact that Andrew has got a lot of muscle and he's also aesthetic, like he's very pleasing. I don't think it'll affect him in that sense. I agree. But he brings, he brings another wow factor that they don't bring. So theoretically, if they're more compact and more muscular, he's not, they're not going to touch him when it comes to aesthetics. Right. Well, and he's massive too. So he's not just, it's not just a shapely guy that's smaller. He's fucking. Yeah. He's got muscle and he's got shape. Yeah. So yeah, it's one of those things that like, I feel like when he showed up flat, he got in shape. But I don't think he had as much muscle as people thinks he did when he actually got peeled. So if he's added an adequate amount of muscle and can look bigger at that same level of conditioning, that's a whole different story. That could change things up a lot. Yeah. Would you like to see an era where they move the judging more towards Andrew Sampson? Or do you think it's still judged the way it should be judged period? Because I've seen, and the only reason I'm saying that I've seen a lot of comments like that, you know, I look at things online and I've seen other, I've seen a lot of people say like, you know, Andrew and Sampson should be the standard there. They have beautiful silhouettes, blah, blah, blah. Oh man. That's a, that's a hard question to answer because I was always, I got gifted with my shape, but I was always, I prided myself in conditioning. Like, yeah, I never wanted to, I mean, granted I was better at some shows than others, but like that was something I felt like I had control over. Well, I didn't feel like I know I had control over. Right. So Derek and Hottie being the two hardest guys on the stage, I have a hard time going against that. But at the same time, I think we all like that pretty aesthetic look as well. So it's like, you know, like if only Andrew or Sampson could bring like the same level of conditioning, it's game over. It'd be game over for a long time because nobody's, nobody's in the rear view mirror. Right. Right. I've said that before. I said, you know, somebody asked me last year after Sampson took third. And I said, I don't know if people, I don't know if the judges could ever give it to somebody if they're not shredded. Like, I can't remember an Olympia. I can't remember an Olympia winner that wasn't peeled. Yeah. Well, Brandon wasn't in the best shape. He was peeled for Brandon. Yes. But I'm just saying, like, I actually thought Hottie, I was happy that Brandon won because I love Brandon's structure and look. But when I went back and looked at it a few times, I kind of liked Hottie on that one just because of that nasty, grainy factor that he brings. Yeah. Yeah. But he definitely, I think that Hottie out conditioned everyone in that show by far. Let me ask you. Brandon just took him on shape. That's the only thing I could see. I don't think he beat him on size really that much either. Yeah. Let me ask you about this Legion show really quickly, and then I'm going to get your top 10 Olympia picks. This is Brett and Bruno. I thought that was actually a really good comparison. What did you think of this comparison? Brett won the show. Bruno took second. I thought Brett won pretty clearly. Yeah. Bruno's not bad, but I think Brett just brought, like, that signature conditioning that he's capable of, and I think that conditioning is what just sealed the deal. Yeah. The only thing that I would like to see on Brett, because I just had this conversation earlier today, is Brett is a very, very complete bodybuilder. He just needs, like, when he's hitting that most muscular, like, remember how, like, my side dealt with cap a little bit more? Yep. If Brett had a little bit more side dealt there, like, he would be 100% complete. He just needs a little bit more size, and his shoulders have gotten better every single show, so it could very well happen for him. I think Brett's a very complete bodybuilder. I think that's why he probably got the nod here, and I think that's why he'll be a, it's like 36, 37 years old, if I'm not mistaken. I think he'll be in the mix for the next five to seven years. Yeah. I think, um, the only thing, I think Brett's very complete, and I also had Brett winning the show. I just thought, at the Olympia level, I think he just, if he had this exact same physique and more muscle everywhere, he would be, he would be in the running. He just still, I think, I still think he needs to pack on a little bit more size. Like, when I saw him here, I thought he was going to be huge. And then when I saw him on stage, I'm like, okay, he still looks amazing, but he's still, like you said, the cap on the delts, a little bit more on the chest and back, you know, just a little bit, a little bit more everywhere, really. He's got such a beautiful shape. On the flip side to that argument, though, he has had, he's kept his lines and aesthetics, I guess, he's been able to hold all of the good attributes along with adding size over the years. So if he's able to continue on the same path, we could very well see what you're talking about. Yeah. Yeah. No, he's incredible. So yeah, I thought it was, I thought it was pretty, I don't want to say it was an easy win, but it was, like you said, it was clear that Brett won. Yeah. All right. Let's go to our, this is our new bro chat prediction screen or real bodybuilding podcast prediction screen. We're going to go to our Mr. Olympia 2024. I got you penciled in here. These are all the people that have given their predictions. Justin, you're here. Do you need to see the list of names or do you just want to tell me? Let's put the top, let's go ahead and put the top five in. And then I'm going to look at the name specifically to go six or 10. Okay. Who do you have first? I'm going to go Derek first. Okay. Derek, who's second? Then I'm going to go Hottie. Hottie. And then third, I'm going to go Samson based on what I just saw from France. Then I'm going to go Andrew. And then I'm going to go Nick. Okay. And then I want to look at the rest of the list to kind of see where I want to put six through 10. Okay. These are the other guys. This is the list. I think this is everybody. Oh, I didn't put, sorry. I didn't put Brett in here yet because he just won. So I haven't added. Well, Brett's qualified for 2025. Not. Oh, that's right. It's not for this show. That's right. Okay. So this is, I'm pretty sure this is the full list. So do you want, I'm just going to let, you know what? I'm not going to say anything. I'm just going to let you go. Who's sixth? You know, this is going to be a shock to a lot of people, but I'm going to go Martin. I don't think it is a shock. If you look at like, who do we have here? James and Roman have Martin seventh. Oh, Roman's got him down in eighth. Ben has Martin in sixth. We're going to say Justin. I'm going to put Martin in sixth on this one. Okay. Let's go back up to that list. Okay. Is Bonick's name's on there? So I'm going to put Bonick in seventh for sure. Okay. I'm going to go eighth on Brandon. Bonick. Brandon. Have you seen, have you talked to Brandon at all? Do you know if he's looking great or not looking great? I haven't seen or talked to Brandon in a little while. Okay. Can I ask you a question? What's up? Why do you have Brandon in eighth? Is that because you think he's going to be a little smaller? Yeah. Yeah. I think age is starting to catch him with his legs. Yeah. He never had the strongest legs to begin with. And Brandon's got to be like mid forties by now. Yeah. I mean, his conditioning over the last two years have kind of suffered a little bit. Like it wasn't that 2019 conditioning that he had when he won the Arnold and won the Olympia. If Brandon can bring that conditioning back, I can almost overlook a little bit on the legs and a little bit like size in general, but he's got to have the conditioning. Like it can't, I can't bump him into the first call out. With undersized legs and not being as hard as the other guys. I have them in the first call out, but I think I have to change because over the weekend, I was looking at some comparison photos from like 2019. Yeah. When he won to like last year, the year before I didn't realize how much he's changed. Yeah. Like, yeah, it's very, very different. I think this, I think this year, next year might be Brandon's last, last year. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Let's go to ninth place. I'll show you the list again. Labrada is doing this one, right? Yep. I'm going to go Hunter and ninth. And I'm going to put, um, Foda and 10th. Hunter. Where the fuck is he? Hunter. There is Hunter. And Foda is really good. Eh? Yeah. Like he, he's a guy that I feel like it's weird because he knows he may have the best front lat spread in the entire show. Um, it's pretty wacky. He has, I think he might have a first call out front, but it's the back. That is the problem. Yeah. It's something like he has decent legs from the front, but when he turns to the back, it's like, he loses. I don't, these aren't to me, these aren't just decent. Like this whole. Yeah. This is fucking incredible. It's just, the problem is, and I don't even know if I'll find a back shot here. And it's weird too, because the back shots on Instagram don't even look that bad at all. But no, it's like, it's weird to me that he has these big bubbly round quads. Yeah. But like, and it don't look bad here, but when he's actually in shape on, like on stage, his legs tend to fade from behind. He's got calves too, man. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's got great calves. I mean, it's funny. You think about that, eh? Like, I don't know. Do you think it's a training thing? Like think about the guys, uh, Andrew, Samson, uh, Foda. We have a lot of guys that have like, incredible front, not matching from the back necessarily. What do you, is this like a day and age where people maybe, cause they're not training the same way, or is it just a genetic or. If I see like one body part, that's just off. And the only reason I got to say this is. One of my old training partners. He's a great friend of mine too. I'll be seeing him here in a couple of weeks, but the name probably won't ring a bell to you. I helped him get his pro card back in 2015 at masters nationals. Yeah. But it was John Sylvie. And John had a typical, it was a super heavy that he turned pro at like two 45 to 44 range. He had a super heavyweight body, except he had like a, a smaller light heavyweight back, or maybe a middleweight back. Right. And it was really strange because he had rhomboids, erectors traps, but there was no lats. Like they were just not there. Right. And I thought, you know, it's a training thing. I trained with him one-on-one so many times. Like, I think there was a couple of times I showed up just specifically to work back with him. Yeah. I am watching his scapula move. I am watching the contractions, the elbows come back. But I couldn't find a damn thing wrong in his form. Right. And his lats grew from a heavy to a super heavy, but they didn't match anything else. Right. Right. So it could be one of those things where, you know, that's just going to always be an underdeveloped body part for the guy. Yeah. I mean, I've, I'm kind of in a similar situation where I've trained with Samson. I've watched him train. I've been there when he's trained. I've been, I've trained with him. He fucking trains his back fucking hard and he does all the hard shit. Like he does barbell rows. He'll do fucking, you know, he's not doing all like fucking machine shit. He's doing like everything. Yeah. So, and I can't speak for Foda or Andrew, cause I've never. I think Samson has continued to get better at each department. Like I don't think he's, he's slacking and Foda got better from the time that he turned pro as well. So it could just be, he's getting a, maybe a late start in the game. Maybe he didn't understand how to train in the beginning of his career. And he's just catching up. Yeah. There was so many different factors. I mean, if you look at like Phil Heath, when he first came to the scene, people said like his back double was like one of his worst shots. And it turned out to be one of his best shots, maybe one of the best back doubles, we've ever seen by the end of his career. And I think the reason that was, is Phil didn't know how to train until he got with Haughty. And his, obviously his ambition went up from where he chose and he figured it out. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. I mean, it's pretty interesting. It's going to be, it's going to be a crazy show. I want to just take a look at your top 10 one more time. See if, how different it is from everybody else's. Derek Haughty, Samson, Andrew, Nick. I really think Nick's going to be fifth. I don't know why I have trouble thinking that. If Nick could bring it, I could see him flipping somewhere between third through fifth, maybe even size second, if he can really bring it. But like, I typically like to rely on people's last showing. And I know that's not always the way to do it. Yeah. But based on New York, I expected him to absolutely dust Martin in New York. And it's not, that was not the case. No, no, I think it was really close between the two. Yeah. I mean, he only beat him by a point and prejudging and a point at. Yeah. That was not the best Nick that we've ever seen. So if Nick brings it, I mean, I could see him moving up that. I'm just basing it on what I saw in New York. And I don't know. Why he was off in New York, but I mean, I'll say this, him and Matt actually do make a good pair. Yeah. Like, I think they, they, they click well together. Like Nick was, to be fair about it, like five years ago, before he ever turned pro, I never thought he would get a pro card. Really? Like, I really never thought he would ever go pro. Why? Cause he was just, he was just a big guy that couldn't get in shape. Or what was it? When he was like young, young, it was a conditioning thing. Then as he got a little bit older and mature, his shape started not looking the best, but he took what I would say, I don't want to use the word bad genetics, because anybody who makes it to the Olympia, you, you don't have bad genetics. Right. Right. Of course. Yeah. Yeah. Um, but his shape was not the best, but he was able to mold his physique around that and learn how to pose to hide that. So like, kind of changed things a lot over a couple of years. And I have to, I can't help but think like me and Matt don't speak anymore, but I can't help but think Matt's the one who helped him get to where he's at now. Yeah. Listen, I think people, I think people forget how good Nick is. I think, you know, a lot of people are like, Oh, his waist and all his quads. Aren't this, his quads. Aren't that his waist is too thick and blah, blah, blah. But I'm like, look, that guy, like you said, will work his fucking ass off to make his abs a strong point, even though they're thicker. And I've seen him do it. Like when he did New York, everybody was like, fuck his ab walls. Crazy. Even though his waist looked a little thicker, it didn't matter because it was so etched in that he took a weakness and made it a strong point. So I'm not, you know, I don't know where I have Nick right now. I, but I wouldn't count them out. And I would, I am curious to see what he looks like next to Derek. Derek is going to have a prettier physique, but Nick has a lot of raw muscle. So I don't know what he's going to look like next to Derek and Hottie. And he brings a condition too. So I don't know. I don't know. It's going to be crazy. Now, one more question. You have five guys up there that all have like different strengths and different weaknesses. So it's kind of, it'd be kind of interesting to see them all pose in the same call out, see how they get flip-flopped around. All right. I'm going to ask you one more question before you go, because I've kept you on longer than I promised. It's all right. Out of this top 10, or even outside the top 10, if you had to pick one shocker, somebody that you think could shock this lineup, who would it be? Or do you think it's going to be pretty standard? Like this is going to be it. Or do you think somebody can jump in and upset this whole thing? You, when you say upset, you mean like come in and win it or just like someone that's just like a wild card we didn't expect. Yeah. Maybe a wild card we didn't expect. Cause I think, you know, I think all of us are pretty certain of the top five, but if you think that, if there's somebody else, I think there's a guy that he's gotten, he's gotten better and better. And that's Raphael. Yeah. I think he's a guy that could show up and knock someone out of the top 10. Right. Do you think there's a possibility Raphael could be a first call out? Cause I know Tyler really likes his physique. If you're talking about six people in the first call out, I mean, him and Martin have completely different physiques, but I could see those two getting compared. Yeah. I mean, he, if he really brings it and he's made improvements from his last show till now, I think he probably, he could, I'm not banking on it because I haven't seen the level of conditioning from behind that. I want to see from him. Right. But if he can bring it, he's got the shape and he's, he's got aesthetics, you know, like I couldn't knock the guy out if he actually brings it, brings the right conditioning. Last quick, last question. Do you think a team could be a dark horse? There's a small chance of it. Like a team is definitely one of those guys that the more shows he does, the better he gets. And a team, I hate to say this about him. I do like a team. I respect the team. Like he should have done like five shows already by now. Yeah. Because when a team does like six, seven shows by the end of the season, he's actually quite conditioned. Right. But considering this is going to be the first show he's done in a while, I don't see that being, I don't see him being a factor here. I feel like a team is the only one aside from the back double bicep is the only one with the amount of muscle to upset this list. Oh, he's got a lot of muscle on him. That's what I'm saying. Me and a team did our first national show together, like 2011. 11. Yeah. But I'm saying to this day, I don't know how to beat it. Like, but you know what I'm saying? Like the Olympia is a, it is a muscle show. Like the bigger guys are the guys that get to the top. I just think with him, it's, it's kind of weird because the year that we saw him actually get really lean in his hamstrings and glutes, he still had, I was, he's actually done it a couple of times now. Yeah. Yeah. But his upper back is kind of weird. Like up through here, still kind of thicker skin. I know what you mean. Yeah. And I remember Dave, one of those shows, I think it was 2016 to eight. Cause he won Tampa in 2016. Yeah. It was like six whole has ads or something. I'm like, no way. I'm like, are you trying to kill him? But yeah, it was a ridiculous amount, but it worked. Whatever they did, it worked. Well, Justin, look, man, I appreciate you coming on. I appreciate you giving me your top 10 list and being so candid about your past. Is there anything you want to promote? Anybody you want to thank? Anything you want to say before you go? Not really, man. I mean, if anybody wants to hit me up as far as coaching, or if you just want to hit me up to, you know, talk bullshit, whatever, you know, hit me up on Instagram. That's the fastest place to find me. All right. That's it, man. A few words. Yeah. Justin, thank you very much for the time, brother. I really appreciate it. All right, man. Have a good evening. Okay, brother. We'll talk soon. Bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.