 aromasin,ologne,ologne,ologne,ologne,ologne,ologne,ologne,ologne,ologne,ologne, also has a second arm that's called Merrick Diagnostics. If you go to Merrick Diagnostics, which we'll take you to right now, they are kind of like a self-checkout lab markers. So you can do their comprehensive panels, or you can do your own. You can check out any type, anything you want. You can check your testosterone, your HbA1c. You can check anything, progesterone, any of these that you see here. You can add to like an a la carte and do your self-lab, self-checkout. You get the requisition, you take it to the place and get your lab work done on your own. That way you don't need, if you don't need any medical oversight, you don't need anybody to read your blood work to you, and you want a cheaper option, you can check out Merrick Diagnostics and you make your lab work as expensive or inexpensive as you want. This is kind of the best way to check if you want to check your testosterone levels, check if your gear is working, check if you're running too low. This is kind of the best way to do it if you want to save some money. So Merrick Diagnostics.com, check it out now guys. Thanks for watching. What's going on, Paul? Nothing for that. How are you doing? How are you, man? Good. Good. Meatballs and hummus, baby. It's been a little while. What's going on? How are you feeling? I know your back's fucked. Yeah, I got my lumbar support role on right now, so that's helped me a little bit. But yeah, it is fucked. What does the dog father do when his back is fucked up and he's got to be a dog master? And I still got to be a dog master? Yeah, because, you know, just injuries or not, dog in goes on. I, today, I hung upside down on my inversion table a series of times. Did you? Yep. I'm going to do some more before bed, too. Sorry, go ahead. I also did some foam rolling. I have a back massager sort of device, whatever. Use that. And I did some heat today. I did a lot. And it doesn't seem to want to fucking let up. I think, well, sometimes when, if it's a bulge disc, sometimes it just takes time for it to, like, relax. Like, that pain's going to stay, you know what I mean? I don't think that's what it is. What do you think it is? I just think it's just been irritated because we just changed our style of training this week. Well, that doesn't make sense. Something has to have happened. You can't just say it's irritated. Oh. What is irritated? There's one thing for sure that I know that's contributing to it. I told you today, my workstation at work is very non-ergonomically correct. Do you think that's why you're in so much pain? It definitely led to it because I was already tight when I went to work the other morning. And then when I was working at my desk, which is like, it's a really small desk and it's a really crapped office we work out of. I knew it. I knew it because I had to turn this one way to do some shit. And I couldn't keep my hips under me because of the setup of this table. You know, you're old when you can't, like, if you sit a certain way, you get fucked up. Yeah. Well, and then what made it worse, last night my daughter had a basketball game and those bleacher seats. Yeah, those suck. I've sat there with you. Those are actually horrible. They wreck my back. What, um, well, aside from your pain, what else is going on? Everything's good? Yeah, um, just, um, like the seasons, you know, the seasons are kicking off soon. So, um, getting some work done lately on our shows, but also, uh, booking some shows too. Our show's going to be pretty crazy, dude. I know. I know. I'm excited about it. The pro show's gonna be wild. Leandro now? With Leandro there, I think it's gonna be nuts because apparently Rafa and Leandro have like a, I don't know, friendly rivalry, I guess, in Brazil. Hey, Ian. What's up, boys? What's up, Ian? What's going on? Just, uh, hanging out, you know? We're just saying, we're just talking about the Detroit show. I think it's gonna turn out to be pretty, pretty awesome, actually, because I think Leandro and Rafa have a pretty, a pretty significant rivalry in Brazil. And Rafa's not confirmed to do Detroit, but he's on the, like, the maybe list. So, if he doesn't win, I mean, it would make no sense for him to not do it because he's gonna be in shape. If he doesn't win, if he doesn't win the Arnold, which is, you know, it's gonna be a tough run. Tough, yeah. Then it would make no sense for him not to come into Detroit and at least try and get that Olympia qualification. Be a great show for him to do. Yeah, but Leandro's not, like, an easy, uh, that's a formidable, formidable component, or formidable opponent. Yeah. Yeah. If I remember right last year, wasn't he just as conditioning a touch off? Yeah, I think that was the main knock on him because everything else seems to be there. Like, he's not missing any body parts. I'm just gonna show him to people just so they know we're talking about. I love his physique. Leandro, Leandro Perez. Yeah, the knock was that he's just not really conditioned enough, but also, I think there was one show where he was kind of in shape, but just lacking a little bit of detail. So, I don't know, I don't know if that's... Super balanced, great muscularity, like, really nice shape, yeah. What is he, he did two shows last year, I think, right? I think he did three. Yeah, at least, yeah. I think he did three last year. Did he? Yeah. This is Leandro, those who we're talking about. And the other thing, too, I just want to let people know, like, photos don't really do him justice. Mm-hmm. Because I saw him before he did the Arnold Brazil last year, and I was pretty impressed, but then when I saw him on stage next to Vito, I was like, oh, wow, this guy's actually big. Yeah, he's a big dude. Yeah, he's wide. So, that's a nice shot. Yeah. That's what Ian was waiting for? Hell yeah, boys. Bodybuilding. But yeah, I think there is from the back. Back's good, hamstrings are crazy thick. Yeah. He's going to be impressive. So, I hope we get to see Rafa in Detroit, too, because then, you know, I think it's going to start to, you know, if Rafa does the show, it's almost like, you know, with Vito doing the show and Martin doing the show the first year, and then, you know, last year with Bonac there, and Rafa coming in, I think it's going to start to become more and more popular for, like, the big guys. Bigger names to be like, hey, we can just go Arnold, bounce into Detroit. Yeah. Martin two years ago? That's what I'm saying. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I was right. I didn't hear you say Martin. Yeah. So, and then this year, too, it's not only Rafa. You know, Nick is also not qualified for the Olympia. So, if he, it would also, and he's not going to the UK. Yeah. Yeah. So, I'm hoping, like, he, if he doesn't win, I'm hoping he jumps into Detroit as well. Right. Right. Maybe. Yeah. That'd be cool. I think it's going to be a great show. I think it's going to be a few guys that jump in. Ian, are you going to do a commentary or what? Yeah, I'll do commentary. Sure. All right. Ian, do a commentary. Fucking Nick, maybe at the show. It's going to be huge. Yeah. I think Detroit's going to be bigger than Arnold, actually. I'm guest posing, so. I'll do commentary on my own guest posing. I'll wear the headset while I'm guest posing. Do it. And commentate on my own physique. Just do your commentating with no shirt on. You know what? I'll just sit in the audience and, like, fucking back down. Yeah, you're posing drunk. You know what? Do the commentary. You know that screen? Yeah. You can watch yourself hit, like, back to old biceps and talk about it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're not. Good to see Ian Valliere back. Lower laps are missing just a little bit here, but, you know, pretty good conditioning for where, you know. How much do I have to pay you to guest pose in Detroit? 50 grand? Fuck off. You're already in shape. What are you talking about? Yeah, I'm pretty lean right now, actually. I'm getting, it's interesting. I'm getting, it's interesting. My, when I started back with everything, my weight increased to a point and I was, like, getting heavier. And now my food's the same and I'm just staying at the same weight and I'm just getting leaner. If anything, my weight's actually starting to go down a little bit. But I'm just getting leaner and leaner. But my gym, like, in the gym, I'm still progressing in all my lifts. Like, even today, like, I felt like, you know when you start to get into, back into things and, like, just, you can kind of feel that oomph behind the weights. Like, where things just, like, move easier. Like, it's not even that necessarily more reps, which it is. But, like, it's just how the reps feel. Like, it doesn't feel as hard, as heavy. It just is, like, when you push, things fucking move. And I'm starting to feel that even though, like, my weight's not necessarily going up anymore. So, the quality's just improving, improving. So, I'm just going to ride this out until I'm not progressing in the gym anymore. And it feels good. Yeah. You're eating a lot of food, too. I saw your diet you posted. Yeah. I mean, it's not really, though. Like, I don't know. 5,000 calories. Yeah. I was surprised. And, look, I'll give this as a caveat. I used chat GPT to calculate that. I did give it as much context as I could. But, like, I didn't go plug everything into, like, MyFitnessPal, the exact brands. You know, I pasted my exact diet in there. I said, these things are measured raw. These things are measured cooked. You know, an average-sized apple. Like, you know, I kind of gave it context. But, you know, I think a couple people did do it on MyFitnessPal. It was pretty close. Okay. Hold on. But I thought it was going to be a lot less calories than it was. Yeah. I'm sorry to interrupt you. I missed it. What did you post? I just posted a full day of eating yesterday. I saw the food. I didn't see. Did you put the numbers up? Yeah. It's in the post. Yeah. Oh, I didn't read it. Okay. How much was it? On a training day, it's like 5,400. But, like, that's only a clean food. That's a lot of food. That's only a five meals. And it doesn't feel like a ton, you know? Like, I'm not super hungry for all my meals. But, like, it's not hard to eat by any means. Yeah. And I think the thing that I'm doing differently now, which, you know, I should have done, obviously, earlier in my career, is I'm not, like, say before, I was so boring with my foods. It's like my meal would be, like, meat and rice. And instead of eating, you know, 300 grams of rice with some sourdough bread or with some fruit or some dates, I would just eat 600 grams of rice, you know? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like, which is, like, so hard to eat, you know? Right. So now it's like I have multiple carb sources in every single meal, and it makes it so much easier to eat. So it doesn't really feel like that much food. But you know what? That's the way you have it set up. Like, I'm looking at this right here, right? So 365, 690. This is so different. Like, so I used to eat around 4,500 calories when I was around, like, 290, and I was in pretty good shape. Yeah. And, but it was set up differently. There was more fat and more protein. So it was kind of like it really filled me up. Yeah. You kind of have it where you're like, there's not that much protein, and there's not that much fat. So this 690 is probably really, like, comfortable to get through. And that 690, honestly, a lot of it, I'm doing a lot of heavy lifting with, like, fruit. You know, yeah, with fruit, with, I have dates, and you know how calorically dense dates are. You have, like, a handful of dates. It's like a fucking 100 grams of carbs. You know, and I have some fruit juice post-workout. My intro workout carbs, like, things like that are filling 200 grams of that 650. You know, so I'm only really eating in, like, rice and oats or a cream of rice and stuff, like, 350, 400 grams of carbs, which is not hard to eat at all, you know? No. So it really doesn't feel, compared to the past, what 5,500 calories would have felt like, you know? But it's, my body's responding well. Like, my body's working through it well, and I'm getting leaner. Like, at 5,500, I'm definitely, like, my conditioning, you can see the last picture I posted there. Like, my conditioning's improving. Like, I'm actually pretty lean right now, you know? And it's getting better and better, you know? That's why I said I think you should guest pose. Like, this is guest posing shape. Yeah, it is. Yeah. Why dates, Ian? Because exactly what I said. They're just, like, 40 grams of dates is, like, 35 grams of carbs, man. It's crazy. You don't remember we used to do dates? I had two off-seasons. It was literally my post-workout meal. No. I didn't know that. Not my post-workout. I've never done dates before. It was in my post-workout meal. Well, it was because of, they're so fucking, like, heavy at sugar, dude. It's insane how many carbs is in them, man. They're so poor. Yeah. Yeah, it's like eating raisins, dude. You eat, like, one handful of raisins, it's, like, fucking 50 grams of carbs. It's crazy. Yeah. I thought people ate dates for the fiber. They do. There's not a ton of fiber in them, but there is some. You know, like, I think the amount I'm eating, I might be getting, like, six grams of fiber through it, you know? That's not a bad one. So, it's still something. Yeah. But, yeah, no, it's just the easiest way to, like, get in. And I only eat them post-workout. I have raisins in the morning, and I have some fruit juice post-workout. So, like, a lot of it's super easy stuff to get in, you know? And highly digestible, too. I thought dates were heavy in fiber. I don't know. Look it up. That's why I thought a lot of old people ate them. That's why. That is why they do. But maybe it's kind of like, you know what I think? What do you think, Paul? I think, like, some things like raisins and prunes people eat for sorbitol and other things that help with digestion as well. I don't know if it's necessarily just fiber. You know what I think it is, Paul? It's almost like the banana thing. You know how people think when they think potassium, they think banana? Yeah. It's actually not a good source of potassium. It's actually like... It's just average. Yeah. Like, potatoes are way better and shit. Yeah. Like, people just think it... They connect the two. Some kind of a correlation. I wonder... Let's see here. Dietary fiber, 6.7 to 8 grams in 100 grams serving. That's good. See? And I said I'm eating probably between that and the raisins, which are about the same in calories, I'm eating about 100 grams a day. So, like, 6 grams of carbs, I said. Yeah. It's not a ton because... Or fiber, sorry. That's 75 grams of fucking carbs. Exactly. You're only getting 8 grams of fiber. Yeah. That's not really a lot. So, it's less than 10%. Yeah. Yeah. It's not a great, great source. But it's not bad. It's not bad. No. Yeah. That's awesome, man. It's good to hear everything's going well. I mean, fucking every picture you post is, like, better than the last one. Like, you're making... Yeah, no. Feels good. How do the weak points feel? Does it feel like there's any change? Do you feel any better connection? Yeah. No. Things feel good. Like, it's... Your triceps. Like, everything. How's everything feeling? Yeah. No, I feel pretty good with everything. And, like, I'm, you know, trying to be as methodical as I can with my training. And, you know, the points that are weaker, trying to hit a bit differently than I did in the past. Because, obviously, what I was doing in the past didn't render the best results. So, trying to be a little more specific with my exercise selection, my intent behind training them versus other parts I feel like I connect with better. So, but as a whole, yeah, I'm very happy with how things are going. Yeah. That's good. Okay. So, you're not going to guest pose. But someone who I do think is going to guest pose, it's not 100% confirmed. He's going to be there. And he said he might guest pose. But we're not 100% positive yet. But Niall Darwin is going to be there. Nice. And Niall, if anybody's following him, looks like, I think he's going to, I think he's really going to, I think he's, you know, he was fifth last year at the Olympia. I honestly think this year he's going to be challenging for that top three. 100% I agree. Top three this year, for sure. I agree. He is like, he looks. He's one of my favorite physique, man. Yeah. He looks real thick right now. Yeah. His shape is nuts, too. Like, look at this. This is so fucking wild, man. So nice, man. Yeah. Here's another, there's another one here where we can actually kind of scroll. There's actually, one second, there's a better one here. Look at the fucking delt. Look at the ham. All of it, man. It's just balanced. He's the kind of guy, if he put on, if he wanted to get a little bit bigger, he could probably do well on open bodybuilding, too. Yeah. Well, we talked about it because he's young, right? So he was on the podcast last year. I had him on. And he's, I think he wants to go to. Does he? I shouldn't say this because it's going to, like, get out there in the news. He didn't mean it, like, for sure. But he said, like, he likes open bodybuilding. And he sees himself there one day. Really? So I don't know. Like, I could see him pulling in ears. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? For sure. Because he does have the kind of physique and the roundness where, like, you know, if he, if you put on, like, that's a really beautiful physique, man. Yeah. Think of that physique at, like, 245, 250. Right. Yeah. And I think, like, where's that shape will carry you far and open? Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's another guy. He's doing New York and Pittsburgh this year. Yeah. I saw that. And I think it hasn't been announced yet. Urs you're referring to. Urs is. Yeah. Sorry. Actually, Niall is too. I think Niall is too. Yeah. Niall is too. Yeah. But the one that's not confirmed, but I, I'm guessing, I think Tony was doing those shows too. Oh, really? So Urs is going to be standing next to Tony. Yeah. That's like, that's a good comparison. That's a gateway. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Because Tony O's eighth. Urs was twelfth. If. Thirteenth. Or thirteenth. If Urs can get ahead of him. That'd be a great comparison too. Seeing those guys compared next to each other, like, several times over again. Yeah. I told Fuet today, I got the nod yesterday for New York. Oh, you're doing New York? Nice. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Proud to be back there for a second here. It's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be hard for you, man. That's going to be a great show. They're also doing an amateur show this year with it. No, I just. It's a two day show. No, no. It's going to be great for sure. And you deserve to be there. I'm just saying, it's going to be like, that's a tough call. Like, you got to think like, Tony O is like beautiful physique, but then so is Urs, but Urs is also going to show a whole bunch of new muscle. Yeah. Yeah. Urs is definitely a bigger guy. Yeah. But I think that Tony O is a little more complete. So I think that'll be a really good comparison. Agreed. But I just wonder, can the size. Overtake. Because the shape, because Urs still got beautiful shape. Beautiful. Yeah. So can the size then overcome the completeness of Tony O? And also like Urs is a master presenter of his physique. Yeah. You know, and that's what an area where Tony O struggled in the past. I know he got better last year, but you know, that could be, that could play into it too. And then the other interesting thing, I think who else is jumping in? I think Curzo is also doing those two shots. I saw that. Yeah. Yeah. Right. He's looking crazy. So now you have another one that's like, maybe not the most perfect shape, but a fucking monster. I mean, it's like, and possibly Nick. I don't think Nick's going to do that. No. You want to New York again? Get his fourth New York title. Yeah. Hey. King of New York. I don't think he's going to die it. In my opinion. Look, Nick is smart. Nick wants, Nick's focused on the Olympia. Yeah. I have no reason to say this. Nobody can put this in the news. I'm not saying we spoke about it. Yeah. I asked him to do Detroit. He said, I'm focused on the Arnold. So he didn't give me any indication, but it makes absolutely no sense for him not to do it. If he doesn't win, if he doesn't win Columbus, if his ultimate goal is to, you know, to win the Olympia or place hard to try, I would agree with you. Cause you got to think he could jump in. He walk into Detroit. He's going to be the favorite because Andrew Martin, how are you not going to be there? They've already qualified. They're going to go to the UK. So he's going to, he's going to be the favorite. And then, then he gets to take six months off and just worry about the Olympia. Right. Yeah. What do you think Martin does if he doesn't win the Arnold or the UK? Cause Hottie or Andrew were there and he goes like, what do you think's next for him? Do you think he comes back to Detroit? Do you think he goes into New York? Like Martin's not going to do Detroit for sure. Um, I don't think you, obviously Andrew or Hottie, they're all qualified for the Olympia already. Martin. Oh yeah. Martin won Prague. Yeah. Awesome. No, okay. Then yeah. He probably won't do anything after that. No, he'll do the Arnold and then chill to the Olympia. You're probably right. Yeah. Unless he goes back to Pittsburgh again, maybe. Yeah. I doubt it. I'm almost positive if he doesn't win. Cause the only thing Martin's missing is size. Oh. So if he doesn't win, it's going to be shut it down and try and put on some muscle for the Olympia. Yeah. No, I agree. So yeah, I don't know. It's going to be an interesting next few weeks. Yeah. It's going to be interesting for sure. We got the, the Arnold. Then we got, there's a bunch of shows in the middle there. I can see what's the Arnold like two weeks this weekend, three weeks. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Crazy. Hey, Thursday night. What are you doing before the Arnold? Uh, anything. The Thursday went like that day before the show. Yeah. Uh, I'm not sure. I get in in the afternoon or evening sometime, but I'm not sure what my plans are. We're going to be there and we're probably staying the Thursday night and then going home Friday morning. Oh, you're not staying all weekend. I don't think so. Unless you got tickets for me. We can get, we can get tickets. I need to be home. My daughter's got a basketball term on the side. So wait, why are you going just Thursday then? I'm judging the amateurs. He's judging the amateurs and I got meetings. Okay. So I was going to, I was going to go for a couple of really important meetings and then, um, let's see if we can score some tickets. It's going to come home after that. I don't know. I might come home. I might come home. Well, if you stay for it, that's cool. I have to come home, but, um, no, that's cool. I'll probably come home with you, but I was going to say, if you want to grab dinner, Thursday night. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Definitely do that. Is there exposed Friday, right? Starts Friday. Yeah. I work boost Friday, Saturday, Sunday. You know, this will be like my first Arnold. Like I haven't been to since I was like fucking 20. Well, you'll kind of be there. Yeah. I'll be there except for this. You'll touch down there in Columbus around the Arnold. It counts. Hey, does, uh, does Wesley have any chance of beating? It's funny. It's funny. Cause last time I honestly apologized to Wesley on this. Cause I kind of shut that down when you said this last time. I'm like, there's no chance. You should have. Yeah. And I, I honestly retract that after I've seen more pictures of Mike and see more pictures of Wesley. I don't think Mike looks like he's at his best to me. He looks a little bit behind and doesn't quite have that pop and hardness. I'd like to see from him. And Wesley looks really good, man. I, I think there's honestly a really good chance here. You know, I, you know, Wesley looks great better than he's ever looked at. But I wonder if Mike's being a little bit strategic about his weight right now. Like I'm wondering if he's just looking really flat right now. Cause he's trying to get well underweight. So that he can, yeah, he definitely needs to get the weight down, which is, I think his priority, but, but I don't know that that hurts your look. And it hurt his look at this Olympia compared to the previous Olympia. And then pushing it down multiple shows in a row like that can start to affect the look versus the year before he was able to be a little bit heavier. So yeah, I don't know. I mean, if you pull up some pictures of Mike, I don't think it's, I think there's definitely a chance that Wesley pushes him for sure. I would still put Mike as the favorite because he is two time in a row, second place. And he was the defending champion of the Arnold. But I think that Wesley looks really good. And I think that there's definitely a competition there. Yeah. Um, I had Neil Hill, who is Mike Sommerfeld's coach for those who don't know on the podcast. And he did say they were behind. Yeah. Really? He didn't say they were behind in, I don't think the video that Ian's referencing is on Mike's channel. I'm going to go to BTS. I was looking at that one. Go down. Oh, which one's that? This one right here? No, right side. Yeah. There. Yeah. Um, Neil looks pretty good there. Yeah. He looks good here to me. There's another video that was went out that it was a little bit, and he posted this actually the day after that video went out. Cause when that video went out, I think a lot of people were like, oh, you look small. You look off. You look this, this video came out the day after that. Yeah. And this one looks good to me. Like he looks like, like he looks sharp. Yeah. Um, but Neil said on the podcast that he was on, he said that he felt they were off, but he didn't feel like they were off in body fat. He felt like they were off in muscle quality. Yeah. That's what I see. Yeah. Because, um, he was saying that Mike had dealt with some bacterial issues. Yeah. And, uh, the muscle just wasn't taking glycogen the way he'd expected and blah, blah, blah. A bunch. He referenced a bunch of different things, but he just said they were behind more so in look than in body fat. Yeah. That's it. That's interesting because if anything, that's the way he's looked is a little bit flat, you know? So, you know, and I thought it was because he obviously had to downsize a little bit, but maybe it was, you know, purely a stomach issue or something. I got to try and find that updates. Got to be right here somewhere. I got to try and find this one. This one scared me. Yeah. That's shitty lighting too, though. I know, but he looks thin here. Yeah. You're right. I know. Yeah. Yeah. Still got a crazy taper though. Yeah. But legs look a little down and the hardness and like the, the quality of the muscle, like Neil said, isn't quite as, as good. I agree. Still looks great though. Yeah. Just not as sharp as we've seen, we're used to seeing them look. Yeah. That other update did look different than this. Yeah. But like there, you can still see, like, he's still got it all, you know? He's tough to beat though. Cause of that. Fuck. He's, he's very complete. Yeah. He's very complete. The other stuff to beat him on many shots. Yeah. Yeah. The other one I think you need to apologize to me about Ian is the Rafa MoFuda comparison. Yeah. Cause Rafa looks like he's actually a little bit behind. Yeah. Yeah. He's definitely, he's definitely behind. Yeah. Rafa looks like he's leaning back on that shot a little bit. Like if you go to, I think he posted it here, his last update. No, it was like a back shot. Like here, it looks amazing. Right. Yeah. Right. But the lighting and everything's perfect there. But he posted a video or I think it was one of the, um. Go to the tag. No, no. I think, yeah, I could go to the tag too. It'll be there too. I think. Uh, it was. Yeah. But I want to show the video. Even if we look at this, it's below. You can still see it here. It's below this. Yeah. Go back. Third row, middle. No, third row, middle. This is it here. Yeah. But if you go third row, middle, it's starting from the back like here. Yeah. Right there. Yeah. Yeah. Like this doesn't look two weeks out to me. No, it doesn't. No. No, that's, that's behind. Right. But from the front, he looks two weeks out. I think. I don't think so. I don't know ball. Cause it doesn't, it doesn't matter if you look in shape from one spot. It's where you're fat. Right. Yeah, for sure. I'm just saying though, like, you know, he's, he's always sharper from the front than he was in the back. Yeah. That's true. Yeah. Yeah. That's true. That's true. But even when I look from the front, like the skin everywhere, like there's another level to go above. Yeah. You're right. Yeah. Yeah. I don't like the way he's hitting that pose. He's like, it could just be the camera angle. Yeah. But. But yeah, his legs should be a little bit more separate than that for two weeks. So definitely the shoulders. It's just like the skin, the skin texture, you know? I, I, I see it everywhere. It's like a layer everywhere. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like a thick skin look still. I mean, I would be a little bit concerned cause like this is, he's not going to beat guys at the Arnold in size. No, no. So, you know, like Andrew's going to be fucking massive. Nick's going to be massive. Like. And some of those guys are going to be peeled out of their mind too. So you gotta. Right. Most of them will be. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know. Anyway. Yeah. No. Um, let's get some. Um, do, are we making any changes to this? Predictions? Anything we want to change? How do you got? That was an interesting thing too. How do you got? How do you got? I'm going through a drama this week. Yeah. Hottie shut down his, uh, Instagram. I heard, I heard that was because he was going through customs or something like that somewhere. Oh. And I don't know. I don't know. I heard it had something to do with him going through customs somewhere. I don't know. That could be fucking bullshit though. I don't know. Um, but then after that, he shuts down his Instagram. Next thing I know, Hottie or Hottie drops them. Right. From Evagen. And I'm like, this guy through his entire prep has been dealing with half the Iranian country hating him. Then he starts dealing with it. I mean, they're friends, right? Yeah. Like, I thought he was still coaching them to be honest. You know, there's gotta be something going on. It's, this isn't just a, like a normal, like your contract ended. Right. Yeah. And is, and is he in the U S yet? Do we know that yet? I think he's in the U S. I think so. Yeah. He is now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But. Well, and look at things are really ramping up in Iran right now too. Yeah. He's got all that stress on his mind too. I'm sure he has family there that might be affected by. I just mean something's gotta be going on. Cause like you're, you got cut from your company two weeks before the biggest shit, like before the fucking Arnold. Yeah. Yeah. What the fuck is that? Yeah. It's crazy. That's why, you know, I like, I don't wish us on Hottie, but I don't feel like we're going to see the best audio. Just too much going on right now in his personal life. Or it's going to fuel him. I mean, we'll see. Yeah. But the updates look good. Yeah. I do. It's going to look great. You know? So where are my, where's his updates here? Where the fuck am I looking here? Oh, it's, what am I doing? I can't even look it up. Yeah. I just remembered. I can't look it up. You have to go to like a page that's posted it. You shut down. It's okay. It's okay. Anyway. I have some good news today. Great. I'm buying that GS. Nice. Are you? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think I finally found someone to take my, remember I came, my can, am spider. I had. Yeah. Well, you found a buyer. Well, I was trying to get the controls because it's a, it's a semi-automatic. You got to shift it with your left, with your left hand. So I was trying to get them to move the controls from the left side to the right side. So I could shift it that way. And, uh, they couldn't do it. They're like, we can't do it. So I'm like, well, fuck, I just got to sell this thing then. Cause summer's not really riding it. So I found a dealership that wants it and they have the GS I want. Nice. So I'm going to get the fucking, fucking do it. Those are nice bikes. I love the GSs. Dude, you got to see this thing, man. I put some serious miles on a GS now in my life. Yeah. How was it? You wrote it for a while. I've ridden it twice, two years at the, in California. Do you love it or what? Oh man, they're fucking awesome. Yeah. They're just tall. But if you put the seat on the lowest setting, like when I wrote it this year and he adjusted it for me and put the seat to the lowest one, it was, it was really nice, man. They ride so smooth. They've got some good power. You know, they're really good in twisty stuff. If you want them, like they balance really well. Um, they're a great bike. Yeah. Yeah. I'm fucking really excited about it, man. It's, it's for people wondering like how I'm going to ride it. It's a semi, semi-automatic. So there, there's no clutch. Uh, where the fuck I'm trying to hear. I can show you guys while I'm looking. So I'm not looking by myself. I'm trying to find the one. The triple black one or whatever. Yeah. There's a triple black and it's got gold wheels. I thought I'd be able to like find it real easily, but here, maybe if I. This one, that's it. Wow. That's fucking beautiful. Yeah. That was sick. No, not that one. That was that one. Look at that motherfucker. That's all BMW bikes have the same kind of design. Like they have that. Like it's almost looks like they're like the tires look like they don't fit the wheel. Well, no, no. I mean, they're all different. I mean, it depends on the style of bike. Like you get an S 1000 double R or something. It's doesn't look like that. I mean, they got a lot of, you know, or like the R nine, like they have, you know, different naked bikes and stuff like that. There's a lot of different. Okay. It seems like most of the ones that I've seen have that same kind of design, but no, this is, this is like a, a, like a adventure bike. So it's, you know, it's got kind of like off roadie tires on it. You know, that's why it sits up a little bit higher like that. Yep. Yes, sir. So that hopefully I haven't told summer yet, though. I think she's gonna be pretty upset. She's used to that now by now, isn't she? Yeah. Well, you know, my, you know, my philosophy about these things, Paul, anybody watching, if you want to have a happy marriage, take my advice. If you want things, don't ask your wife. It's better to just do what you want to do and then ask for forgiveness. It's better to ask for forgiveness than it is ask for permission. There you go. You said it. Just buy her something. That's the key to a happy marriage. Because if you ask for permission and then still do it, then you're way worse. Then you're just a dick. But if you don't ask and then you're like, Hey, I didn't know. I didn't know. I didn't know what would bother you. Yeah. But you're like, Hey, I'm thinking of doing this. She's like, I don't want you to do it. And then you do it anyways. Now you're just a dick. Now I know. Yeah. You're taking her to Italy anyways. You get some points for that. Yeah. Am I what? You're taking her to Italy. You get some points for that. I'm taking her to Italy. Oh, you know what I think about doing? There's a, there's a place called, um, what do you guys think of this? Tell me if this is stupid. Uh, so Italy was her Christmas gift, but her birthday's in March and I didn't want to like her birthday to go by and like not get her anything big. So I was like, there's a place called, uh, milk and honey ranch. Okay. Do you think that's stupid? I don't know what it is. What do you do there? You just play, play with animals. Oh, that'd be fun. She likes like mini cows and shit and goats and goats and stuff like that. So I thought like, here, this would be cute. Where's it at? Uh, Texas. It's like shit like that. Yeah. Yeah. It'd be great. A hobby firm. I guess. I don't know. Well, like kind of a resort at the same time. It's like, okay, that's cool. It's kind of a resort. Yeah. You can get like, you can get like your own, like, uh, oh yeah, this'd be great. I like getaways like that. Yeah. Oh, it's beautiful. Yeah. Gallery. That's where I should go. Yeah. You get some work done there for a nice romantic place like that. What? You get some work done there. Romantic setting like that. Uh, yeah, I guess. Well, I don't even know what that means. You know. You know what it means. I don't know what you, oh, you, oh, get some work done. I got bees. You know what the nice thing about being handicapped is Paul. I, I, I do, I do a lot less work now and I don't feel, and I don't feel guilty about it. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I'm going to Turkey on Sunday book. Are you again? What the fuck dude? I'm literally going on Sunday, like two days, three days. What are you getting done? You know, for somebody who's so racist, you love Arab people. I love Turkish people. Yeah. Same. Same. They like kebabs and they, they have like a harsh language. Yeah. I went for a Turkish breakfast a couple of weeks ago. Was it just fucking like meat and cheese? Basically. Yeah. But it was really good. Some pastries. What's a Turkish breakfast. It's like, it's like fucking meat, like, like deli meat and cheese and breads and pastries. Like it's, it's a lot of European. It's like a lot of European breakfast. Yeah. Well, I was going to say that makes them not Arab because that's a very European breakfast. Very European. I was shocked at Europe. You know, when I started traveling for Cytec, I was shocked at European breakfast. I always considered European. It's not like American. I just thought European people were so healthy. And I go for their breakfast and every single fucking breakfast place is like. Pastry, pastry. Deli meat, pastries. I'm like, this is Nutella's everywhere. I'm like. Okay. I'm like. Oh yeah. Nutella too. For sure. I'm like, what is going on with these fucking breakfast people? Like they don't fucking have nothing healthy. It's all fucking. They did have eggs, but like most of it's just deli meat and shit. Yeah. Yeah. No, we're going, we're going on Sunday for a week. Melissa's getting her, uh, her tits out. Oh, wow. You know, I didn't know if you want to talk about that podcast. I'm really concerned about this. We're worried about you. Tell me more. Well, I'm trying to light this fucking cigar. It keeps going out. Um, you're going to, what's good. You're not going to have anything to play with. Yeah. You're going to be okay. I'll, I'll make it through. I think. Yeah. It's going to be, it's going to be a tough road guys, but I think I'll be okay. Well, talk to us if you need something. Yeah. I'll, I'll lead on my friends. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I got to, I got to say Summer might be mad at me for this, but Summer is, um, she's rather well in doubt. Yeah. And, uh, and she said to me on many, okay. Asians, I'd like to remove. They get a reduction. I'd like to remove my add ons. Right. No way. And I'm like, what are you talking about? What the fucking. No, no. This is a wee decision here. I think. So I'm really against it. Yeah. I don't really think I have a say. Like, I think she's just going to do whatever she wants. Yeah. But I actually think she's been listening to me. So now I kind of feel bad. Cause I think she's kept him all this time for me. Yeah. Oh, she loves you. Um, Melissa mostly doing it for child purposes. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I mean, and also like, I think she's just over having big boobs. Like she's in her, you know, she's in her like a, like her, her skinny chic fit era, you know? Okay. Like she likes, she's not like a, in her big boobie or anymore, you know? So I think she's ready to get rid of those. So this might sound stupid, but can women with implants breastfeed? Yeah. You can, but it can, it can definitely make it more difficult for sure. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And then you also like, I think the thing she really didn't want is when you get, when you're breastfeeding, your tits get gigantic. Plus you already have gigantic implants. She doesn't want to feel like a fucking, you know, gigantic, like a feature at a strip club. Yeah. Fucking booberella, you know? Like, yeah. So she's a, I think she's just ready to have that. Look, if she wants to get ones again, later in life, like after we've had kids and stuff, she might do it. But for now, I think she's like, yeah, I'm good to get them out and kind of decide later. Yeah. So is that, is that a tough recovery or is it pretty simple? I honestly don't know. Because her implants are under the muscle, I'm sure there's still, you know, a fairly decent recovery process because they're going to have to cut the muscle, like when they put them in and go under there and remove the implant. There's probably some scar tissue and, you know, what they call a capsule, a contracture that's kind of formed around the implant a little bit. They'll have to scrape out of there. So I'm sure it's not nothing like as if she, you know, if she had a above the muscle implant, it would be a lot less invasive. But yeah, I don't know. They said that they'd like us to stay five days at least after the surgery. So we're going to fly Sunday night overnight. So get there, fly the 22nd, get there the 23rd. And then the 24th, she's getting surgery. Then we'll stay for five days from there and then fly home on the sixth day. Okay. Question. If she's getting her boobs out, can she get asthma implants so you have something to play with? Did you think if the boobs put her in her ass? Yeah. Cause that's not going to be, that's not going to be, that's not going to be. That's a rough recovery there. Yeah. There's no breastfeeding there. There's no breastfeeding. No. Yeah. I guess she could. I don't think she wants that though. She's not. She's in her like, like she, like, you know how Melissa is. She doesn't like big secondary sex characteristics. She likes like lean, long, like athletic looking. You know, that's not really her vibe of like having a huge ass and huge tits, you know? So it's kind of out of her wheelhouse right now. My main thing is having something disproportionate. It has to be disproportionate. I don't like proportion. I would need there to be just some up top, up top and the bottom. Some of it has got to be, it's got to be something. Yeah. What, what, what, what is most common? Like what are women doing these days? Like, you know, obviously they're doing something to enhance their asses. Most of them, are they doing fat injections or are they doing like, like fat transfer injections? I'm so I'm sure some are doing implants of some kind, but I think implants is more difficult. So I think of a lot of it as injections and in fat transfers. Yeah. And is that permanent or is that something you got to touch up every once in a while? It depends what you do, but yeah, I mean, not all of it would be permanent. It depends the kind of fat transfer you do, you know, and obviously if you're losing substantial body fat, obviously a fat transfer can dissipate with, with that, you know? So, so it really depends. Okay. Like for a competitor doing a fat transfer wouldn't be super ideal. Cause if you push your body fat down, a lot of that could just go away with it. Right. Yeah. I'm just going to get, when I'm there, I'm like, I'll just get a fucking, I'm, you know, go get a teeth cleaning and maybe some whitening and some fucking shit while I'm there too. Maybe get some dick filler. Yeah. Yeah. I'll just fucking PMMA my dick up huge. You guys, did we talk about this already with the skiers? Yeah. The skiers. Oh yeah. The Olympic skiers. Yeah. Yeah. I'll just do that. I'll just fucking fill my dick up. So, you know, yeah. Be like fucking like a mug. I asked, I asked Summer, I told Summer I had made her a deal. I said, look, if you want to remove your tits, it's fine. We just got to move it down to the bottom. Swap one to the other. We'll just get your ass done. Your back will be better and you'll, you'll, your legs will take more. Yeah. Cause the weight will be in the back. So it'll kind of straighten you up, you know, stabilize you. Give me better. Center of gravity. Give you the right balance. Yeah. It'd be great for you. Low, lower center of gravity. You know, way better for your health. Yeah. Yeah. It's actually just for your health. This is even for me. This is for you and your long term health. Yeah. I'm thinking only of you, babe. Should I help stabilize your lower back? Yeah. Yeah. I feel so bad for my wife. She's got to be married, married to me. It's got to be so difficult. Fucking misogynist Arabs. Um, you're going to, I'm looking, I'm looking forward to it. It'll be a week, Sunday to Sunday. I want to go to fucking Turkey. You know, every time you go there, it sounds like you're having such a good time. And I love it. I want to get stuff done. I look at my nose fixed. I get my fucking clean. I got the plug. We'll go down. Me and Malik from, from now hair time, we could become good friends. And, uh, and it's, it's nice to just go down and see those people. And, you know, they always hook us up with some, you know, nice things to do over there. Like last time we went to Cappadocia and did the hot air balloons. We saw the underground cities. We did some different tours. We went to like a thermal spa. Um, so, you know, they're going to give us some like tours of Istanbul this time and some different stuff. So, you know, it's, it's always good to go down there. And last time I did the dirt biking with him. Remember I went dirt biking with him and his boys, which was fucking so much fun. So, um, you know, it's, uh, it's, it's always nice to go down and get to spend time with those guys. You know, they've been a very, very gracious to us. Can I, let's book a date. When can we go? Whenever you want, man. I'm serious. I'm dead serious. Sunday. Book your flight. Let's go. I'll third wheel. I don't give a fuck. Yeah. You can come. I'm cool with it. She's going to be recovered in the hotel. We can go fucking party, you know, just leave her, just leave her there. Yeah. Like here, babe, take these drugs. You need an app, you know? No, I'm serious. I'd like to go get some shit done. You know, some people, some people, when they fucking start getting old, they just accept it. They're like, I'm fucking at old. I don't want to accept it. I want to fucking look good at my old age. Yeah. I've been trying to be a bit more like diligent with doing like my fucking Botox and like, you know, things like that to keep myself looking younger and shit like this, you know? Just getting ahead of it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think it's, you know, it's funny for me. I don't think I need any skin stuff. I need. No, you don't really. I need. I need good skin. I need other stuff. Yeah. I need, I need to remove my tits. Can they remove my tits? 100%. Yeah. There to be a Melissa. We'll get our tits removed at the same time. Yeah. Yeah. That'd be great. You guys can recover together. Yeah. What the fuck? No. Yeah. I mean, I, I love going there. So, I mean, anytime fucking you guys want to go, I mean, I think we should hit it. I'm going to want to get my hair done again at some point. Um, you know, so I think we'll, but even then, like if, you know, if you're back riding at some point, we fucking go down there, hang out with them, do some cool, like tours around there, do a little dirt biking, whatever. Be sick. You know, what countries, Ian, you've done quite a bit of traveling. What area of the world haven't you been to? Like, uh. What's going on guys? I just want to break away to show you one of our sponsors, David protein, a sponsor. I came across by accident. I was eating their bars, actually enjoying them. They contacted me because they saw me enjoying their bars. And so we are now partners. If you go to their page, David protein, you see here, if you buy four boxes, you get the fifth one free chocolate chip cookie dough is probably my favorite guys. If you want a good snack, their tastes really good. 20 grams of protein, just about 30 grams, 150 calories, zero fat. It's like it fits into your macro count almost perfectly to help you top up that protein count by the end of the day. Davidprotein.com. Buy four boxes. Get the fifth one free. I've been to Asia, but I would really like to go to Japan. I want to go to Japan too. That's like top, top of my list. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, there he is. This guy. Are you still working out? Walking out. I literally just finished. He was going to join. He was going to join us while he was training. We're going to have like a live podcast workout. Hey, two exercises in. I was like, I already breathe too heavy when I'm not working out. So everyone talks shit. Joe, how are you doing? How are you doing, man? Good. Honestly, I'm doing really good. We're not really pushing anymore. We're just kind of holding where I'm at. I'm adjusting really well. I don't feel like a fat fuck, to be honest. You look like a fat fuck. But looking and feeling is two different things. I'm just joking, dude. You look awesome. We just talked about you actually on the RBP news channel that I'm doing. We were talking about your last update, which I'm just bringing up right now. Insanity. Your last update was what, 316 or 318? Oh, that morning I checked in at 310.6 with my trunk's on. Yeah. So with shoes, some water, and a meal in, I weighed 318 at the gym. So that doesn't count then? Oh, that counts. That counts. That counts? That means my highest has been like 320 then. Yeah. That's okay. Weigh yourself right before bed fully clothed. Yeah, but you remember, it only counts if it's recorded. You fucked up. If you took a picture of it, it's just in 20 years, that's fact. Yeah. That's just forever. Yeah, it's on the internet. This is insane. Jesus Christ. You're fucking exploding, man. What the fuck? Insanity. Power of Pop-Tarts, dog. People don't believe me. I know. Joe, you know what I love about what you're doing? It's so old school. You're like, you know what? I'm just going to eat anything I can to get big. Just get fucking huge. I've told everybody my favorite bodybuilder coming up was Lee Priest. I was like, this guy did it right. That's right. That was to me. Yeah. You look great. I can lock in four or five months out of the year, but then the rest of the year, it's like, I'll do what I can in the rebound where I'm 100% locked in still. And then I would say about two to three months out of the year, I just kind of live. Because I get to a certain weight where even if I eat clean, you're still going to accumulate some body fat. Right. So those calories start hitting a little different. So I pretty much just hold my weight or gain a few pounds here and there at the end where it's just me eating somewhat freely within the calorie guideline. But you don't, like when you say live, you're not relaxing. You have a diet. Oh, no, there's a diet in play. And you kind of eat on top of that. Yes. Yes. So I have my base diet. I do four meals, which are my base meals. And then every night I'll have a cheat meal of what I want. Right now I've been rocking Charles Jr. That's to my fame. There's one like 24 hours by the house. It's just so convenient. I didn't. Yeah, I didn't go that hardcore. I had a five meal diet and I would be like probably 90% on track five days a week. And then two days a week I would do like a sloppy fucking last meal. That was kind of like it worked well for me that way. If I did sloppy shit every night, it would fuck me up and I couldn't eat my food. Yeah, see, I've been able to digest. I've been able to just be fine, like holding where I'm at. Because Paul, my training partner, he's like, is your digestion fucked up? I'm like, no, man. I go like twice a day and I have no problem going to the restroom or anything. Like I have no problem eating my food. So it's working for me. What were you going to say, Paul? Didn't Chad have you on a diet like that before? Where as long as you hit your target meals, you could have whatever you wanted on top of that? Dude, Chad had me on. Like Chad, everything Chad did worked for me, but it also created like, like Chad's way of bodybuilding works very, very well. But it's also the most extreme version of bodybuilding. Yeah, right. You know what I mean? It's like lots of everything. Like don't miss. You're not like, which works. Because like you got to think like you're not missing anything. You're getting all your food in. You're getting all your vitamins and minerals in. Like everything. You're taking a mass amounts of all of it. But it also is like it's kind of hard on your body. Yeah. Right. Like that's the only negative, right? Like there's an easier way to do it than to be that way, but that way works. So it's not the healthiest approach maybe. I personally don't think it's the healthiest approach. Yeah, Joe. So how's your appetite still at that weight? Like with eating this food? Like you still feel good? Like getting your meals in is pretty solid. Like it's not. That doesn't feel like a barrier for you right now? No. As long as I stay on top of. So like I always have. The rule of thumb is three meals in before I train. Okay. Because pre and post is super easy for me to get in. Yeah. And then like I said, the last meal has been like a cheat meal. So five meals in a day is really simple. Because as soon as I wake up, I eat. No, I wait an hour. I eat. And then I eat my second meal like three hours later. I'll take a fat nap. Wake up. Eat my pre-workout meal. Go train. Eat my post-workout meal. And then I have all night to eat my cheat meal. So it's just a really easy balance to where I have plenty of time in between meals. Yeah. Joe, do you want to drive home? You don't get a podcast from the car, man. I'm going to be honest. I usually sit in my car for a few minutes after I train. Okay. This is one of my rituals here. When you decide to go home, you can just put us in the cup holder and just go. We look like Guy Sister Nino in this big show. Yeah, exactly. So listen. So we were talking about breakout people this year. And I know a lot of people already know you. Because you kind of broke out last year. But I was saying that I was going to predict that this was the year that you win. Because you're probably, you're aiming for what? Those Texas-Tampa shows? Yeah. Yeah. So I mentioned on other podcasts, I'm going to do Tampa. It's 100%. I'm for sure doing Tampa. So we'll see what I do after that. How does Justin feel about your progress? He's really excited. His words to me was, I'm ready to shut people up. That think I'm fake. Well, I don't think. I don't think. I'm AI. A bunch of haters are saying, oh, I AI my pictures. Or I'm Synthol in my fucking titties and shit. You don't have any fucking haters, do you? Trust me. Go to my comment section. All right. I'm going to your comment section. Once you start to look that crazy, you always get some. Yeah. It's really exciting. Joe. You know, there's a buildup to this. First, your friends comment. Then you make a little funny. You're a bunch of gay guys. Yeah. Yeah. That's the process. Yeah. Let's go to the bottom. That's where the haters lie. The gay guys last a while, though, before you make that jump, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I don't know, man. This all looks like positive shit to me. No, you just got to dig deep. I have a few haters. I didn't see a bunch. That's all of it. Joe. Oh, wait. This is the hidden comments. I don't see it, dude. That's all good. Listen, unless you deleted some comments. No, no, no. Trust me. They're there. I see them. They hurt my feelings. Does it actually hurt your feelings? No, it's exciting. I'm like, oh, shit. I'm making it, you know? Don't do it. It's a stepping stone. Yeah. For real. Yeah, you know, you're on the up and up when. Yeah. Doing something right. Yeah. Well, it's impressive, man. Like I said, we're trying to count, like, Suki on the news channel posed it to me like this. He's like, there's a lot of guys in that. Like, I call those shows Murderer's Row because it's like, they're just deep. Those shows are always deep as fuck. And he was saying, well, out of all these guys that are right on the cusp, who do you think? Because he said you. He said Quint. He said, like, you know, Jordan's not on the cusp. He won two shows, but he might be doing those shows again. Blah, blah, blah. And whoever else he can think of. And I was like, I think Joe's going to do it this year. So you got to make me. You can't make me look bad, dude. I'm going to make you guys proud. It's one of those things, man. I'm just, you know, I see myself every day. But I always do what every bodybuilder does and compare it to where they were last year and what their offseason looked like last year and stuff. And I'm just, I'm really happy with what I do with my legs. Like, that's the one thing. If I could bring up anything, it was that. And my arms came up a bit, too. My arms are bigger than I've ever been. Yeah. There were 22 and a half inches the other day. Yeah. And I've never been that fucking big. So that's just going to help my look a little bit better, too. Yeah. And I'm like, okay, you know, like, I see my leg grow. I see my arms. I got that fucking close last year with less. Yeah. So I'm very confident in what I can do this year. Because, you know, it's one thing where bodybuilders, they'll take another season off or whatever time they grow. And sometimes they end up just growing the same shit that their body already has. Yeah. And so I'm like, I know that I'm not doing that. I'm going to hold on and grow a little bit. But hold on. I was just going to say that. Because, listen, I went through, I was never, I don't think I was ever that big. Or I was that weight, but I was a different look. But I had a thicker waist. And I was always playing this game where I'm like, if I can just get bigger in this area or that area, my waist won't look as big. And no matter what I did, every year I just got kind of bigger everywhere. So I never ended up with that, like, look that I wanted with the bigger shoulders and smaller waist. Are you worried? Because you are, do you do look like you're growing everywhere? So are you worried that that's, you know what I mean? I think there's very few bodybuilders that have a perfect all eight shots. Yeah, of course. And so the little bit that I can bring up, I know my strength is muscularity and conditioning. And I already got that close with what I had. So do I expect my waist to look drastically smaller? No. But that freak factor with the bigger legs and the bigger everything, I think is going to be, for me, overwhelming. And that's why I push my weight like this. Yeah. I try to control how much my waist grows, obviously. And I try to do movements that aren't going to put in a detriment. Like, I don't train abs. I don't do any hip hinging movements. All my back movements are seated or chest supported. So, like, those things I'm trying, you know. And again, I think it's inevitable that everything's going to grow together anyways. But just having the bigger pieces, I'm able to hide a little bit better other than my front shots. Right. So. Well, I mean, side and back shots are your shots for sure. If the quads grow, then the front shots are going to be there too. I think my ab and thigh is going to be better than ever because of the quads. And then my lats came up even more. So just that itself, as long as I pose it right, that's going to be a hard shot to be too. And then I was given instruction on how to pose my front lat spread. Yeah. And just little tweaks like that. I can easily hide my waist with that one too. Yeah. So really the only one in my head that I'm going to have a harder time with is the front double by. Yeah. And I just want to see what it looks like first before I even say anything. I may pose a difference this year. We'll just see. But if I lose any shots, like there'll be that one. And the rest, I think we'll take care of themselves. Yeah. It's hard to make tweaks when you're in the offseason because you can't really like manipulate poses unless you're like in shape and you can tell how things look when you're moving a certain way. What do you think there's a part, like, I don't know how you felt last offseason. They're obviously heavier this year. Do you think there's a piece of the offseason where you're like enough already? Like, where do you, where does, when does that happen for you? Where you're like, fuck this. I'm ready to get back on, on my diet. So this, uh, last push we're still on and we're on an extra week. And I thought, I think we're going to end up doing 14 weeks total. I was over at eight weeks in my eight weeks was like the sweet part. Yeah. But then that's when I, that's when I hit the peak where we pulled back. You know, he's decided, he's like, Hey, we have the time. Let's do one more little push. And that's when my weight just went, what the fuck? Yeah. So it's almost like I had a tiny rebound effect by pulling back a little bit for like two weeks. And, um, it helped my appetite a ton doing that. Yeah. So yeah, no, I mean, I was over at eight weeks, but now at this point, um, because we're kind of cruising here, I'm pretty comfortable. So I'm not in the trenches of it anymore. I'm not still working out hard, but it's like, I don't really have to put any more weight on at all. Joe, is it when you pick shows like me, me and Ian have had this conversation many times when you pick your show, is it solely based on timing? Like I need to put on this much muscle. I need this much time. Or are there shows that are more attractive to you? Cause like, you got to think there's shows like New York and Pittsburgh that are really big now, really popular. There's a lot of money. Do those shows ever enter into your mind or you're like, look, I need this much time because I got to grow X amount of time. This is, uh, this year. The only reason I waited so long to repeat, uh, Tampa, um, is because I wanted to make sure my leg size stuck. So I knew I could bring them up and my legs are the first fucking thing to go when I get to that stage level conditioning that I need to be at. To win. Yeah. And so I wanted to make damn sure that they stayed long enough before I did that. So next year, um, whatever happens this year. Awesome. But I've, I really want to do, um, New York pro and, uh, I want to win the cow. Detroit. Is Detroit right before New York? No. Right after Arnold. Detroit. Right after. You should want to do the Arnold and then Detroit. So, you know, I probably make it to Olympia this year, which I plan on doing. I will, uh, I will definitely think about doing Arnold in Detroit. I'll change my game plan for you. No, listen, I'm joking. I always want to go to New York. I'm joking around about Detroit, but I am serious with Arnold. Is that something that, cause I always, when I started competing, I always wanted to do the Arnold. It was one of like, cause it was the first show I kind of went to as a fan and like really enjoyed. So not first show, but one of the first shows, but is that, that was always something I wanted to do. Is that something on your radar or is it not a big deal for you? No, it's a big deal for me. I just want to be ready when I get there. And I figure you make it to the, Oh, you're definitely ready to do that kind of show. Yeah. Of course. I think. Yeah. So it's like stepping stones in my head. Like, you know, like, um, it's almost like you can, uh, when you wear an oversized shirt, you need to be at least two 50 plus to be able to do that. You know, you have to earn your marks. I wish I, I wish I did more. I only did, I only did the Arnold one time my whole career. And I wish I did. Really? To be honest. Really? Yeah. I did the one that I came second. That's the only one I ever did. Oh, I didn't, I didn't even realize that. No, it was because the timing for me was always just difficult. Like I, not to brag, but I did a lot of Olympias, you know? So, so I was always, and the years where I was, I just want to, I just want to put in, I was throwing here that I qualified for four Olympias. I actually, I actually did four. Uh, but no, I was counting. Yeah. But the Olympias, the last few years, like when I was actually good doing them were always a bit later. Cause it was like the COVID years and just those years after. Um, so the Olympias were like one year I did, it was in December. They were November, you know? So like, and I'd been competing all season to get there. Like, you know, some of the years I did Tampa, Texas and, you know, July, August, and I did Toronto, I was doing, you know, Spain, like those shows early in the year. And then I stretched that all the way to the Olympia. And then, then I'm like, okay, I need to shut it down to get ready. So the only year I did the Arnold is that one year when they had the Arnold, like two weeks before the Olympia in 2021. Right. Um, you know, it was right before that year they had it in Florida. Um, so I was like, okay, well, I'm, I'm qualified for the Olympia. I mean, the Arnold's two weeks before fuck. I'll throw my name in the, you know, my hat in the race. Uh, but that was the only year I ever did. I never did one, uh, in, uh, wait, no, the Arnold was still in Columbus that year, but it was the, the Olympia was in Florida that year. Sorry. Yeah. Um, but yeah, that was the only year I did. It was that those COVID years, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. When nobody showed up. So that way you could. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean, it makes sense. I understand. Like second place is second place. Um, yeah, no, it is. It honestly is one of my, I think is my favorite show that I ever did. I never, I never did. I agree. It is an awesome show. I never did well at the Arnold cause it was just, my mind was too fucked up to do it. Right. But it was, it's honestly like, I don't know. It's just a nice stage. It's a nice show. They treat, they treat the athletes great. It's, it's just an easy show to do. Like logistically it's, it's, it's a really good show and you know, they, they make sure the athletes have everything they need and they, you know, give you good stuff backstage for pumping up. It's like some shows you go backstage, just fucking nothing there. It's like, I remember the year I did, they had a full goddamn gym back there, literally like an entire gym, you know, anything you need that those guys were there, like ready to give you whatever you wanted. Like they really take good care of the athletes and it's definitely an enjoyable show to do, you know, and that stage and that, just like that atmosphere is, is, you know, really like no other, you know, let me ask a question. Oh, go ahead. Sorry. I was just going to ask like, well, you too, Joe, since you're still active bodybuilding, but did you guys, do you guys prefer backstage to have weights and like a, like a good setup to pump up with? Or is it like for a lot of guys? Yeah. Hell yeah. Yeah. Even if I don't use any of it, it's just like nice to be in that atmosphere, you know? Like, look, I'm not back there using fucking, you know, every single machine, but like, it's nice. Like, you know, when you see it, you're like, oh, this would be neat. Like you're pumping up. You're like, oh, instead of doing pushups, there's a pec deck here. I can use this, you know? Or at least like having a good set of dumbbells and not stealing some guy's bands off the floor, you know? But it's like, it's nice to at least have some, you know, some shit back there. And I think just like at a high level show, even if nobody uses it, I think you should provide it. You know? I was just going to say, I was just going to say that I never needed that. Cause I just didn't feel like it was necessary. But when you walk backstage and you see a nice setup, you kind of just feel like a professional. You're like, well, yeah, you think, you think of the Olympics when they're preparing for the a hundred meter, they're not giving them like a warmup track with blocks and all, all the things like you have every tool you need to get ready for your profession. And for our profession, it's lifting weights and, you know, like that's pumping up and being part of that stage. That's your warmup process. So I think anything that is in the realm of possibility that an athlete would need within context, you know, at a high level show should definitely be there. You know what, you know what is interesting about you saying that Ian, the facility that we have the Detroit pro at, it's a beautiful theater. And then we have the area where the expo, we're not doing that this year. It's going to be in the lobby area just because we feel like everybody can get to the booths better. But behind that, there's a full gym. Yeah. They have a full gym there. Yeah. It's a literal commercial gym there. Yeah. It's open to the public though. So we've, so we've talked, maybe we'll talk to them again and see like, you know what, maybe, maybe we'll see if they can shut it down for like a day or an hour or whatever so that the guys can go in there and use it. And it's like their pump up area. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if they will, at least if they could like, you know, throw a couple pieces of machinery on a fucking pallet jacket, move them back, step back. They can do that. You know, like, you know, and I think that's at the Arnold, what they do is it was one of the local gyms, like one of those fucking old school gyms just, you know, brought a truck with, you know, 10, 15 pieces and delivered them backstage. You know, this wasn't like them buying new equipment. They were all like old school pieces and they just like, you know, borrowed them from a local gym and they brought it back there. You know, we used to do that for our winter show back a long time ago, but then we found people weren't using the weights anymore. So we just started going with bands and stuff like that and a few dumbbells. But yeah, we used to do that back in the day. You'll always get a couple of guys and I'll say, I call Sergio out on this, but when we were at the Arnold, I remember that year, Sergio Oliva Jr. He's back there. He's fucking full workout, just going ham back there. He did everything. He was, he was going hard. Sometimes I've seen Dexter do that. I've seen Dexter go pretty hard backstage, pumping up. Some of those old school guys will do that. So, yeah, I mean, you know, it's just cool to have, you know, it's nice to have like, you know, fun fact of what I, for both the Texas pro and Tampa pro I'm someone who does well with a little bit of like fluid in me. Yeah. So for my pump up, I actually use your bloodshot. Of course. Sick. And so like when people say how full I looked on such little carbs, I know that helps a lot. I keep telling everybody it's the best pump product on the market. Thank you. We'll take, pick that, take that out. To our next ad. No, no, but yeah, I, I, I used that this year for the first time. I've used it in the past, but not for a pre-show. Yeah. But yeah, I used that for most shows. Joe, before you got on, we were talking about traveling and Ian likes to travel to Turkey because he needs to keep himself pretty. So he does his hair and fixes his teeth and does like, you know, he just does all these like really. So if you could go to Turkey and fix anything and change anything, what would it be? Honestly. Well, I'm starting to bald finally in the back right here. Are you? Yeah. It's very subtle, but. That's how it starts. Then it goes real quick after that. Yeah. It kind of goes over a cliff. I'm not even going to lie. I told my wife, Ashley, who says hi, by the way, to everybody. Hello. Hi. I told her, I was like, hey, I think I'm starting out like Fulac. Just turn into Mohawk. I'm going to have a little fucking high forehead with a little tiny Mohawk. That's right. Yeah. I rocked that shit for like four years. I was like, yeah, you got to trademark that to it. Yeah. And then. Actually, I think I'm, I think I'm Arab. Yeah. You know what? Are you going to shave it? Are you going to try and keep it? No. Once it's, once it starts looking like some comb over action, I'm fucking done. No, but I'm saying like. It's okay. So you don't care. You're like, fuck it. You're big. You got a beard. You'll be good. Yeah. Yeah. You're huge. Yeah. I'm white too. I feel like I'm, this is my thing. Like, look at Hunter. Big white guy with a beard. Yeah. I'm white. He's supposed to be. Supposed to be an inch. He has the anomaly. He's the only white guy left with hair. Well, according to Fulac, I'm Mexican, but I look white at least. I thought you were, I thought you were Mexican. Yeah. But you talk like I'm full on Mexican. You look at that guy like, oh, he's for sure a Mexican. Palacios. Palacios is Mexican. If you met me for the first time ever. Hi, Joseph. You know, like you're white, right? No way you go. I'm Mexican. Not even a trace. If I met you for the first time, I'd be like, that guy's Mexican for sure. Look, watch. That doesn't look like a Mexican to me. One second. Here. I'll find a Mexican picture. I'll find a Mexican. Tell me this guy's not Mexican. That's a fucking. I see. I see no Mexican there. I don't either. I see a big white dude. Jesus, dude. These pictures. What are these from? When are these from? 303. That was 10 pounds ago. Remember? That was when I got right before I got sick as fuck and lost like 15 pounds. Dude, you look really good here for. The conditioning is still good at that. Yeah, it is. What the fuck? I didn't even see these pictures. I don't think. Because you saw a Mexican guy. You're like, yeah. Yeah. I was like, I'm like, oh, he's Mexican. He can't win. No way. Yeah. These are great. In fact, I think Ian comment. I'm not sure. But those are my wife's fucking booty shorts. I forgot my trunks at home. Oh, these? Yeah. I was like, babe, I need to borrow your trunks. Stretch the fuck out of them. Yeah. That's fucking great, dude. Yeah. Quads look good, too. Joe, where have you traveled in the world? Anywhere? No, we're exciting. I mean, the most exciting place I've been was Hawaii, I guess. Have you traveled? How often? Like, how many places have you been to outside of the US? Like, country-wise? Like, going to the country? I haven't. Do you want to go anywhere? I've always wanted to go to Germany and Italy. Why? Germany because of FIBO and Italy just because I like the culture. I want to see... Aren't you half Italian? No, I'm half Mexican. What's that? What's the other half? What's the other half? White. H-W-I-T-E. Italian's white. White? Oh, not this white. My mom's from Nebraska. That's white as fuck. Oh, that's white. We're Husker. You're really white. I told you, man. The power of her genetics just took over. So, Italy and Germany. That's it. Yeah, that's all I really cared to see. Like, from when I was younger, I've always wanted to go. Why did you say Germany? What was in Germany? That's when I got into bodybuilding, and I've always wanted to go to FIBO. I've never been to FIBO. I've never been either. Dude, FIBO's fucking huge. It's crazy. It's still that big. I hear really good things about it. I've been to FIBO three or four times with SciTech. Dude, it's like... You know how the Arnold is like one complex of four? It's like four different fucking complexes filled with different booths. Yeah, it's everything. Gym manufacturers. The reason it's so big is because it's everything from hardcore bodybuilding to marathon runners to triathletes. Everybody is there. It's just a fucking massive, massive fucking... Yeah, and it's also all European, which is such a bigger market than just the USA, right? Yeah. The gyms are crazy, too. It's just a little hole-in-the-wall places. Yeah. Yeah, it's pretty awesome. So Germany to go to FIBO, Italy because you like the culture and the food. No more else, eh? No Arab countries? Just fucking leave us out? I've also... I've always... Well, it's not... I don't know if it's considered Arab. It's Egypt? That's African, right? Yeah, it's African. It's African. I've always wanted to sightsee in Egypt, like see the pyramids and stuff. Since I was a kid, I want to do that, too. Do you think there's shit underneath the pyramids? 100%. You do, right? Yeah, I really do. I've been seeing that shit lately. I've been stuck in those rabbit holes of like there's fucking mystical water down there and shit. Yeah, yeah. Powering the fucking... Power plants and shit. Powered by the sun and shit. Yeah. I'm like, yes, I want all of it. I want to see all that shit. You got to think it makes sense. It's like the pyramids are the top of something else. Yeah. And they line up with like the stars like purposefully for some crazy shit. You know what I find a lot about pyramids, too? Like every continent has their own pyramids. And when they were built, there was no like global travel like that. So how do they all, you know, design the same thing like that? But maybe there was global travel and we just don't know about it. Could be, for sure. Maybe history was erased at some point. Yeah, or it was just like an easy design to build tall buildings back then. But who knows, you know? It wasn't, though, Ian. No, but it wasn't. But it wasn't because they've shown... So the theory traditionally is that the limestone or whatever, not limestone, but the stones for the pyramids are so big that they had to like wheel them up. Oh, they came from far. Yeah. They had to wheel them up on blocks to get them into place, right? Yeah. They showed the length of how long that... Yeah, sorry. I'm not talking about the pyramids specifically. I'm just saying that shape of building. You know, like why you get ones in like the Incan and Mio, like in fucking South America and Mexico and stuff. Yeah. I think it's just like a sheet that makes sense for building tall buildings, you know? I can agree with that, but I still can't figure out how they got the blocks in place. Yeah, I mean, obviously it was insane. There is no rational explanation. Yeah. Insane amounts of manpower, you know? You can't, though, Ian. Like, I'm telling you, they showed the length of the ramp because the steepness of the pyramid. Yeah. They showed the length of the ramp that you would need to get... Yeah, like miles. Yeah. Yeah, it was like a mile and a half or some shit. And there's no remnants of any kind of ramp or anything. And I'm like, I don't know, it's confusing. Aliens. Aliens, bro. It's been a while, though. Ian, I know you're... What are they saying? No, I'm all for it with the pyramids for sure. And a lot of these things. You know, I've even heard like these things that use like fucking sound shit and like all sorts of crazy stuff, you know? Look, I don't know what it is. I know you're always like kind of... Not anti. Well, I'm all for it. I'm all for these things. I believe a lot of this. We don't know. And it's going to be hard for us to ever know. There's a lot of information and a lot of like technology lost over the like the generations, you know, like that there's so many things that we've lost in over time. But I just like to pick fun at it, you know? Do you guys ever wonder if we're not the smartest civilization? Oh, it doesn't. I think in a lot of ways, civilization as a whole, we're probably dumber because the few smart people that made the smart things like technology made the rest of us dumb because we're reliant on it, you know? Okay. I don't mean that way. Yeah. I mean like this. Civilization as a whole right now, we have cars and we have phones and computers, we have robots, whatever. So we're always... when we look back at history, we always look back at it in a way of that was primitive and we are modern and advanced, right? Yeah. And I always wonder, I'm like, was there a more advanced civilization before that got wiped out and now we're just another civilization on the way up? Yeah. I definitely think like in the back of my head and there's no evidence for this, but I definitely think with how long Earth has been around, there's probably been a few cycles that have got really advanced and then wiped itself out without advanced. wiped itself out. Like I wouldn't be surprised if that had happened at all, you know? And that's kind of the prediction for the future too. Like I wouldn't be surprised if AI wipes us out and then we have to like... And then there's a million years where the dust settles, there's small amounts of people and technology is lost and we kind of start from primitive and build back up again. It's, you know, yeah, I mean, I definitely could see that being the reality, you know? Joe, your thoughts? Well, a lot of that, like again, you know, this is actually from the Bible, but like the people that believe in the Bible that there was like angels that made it with humans and created these giants, which in full circle made those pyramids and stuff. I've seen stuff like that. Yeah, yeah. And they just got wiped out with Noah's Ark. All those things got, because the world went to shit and God wanted to start over. Right. And that's where the Ark came in and all that stuff. So there's all kinds of things to try to explain it, whether it's religious, whether it's evolution, all those things. But I do believe that there was a civilization that got wiped out, whether it was religious or not, or just like from space happening and all that shit. But yeah, 100%. Like, that's why I believe there's something in the bottom of the pyramids. Just because of the weird setup and shit, there's no way, because even now it's hard to do that kind of shit with what we do now. Yeah. So it's like, what the fuck? Well, they were saying that about the pyramids, even with our tools that we have now. Yeah. They waste, the blocks waste so much, they can't figure out how to get them in place. Especially with the precision in which they got them in place. Like even using modern technology that could help with that kind of precision. Yeah. So I'm like, what the fuck? It doesn't make any sense. Yeah. Anyway. Yeah, so. Well, so maybe some things we aren't meant to know. Joe, how religious are you? I believe in God, the Holy Trinity, and all that. Well, let me, it's kind of a stupid question. Let me, let me rephrase it. Are you like, like how many times, like, have you read the full, the whole Bible? No, my Bible stuff comes from like brief little things here and there that I run into or like, I learn about little things that my mom throws my way. Yeah. Little like, like cliff note Bible stuff, but I'm not like, I don't know if I fit on this podcast or not. I'm not Christian. I'm not Catholic. I'm agnostic where I believe in a higher being and stuff like that. Like I said. Yeah. And I guess you can call it like, like picking and choosing what I believe. Yeah. In a way. That's just kind of how I go. That's convenient. It is. I mean, I believe like a lot of the shit, I feel like, you know, we're all instinctual, right? We know right from wrong. Right. Like, like I know killing somebody is a bad thing to do. Like, right. Knowing how to teach me that. Right. Knowing I believe in being a good person and just doing right. Like I said, it's an internal thing. You just kind of know. Right. And so, um, I, I, I believe we were given that that's God given. And we just read that out. Like I, I, fuck, I don't want to fucking cause a fucking problem here, but there's some things that seem a little too cultish to me that doesn't feel right. And that's why I don't fully latch on to certain things like certain religions and stuff. I don't, I just don't like how the feeling I get when I'm around it. It doesn't feel right to me. So it's, it's more situated like faith and belief, but less like in like, organized religion. Yes. I don't care for organized religion. I believe like I can have my own relationship with the God that I believe in. I like that. Like I speak to him every single day. I've thanked him for everything. I give him praise. And from me, I don't need a room to celebrate with people and stuff. It's a personal thing. Right. I think actually, I think actually a lot more people are like that than you would think. Yeah. Cause I think a lot of people, there's a lot of people that believe in a higher being or power of some sort, but don't necessarily believe in religion. Yeah. Or, or traditional religions, I guess. And it seems like you get, there's a lot of, there's a lot of these, like, I don't want to call them offshoot, but that's kind of what they are. Churches that are propping up now that are getting more and more popular. Like my daughter, like her friends, almost all of them go to church now. And, you know, you didn't see that. Like, I don't think with when we were 15 years old, it's like a generational thing right now. I wonder why that's such a thing now. Like, I know it's trendy, but it's also. It's trendy, but what they're, but I don't see them going towards like Catholic, you know, churches as opposed to like, you know, maybe Protestant, like the traditional ones that we're used to in this, at least where we live. They're more going to like these smaller churches, private, I guess you'd call them. Maybe. I don't know. What are they, what are they practiced there? It's more Christianity rather than like a form of like Catholicism or, you know, whatever other religion, but yeah, it's more just a Christian, like a Christian sort of way of life. I wonder why that's happened now. Cause when we were growing up, dude, everybody was like kind of almost anti. Yeah. Like I don't know. I think it has to do is, I think it has to do with the sensitive, the overly sensitive people nowadays where they're talking about emotions and stuff. That gives you a place to like go and be with others and kind of support each other kind of thing. Okay. Through a religious belief. Okay. But that was the same thing as us growing up. Like we still had that. People, people are more pussies now. So they need a place to vent. That's fucking funny. I don't know if that's why, but I do. That's my why. It is. I went to a Catholic high school that was run by priests and nurse and priests, priests and nuns. Um, so like, you know, it started to change as I was getting older, but when I first went there, it was all priests and nuns in there still. Yeah. Yeah. Crazy. Ian, Ray were religious at all? No. Still not. No. I mean, I like, I, I, I, I, I guess I would classify myself as agnostic too, in the sense of like, I'm not an atheist where I don't think like, there's no way that blah, blah, blah. It's really the answer. I don't know. Uh, you know, I don't know. I I'm open to the idea of there being more. I, I like the idea that there's more. Um, you know, I've never had anything really in my life. That's like drawn me towards like any specific path. Um, but like, I'm not opposed to the ideology of, of there being a higher power and more meaning to things than it's just like all evolutionary science based. You know, I, I like the idea of it. It's, it's calming and it's, it's nice to think about. Um, but I, but I'm not like, you know, it's really the answer. I, I don't know. You know? Hey Paul, do you think my parents got more religious, as they got older, do you think me and you are eventually going to just end up like at the mosque? Well, I'll, I'll, I'll be like, yeah. Well, I've been to your, I've been to a Muslim wedding and I got to say, you guys do it right. Are you doing it? Yes. If more men, if more men went to Muslim weddings, they would be like, that's worse. It would be a lot less too. Yeah. I think as you get older, it is a natural inclination is like, you know, mortalities, the idea that starts to set in more to like, look to something for like meaning in it all, you know, I think it like makes sense to have that, like that feeling of like, Hey, what is, what does this all mean? Like, where's this all come from? And I think the more, and you know, as your life comes closer to a close to like, look for those things becomes more, more instinctual, you know? Right. I think as you get, I don't know if it's, I don't know if it's about mortality. I used to think that, but as I've gotten older, I think it's just maturity in less selfishness. I definitely agree with that. When you're, when you're young, you're less prideful. You're really fucking selfish when you're young and all you care about is your time and your shit. Yeah. Getting a job and getting a fucking this and getting that. And then I think as you get older and you set into your life, you can start to kind of think of other things. And that's when, yeah. Cause you're not, you're not on the chase so much anymore. You're not hustling so much anymore. Yeah. You're kind of in it, you know? Yeah. Yeah. You're kind of, yeah. You're kind of like, okay, I'm, I'm, you know, winding this down soon. For me, for, for me, you know, I'm only 32, but like, I, I look back on a lot of things that have happened in life where it's like, man, there's definitely more than this. Like the way shit kind of falls into place. Like I never push what I believe on anybody. I'll just share my experience with them and I tell them where I believe it came from just cause like there's sometimes I've literally been in my room and tears and just like prayed for certain things. And within a certain, like whatever timeframe it happened, it just happens. And it's out of nowhere. Like I'm always just, uh, I'm, I'm, I'm always okay. Like I'm always end up. Okay. It's crazy how it happens though. Yeah. Joe, were you ever an asshole? I would consider myself an asshole. For a small period of time in my life where I started doing fuck boy shit. Fuck what? What's that? I don't know. Fuck. I want to know what fuck boy shit you did. Yeah, me too. Well, I, I don't know if I've said on this podcast, but I have an ex fiance and I started doing fuck boy shit, uh, towards the end of the relationship. Okay. Like cost me that. And it like fucked me up for a while, like really bad. So I was an asshole for a small period of time in my life. So you were an asshole in terms of fuck boy shit, but that's not what I meant. We've all done. I think we've all done, or most of us have all done asshole things. What I meant by asshole was like, you seem like you are just a very nice person. You're very easy going. I'm just wondering if there's ever like, I'll be in Paul. Talk about it. Like Paul talks about like when he's in high school and stuff, he used to be like an angry guy, like pissed off. I talk about like periods of my early twenties, late, late twenties, some early into my early thirties, even maybe even now I'm still an asshole. Maybe a little bit. Yeah. Is there, is there a period like that for you or are you always, this is always who you've been? Yeah. Who you're talking to is who I've always been. I've never, my, my mom was a very kind woman, but she still is. She's still around. Um, she was, everyone loved her. She was, she was a waitress and stuff and people would like literally wait in a line to get served by her. Yeah. And so like, I get it. I definitely get it from my mom, but I'm a lot more, I was, uh, super shy for a long time in school. I had friends and stuff, but like I was very quiet. And then in my early twenties, I kind of got very confident and came out of my show, but I've always been very nice. That seems to be a bodybuilding trait. The shyness. Yeah. Yeah. I, I came out of that because I didn't want to be fucking weird. I kind of forced myself. I kind of forced myself to talk to people. Like even because of my old job, I would have to talk to people and go over like, like their financial situation with their bills and stuff and charge them for extra shit. And I'm like, you know, I just have to man up and be able to fucking talk to people and gain some form of relationship to where they want to fucking work with me and not kick me out of their office. Right. So I would, I would, I would literally work on talking to people and it made me not weird. How did you, how did you, that's interesting. How did you work on, how do you work on talking to people? Just doing it more? Or did you actually like do it at home by yourself? No, I would try to talk to the hottest girl in the place that I was living to. I would try to, I was like, if I can talk to this person and have a casual conversation and not get nervous or weird or like any, have any awkward moments, I can talk to fucking anybody. It doesn't matter how much money they make. Okay, wait, so you went out, where would you find these hot people? You like purposely go to a bar? No, at his job. What are you working on? No, no, no, at my job where I delivered. Hey, your job. What was your job? Sorry. I was a uniform rental guy. Like I worked with a Cintas. You ever seen Cintas? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So you would deliver, you would deliver all these places. There are uniforms. When you deliver, you would, while you were delivering, you'd pick out a hot girl at the place and you would try and talk to her. But like not to hit it or just like have a conversation. Both. Tell me, it can be both. It's an interesting strategy. Tell me how. Just think about it. Once you, when you shoot your shot, kind of, it's like, fuck it. Let's see where this goes. Like if I get turned down, you know, I can like learn how to fucking take it. So I was like, okay, well, let's just push the limits here. Learning to not be scared of rejection, I think is a very important skill to have. Yeah. So I think starting to be confident who you are. Yeah. A lot of people live in that fear of rejection, but then when they actually like have it happen a few times, I think they're like, okay, this isn't that bad. And the amount of opportunities that can open up on the other side is more fulfilling than the little bit that, that, you know, it's like, yeah, it's okay. Shit happens. You know, some people are, you know, and that's, and you move on and learn to deal with that. Right. So when you see these hot people, how do you, how do you approach them? Like, what's the first, like, tell me how you like, you see a hot girl, you walk over, what do you say to her? It has to be opportunistic. It has to make sense. So for example, like, so say, say like I'm delivering to a place, I'll go up to that person and be like, Hey, excuse me. I'm with Santos. My name's Joe. Do you know who typically signs off for the paperwork here? And then use that. I don't just kind of like go up by like, hi, you know, make it organic. But see all of this. My wife is watching. That's how I got my wife. Oh, this is the hottest girl in this room. I've ever seen in my fucking life. Perfect. That's how it works. Of course. That's how it works. Joe, while I got you here, I want to show you. Let me just see how I can do this. one second. Manage. Can I add a fucking. I'm right back. Joe. Joe. I'm just going to put big Joe. How's that? Big Joe. I just saw the second at the Arnold. That's fucking hilarious. First, the worst. Second, the best. Yeah. Okay. Can I find you now? What are we looking for? We can't see what you're seeing. I know. I'm sorry. I should show you guys while I'm doing this. So I'm not like, I'm trying to learn. Just recently on Pornhub. No. Wait, there you are right there. Wait, can I just. There I am. How do I fucking. Add you. Manage. Search. Okay. Search. Wait a minute, but it's right there. Okay. Make manage. Make predictions. Compete. Prediction hosts. I look all close. It's because I'm on my phone. How do I fucking do this? Athletes. No, these are managed athletes. I want to add a. How do I add somebody to the predictions? That's what I want to do. Make a prediction. Motherfucker. You go into the article, Joe. Sorry. I don't think so. I wanted to, but. My sponsor. Was thinking about bringing their athletes. And then decided not to, I guess. Cause they never told me. I'm like, they're, they're top athletes. So I guess they're not going to do it. So I'm not going to go. All right. I'm going to have to add you another time. I add you manually afterwards. I'm going to cut this part of the podcast, but now that we're. I know that I can't figure that out. Let me just. Come back. No matter what. I'm doing. I'm going to go to the Arnold next year, whether I compete or. Just go. I'm going to. I'm definitely going next year. I want to plan better for it. We had so much go on this year and unplanned trips. I spend money and stuff. So I was like, okay, we'll. We'll be more strategic. Okay. Big Joe. It's Arnold time. It's Arnold time. I need your predictions. Off the top of my head. Without seeing the list. I have. Well, wait one second. I can get you the list. Let's do that. Arnold sports. You doing top five or this all the way down? We'll go all the way down. There's only nine. I think it's a nine guys. Yeah. So here is. The list. I don't know if you can see the guys here or here. Here's a list here on the right. If you have to predict them all. Antonio. Antonio is not. Yeah. So other than that, other than Antonio, how would you, how would you lay this out? Okay. I didn't even know. Akeem was doing it. No shit. Okay. Um, I have hottie winning hottie. And then I have, um, Andrew Jack. Andrew. Yes. Yep. And then I have, I'm going to go with Nick. Nick. Then Martin. Martin. Then Brandon. Brandon. Then. Then. Mo food. I think I was going to say Mo food. And then Raphael. Mo. Raph. Then you got Anthony Williams left. Akeem. And Hassan. I think. I'm going to put a team. Team. And Anthony Hassan. Anthony. And then Hassan. Dude. I think we have the exact same picks. Oh, really? Yeah. Except I think I have Anthony ahead of the team. I don't know. But other than that, I think. I think the team's just a little more experienced. A little more like. Density. Dense and shit. Yeah. The only reason I put him. Behind Anthony. I think Anthony's going to be peaked really, really well. I'm not sure where. Akeem's at in his prep. The last update. Wasn't. Really, really great, but you never know. One of those things. I think. I don't think he's like on a decline yet. I just don't think he's gotten much better. Yeah. Compared to the competition coming in. So I just don't know. Why do you think. Why did you put Nick ahead of Martin? Other than the fact that you guys are have like similar physiques. I'm going to be completely honest. I think because. I think Nick being in full control. Whether or not takes a lot of stress off of him. Yeah. And then. And then Martin doesn't handle. From what I'm watching. Doesn't handle stress or emotions very well. I think that's going to hurt him. I really do. You know, it's funny. I would agree with that. Because last year he had some ups and downs with Pittsburgh. And the Olympia before he was like kind of shaky. But I think as he's gotten more experienced. He's gotten more confidence. And I think that's why at the Olympia and Prague. He showed more. Consistency. But he also was in the in the driver's seat. Yeah. So like there was no like. Because the thing you. I wonder about with Martin is this. When he's doing well. The confidence keeps him doing well. But if he gets into a. The kind of thing where he's got a battle. And he's not sure of himself. Then you wonder if it'll. Then if you wonder if the emotions will take over. No. From my own experience. I've had stress in my life. That started hurting my look. Where it made me behind. Even though I was doing everything to be on time. And I don't know if he's behind. But I'm going based on what I'm watching. Like seeing on the internet. Yeah. Doesn't mean much. But if he's behind. I think that's due to. Whatever's going on. Yeah. I think it's getting to him. I really do. Ian what do you think? And. Yeah. Unless he drops that. It's going to be hard to nail it. Yeah. I do agree. You know. That Martin. You know. I think he has matured for sure. But I think that. You know. Depending on where he is perceived. Going into the show. Can hurt him sometimes. You know. I think sometimes. When the pressure's off a bit more. I think he can do better. I think when the pressure's on a bit more. It hurts him a bit. You know. Like. I think after Pittsburgh. You know. When he lost to Nick. And to Derek. He kind of was out of the conversation a bit. Yeah. The pressure was relieved. Going into the Olympia. He wasn't being talked about as much. And he kind of sat back. Right. But it's interesting. Because going into the Arnold here. It's almost changed a little bit. In that he wasn't being talked about as much. But he took it a bit more personal this time. Yeah. You know. Like it's. He was kind of a bit more upset. That people weren't putting him in the mix. Right. Versus between Pittsburgh. And the Olympia. He kind of just like. Hid back. Did the work. Showed up at the Olympia. And at Prague. You know. And especially at Prague. It was very low pressure. You know. Because he was coming off the Olympia. He had just lost to Samson. So if he doesn't beat Samson. It's not a huge deal. But if he beat Samson. It's awesome. And then there wasn't really anybody behind him. That was quite at his level. So that's a pretty low pressure showing. But going into the Arnold here. I think it's a tougher one. Because. You know. There's Nick still there. And he just beat Nick at the Olympia. So he doesn't want to lose to Nick. After just beating him. You know. And there's still a really deep lineup there. With Andrew and Hottie. And stuff like that. Which I don't think those guys are as much pressure. Because they've historically beaten him. But I think with the Nick. And that one. That's that. You know. You know. One that could be a wild card. Of beating him. Or not beating him. Than that. He feels that pressure. Of not wanting to slip. Versus where he was before. And I think that can be hard. You know. Paul. What do you think? You've judged guys before. That you see. Like do really well. And then kind of shift. As they kind of battle. Like their energy shifts. So what do you think? Is Martin going to. You think he's going to fall pressure to that. At the Arnold. When he's competing. As guys like Hottie. And Andrew. If he doesn't get the calls. He expects. Well. It's funny. You guys pointed that out just now. And it's something I never thought about before. His best looks have been. When he's got less drama in his life. Yeah. You know. I never drew a line. Between that before. And you know. When he has had more. Controversy. Going into a show. That hasn't always been his best look. And when you see him on stage. When he was battling it out with Nick. Was it when he was battling it out with Chris. Even. At Prague a couple years ago. Or at least it looked like we were there battling it out. We found out later. That Martin was well ahead. But he. I don't want to say he panics. But he definitely. His emotion shows through on stage. And that can definitely. And I've seen it many times before. Affect someone negatively on stage. Yeah. And I saw it in his. I was in Prague. With him and Chris. And I saw his demeanor shift. You know. When he first came out. There was confidence there. But as he realized how good Chris looked. And that there was actually like. Holy shit. There's a chance I could lose here. Even if that wasn't what ended up happening. Or wasn't really as close on the scorecards. In reality. In person there. A lot of people thought. Like. Holy cow. This might happen. Like Chris could beat him. You know. There was a chance there. And I think Martin felt that pressure. And you could see it in his demeanor. And how he posed. How he presented himself on stage. You know. His confidence on stage. And even his look. And you know. The look faded a little bit. Because of that. You know. And I think that was the same kind of with. With Pittsburgh. It's. He'd had a really hot Arnold. Or Olympia. You know. He'd just come fourth. Or whatever it was. What did he come that year before? Fourth? Yeah. Yeah. It was fourth that year. Yeah. Fourth of the Olympia that year. And then he was talked about very highly. Going into that with Nick. And with Derek. And so there's a bit more pressure on there. And then I think that hurt him. But then after he lost there. Kind of took that pressure back off. Going into the Olympia again. So I think it kind of goes and ebbs and flows. Which I think. Look. The more you're succumbed to that. Or the more you're put in that position. The better you'll get with it. Hopefully. You know. I think once you realize. Like these situations. And I've been here before. Or you get more accustomed to it. I think you can work through it. But whether he has yet or not. It is tough to say. And he has been a little more quiet this prep. Except for certain moments. So it's like. You can see it's affecting him a little bit. But is it affecting him in a negative way? Or if it's like he's using it. It is tough to say yet. You know. Yeah. Yeah. But I have heard from some people. That have seen him. That says he does look fantastic. So. It's tough to say. You know. I think he's going to look. I'm rooting for him. I think he's going to look good. I think Martin's going to look absolutely phenomenal. Yeah. I agree. My thing is. Martin just took fifth. And he just beat Samson. Yeah. So the reason I'm saying what I'm saying is. I think he expects. Or hopes. Whichever word you want to use. That he'll be in the mix with Hottie and Andrew. I think the only thing with him though. Like I said. I don't think Hottie and Andrew are the pressure points for him. I think Nick is the pressure point. No. Nick is the main one. Nick is the only pressure point for him. You know. Nick is the main one. But I think he's. He's kind of got a. He's got a confident attitude. So I think the fact that he's beaten Nick now. He feels like he's probably ahead of him. Yes. It's a pressure point. I do agree with you. I think he's looking to Andrew and Hottie. And what I'm saying is. I think if he doesn't get those call outs with them. Like if they do a two man call out. Or something like that. I think he's going to. His look is going to change. Yeah. I think he's going to feel it. You know what I mean? So that's. That's what I'm concerned about is. Can. Can he hold that demeanor. Even if he's not winning. Yeah. All the way through. Even if he's not. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Because I think as soon as the demeanor changes. I don't know. You start sweating a bit. You start holding some water. You pose a bit funny. And yeah. You start fucking around. Overposing. You lose your composure a little bit. Yeah. I've done it. Yeah. I've done it for sure. Yeah. Do you guys think with the look that Martin had at Prague. Can he win this show with that same look? I don't think so. I don't think he can win. But I definitely think he can be in the mix. I think. I don't think. I think he could beat Hottie with that look. You think. I don't know. He could beat Hottie with that look. I think he could give him a hell of a run. I think Hottie's about to bring some crazy conditioning. That it's just going to be really hard to beat someone like Hottie. I don't think. Listen. I know. I know he beat Samson. But we all know Samson was not Samson Samson. Right. I still think. And maybe I'm wrong. But I still think Derek, Hottie, Andrew Samson. Are still a level above. I wouldn't say far. I'm not saying like he couldn't stand next to him and really compare. But I still think Hottie is better. Yeah. I think he's. I think he's in the realm. And I think, you know, Nick and him are in that mix for sure. Yeah. And I think he definitely is going to be competitive with them. I think he's got all the tools to do. But I think it's, you know, a Prague version of Martin versus a Pittsburgh version of Martin can render two very, very different outcomes here. You know? Yeah. So, I think it's where his mental state is, how he comes into the show. I think he's definitely capable of pushing into that top group and really being competitive with Hottie and Andrew and beating Nick again. But it's really going to depend, you know? Because even like, you know, Hottie, we know is like a fucking tack driver consistent, you know? Like he is even a bad version of Hottie by Hottie standards is still second place at the Olympia, you know? Like Hottie is always right there. We've never seen Hottie off. Like it's just not a thing. And his off is like, eh. You know what I mean? Like his glutes weren't quite as hard. His quad is 1% down. You know what I mean? So, you know, Hottie is going to be tough to be wavered even with all the things that are going on in his life. So, yeah, I think we're not going to see any version of Hottie that will be unexpected here. Yeah. Like, Paul, let me ask you this. Like the 24 version of Hottie. He was maybe, like Ian said, a little bit off in the back, which is still not really off. Yeah. Yeah. 24 Hottie versus Prague Martin. You think Martin was better? I think that's close. No, I think 24 Hottie still beats him. I just think with all these things going on in Hottie's life, Oh, you're saying it that way. You're saying, like, he might not be like his. I don't think he's going to be the best Hottie this year. That's a different conversation there. I can get behind that. But I'm saying, like, I don't remember any look that Hottie's brought to date. Ever. That Martin's Prague look could beat? That Martin's Prague look could beat. Yeah, I just think there's no look of Hottie that's ever slipped up even a little bit enough to really make it so that the door's open for people. You know, I think they have to level up to beat him because you can't rely on him being a little bit off. You know, like, I hate to say this, but like a guy like Samson or Andrew, there's a little bit of inconsistency there. So, you know, like, you know, Samson slips up a little bit. Martin can beat that guy. 100%. You know, Nick slips up there. He can beat him for sure. You know? But I think Hottie, you can't rely on Hottie ever being, you have to come up to Hottie's level. You can't expect him to come down a little bit and surpass him. That's a good point. That's the best way to put it, I think. I think, because you got to think, Paul, Hottie's been first or second in the world for like the last five years. He has. I just, I don't see his physique progressing anymore. Yeah, but he doesn't have to. I agree. He doesn't have to, for sure. I said this like a month ago and I caught some heat for it because I said, I think he's maxed out. Yeah. Traditionally, when people hear maxed out, they take it negatively. Right. And all I meant was this is, we're not going to see a different Hottie. Like this is, you're going to see a peak that might be a little bit fuller, harder, whatever, but it's going to be Hottie. No, we're not going to see him with 10 pounds more somewhere. Like, you know what I mean? It's not. Yeah. But that peak of the arc of his career is at worst second best in the world. It's high enough to still beat almost everybody. It is for sure. No question about that. But I wonder at some point though, when, like from a judge's point of view, from like the guys who are judging like the Olympias and the Arnolds, those judges, they've been seeing the same Hottie now every year. And they're seeing an improved Martin. I agree that it is still good enough, but at some point it may not be. Yeah. At some point, but I don't think we're there yet. But you're right, Paul. And I, and there's two things. You always say you judge what's in front of you, not what, not what's improved or not improved. And the second thing is, like I said, if you look at the arc of somebody's career, Hottie's at the peak of his arc. It's what the physique we're always going to see. Martin's still on that up side of it. He's not. We'll see if those intersect yet. You know, when, when Martin gets to the top of his peak, then it might be better than Hottie's. Yeah. But I don't think he's at that point yet. I still think he's got a lot of room to. Yeah. I think there's, there's not enough time between the Olympia and this Arnold for us to expect to see huge dramatic changes in ever anybody's physique here, other than peak variances, you know? So I think if we expect to see the same Hottie as the Olympia and let's say the same version we saw at Prague for Martin, I think it's a good competition, but I think Hottie is still just a hair ahead there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like I said, I don't want to make it, I don't want to, I'm not trying to be disrespectful at all. I do agree with you that like Martin can stand with those guys and he's going to, it's going to be like, it could be even be a three man call out. Like, you know, it's going to be a two, three or four man call out. I think it's, I think it's a five man. Well, I'm not saying the first one, you know, when the first, like the dust settles and they do like the final call out. I think Brandon's good enough to stay in that group. I don't think so. I think I'm not saying, I don't think he's good enough. I'm saying, I just think at the end of the day, when they do that final round, I think it's going to be Hottie and Andrew. I think it could be a two man there. Yeah. And then you have a second group with Martin, Nick and Brandon, Brandon, Raphael, those kinds of guys. Yeah. Yeah. Joe, what do you think? No, I agree with Joe. What do you think the final, what do you think? Maybe Nick will come win the whole thing. You know, what do you think the final round is going to look like? It's going to be Hottie and Andrew. A hundred percent. I mean, it's almost like a remake of Hottie and Samson. Yeah. That's what it came down to. Yeah. I mean, it's just a different looking Samson. It's a different person, but it's very similar in like shape and stuff. That's really racist of you, but we'll go with it. Just the big black guys. It's the white side of me. I was going to say, just another big black guy. Nebraska's coming out of you, but it's all right. Sorry, brother. All right. Let's do some questions before we get out of here. No, we should play. No, we should play. Have you guys ever done that Mandela effect shit? No. Is that what it's called? Where it's like logos that we thought were known one way, but then it's like, you've never played this? Oh, the Fruit of the Loom thing? Yeah. It's like where you'll be like, oh, that, you know, like the fucking, you know, this guy always had like this monocle or whatever. It's like, and the logos aren't like you remember. Play that. So Google like Mandela effect game. Oh, like real logos versus fake logos? Well, it's like, we'll perceive it. We'll all remember a logo 100% one way. We'll be like, no, 100%, this is the right logo out of four to choose from. And we'll all be wrong. You know, it's an interesting concept. Yeah. Okay. This is Mandela effect. Which one should I click on here? I don't know if there's a good game one. I don't know what that can't see it from where I'm sitting, but 60 rounds. Uh, what the fuck? Mandela effect. Play now. Do I got to sign up for something? Rounds of 60, 12, duration, five minutes, max players, 10. Okay. Play. Game mode presenter. Yeah. Fuck it. Oh, come on. It's the music for me. Just click start again. Yeah. There you go. Let's play. Let's play. What's the name of this popular HBO series? Sex in the City. Yeah. Sex in the City. Oh, is it in the? Yeah, Sex in the City. Yeah. In the City. Well, I can't, I can't click on it. It's the time's waiting to end, I think. Huh? Is it waiting for the time dead? You think it's in the city or and the city? It's in the city. In the city. In the city. In the city. And the city. What the fuck? See? This is that kind of shit. It's like you're convinced it's all, you know? Yeah. Okay. Okay. That was Paul's goal. Let's somebody, Joe, this is the next one's for you. Okay. Okay. Next round. Okay. Next round. I'm trying to answer faster. What the fuck? Go ahead, Joe. Looney Tunes. It's T-O-O-N-S, right? No. It won't let me pick it. That's what I think it is, though. We'll find out in 10 seconds. Looney T-O-O-N-S. What the fuck? There's no way it was T-W-N-S. Or was it T-U-N-E-S? Oh, you're wrong. I just called it. Yeah. It's crazy, eh? Yeah. Oh, what the fuck? Okay, Ian, this is you. Next round. I can click that. Okay. See, my instinct just tells me to go with the one that seems the most obvious, but not the one that I think it is. I know this. Oh, no, I don't, then. Oh, shit. Oh, that's... Oh, I know it. The bottom one? No, top right. This one? Top right. See? Okay, cap it. I can't click it. I think it's the bottom one. That's the bottom one. Oh, it was right. What the fuck? See, I would have thought it was the bottom one, but I'm like, okay, don't go with what you think it is, you know? I thought it was the bottom one, too. Yeah. We've been wrong on all of these so far. Yeah, this is fun. My turn. That's wild. And this isn't even the logos yet. The logos get even more fucked up, dude. What the fuck? Okay. No, I don't want to play matching pairs. Yeah, no, no. No, no. How do I get out of here? Just go back to Google. We can find a better one than this. Hey, as soon as we get off this podcast, I'm going to be doing this shit all night. Yeah. It's the same. All the same questions? Just go back to Google. We can find a new one. I'd still answer wrong. Can you get out of here, man? It's the same every time. Control-ALT-Delete. Just go back to Google. One second. You said Control-ALT-Delete. Paul's trying to restart his computer over here. For real. Restart his PC. That's my go-to when I can't figure something on my computer. When you panic? Yeah. When the porn virus has come up? Yes. Then I just throw it against the wall. Or even on YouTube, you could probably find one. They're like this kind of shit. Hey, quizzers. Have you ever wondered if a porn virus has a false memory of someone? Does Curious George... Okay. So, Curious George, did he have a tail or no tail? Yeah. I'm going to say no tail. He's not a rat. It's my turn, asshole. I know the answer to this one, but... But monkeys do have tails. I'm going to go with no tail. Yeah. Yeah. It's no tail. It seems weird, though, when you look at it. Yeah. The correct answer is A. All right. Here we go. All right. Paul, you're up. Go ahead. Good. Which one's right? The same, aren't they? Nope. No, they're not. Look at his nose. Oh, right. Okay. I'm going to say the one on the left. I think it was a little blue. Tiger's nose blue, or is it black? I think you're right. It was blue, right? I think so. Yeah. I think it's blue. It's blue. Yeah. All right. We're doing good. Joe. Oh, this one. Raisin red. Oh, fuck. No, it's not. He definitely had sunglasses, right? Sunglasses or no sunglasses? For sure he had sunglasses. I want to say, I want to say, no. Fuck. We're all going to be fucking wrong here. Go. I think it's sunglasses. Sunglasses. Sunglasses or no sunglasses. We all think sunglasses. It's the sun. He had to have sunglasses. No sunglasses. Bro. See? I was going to say. No, I wasn't on that one. I wasn't on that one. I didn't think glasses. Okay. Ian, this is you. Oh, fuck. Is it cheese hits with a Z or no? I think it's the left. You think it's the left? Everybody think left? Yeah. I do. I'm going to go B. I think it's called a cheese hit, and we call them cheese hits. Yes. Right. Yeah. It's A. Hey. I've never seen it before. You confused yet? Okay. Oh, yeah. Which Pikachu? Black tail or no black tail? No black tail. Paul, I think this is. Oh, this is me? All right. We'll go no black tail. I think you're right. Wait a minute. I'm going black tail. This is after my time. I don't think he had a black tail. I don't think he did either. It's B. Yeah. But it looks right. Or B. Yeah. What's the difference here? Dash or dash? Dash. Oh, there's a dash. I think there's a dash, yeah. The dash looks right. I'm going to go no dash. Yeah. I'm going dash. Me too. Dash looks right. Yeah. Hey. Yeah. Yeah. Target? I'm going B. Oh, left. Yeah. Oh, shit. I'm going B. I think it's 100% A. No way, dude. I think it's B. Because they always got those white balls in front of their stores. It's got to be B, dude. It's a target. No, the red dot's pretty fucking, I think, stand out. Joe, would you bet your beard on this? No. No. Wait a minute. Not my off-season chin. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Will you bet your beard on this? No. Fuck no. If it was prep, I would. You're like, I'm too fat. So, Fuad, you're positive. You're positive. It's B, Fuad. I'm going B, yeah. Me too. It's A again. No way. Wow. Wow. You're sure of it. You're joking. There you go. I was like, you fucked me up with the beard combo. We already know this one. Yeah, we do this one. Okay, when you see it there, it makes sense being the right. Now that we know, it makes sense. You would think cartoons, they spell T-O-N-S. Right, yeah. So this makes sense. Oh, fuck. It's a... Fuck. It's a post-re. I'm going B. I'm going B. I'm going B too. I think it's a star. I'm going to do A because there's already a star on the front. Well, I don't think it would make sense for it to be an apostrophe. It has to be a star, no? Yeah, but there's a star here. Why would they put two stars? I think... Oh, shit. I think it's their thing. I'm going A. I think stars are their thing. Yeah, A looks right to me. I'm going with Joe. I think it's A. Yeah, I'm going to go with A too. I don't think they would overdo the star thing. Oh, my God. No shit. I knew it was something from the stars. Which one was correct? What's the difference? What's the difference? The... The... What? Oh, there's a K in the first check. Oh. Oh, it's A. It's A, yeah. I'm going A for sure, yeah. Yeah, it's A. It's B. No, A. What the fuck? Do you remember her smiling or not smiling? No, she's not smiling. Smile or no smile? No smile. Oh, she don't smile. I think we remember her smiling, but I don't think she is. I was going to say... No, she has not on the S. I was going to say no smile. Yeah, I think it's A. Okay, we all agree. Best English face. But, like, it's called Mona Lisa's smile, you know? It's B. No, I always smile. What? Kit Kat. Does it have a dash or no dash? Oh, there's no dash. No dash. No dash. No dash. Everybody says no dash. Yeah. You're all fat fucks for knowing that. Yeah. We're definitely wrong. No dash. Okay. Which Fruit Loops do you remember? Is it... Oh, the one on the left for sure. Oh, fuck. Yeah, I think it's the left one. Are we all in agreement? Yep. Yeah. Yeah, I guess. Yeah. I don't remember a weird UI. It just looks weird. That's a lot of fucking... It does look weird. I don't know, though, dude. Are we all in agreement? Yeah, I'm saying that's true. I think it might be B. Yep. Oh, okay. Yeah. What were we thinking of? Oh, here it is. The fruit in the little. The horn of fruit. I know it's A, but I remember it as B. Me too. I'm convinced it's B, but I know it as A. So there was a guy that did a video where he actually had a piece of clothing with the cornucopia. Really? Yeah. I saw it on TikTok. Yeah, I don't remember the fucking thing on the end. Yeah, I always do. I always remember the cornucopia. I remember it on the end. A again. Ah, I knew it. It's A for sure. It's A for sure. Ian? You had a Kia. Ian? Yeah. You had a stinger, dude. What the fuck? I didn't have this logo on my car, though. Yeah, it's gay. I had the broken K, you know? I think it's B. It makes you gay. I think it's B. All right. Ian's the only one. Let's go. A once again. The only guy who owned a Kia out of us. Do you remember a Monopoly man with or without a monocle? Oh, yeah. With a monocle. Yeah, he didn't have a monocle. He didn't? I remember him with a monocle, but I know he didn't have one. I think I'm confusing of a clue. No, it's the Mr. Peanut guy. Oh, yeah. So are we all saying A then? It is A for sure. Yeah, it's for sure A. I bet my beard. Yeah. He's never had one. Okay, last one. Oh, I think it's A. Oh, it's B. Oscar Mayer. Mayer. Oh, shit. I think it's B. I'm going A. I'm going A. I'm going A. I'm going B. B looks right, but... It's B. Oh, dude. Mike and Ike. Oh. Mike and Ike. I never liked those things. What do you think, Paul? Fuck. I think it's A. I think it's A. I think it's N. N? Yeah, I think it's a little N. I'm going A. Yeah. There's not enough room for an N. A. It's going to be B, though. We're fucked up. No. No way. E. B. Yeah. What? What? No shit. It's A, right? Chuck E. Cheese's? It's A. Yes. Yeah. Chuck E. Cheese's? Actually, I don't know. I think it's B. No. It doesn't sound right if you say that out loud. I think it is Chuck E. Cheese's, but I could be wrong. It won't be. I'm almost done with A. A. It's A. What the fuck? What? We used to have one of those in winter a long time ago. Yeah, I see. Oh, wait. I should know this. It's A. It's A for sure. I'm saying B. I think it's B, too. You guys think it's Dawes's? Yeah. Dawes. I don't pronounce it that way, though. I think it's A. I think it's A, too. I think B. I'm a ball. B. Fuck. Yes, I knew it. Yeah. It's a silent F. What the fuck? D's? No, it's B. 100% B. Two D's, yeah. Yeah. No, it's one. No, wait. It's one D, Paul. Is it? It's one D. Yeah. Because it's all day I dream about sports, right? It's not A, D, D. Well, all day I dream about sex. Well, whatever. But that's not true. I had no idea that's what it stood for. Two. How about Little Caesars? What's the difference? The difference, yeah. C, E, A or C, A? Oh, C, A. It's C, A, yeah. 100%. C, A, B? E. It's B. We've done pretty good on these. Does Mickey have suspenders? Yes. No, he doesn't. He doesn't. No, no. He doesn't. No, he doesn't have suspenders. Are we all saying no? His gut holds him up. I'm saying no. Paul says yes, but we're all saying no. I'm saying he has them. I'm saying no. Yeah, he doesn't. I had a misfortune to go to Disneyland once. No. How is that even possible? Yes. Is it double F? Okay, last one. Oh, two Fs. Is it double F? Oh, it's two. I think it's one. I think it's one. Really? Yeah. It's spelled wrong, man. That's the whole point. It's one. What? Oh, shit. Really? What the fuck? That's fucking crazy, man. I'm surprised. You think you know, and you don't. Fucking crazy shit. Yeah, you're right. The logos are probably way worse than that. If you ever wear no underwear in public, do you feel like you have a secret no one else knows about? Holy shit. I can't even remember the last time I wore no underwear in public. That's from, what's his face? Desktop bodybuilding. Yes. What's his name again? Xavier. Xavier. Xavier's got a little freaky side to him. He's like, I'm not wearing any underwear. He's Australian. He's Australian. That doesn't surprise me. Do I think that when I'm wearing no underwear, I get a... Do you ever wear no underwear? You know what, though? I do think sometimes think when I'm wearing underwear, I'm like, there's nothing between me and that person except a thin sheet of cloth. Yeah. I mean, the underwear is not adding much. Yeah, but it's two. It's different. There's like one. Yeah. One holding you in, then the pants. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. When was the last time you went commando? I can't even remember the last time I did that. I'm commando right now. High school. Right now. Actually, I'm commando. Are you? I'm commando right now. Really? At the gym? Joe, you just trained commando? Fuck yeah. Balls for the wall. That's crazy. You and Nick are a lot alike. What the fuck is that? Trust me. Some of the shit he says trips me the fuck out. Yeah, I do a lot of that shit. I can't even remember the last time I was ever commando. I've never trained ever in my life commando. I don't even know if I've ever left my house commando. I've left my house commando. I don't even know if I've been around my house commando. Really? I think because I've been commando so long, that's why I got my wife pregnant so fast. It's burned fast. It's too hard. Yeah, it's good. It's not going to be able to do that. I'm commando around the house all the time because I feel like if I rub up against her while she's cooking or something and there's nothing there. You might get. Yeah, I might get some ass. Yeah, see, because when I get out of the shower, the first thing I put on is my boxer. So I never am not, you know? Yeah, but sometimes I'll just get out of the shower and I'll throw on a pair of warm-ups. Yeah, I always just put on boxers first. I always have on boxers. Yeah. Don't you get like a pee dribble? That's probably why you got a pee dribble. Well, I get that anyways, Paul. You know if you don't wear underwear, you get a bigger penis. I know you do. I've seen those studies. Well, my penis is so big, I'm trying to keep it smaller by wearing underwear. My wife can't handle it anymore. She's like, babe, you got to start wearing underwear and shrink that thing down a bit. I can't do this anymore. I actually walk around commando and I tie a little weight to the end of it. Oh, really? That's a thing too, yeah. Yeah, it's like the African, like, you know. Yeah, wasn't there a tribe in Africa that had huge chops and that's what they were doing? Yeah, yeah. Hypothetical 2026 matchup, Joe versus Sergey, who wins? How did they know Joe was going to be on this podcast? It's crazy. That's fucking weird. Joe and Sergey. That's a good matchup. That would be a great matchup. Yeah. I think. Because you both went against Quentin this year. You both beat Quentin this year. I think Sergey will be bigger. I think Joe will show more detail. Well, I think Joe is more muscular, but I think Sergey, yeah, Sergey is a bigger frame. He's much taller. But I think Joe is probably carrying more muscle in a lot of areas. Like, you see his pictures, like, he's a lot denser. Yeah. Yeah. But, you know, it's, yeah, that's fucking, that's a good one. I'm going to say, I'm going to say, because Joe's on this podcast, Joe will win. We're all going, Joe. I think Joe wins for sure from the back and side. Back and side for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Is it gay to go to sleep in a t-shirt and nothing else for men? Yes. Yes. We would do that. Thousand percent. What? It doesn't matter how cold it is outside. I'm shirtless. I did it. I did it. Listen, I did it one night recently. Just a shirt? No pants? Listen, hold on for a second. I'll tell you the story. I'm not, I'm not a fucking queer. Just listen. That's pretty queer, dude. No, no, no. It's queer if you do it on purpose. Just like a halter, like a half top. Just, yes, it was short. It was like, just like up to here. Never mind. Never mind. Nipples. He is about to leave his booty exposed in case something comes up. Or maybe he has a shirt tied up. I was like, if I leave my dick exposed, I might get a blowjob. A blowjob in the middle of the night. Wishful thinking. Dude, I used to do that on purpose just in case. Just hoping. Just like be naked. You'd be naked though, right? My wife is the most conservative woman on earth. And I used to go to bed naked thinking, maybe I'll wake up with my dick in her mouth by accident. She's sleeping in pajamas. On sleeve and pants. You know? I'm like naked. I'm rubbing up. Like, they're naked. Do you like that? No, I think we've all tried that shit. No, I went to bed. I went to bed recently. Like, I don't know. It was a couple weeks ago, maybe. And I was wearing a t-shirt and my warm-ups. And my warm-ups are like, they're a little bit like thicker joggers. In the middle of the night, I got hot. So I got up and I took my pants off and I laid back down. Okay, that's fair. But I still had my t-shirt on. I felt really gay. Even though I was like. When you woke up, what do you feel like? When I woke up, I felt gayer. Yeah, for sure. He looked himself in the mirror. You're like, what the fuck? I don't get listening to this. Like Winnie the Pooh again, you know? Yeah. You were an oversized t-shirt and a thong. Yeah. I'm going to wear an oversized shirt and get in my bed. No wonder where I want to see what the word says. Just your balls hanging out of the bottom. I'm just going to wake up in the morning. Like, when you wake up in the morning, half the time my ass is sticking out of the fucking bed. And it's just like my bare ass with my t-shirt. What current top bodybuilders would you want to see in the WWE? Quint. Quint would be a good WWE. Oh, dude, he would. You got to think of a big personality with it, too, though. Not just the physique. Quint's got a good physique for that. I think Quint's got a good personality. I do, too, actually. Remember when the Matt Jansen beef is going on? That's a good WWE right there. I think he tampers it down a bit for social media. I don't think. I'd like to see Hottie because they would really twist his character now. Who? Hottie. Who would call himself Boogeyman? Oh, Blessing. Oh, my God. That's the best. Oh, yeah. Right. That's like the best choice. Yeah. That's a good one. Yeah. Do you feel. Yeah. Martin would be crazy. Blessing is like that's the best. He's a big, huge personality. He's got the physique for it. That's perfect. Yeah. Yeah. Do you feel pro bodybuilders just fade off out of the spotlight because it's hard to come to terms knowing the uncertainty they will never compete again instead of actually announcing they are retiring? I think a lot of people announce they retire. I think the difference in bodybuilding is we don't have like press conferences and shit, so they don't make a big deal of it. But he did. He did. He did give a few examples here like Rami, Kuklo, Rolly, Kai, etc. I think some of those guys think they're going to come back and then they just never do. Yeah. You just tease at it forever like I'm going to do. You know? It's an interesting question, though. It's an interesting question, though. Like if you think of Kai, like most likely the probability of him competing is almost slim to zero. Not at this point. Yeah. Why wouldn't I'm actually curious about this question. It's a good question because I thought to myself like when I retired, I'm like, I want to. I kind of want to say I'm retiring and get fans to go, OK, congratulations on your career. See you later. Yeah. If I was Kai, you got to think Kai. And this is obviously an arguable point, but he's probably a top 10 bodybuilder in the history of bodybuilding. Excluding Olympias. Olympia winners. And maybe even including Olympia winners. Why wouldn't you want to have like that moment? Celebration of. Yeah. Where you're like, I'm retiring. Thank you, everybody, for the memories. I'm still going to be here for whatever, whatever. Yeah. I think sometimes guys leave it a bit long and then there's like kind of this like unsureness and then it creates a buzz around it, too. So then they kind of just ride it like Kai has. So, yeah, I don't know. I think sometimes it gets to a point where it's like it's kind of awkward to say I've retired. It's, you know. Yeah. You know, I don't know. But even like even like, you know, I've been at my job for 25 years. I've seen people come and go. And some people want a big sort of party when they go. Other people, they just stop. Disappear. I retired. You know, I think it's a personal thing for whatever reason. You know, I think about myself, what I'm going to do about it soon. Yeah. Go ahead, Joe. If I was in a position where like I thought I was going to come back and then too much time has passed, I feel like it's kind of weird to kind of announce retirement when it's already been like two or three years. Yeah. So you kind of miss that cusp of when it would have been appropriate. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. Yeah. With Rami and Kai are the ones like that, that it's like, it's kind of like, I think Rami wanted to come back. And then I think maybe he realized he just didn't have it there. So then it's kind of like this awkward phase, like, eh, I don't really know what to say. And, you know, people are still speculating. So you kind of just shut up. And then it's like, it gets weird after a time, you know? Yeah. It's funny. You know what? Now that the question has arised, I kind of, I wonder, that happens actually quite a bit in bodybuilding. Yeah. You know, I think, like, people like Ronnie, they say he should have retired, like, four years before he actually retired. But I think it's like, he wanted to know that he was done. Yeah. That thing. But it did hurt his look. But who says that? No, I'm just saying, like, I think, like, or people that they say his look just deteriorated. He got worse and worse. He should have walked away earlier. But I think he actually just committed to competing, even though he wasn't going to be 100%, like. Which I think is fine, too. I like that. Oh, wait. You're talking about Rami. I thought you said Ronnie. No, no. Like, Ronnie Coleman. Yeah. Yeah. But he retired in what? 2008? 2007? Yeah. But I'm just saying, like, Ronnie's one of the only people that's still committed to actually competing compared to, like, fuck, I don't think I have it. He actually just did it. He knew he wasn't his best, but he still thought he could compete. Yeah. You see that in all kinds of sports. And I kind of like seeing that. Because you can see, like, the person actually loves what they're doing if they're willing to keep going, even though they're no longer at their best. Yeah. I don't like the idea of people being, like, if they're placing slip a bit, saying they should retire. I think that's ridiculous. So it's like, just because you were winning the Olympia and now you're coming third, it's like, you don't need to retire, dude. Like, you're still having a great career, still an amazing bodybuilder. Maybe you guys just got better, you know? And even if you're not the best you ever were, you're still a good bodybuilder. You're still there doing what you love, making a career. It's so insane to me that guys will slip, like, a little bit and everyone's like, you should retire. It's like, why? Well, I think it's because of the nature of people watching sports. When people watch sports, they project their own feelings onto the person. Right. Yeah. So they're watching their hero and it makes them feel good to watch their hero win. Yeah. So they're projecting all these feelings onto that person. When that person starts to lose, now that makes them feel bad. They're like, oh, you should have retired when you were on top. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's because you're projecting your own feelings. That person's still enjoying his career. He's still placing his height, like, third place at the Olympia or fifth place at the Olympia or even eighth place at the Olympia. Well, like Brandon. Brandon's a prime example. Right. Brandon is still a fucking insane good bodybuilder. Just because he's won the Olympia and he's not winning shit anymore, Brandon's still doing what he loves. He's making a good living. Like, it would just be crazy when people are like, he should retire. It's like, why? But you're only looking at it from the athlete's perspective. Yeah. If you look at it from the fan's perspective. No, I get it. I get it for sure. Yeah. Because fans say that it ruins the legacy, but I don't agree with that. It is just a weird thing. That's an internal thing. They're saying it because it's ruining their feeling about that guy. Okay. It's such a strange thing in fandom, too. And look, I've done it with sports as well. Like that someone will classify someone that's like 12th in the world is like mediocre. You know? Yeah. We've all done it, though. I know. I've done it. I've done it with a million things. Even when you're watching the Olympics and figure skating and someone will come 12th, it'll be like, they suck. It's like, motherfucker, this is the 12th best in the world of 8 billion people. This is insane. And they're so insanely good, we can't even comprehend it. Do you know? So when you talk about sports for a living, I've learned to kind of try and quantify, like, if I'm going to say, like, somebody's not that good, I always try and quantify it with, like, if I'm doing a news story, for example, I'll always say, like, look, we're talking about this in context. Of the best bodybuilders on the planet. Of the greatest bodybuilders on earth. So don't take it like, I don't think this guy's good. We're talking in comparison to the best of the best. So you kind of have to quantify it that way or else you end up falling into the same trap as they do. Yeah. You know, so. It's like, to even be in the top 50 in the world of something is insane. You know, like, that is an insane level of fucking, like, you know, accomplishment to even be in the top 50 or 100 of something. Depending on, obviously, the thing. Like, you know, if you're top 50 in golf, it's obviously different than top 50 in bodybuilding because there's 10 bajillion times more golfers than bodybuilders. But it's still like being in that top cusp with anything like that, you know, is still insanely accomplished, you know. What would your placings be if we take each of these guys best looks in the 212 division? What would your place? Oh, where would you place them? Kind of. Flex Lewis, Hottie, Derek, Keon, Clarita. Oh, shit. That's a really good question. Best looks in the 212? Yeah. Keon. Keon, Flex, Hottie, Clarita. I'm putting Hottie first. Clarita. That's exactly what I was battling with. Flex already beat Hottie in the 212. Yeah, but that was, you know. I'm just saying. This is Hottie's best 212 look, though. Not what he's like. We got to go, but we got to go by stats. Like, Flex beat. Flex beat it. But if you're saying their best look ever in that division, Hottie had some crazy fucking looks. I mean, they all did. But. I don't know, man. Hottie looked pretty good when Flex beat him. He wasn't, like, off. No. Yeah. I wouldn't call him off. Like, Hottie. That's such a tough question. Hottie's best looks came after 212, when he got bigger. Yeah. I mean, I think his best look was probably Vancouver 2018 or 19 or whatever that year was. But he was bigger. He was, like, probably 218, 220 kind of thing, you know. Yeah. That's like saying Mike Sommerfeld. Yeah. Weight cap. One inch difference makes a big difference. Right. So, I think if you're saying just 212 looks. Oh, it's tough. Yeah. You kind of got to go Keyon, then Flex. You know what I mean? You think Keyon's ahead of both of them? I think Keyon's the best 212 bodybuilder ever. Really? Yeah. He's definitely up there. That's where I was dialing with. No doubt in my mind. Yeah. I mean, shape and structure wise, he's definitely. You can obviously say, like, yeah, if you stand him up there, Flex and Hottie are going to be more conditioned. But I don't think Keyon's condition is so far behind that it would make up for the shape and structure and proportions. Yeah. But I don't know. We've seen how Hottie has done, even when he was just coming out of the 212 and still around that weight, what he did in the open versus when we saw Keyon go into an open show. He wasn't as competitive as necessarily as we thought, you know? Versus Hottie was competitive right off the gate. Like, his first Olympia was, like, fucking in the top four, you know? I know. But, again, we're talking about the guy's structure wasn't made for 212. Obviously, he needed to be bigger to fill that physique out and look awesome. But I'm saying who? For who? Hottie? Yeah. Yeah. I'm saying even when Hottie was 212, like when he won Portugal against Nicolas Voyeud. Sure. I still think that version was more competitive in the open than Keyon's most recent one. Okay. But now you're making a different argument. No, it's 212 versus 212. Yeah, yeah. But you're saying it's more competitive in the open. I agree with you because I think Hottie has a bigger structure. But if we're saying strictly on... So you think in a different lineup, it changes it. I think because Hottie has a bigger structure, I think he belongs in the open. Yeah. I think Keyon's structure is a smaller person. That's why when he stood in Prague... That's why when he stood in Prague, he just... Krizzo beat him like no problem. Yeah. He's a smaller... I think... He's a smaller guy. I think Flex Lewis would have done... I think Flex Lewis would have done better in the open as well. Yeah, I agree. Because he had to take off like 25 pounds of tissue pretty much in the end. Well, Flex's day was 202 too, wasn't it? Yeah, it was. But then it was 202. I think for a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. But I think Keyon is just structurally bone... Like bone structure. He's just a smaller person. I agree. Yeah. It is more suited. So I think in that division, he fills that structure out the best. Yeah. Yeah. Because for the other guys to fill out their structures the way Keyon has, they need to be 218, 220, 225, right? Yeah. Like Derek. Derek didn't achieve his ultimate physique until he was 230 or whatever. Yeah, but I'm still saying I think a Portugal version of Hadi when he was competing in the 212 against Nicolas Voyeur. I still think if you put Keyon next to him there, I still think he beats him. Yeah, maybe. I mean... A muscularity condition. Conditioning and muscularity. I could see it's definitely a challenge. I think that's the top two. And I think Flex. And then I think Derek, then Clarita. I think those three guys, in my opinion, are interchangeable depending on... Yeah. They're a step above for sure. Yeah. Because yeah, I agree with Derek for sure. Like Derek's 212 version compared to his open version is like night and day. For sure. Where Hadi's 212 version versus open version isn't night and day. He was still incredible. Derek was good then. But like he was okay compared to what he is now. Yeah, I agree. I agree. You know, like his legs and like just his overall size and fullness around us. He's way better now. So I don't know. Yeah. And then Clarita. Amazing. But structurally, he's a little bit smaller. He has a hard uphill battle there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Will I PR if I do a line before the gym? Yes. Yes. What three items would you have to bring to summon each other? What? What three items would you have to bring to? So that we all show up. So that everybody, so make everybody show up. I think that's what they mean. Like if you want to get everyone together, what would you have to bring in order to entice each one to come? Well, there's a far drive involved. So like I would have to be pretty special. Yeah. Like I would have to have like the wife would have to be away for a week. I would have to have motorcycles for everybody. Enough cocaine for the week. And cigars. And a hall pass. Everybody gets a hall pass. And meals prepped for everyone. Yeah. Yeah. Gourmet meals. Yeah. Gourmet meals prepped for everybody. A chef in house. Yeah. When can we start picking our fantasy team for the season? The new RBP site will go live probably tomorrow or the day after. Everybody who's already signed up will be shifted over automatically. You'll just have to put in your emails or whatever. You'll get new passwords. You'll shift it over automatically and then you can pick your teams. We're probably going to do that live next week on the show. Love you guys. Keep killing it. Thank you. Roast my physique. Not right now. Can Paul host the show for 10 minutes? Nah. Next time. Yeah. Do a Paul cast too sometime in the future. Who had an Ian? What's it like to realize you have true Olympia level potential in bodybuilding? Was it like a cool oh shit moment or different feelings living the dream? And then I have a question for Mike and Paul which I can ask. So Ian, you want to answer that first? Yeah. I mean, I remember when I qualified for my first Olympia, like the excitement of like the idea of going to the Olympian competing on the stage was like insanely exciting. I don't know if I ever thought about it of like I'm Olympia worthy and like that kind of thing. I don't think I thought about it in that concept. It was just like I was so excited to be able to go to that stage and be there at that event. Like being able to partake in like that thing, you know? Like be there for the meet the pros and the athletes meeting and, you know, go to the expo and like but be part of it as one of the chosen few of the athletes versus like just being there as a spectator, you know? Yeah. So I just remember being super excited, but I never really thought of it of like in the cons, in the kind of way that they're framing the question. I don't know if you're the same, you know? No, I think my career is a little different than yours, Ian. I never like literally this people aren't going to really believe. I don't know if people are going to believe this. I'm doing the same thing with motorcycles. Now I did, I did with bodybuilding. When I started bodybuilding, I was like, I just want to be able to make a living lifting weights. Yeah. It was really my goal. I never thought I could be Mr. Olympia. I never thought I'd win an Arnold. I was like, I just want to make a living lifting weights. So I did, but I did want to be good. So I was competing and I was trying to be better and I was trying to be trying to win shows. When I qualified for my first show at that time, you could still be top three and qualify. So I started my second year bodybuilding, I took third in a Dallas Europa and I qualified for Olympia. I cried my eyes out. I know if a therapist is listening, you're going to say this is really fucked. But at that time, it made me feel worthy. It made me feel like I was, it was, I was worth the thing I was doing. Like you almost like look for validation. You're like, should I be really doing this? Like, am I good enough to compete? Like, do I belong up here with these guys? And when I qualified, I was like, this is, I belong here. Like, this is what I'm doing. I should be here. I made it to this stage. And it was a really like a feeling of elation that it wasn't all for nothing. So to me, that was a victory. Like that was my Olympia. Like just getting there was my, like for some people, like just getting your pro card is like enough. And then they can retire and go away. Like I got my pro card for me, making it to the Olympia was like, I don't want to say it was enough. Like I stopped trying, but it was really like, made me feel like you accomplished your goal. Yeah. I feel like I accomplished more than I had already set out to do. So I was like, I don't think that, like you said, the way he's framing it, like I never thought I had true Olympia level potential. Like I never thought I was going to be like, but you know, the guys in the top six or seven or whatever. Yeah. I guess I did have a, like a bit of a, like the first time I came seventh. Yeah. Then I was like, I'm fucking close, you know? And I thought there was a chance I could have maybe beaten a keen that show and been six there. I thought we, me and him were close enough. And that was the first call that I was like, I, that, that did fuel me and a fire in me where I was like, all right, I'm, I'm fucking in the mix here, you know? But, but to be honest, no, I never, I'm kind of like you. I never thought I was going to win the Olympia. You know, I never saw myself as like, I'm going to be the guy that's going to win it. And I had these huge dreams and aspirations of being Mr. Olympia. Like that was never, and it was with any of those things, maybe, and this is like a detriment to myself is I never really had like firm goals in bodybuilding. Same. It was kind of like, I started doing it because I liked it and I just won and kept going to the next thing. And I just like kept doing the next thing. Same. You know, so like I was always accomplishing more than what I had set out to because there wasn't something I'd set out to. Yeah. I'd never set this goal. Like I want to make it to the Olympia. I want to win a pro show. It was like, I turned pro and I competed a pro show. And then eventually I won a pro show. And then eventually I, you know, got to the, like, it just kind of like happened that way. But I never really thought of it of like, this is my next goal, which is probably not a good way, but it also was just the way when you're in it at the time, you kind of like are going about it. But I don't think it's a bad thing. It's kind of like, I love what I'm doing. And I wasn't worried about it. Yeah. And I just want to keep doing it. I want to get better at it. Yeah. I just want to be a better bodybuilder. And if that renders me being better, you know, in my career or whatever, then that's great. But, you know, it was, it was like more like one foot in front of the other than that, you know? Yeah. I don't know if that's a bad way to answer it. I apologize if we didn't really answer your question, but do you guys think you enjoyed bodybuilding more when you had low expectations early on as opposed to later in your careers? For sure. Yeah. Yeah. I think there was, um, there was like a middle ground. Yeah. You know, I think there was a middle ground where I had like, you know, some pressure and some expectation, but like where I hadn't let that be like the, the driving force, you know, I, it's like where I enjoyed it and I use that. But then there got to a point where that teetered over where I stopped enjoying it. And that's all I thought about. Right. So there was a middle, there was a middle ground where I kind of like, eh, and then I went over the hump. Yeah. I think that kind of happened with you a little bit too, Aifu Ed. I think I, I was a little bit bitter about a couple things that happened. There was a couple of shows. I know I should. Yeah. I should have won that. I didn't probably 2011, 2012. There's one in 2009. Like there's a couple, even the people that beat me kind of came around and said, Hey, you know, that was, that was fucking close. Um, I think 13 and 14, 12 and 13 were rough years for me. And then when I met John, it, my, it almost like my career went like this. I had a dip and then I met John and like, it changed my outlook again. And then I started to go back up, but it was kind of a little too late at that point. I kind of was 35, six, seven. So you can only get so much out of your physique at certain years. So I, I made a climb back, but it didn't, it was a little bit past where I could get back into where I wanted to be. It's not too late, buddy. You can do it. I had a, I don't know. I had a weird, I think my mental state really affected. Oh, there you go. Oh, that time. That time. It's that time. I don't want to, I don't want to drag this, drag this, uh, question on. Let's move on. Actually, there was one here for Paul. Strangest thing. Someone was trying to hide at the border. Well, I told you guys that story about when I found what I thought was hash and ended up being, uh, some kind of, uh, erection, um, stimulation. Or it was hash and he just fucking absolutely fooled you. Could have been too. Fair of all. Could have been. He's like, you put it on my penis. You're like, okay, go ahead. You know? I see some weird shit coming through FedEx. I'll tell you. Yeah. What is the biggest knock on a physique and bodybuilding example? A narrow clavicles, big waist, weird muscle bellies, et cetera. And if you had to take one, which would you take? What's the, uh, if I had to take one bad thing, it would be narrow clavicles. I don't think I would. Yeah. Yeah. Well, Phil, if you remember when he first started, we're like the only guy that's been able to like out muscle that. Well, if you look at Nile, Nile's clavicles aren't super wide. He looks amazing. He's got tiny waist though. I'm just saying. Yeah. Yeah. If I had to pick one neck, like I would rather have that than a big waist. I had a big waist. I don't like that shit. Yeah. I think honestly for me, this is, I don't know, maybe you agree. I think one of the worst things you could have in bodybuilding is really bad skin. Yeah. That's the thing you don't want though. Yeah. Like that textured skin that just like, no, but it's asking. I know. I'm just, I'm speaking at a different thing. That's to me is like having like a, not a nice like canvas. And I think that's where something you see guys like Phil Heath, I was just talking about like something like him that separated him so much. Was that like clean look, the skin quality and the texture. And I think that is something that can like really, really elevate a physique is a guy with like a really clean canvas, you know? Okay. Now answer the question. So what were my options? If you had to pick a bad, you could make something up. If you had to pick a bad thing to have, what would you want to have that you could get by with? I mean, you had bad calves. Yeah. I had bad calves. Yeah. You got it. Yeah. You already had it. Yeah. I, I, I've had, I had good calves. I had amazing calves early in my career. Me too. And then when I lost them, I placed better. So anecdotally to me, worse calves equal better bodybuilder. It's like when your balls shrink and your dick looks bigger. Yeah. Everything looked better. I started winning shows when I lost my calves. You know, it's funny. It's good calves equal good, bad bodybuilder. Yeah. Calves is the only body part in bodybuilding that actually went down in time, but nobody cares. Yeah. Nobody gives a shit. Like you could have gone by with shit calves in the eighties. Yeah. Nobody gives a fuck. Yeah. Nobody cares. Uh, pancakes or waffles? Waffles. Pancakes. Yeah. I'm a pancake guy. Really? Yeah. Oh shit. Sorry guys. One second. Fuck. I got to refresh this thing. One second. We'll do a couple more. Then we'll go. Cause Joe's been sitting in his car for an hour and a half. Yeah. I run out of gas. Well, no, you know what? No, my wife said where she does taxes and she works like 12 hours. So I was going to go home to nothing. So I'm actually having a good time. Who had can only pick one person from bro chat to join him in a face to face debate versus Sean Ray and Bob chick. Who are you choosing? I'll take both. I could debate the fuck out of both of those idiots. It's funny, man. I got that. Wait, I like, I like Bob to grill. I like Bob to grill. Sean's an idiot. Fuck Sean Ray. Fuck Sean Ray. You know, Sean Ray actually kind of like indirectly. Well, it felt like an insult. He wanted to interview me and I let him. But he was like, cause I was with Hunter. He interviewed Hunter first and then he wanted to interview me. Yeah. And he was like, Hey man, I'm sorry. What was your name again? He's like, I want to make sure to give you a reintroduction. Cause if I don't know you, then I doubt anybody else knows you like that. So I was like, Oh, wow. Wow. This was recently. Yeah. Wow. You know, can I, can I tell you something? That's really to me. And this is, this is my job. Okay. I consider myself part of the media. To me, that's the most insulting thing about Sean Ray. Yeah. I feel like you're a very experienced bodybuilder. You know exactly what you're looking at. You know exactly what you're talking about. I consider him an idiot, but he's an expert. Okay. These guys are experts. I consider them experts. For sure. You can't be in the fucking media and not know who the fuck you're talking about. He knows who he is. You gotta know. Imagine Joe Rogan, not knowing the fucking fighters. Like, even now, like, like, like I'm trying to learn, like we do the news. So I'm trying to learn the other classes. Yeah. Well, I've been trying to learn all the classic guys. I'm trying to learn the men's physique guys. Like you can't be in the fucking media and go up to a guy who just took second at a show and be like, Oh yeah. What's your fucking name? Like that's not just the ego. Yeah. That's a problem. There's no way he doesn't know who Joe is. No, he, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's not true. That's not true. That's, that's the problem. Paul is that's not true. Yeah. Sean Ray is focused on the top five at the Olympia. That's who he knows or top 10. Maybe he's not focused on all. Like you gotta focus on the guys, man. A hundred percent. These guys are all working their fucking ass off. You gotta know, you know, even when we're doing shows and there's European guys and I don't know who they are. I feel really bad. I'm like, that's fucking insulting. You should know who the fuck these guys are. You don't have to know everybody. But we make a point to try and remember them and then like give them their views when we see them next. But you're going to know a guy who got a couple of second places just last year. You know, it made a huge impact. That's what I'm saying. It's not like Joe was coming like 11 to fuck every show. He was like chomping at the bit. And the more insulting thing is if I don't know you, nobody else is. I'm like, what the fuck is that? Yeah. Whatever. Okay. Literally everyone who watches this podcast will know who Joe is. And that's a lot more people that watches theirs. You know? Have you ever faked it? Have you ever faked it? Like bust the load? No, dude. I'm trying to do the opposite. I've already busted. I'm pretending like I haven't. So in that case, I faked it. Yes. So you haven't faked. I busted 20 seconds in. I'm like, I'm still good. I'm still going. You know? Like, have you ever. Have you ever like. Gummy warming it until it comes back. You know? Gummy warming it. Sometimes you can get. You can get a second round in. You can get it back. You can get enough stimulation. You'll get it going. Come on, buddy. Come on, buddy. German on. If we're all together one day, we'll. Joe, come to Olympia. We'll talk some stories. I'll tell you. If you've got enough seals in you, that thing will come back. You know? Oh, it's coming back. It never stops. Paul. Oh, my God. This is the best question I ever did. Paul danced in the club back in the day. Or was he too tough? And I will fucking tell you guys firsthand. Paul used to dance in the club and everybody used to watch and cheer. Really? I used to raise the roof. It was literally. That's it. That's my move. That's all he would do. That's all I could do is raise the roof. Oh, my God. That's amazing. Walk into the middle of the dance floor and start fucking doing this. Did you do that because you saw Ronnie Coleman do it on the Olympia stage? That was probably my answer. A hundred percent. You saw Ronnie doing the, you know? He's like, that's cool. I'm going to do that. He's like, get up on the speakers and dancing. You know? Oh, my God. The clubs have big speakers on the dance floor. Did you dance at clubs with? Yeah, I did. Like with girls? That's actually how you used to pick. Like you wouldn't be like out by yourself dancing. You'd go up and try and grind on girls. That's how I'd pick up girls. That was my number one move. Yeah, I would do that. Yeah. Would you do a world podcast tour? If they flew us into wherever, we'd go. Hottest girl in the gym leaves her plates on every machine. Do you say anything? No. If I own a gym, I would. Yeah, I would. Look what the fuck are you doing, man? Take your plates off. How much weight can it be? I'll do it for you. Did Paul ever replace his tile floor? Because he's having foot issues. No. My solution was indoor shoes. You get shockwave and fix that shit, you know? I did actually get shockwave when I was getting therapy done on it. Helps it? It did help. It did help a lot. The thing that helped me the most was wearing like a brace to bed where I held your foot in a certain position. Oh, yeah. So it would stay loose. You should wear toe spreaders, too. Yeah. I thought it was so gay, though. I never wanted to wear those. Yeah. It's good. Good for you. Here were those socks with the individual toes? Yeah. Yeah. Those are comfy. I could just wear those on leg days back in the day. Each toe's special. What pain hurts the most, physical or emotional? Emotional. It depends. You've never stubbed your fucking pinky toe on the floorboard? Yeah. That shit's over quick, you know? Have you ever lost an arm? Yeah, but I think the emotional side of that is worse than the physical side. Really? I fucking can't put my socks on in the morning. Yeah, but that I think is the emotional side of that is worse than the physical side. I can shut down my emotions if I can't shut down physical pain. No, you can't. It comes out in other ways, dude. Shut up. Maybe it does. I ignore that, though, for that. Emotional shit for me. That's just... Yeah, for sure. I agree. It's freezing cold. No shirt with boxers with no blanket. Are you snuggling up with Paul to keep warm? Yes. No. No. I'm going to wear an oversized shirt and no boxers. And a thong, hopefully. Depends. Are we, like, outdoors camping? We're going to freeze to death? I'm fucking getting up close. If we're going to freeze to death. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. We're getting naked and cuddling, you know? Hey, there's a question for each of us here, but some of them are siren here. Paul, on a scale from 1 to 10, 10 being gone, how high are you right now? Oh, right now I'm not. I would say... I'm not going to lie, though. I have had a little bit today. I would say right now I'm about a 2.5. 2.5. Yeah. That's the standard. It's always... Yeah, that's my baseline. That's my saturation point. That's like running one IU of GH. That's right. It is. It's like anti-aging at this point. That's all. It's my baseline. Yeah. It's like anti-aging. Keep it in the system. Keep it in the system. It just keeps me lean. You know? It keeps me happy. Ian, give us a side triceps for the doubters at Discord or whatever. Fuck. What did he say? You got no triceps, Ian? Give us a side triceps. He said that I wouldn't place top 10 in a regular season show ever. And if I try regular season show... Are we really talking about Mr. Potato Head over here? No, we're not. Don't give me any other time. He has a fucking... I can't compete and prove him right. Be too hurting for my ego, you know? Fuad, what's your next bigger goal or purchase? Well, I already said I'm buying a GS. And my next goal is to start moto vlogging. Nice. I want to... That's pretty cool. I want to start vlogging while I ride and get sponsors and start earning a living riding a motorcycle. Nice. I want to turn it into a career. Yeah. I think it's retarded or what? No, because you got a cool story with it now. You got fucking one arm and you're fucking ripping around. It's cool. Yeah. Mary, fuck, kill. We'll end on this. We'll end on this. Okay. Mary, fuck, kill. Scarlett Johansson in Avengers. Okay. Margot Robbie in Wolf of Wall Street. Okay. Gal Gadot in Wonder Woman. This is easy for me. Easy for me too. I already know what he's going to pick because he slightly likes transsexuals. No, I'm marrying Margot Robbie. I'm fucking Gal Gadot and I'm killing Scarlett Johansson. I knew it. See, I knew it. I fucking knew it. Because you're a little bit interested. You're tranny curious. Who's tranny-ish? Yeah, Gal Gadot is a little management. A little management. That's what I was thinking too. No way. See? Paul Todd. But I'm marrying the Margot Robbie. She's definitely the most like wife. She's funny, you know? Listen, I'll tell you this. Like if Gal Gadot came out tomorrow and she's like, I was a man once. You wouldn't be shocked. I'm not going to lie to you. This woman played Wonder Woman. I'd be pretty fucking surprised. Yeah. All the fucking people that can play Wonder Woman in terms of tranny. I don't know. I'm just saying. Caitlyn Jenner won Woman in a Year. So, you know. I think it was more the role. He's true. I guess. Out of those three. Look, I think Scarlett Johansson's fucking hot for sure. But that's still my picks. Yeah. So you're going to. I don't know. Scarlett Johansson is pretty. Like she's married to that guy from SNL. She's obviously pretty fucking chill vibe. So she might be a good married to. You know? I was going by her character. I was going to. So I was going to say. Marry Scarlett Johansson. Fuck Margot Robbie. Kill Gal Gadot. I would be okay with that too. That's what my choice was. You know what? I would be okay with that. Yeah. Because like I just said. I said the Scarlett's chill vibe. So that's a good marriage. I love that. She has a good sense of humor. Yeah. No. I think she's. Like I could fucking. Like I say some off color shit to Melissa every single minute of the day. And I need someone that I can like be myself with that. You know? You know which I love this podcast. This is so ridiculous. Paul. Tell me your Mary fuck kill. Out of that group. I would. No. Create a new group. Out of any group. Three rounded people, Paul. Just what you really want to marry. What you really want to fuck. What you really want. You can pick. Okay. Do this, Paul. Pick any three people. Any three. Marry fuck kill. Yeah. The one that's the top of the list for each of those categories. So the kill. The kill could be like Sean Ray. You know? So pick whoever you want for very fuck kill. Okay. But do you want me to make it all three women? Whatever you want. Whatever you want. Marry fuck kill. I'll make it three women. Okay. I would. Unless you want to marry or fuck a man. But that's a bit weird. Yeah. Yeah. No, I don't want to. Okay. I would. I would fuck Rihanna pre kids. Yeah. But I wouldn't marry her because I don't know. She'd be respectful to her husband. You don't have to explain the rest. You're going to fuck Rihanna. Mike said she's a bitch too. I don't know. You're going to explain the rest. She wouldn't respect her husband. Please explain. She definitely wouldn't respect her gender role. She would cheat on you for sure. Oh, wait. I know. I know. I'm probably with some fuck. Okay. So you're fucking Rihanna. Who are you marrying? I don't know. Fuck you. You're going to fuck Rihanna. But I'm not going to marry her. You're not fucking Rihanna. Rihanna's going to fuck him. That's how it's going to go. Yeah. Probably. Okay. Who are you going to marry? Who are you going to kill? Who am I going to marry? I'm trying to think of an actress or musician that I think would make a good wife. Probably somebody conservative with conservative values. You know who I'd marry? Remember that chick who used to be the White House spokesperson? That blonde, hot blonde? She still is. She still is. No, but I think she was during Trump's first term. No, she still is. What's her name? Carolyn. Caroline. Levitt? No, no, no. Yeah, Carolyn Levitt. No, there was someone before her. Oh, I don't know. Ah, she was hot. She was blonde. She was really conservative. She still has a blonde girl. Yeah. This one was different though. She does a, I think she does a podcast now. Oh. No, you're thinking of Megyn Kelly, but I don't think that was as impressive. No, not Megyn Kelly. No. You got it, Fuad? I may be. I don't know. Let me see. Are you thinking of, uh... This chick? Kaylee McEnany? That's her. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. I would marry her. She looks so retarded, dude. I don't need her. She literally looks retarded. She's in your age bracket though. I don't need to be smart, but... She's got like fish eyes, dude. She's got a good job. She's conservative. No, this is not a Mary. Yeah, that's bad. You don't think that's a Mary? Look at her there. Dude, she looks retarded, man. No, she doesn't look. That's just a bad picture. The new one's hotter. This is the new one. You think that one's hotter? I don't think so. Yeah. Look at that picture over there. She's also hot there. Dude, this girl's eyes are on the side of her face. She looks like a fish. That's not a big deal to me. That's not something that would distract me. So when you're missionaries, you can't look them in the eyes. I don't look in the eye anyways. Look at her face, dude. I mean, she's not ugly, but she's definitely not as hot as the new one. Look at Huckabee. Look at Huckabee. She's a looker, eh? Who is that bitch? She looks like her dad. Who's that red-headed bitch during Biden's term? That would always get into a reporter. Okay, anyway. You're going to marry... That's your pick of all the women. And now who are you killing? I'm just thinking off the top of my head right now. Of all the women in the world? Well, I want... That's good. Let them have it. Who's your kill? Who's going to be a good wife who's going to cook, who's going to have conservative values, who's not going to... No, no. Wait a minute. We need to explore this. This woman is a career politician. She's traveling with the president. She's not cooking for you. She's cooking your fucking food. She'd be calling you every night before she goes to bed, that woman. No. And probably leaving your food in the fridge before she hits the road. She's too busy for you, Paul. She's fucking some lawyer while you're on. Yeah. You're cooking your own food. I would probably be... You know what else finds it hilarious? He's like, you can choose anyone in the world? He's like, I'd pick my wife, obviously. Okay. Now, who are you killing? Who am I killing? There's probably a lot of women there. His wife. I kill... I don't care for her. Whoopi Goldberg. Oh, yeah. That's a good one. I don't care for her at all. That's a really good pick. Yeah. All right. So, yeah. I could have took any woman on The View, really. Yeah. You had a mediocre pick than a really good pick. What's the other really shitty one on The View, too? Joy something. Joy Bayar. Yeah, that one. She's the worst, too. Yeah. Isn't she the one who had to do the apology on air? Yeah. She's pretty brutal. Because they're going to sue the fuck out of her. Yeah. Joe, before you go, I want to know your... Leave your wife. Pretend your wife doesn't exist. Yeah. You got to pass on this one, Joe. You got to pass on this one. Of all women, what's your Mary fuck kill? Well, he's got to do the three that we did. No, he already agreed with us on those three. Oh, yeah. We did that already. I agree with four odds. Yeah. We did that already, right? Of all the women in the world, I think I would kill... This is hard. The first one that comes to mind is Hillary Clinton. I really don't like Hillary Clinton. Yeah, that's a good one. That's a good pick, yeah. That was in the back of my head, too. Yeah. Yeah. Would I fuck? Does it matter how old they are now, or can we go back then? You can go back in time. The Jennifer Aniston from Friends. Oh, yeah. Pete Jennifer Aniston. That's a good Mary. That's a good Mary. That's a good Mary. That's your fuck. Or is that your fuck? No, that was my fuck. Yeah. My Mary. That's your fuck? Pete Jennifer Aniston? That's fucking goaded, dude. That's a Mary, dude. That's not a fuck. No, but Jennifer Aniston's been through like 35 marriages, dude. She's not marriage material. Yeah. That's like the most girl next door, Mary, you marry. Dude, she's been married to like 75 guys. She's clearly not wife. They all leave her. She's too needed. Yeah. It's usually the guy's fault. No, I don't think so. I don't think so. It's her, man. There's a common denominator there. Yeah, I think it's her. I think she clings too fast. It turns guys off. Who would I marry? Who's the chick that played Marilyn Monroe? Sydney Sweetie? No. No. Marilyn Monroe. Oh, Anna Darmus. Anna Darmus. Yeah. That's my Mary. You know who mine is? Yes, the tranny. Yeah. That's her name. Say her name. I can't say it. I can't remember it. I know exactly what you're talking about. I don't know how she was. I don't know how she is in real life, but I remember thinking that Jennifer Love Hewitt back then. Oh, yeah. It would be a really good watch. Back in the day, yeah. That's a good one, yeah. Yeah. Those are some good pulls. Who's the chick that Justin Timberlake married? Jessica Biel. She's hot. Yeah, that's good. She is hot, yeah. Okay, I better stop. I'm going to get myself in trouble. A young Jennifer Garner. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Or a young Jennifer Connelly. Okay. Like the one from back in the day, you know? Oh, who's the chick with the... Or not Connelly. What's the... Yeah, is that her name? Yeah, black hair, blue eyes. Yeah, the one from like Labyrinth and shit. Oh, marriage. Except not Labyrinth, because she was like 13 there. I'm talking a little later. All right. All right. I'm going to stop. Hey, who's mine? You didn't even... You don't remember her name? I don't remember that Tranny's name. Fuck. That's a good thing. Yeah. Yeah, I know her. Probably some kind of unisex name. Like a Jessie or something. No, man. She's the... You know who she is, Paul. I'll say... She's like one of the most famous female singers. What the fuck is her name, Ian? Tell me. You mean... Is it famous Tranny or whatever? No. I'm just interested to see who you guys think are Tranny is, you know? I can see that being Tranny. She's got like a Latina look. Yeah, she's Albanian. She's very thin. She's Albanian. Is she? Yeah. Come on. Just tell me, Ian. Fuck. Dua Lipa. Dua Lipa. That's it. Yeah. That's my favorite. Wait, Dua Lipa's a Tranny? Yeah. Really? No. Oh, shit. No, she's not. Okay, but tell me, Joe. Honest to God. I was like, what? Joe, honest to God. If you saw just this photo and you were like, yeah, that's a dude, would you be shocked? No. I am shocked right now. Look at this. Yeah, that's questionable. She's like 13 there, guys. Come on. Oh, really? Dude, that's a fucking dude, man. Come on. No. No. Right there. Go to images. Look. Like they're bought. No. Second row. Yeah. Like that. If somebody told me that was a man, I would not be shocked at all. I'm still not convinced. Okay. In that picture, I can see it. The one on the right. I got to ask you. I got to ask you. That one for sure. I got to ask you a question here. Was it the group? What's that fucking tranny's name from Euphoria? Oh, I don't know. The blonde one? Yeah. You put it in the group. I can't remember the name, but that's definitely a tranny in real life. Yeah. That's a tranny in real life. I got to say, if I didn't know, that one might get me. You know? I can see that. Well, Dua Lipa already got you. Well, yeah. Dua Lipa's actually a girl. This one's actually a guy. You know? Well, that's what she says. Yeah. That's true. Well, I think that one still has his dick. Yeah. Okay. This is the guy Ian's talking about. Yeah. This one. This looks more like a girl than Dua Lipa. Yeah. This is actually a... Yeah. This is actually a dude. Yeah. Paul. This could trick me. This looks more like a... Well, no. This is for sure a dude with long hair. Yeah. There. But she's got a little more... He's got a little more feminine now. You know? Yeah. That could trick you, dude. That could trick me for sure. This would trick me before Dua Lipa would. Yeah. I agree. Yeah. Yeah. Like, I don't see an Adam's apple or nothing. You know? Like, a square jaw. Well... You'd make out with her, Paul. Oh. I still... I still... I still would knowing it's a dude. You... Like, that's the hottest dude I ever seen. I'm all in, man. Yeah. Look, he's got, like, female arms in that. Judge me all you want. This... Look, this... This is a woman. I don't give a fuck. Yeah. Like, that... That... You can't... I'm fine with it. Paul, if this woman approached you in a bar, you'd go home with her. 100%. And I would leave there screaming in horror when I found out what the secret was. But then again, I don't know. That's a little different. Yeah. That's different for sure. Yeah. Look at those squared shoulders. No, that's bad. Yeah. All right. All right. We're probably going to get canceled now. But okay. That's good. Joe, thanks for coming on, man. I appreciate you making the time. Of course. Paul, you want to say a prayer so Joe can go home? Yeah. Sure. I'll keep it short since it's getting late. He's living out my car. We have to be. All right. Let us bow our heads. Dear leader, we are honored to be joined tonight by Joe. We look forward to watching your career progress this year and good luck with everything. I know you're a new father too. Ian, as you approach fatherhood, we wish you and your sperms much success and much happiness as you fertilize those eggs. I don't think there's an S on sperms. I think it's just sperm. That's okay. Sperm's pearl? Yeah. Go ahead. Okay. Fouad? Well, I know you're about to buy yourself a new bike and may you ride it safely and responsibly. I know you probably won't. It's not true. Just maybe keep an eye on Fouad over there. Keep him somewhat constrained. And I got a bad back right now. It's really bothering me. If I can get this to loosen up a little bit by tomorrow morning, that would be really wonderful. You guys want to add anything? You guys have anything you want to pray for? Anybody? We're good. Thanks, man. That's all you, Paul. You're good. Okay. Well, let's bring it on home here then. And amen. Amen. See you later, boys. See you guys later. So hilarious.