 What's going on guys? Welcome back to the podcast and I want to thank Manscaped for sponsoring the show. If you go to manscaped.com forward slash RBP, you can get anything you want. Use code RBP, you get 20% off plus free shipping. If I take you to the website, I'm going to show you what they got. They're the best in men's hygiene. They got all the tools, trimmers, the Lawn Mower 5.0 is amazing, but my favorite thing is the beard trimmer, which is here, that has the adjustment on it already so you're not going to lose any of your guards or anything like that because that always happens to me. They also have some really good beard oils. If I can find them here, they got the lipids, lip balm, a foil blade, a foil blade, and all that stuff, but the beard conditioner. There it is. This is one of my favorite things they make. Also, guys, if you go to manscaped.com forward slash RBP or use code RBP at checkout, you get 20% off plus free shipping. Support them, support the podcast, and thank you guys very much. Get the best in men's hygiene. Sup? Sup? Sup? That's a clean head, Paul. Paul, why? I didn't mean to do that. Yeah, okay. Clean head, man. Yeah, thanks. I had the clipper sat on number three, and then while I was buzzing it, I dialed it to number one without realizing it. So I was like, how come it's short on the top right now? So I had to do the whole thing like that. Ian's cleaned up too. Yeah, Ian failed his one year. Ian was supposed to wait one year. I made it like 10 months, bro. Oh, you did? You made like six. No, wait. I got my hair. Wait, I got my hair done at the last week of November. I made it to like probably August. Paul, look at this guy. He fucking exaggerates so much. I got 10 months, my ass. I got a question to you. If you were to buzz it, what would it look like? Like a buzzed head. Paul is so ready to go to Turkey. Wait, what else would it look like, Paul? No, he wants to know how thick it would be if you buzzed it. Would it look like a guy with a full head of hair? See what I got? Or would it look like Paul's head? Yeah. If you have a full head of hair, it would look like a full head of shaped head. So you wouldn't see like scars and stuff like that? Scars? Oh, you mean scars from the transplant? Right. No, this isn't like 2003 where they like cut the strip out of your hair. They're doing these one by one. There's no scars. Okay. Ian's totally gatekeeping his contact too. He hasn't given it to me. He hasn't given it to Mike. He hasn't given it to you. He's just totally hoarding this. He's like, you're all going to be ugly forever. I'm going to be ugly. I told you guys. Help me out here. Okay. Fuck you and all you. I told you on multiple occasions that if you wanted to do anything, you were even like, I want to get a nose job. I'm like, all right. I'm going to get my nose done. I'm going to get my teeth done. I'm going to get hair. I'm going to come back. I said, if you want them, you let me know and I'll hook up all of it. Okay. Because I think I'm ready. I'm considering it. I did more than just hair. I offered contacts for all of it. I'm telling you right now publicly, I'm ready. Send the contacts. Send the contacts. I'll literally message them tomorrow. So be careful what you wish for. I'm ready. I'm ready too. Well, I need pricing. I can't. I want to know what the price is going to be like. Maybe we can work some kind of deal here with the podcast. It's going to be a deal, obviously. The shade rate is high right now. Yeah. I'll get this cleaned up. I'm down. You're going to fill in that little corner there? While we're there. Ian's hairline looks pretty fucking nasty. I know. I know. Every time I see it, I'm getting more. That doesn't look like too fucking weird, you know? No. It's great. I love it. I think it turned out better than Chris's. Yeah. Chris's looks like it's more straight across. Well, the thing with Chris's is he tried to like replicate his natural hairline off of pictures. And if you look at his hairline when he like competed when he was young, he did when he had like the comb back and shit, like the slick back and the shaved sides. His hairline was straight as a board. It was. There is a difference between manufactured straight and natural straight. It doesn't quite look the same. So he did it based off of pictures, what his natural hairline looked like. But then when it's like done, it's kind of like, it's not quite the same, you know? And also the change is so dramatic, you know? I want to go. I want to go one by one and go around the horn. All right. If you could go to Turkey and get anything done, what are you doing? I'll start. I'm going to go nose, hair, teeth. What's wrong with your nose? I want to chop this little tip off, Seth. You guys are like Gonzo over there. I just want to get rid of this little piece. You've had a problem with that for a long time, that little thing. You know what? The GH made it worse. This little cartilage. The GH made the cartilage. Fuck, marry, kill in order of which ones you want there. Teeth. I want to get my teeth done. Teeth is number one. Yeah, because my teeth are a little bit jacked. My nose is not that bad. My head's pretty round. So I'm good with my bald head. Okay. Now does teeth as well. Yeah. That's what I want to do. That's like primary. Yeah. See, I want my teeth. I have horrible teeth. Okay. So Seth, you go. Teeth, what else? We're going to bring you boys back with a fresh set of Nathan Day Asha fucking horse. Yes. Early whites. Like big, like big horse teeth. His are good. You get some guys with some crazy veneers for sure. Choppers. Okay, Seth, go. If you had like your top three. Like I'm okay. I thought I was going to be much more okay with like getting older. But the more I, when I wake up on some rough days, dude, the lines, dude, I'm like, oh, dude, who the fuck are you? Maybe like some type of skin treatment to like just clean me up. Yeah. But you can just get Botox like anywhere. You can just do that here. I don't know how I feel about that, but I think that's the way I'm looking. Wait, wait, let's expand. Let's expand on that. Just remember the Botox. Why don't you like Botox? I don't know. Because I, again, I'm in a fucking midlife crisis here. Okay. I thought I was going to be okay with like, you know, getting much older, but days that I'm super stressed, I look at him like, bro, you look like, you look like you got hit by a truck this morning. You know? And it's like, I've lived a, here's the thing. Like I've lived a super wild, intense life. So what the fuck did I think was going to happen? Right. You know? Yeah. I do like, I do like the teeth and the hair, the hair. I mean, it's all fucked up. But so like, I wouldn't, I wouldn't. Okay. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Ian's hair looks really good. I take your hair any day, Seth. Don't, don't, don't interrupt. Seth, you're saying the podcast listeners are constantly on me about interrupting Seth because he's too polite to talk over us. So let's let Seth have his moment. I, I, I, anyway, Seth, uh, I'm going teeth. I'll go teeth. I'll go teeth and then skin. So two, you only have two. What about your nose? You like that fucking just dry? Okay. Let's say, dude, if this thing comes off, if this thing comes off, I'll look like, I don't even look like myself. I'll be like, that's the point. That's the reason people get things like that done. A big nose. Leave me alone. I like this big nose is like a masculine feature. Like, unless you have like crazy, like Lebanese hump, like you just, that's not Lebanese. That's Jewish. That's Israeli. I see, I see some air air chicks with some crazy noses. You know? Okay. Um, okay. So Seth has got two skin, skin, dude, skin's easy. You can get Botox done anywhere. Well, you could eat, you could also get some like pretty fancy facial treatments too, but yeah, Botox is. I know, but you can just do Botox at a spa around the corner and like, it'd be done in fucking an hour. Yeah. I don't know if I feel good about that. Like what happens around the corner? You make it sound like we're just buying some trend. No, it's not like that. Nothing like that. Botox isn't really something you can like fuck up. Cause it's not like filler. However, filler where you're adding something. It's literally just a neurotoxin that kind of like paralyzes the muscle a bit to relax the wrinkles. You know, long-term if we all see these celebrities with their faces now, that's not from Botox. No. What's that? That's filler. That's mostly from like facelifts, filler, like things like that. Like where they're doing reconstructive stuff. Look, you can go too hard with Botox and you can get like what they call like a, like a droop, like where it's like you paralyze the muscle too much that you kind of have things like died off a bit. Um, but like that wouldn't be like, you're not, you're just, you still want to look masculine, but you won't obviously reduce some of the fine lines. I think Botox is pretty safe. I mean, it's been around for a while. Yeah. Botox is like a non, I've had Botox a million, I've had a million times. You're just putting botulism in your body. Yeah. That's not what Botox is. I've been sick before. Yeah, it is. Not really, but yes. I mean, it's a, it's a neurotoxin. Botulism. Paul's just trying to make it sound way worse than it is when really it's like everybody does it every fucking day. I came across an article once. Well, that's the thing. I've found out a lot of people do it. Yeah. Ian does it like every month. No, I haven't done it in a while. I'm definitely way overdue, but like I, I used to do it pretty consistently. Every like four or five months. And like, I couldn't even move my forehead. I have no lines, but like, I'm just, I'm not up to date with it. You know? All right. So Seth, you can do Botox around the corner and then you just have to get, you're going to get your teeth done. Teeth. Like fresh chompers. Mike? Just chompers. Just teeth. Nothing else. No. I already got so much fake shit. What the fuck? What about, what about like, what about like lipo? Do you want to get them just so you don't have to die so hard? Mike's lean. What the fuck are you saying? He's the leanest one of all of us. I'm just saying. No, he's not the leanest of all of us. I'm just saying. Other than that. Yeah. I got a little thick here. I'm not saying, I'm just saying like, this is a wish list. Like you could do anything. Right? Like, if I can, like, like, look, I hold most of my fat in my love handles. If I can go in there and say, you know what? Just, just like vacuum a little bit out of there. Like, I would take that. It's good. Yeah. I'd do that. Yeah. If they're going to do it while I'm under, then why not? But I'm not going in twice. Yeah. Like we're saying like, this is a, this is a, an unrealistic wish list. Right? Yeah. I don't think they put you under for teeth though. Do they now? I hope. I hope they fucking do. Yeah. No. I don't. They better. They better put me under. How are they going to fucking do it then? If you're not under, they got to, don't they got to shave your teeth down and like put the veneers on? Like. Yeah. I think they just, they just numb your mouth and they do it. Oh no. I hope they fucking like. Brutal. I don't want to fucking. I mean, Melissa, Melissa has veneers and they definitely didn't put her to sleep for it. Really? Chris has some veneers too. Yeah. Okay. So explain to me how veneers work. Cause my understanding is they shave your fucking teeth and like basically put a cap on. Yeah. There's different degrees of like how fucked up your teeth are and they'll have to shave down more or less. Like Melissa's like underneath her veneers don't look like little fucking pegs. Like you see in those like hilarious like Instagram reels. Like they shave down a little bit just so they can make room to put a cap on it. But like, just like kind of the outlines, they didn't shave it down to like, it's just enough that you can fit something over it. It's very. Have any of them broke? Huh? Have any of them broke? No. I have two veneers. Yeah. I wonder, are veneers strong enough? Like, you know, when you, cause we all probably grind our teeth when we're training and shit. Yeah. Does that affect it? Yeah. The only time you need to be careful with veneers is when you have temps in. Like before you get your permanent ones in, if you have temporaries in, like they can, you know, break or fall out or fucking whatever. Melissa had that happen with a few of them. Yeah. But like once you have your permanent ones like fucking screwed in, glued in, whatever it is, they're not really going anywhere, man. Yeah. Yeah. How much does that cost? Approximately. I don't know. Is it like per tooth or is it per like. It's per tooth. It's like 10 grand, like 10 grand in Turkey. Right. And it's like fucking 70 here. It's like probably less. Thousand, like thousands per tooth. That's why a lot of people. No, I think you're paying like in Ottawa where Melissa got hers done. I think she paid about six to 800 Canadian a tooth. So, I mean, like, depends how many tooth you're getting. What is that? What is that? You're not doing your like back teeth. You're doing your visible fronts, you know, and usually you're only doing the top. So, it depends. So, if you did 10. I did every tooth if I went to Turkey. I want to. Well, you would do all the visible ones. So, say you did. All of them. The whole amount. I'm with Mike. If you did 15 teeth, even at $1,000 a tooth in Canada, you're spending 15 grand. So, say you did, you know, six on the top, six on the bottom. You're, you know, you're somewhere in that like eight to 12 grand range. Yeah. So, probably a third of that, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Plus, we get a vacation out of it and we get all these shrooms for a week while we're in Turkey. Yeah. I'm going to fucking blast primo like crazy while I'm there. I'm going to see if they can put an IV of it into me while they're doing it. Don't they have the, aren't the fucking Omnidrins, aren't those from there? And Anapolins, aren't they? Anapolins. Anapolins. Oh, Seth, Seth, you know what I'm talking about. Remember the Omnidrin and Organon? I do. It was Polish off. Yeah, but it was like, you got way more watery and big from it. You got huge off Omnidrin. They were dirty. And Organon were good for prep. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Look. See, Seth knows cutters and bulkers. Yeah. Before the signs hit. You're bulking? This is kind of sad, but like, I'll show you what, this is what my dog does. Oh, he's just staring at the wall. He's just stuck behind here. Look. Oh, wow. Get him out of there. Yeah. That's why I got up. Get him out. You know what's weird, though? My dog does weird shit like that and he doesn't have a tumor. Ah, he's gone. I'll catch Kay just staring at the wall sometimes. I'm like, what the fuck are you doing? Yeah, but like, he'll get caught in places that he can't get himself out of, you know? If you saw me at two in the morning. That was between the TV and the fucking, like, the TV stand on the wall. Like, this stand over there on the wall and he just can't find his way out, you know? All right, Paul. We're going around the circle. You're the last. Well, Ian, before we go. Well, Ian's got his hair done already. Is there anything else you want to get done? You can tell us. You can tell us. Yeah, that's what I was going to say. You want, like, another inch on it? Looking for another inch on it or what? I don't know if you can add length, though. You can add girth, I think. But I'm like, I don't know if I would want to. I'm good for girth. I don't want to. If I was going to do anything, I would probably, like, fix my ears a little bit, you know? What's wrong with your fucking ears? Try with the ears. I don't want to talk to you about your ears. One is different. Oh, yeah. One sticks out. This one's down at the top. Yeah, I would get that fixed. So I would just fix them, like, even. I would just, like, fix them like that. Yeah, you'd get that fixed. Ian wants an inch on his dick and his ears. Okay. Paul? For sure hair. I'll just take an inch off my ear and put it on my dick, you know? Instead of throwing that skin away. All right. What is it, Paul? For sure my hair. Number one. Hair is number one. It's a big deal. You know what I noticed? Hair is a really big deal for you. It's getting bigger. I used to be able to grow a nice little fade. No, you've had no hair for a long time. No, no. I used to have a cool fade going. Your hair has been thinning for 10 years, at least. For the last year or so. I've really, the fade's really been hard to pull off now. Dude, I told you, like, 20 years ago, there was a fucking island back there. Let me tell you the story. What? Sorry to cut you off. No, no. Go ahead. So, for years, you told me I was going bald. I didn't believe you. I thought it was just the lighting when I look in the mirror. Because when I look at home, there's light right here, and I'm looking. I got the handheld mirror. So, I always think it's just the lighting shining, and it's just exaggerating. The reality is, Paul, if you have a big hair, no matter the lighting, you don't look like One minute. Let him finish. Finish the story. So, I thought Fouad was just busting my balls all these years. So, I actually had to go to court once for work. And, you know, I can't tell the details. Fouad knows him. It's a pretty funny story. But, anyways, I got put on the stand, and I had to watch a video of myself during this incident. And the camera was right down on my head. So, this – and I got to say, this lawyer did not prep me at all. So, I just want to say that before I get to the rest of the story. He didn't prep me at all. So, I had no idea they were going to show me a video. So, I sit down in the box. They show me this video. It's like a five-second video. And that guy goes – the crown goes, he goes, so what did you see in that video? And all I could see was a bald spot on my head. I couldn't see anything else. All I was looking at was a bald spot. They were like, Fouad wasn't fucking – I really am going bald. So, I was like, I'm sorry. I was just looking at myself in that video. Can you play it again for me, please? So, he had to play the video for me again. He's like, now concentrate on right here. Anyway. So, hair for sure. I think I would get my neck done, too. I've been noticing my neck is looking like – What do you want to get done with your neck? Fill it in a little bit. What do you fill it in? Well, no, you would pull this – Okay, that's what they do. Yeah, I never had this. I just started this in this, too. Do you mean because the neck skin is getting wrinkly like a turkey? Like a lip. Yeah, right here, Fouad. I don't know if you can see it. See right here? Yeah. That's so – It looks like a turkey neck. Yeah, exactly. I don't want that. So, I would probably get my neck done. And probably my lower teeth are fucked. That seems like such a small, like, vein thing. Your neck here. I've never even noticed that. Yeah, I started noticing it after I turned 50. I got the 50-year-old neck now. So, you got wrinkle neck. I got a little wrinkle neck. You're just going to start wearing turtlenecks all the time. Yes. Or collars. Collars buttoned up all the way. Like a Mexican gangster. Hey, what's up, poems? You want to change it? All right. So, neck skin. That's the fucking neck skin and hair. What about your fucking nose? No, I'm fine with my nose. I know it's big. Oh, my God. Ever since I got it fixed last year, it works great now. I'm not fucking with it anymore. Okay. Really? Yeah. All right. I can breathe. I couldn't breathe before. Yeah, but you always wanted to get your nose done. Now it's gone? Now you're like... If I got it too small, I wouldn't breathe like this. I got a good airflow right now. I wouldn't want to mess that up. Don't fuck with your nose. Unless it's like weird bump or like something. It's like, don't fuck with it, man. Well, I do got this fold right here, Fuad. You remember this? I got that fold right there. That would be easier to fix. I would get that fixed maybe too. To smooth it out? You could still have Botox. You could get that done. They would do it with filler. Melissa actually had that done. It's like a liquid rhinoplasty where they put filler in certain spots of your nose to change the shape of it. That actually makes it look smaller even though they're adding. It's crazy what they do with filler in your nose. I've seen the pictures. It's crazy. I've seen pictures of girls with like a fucking beak. And then they use filler and it looks smaller. That's like that term. I'm like, how did your fucking nose go from being like... It looked like it belonged on a parrot to like being fucking small? How did that happen by adding shit to it? Maybe we can see that, Paul. Maybe I will. I never even thought that you could do that. Watch us do it and it just looked twice as big. Oh my God. Yeah, I know. If I could look... All right. So new for 2025. We're all going to look different. We're going to... If I could get toned down the red a little bit, I would take that. Yeah, but how are you going to change your pigmentation? That's not... Well, you said it was a wish list. Oh, okay. So it's random. That's just your blood pressure, Paul. That's good, my blood pressure. That's a weird thing. That might be my amacrit. That's always fine. You want to do four inches taller so you can dunk? That too? I would definitely take a couple inches. Yeah. Did I see the... Did you guys see the vertical on Chris's fucking page? Yeah, it looks sick. Well, I remember him dunking in like... No, no, no. But look at this. Chris posted this today or something like that. I just saw it anyway. Look at this fucking vertical on this guy. Yeah, I wonder what that actually... It's not a fucking small dude, man. Oh, I did see that. Look at that. That's just a standing jump. Like force plate. That's fucking... What's the force plate do, Ian? That measures like energy upwards. Like see how much force you generate. Oh, okay. It's two different sides. You can measure like how much you're outputting from your left leg versus your right leg and how you land too. Huh. That seems wild to me that he could jump that high just standing still at that size. Yeah. So he does that as per his leg training? Look at that. No. Paul, if I did that, it would be like this high. Me too. Really? Fuck, I know. We'll see if I can get off the... What do you mean? You think you could only jump like six inches? What do you mean really? Look at me, Ian. You think if I fucking jumped, it would go higher than... Listen, 12 inches max. Turn to your camera and jump in your room right now. I'm telling you, 12 inches max. Maybe we should start doing that for it. I'm scared to lift my foot up a foot off the ground. I don't even want to jump. I need to get my ankle fixed first. Okay. On to interesting news. Derek is working with Chris Aceto. Yeah. I saw that. How does everybody feel? I guess you should have seen the writing on the wall when the Psycho Lewis stuff came out, but... Why? Wait, why do you explain that? What do you mean? Well, because Psycho Lewis and Aceto always have this pairing, you know? Yeah, but was Psycho Lewis working with Derek or something? Yes. Or not... Yeah. Who's he been... Oh, no. Sorry. Chris Cormier. He's been training with Cormier. Yeah. Yeah. That's not... Sorry. That's what I meant. With Cormier. So, like, when we see that, I feel like that's kind of an association, too, you know? But I don't see Chris and the two Chrises. I don't see Aceto and Cormier working together. Yeah. Maybe I was thinking Chris Psycho Lewis. That's why I was assuming... You were thinking Psycho Lewis, yeah. I was thinking the wrong Chris to begin with, but that made me go there anyways, you know? I don't know if that's going to be a good mix. I'm excited for it. Yeah. Chris is... Chris Aceto's, you know, coached Jay for a decade or two decades, so fucking, you know, he's used to coaching bigger guys at that level. But I don't know. I mean... Who did you think he was going to go with? I heard you could rebine AJ Sims, which is what we had talked about. Yeah, that's what I thought, too. I heard Chris in, like, rumblings, but I didn't know, obviously. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know. I don't have a problem with Chris at all. I think it's... I mean, Chris has got a massive, like... He's got a ton of credibility behind his name and track record that's, like, unparalleled other than a couple other coaches. I'm excited... Sorry, go ahead. No, no, go ahead. No, I was going to say, I'm excited because he's worked with so many different physiques. Like, that's why, like, if you go through all the people he's worked with, Akeem, Roden, you know, Jay, he worked with bigger guys and he gets everybody in shape. To get Roden in shape, like, that dude was... He was not in shape. So, I mean, I'm excited to see it from that perspective because Derek is a specimen. You know what throws me off? And I'm going to get into specifics a little bit just so people can kind of understand my hesitation. And I don't know this for a fact because I've never... I worked with Chris for a short period of time, but we never finished the prep out because I got injured. Surprise, surprise. Before I got to the show. So, but what I have heard from other athletes is the water depletion techniques are a little bit tough on some guys and they're a little bit old school in the way they work. Now, old school doesn't mean it doesn't work. Old school guys used to get fucking dry as fuck. So, I'm not saying old school is bad. It's just a different technique that I think some new coaches have gone away from. So, that was my hesitation when I heard that. I was like, oh, that's different. So, I'm interested to see how it works out. Because Hani's... Hani's drying out technique, and I'm sure it's different for everybody, but from what I remember, wasn't anything drastic. It wasn't anything like over the top. I'm sure, Seth, you experienced the same thing. So, I wonder how this is going to play out with Derek's physique. He limited Chris's water pretty decently, but Chris also is like kind of weird with the water stuff. No, I don't mean the limitation of it. I mean the diuretic use. Oh, diuretic use. Yeah, the diuretic use with Hani was very minimal for me. I don't remember using anything crazy. Very minimal and very straightforward. Yeah, yeah, nothing special. A lot of the older guys are like big aldactone bros, you know? Like, they fucking love to like do the aldactone into the diazide, you know? You know what I worry about with that? I feel like it's, theoretically, it's supposed to work well because you're like, okay, I'm going to limit aldosterone. I'm not going to retain water. We're going to start depleting. You're going to keep drinking, but you're going to be flushing while you're taking the aldactone. I get it. But it seems like it's risky. Like, it doesn't ever seem to work out the same every time. It's like if it works out, it works out fantastically. Right, right. One time out of ten, you know? Right. That's how I feel about it. It's like I've done aldactone before using like a heavier diuretic and had it work like a charm. And then I've had other times and I'm like, it's not fucking – I think it's actually hurting me. And there's no final reason. Which way? Have you had success using like a loop diuretic, like a Lasix or a Bumex on stage? Have I? Yeah. Well, I had good success with Chad using aldactone and then demodex, which is – yeah, same thing, right? So, yeah, we had really good success, but then I had one time where I didn't have good success at all. So, those kind of diuretics, especially like – That's what I'm saying. It's like – yeah. It's high risk, high reward, you know? Right. You're playing like – and that's the thing. I think John – in my own experience anyway, John and Hani were all very good at like getting it done and playing it safe. Yeah. Instead of using any like major tricks or whatever that would like. Yeah. I mean, most guys now are using like moderate to conservative – conservative to moderate doses of like the diazide, triazide kind of stuff like that. Yeah. The potassium sparing. Yeah. Which seems to be a little more predictable, a little safer, you know? I actually am really shocked at diuretic use now because it seems so minimal in comparison to what – It's crazy. Like guys are talking about quarters now. Oh, I took an eighth of a diazide. Dude, these guys take an eighth and shit. That's what I'm saying. I took like an eighth almost most of the shows I did. I didn't – there was the one show I – the two shows I won, one of them I didn't take anything. But – I didn't know what I was in New York. I took none. Yeah. But I was like – You know, I'm around coaches now and they're like – they'll tell their athletes like, yeah, take an eighth. I'm like, I'm fucking eighth. We used to start diuretics on Wednesday. Yeah. Now guys are like, just take an eighth on Friday and then we'll take another eighth. Yeah, we'll take another eighth maybe in the middle of the night. That's it. Yeah, that's all. Yeah, you'll see it now. Guys will get like the prescription diazides that are like in the capsules and they'll like empty them out. And then like – Weigh it out. They'll fucking blow into like tiny little bits, you know? They snort it? Yeah. Nope. Yeah. The residuals. He's like, oh shit, that wasn't the diazide, bro. Not that pile. That's my beer. Well, it's going to be interesting to see. So they started working together at 15 weeks out. It's always exciting to see top guys with different coaches, especially coaches that like have done some really good work, you know? I wonder how – I don't think Derek is going to be way better. I think he's been amazing. So like for him to be peaked much better I think will be difficult. But do I think there is always some level of room to change and look different or, you know, in a different way? It's always there, you know? I don't know if this is a – I don't know if this is a fair statement to make because everybody can always be better. But I – it's going to be a hard – That's what I'm saying. Yeah, yeah, I'm agreeing with you. It's going to be hard for me to see Derek looking better than when he won the Olympia. Yeah. Like that was a pretty fucking – like aside from some chest-shoulder separation, like that peak was like – Like that's not something that you can diet. Yeah, and that's not a diet thing. Yeah, that's a development thing. Yeah, yeah. But as far as like a peak, fuck, man. I can't – Derek was so – we were sitting four rows up for that fucking Olympia. Yeah, it blew away. I mean even this year like yeah, he slipped two placings but he still came third and he was still fucking peeled, you know? Well, this year – the reason I didn't mention this year is not because of the body fat level. It was more because of whatever they did – and I asked Matt Grego about this when I had him on the podcast because he works out with Derek and they're close. I said the legs. I said was that something that he dieted off during the diet or was it something that happened in the peak? In the peak. And Matt seemed to assume or think that it was something that happened in the peak. So the reason I say not this year is not because of the body fat levels. It's more just because the legs weren't up to par like they were in 23. What do you mean something happened in the peak for a – like he came in flat and that's why his legs kind of – Yeah, like usually like your worst body part is the one you're going to lose first. Right. And Derek's legs have never been his strongest body part. They're great in the offseason. They're really full. But when Derek gets on stage, he loses – He's quads like from the front. He's quads right. He's quads right. He's quads right. He's quads right. He's quads right and right. Yeah, side and back. But his quads from the front, somehow he loses some of that 3D look and they look a little bit wide and narrow. Almost like Regan's legs like last year or the year before. Wide and narrow? Sorry. Or thick in the inner? I don't know how – That's like saying big and small. He would stand – He would – I meant he would stand wide. Oh yeah. And the quads would look a little more narrow because of how he was standing. The quads and thigh gap. Yeah, he just never had that really full quad look. In 23, they did a good job of it. But this year, I feel like, I don't know if it was a depletion thing, but they looked a little more narrow than normal. And I think that's actually what hurt him the most. Actually, talking to one of the judges afterwards, he actually noted that. So that's going to be interesting if Chris can fix that. Go ahead, Seth. And the videos, they look better. But like you said, they look good in the offseason. The recent video he posted, I'm like, hey, I think he might be putting in the work for it, which is expected. But I hope we see the Derek from 2023 and not the one we just saw. But this is the thing, Seth, is in the offseason, he always has this look. Like last year's offseason, or not just the offseason, sorry, but like leading into the Olympia. Yeah, there's a video somewhere of him. I think what almost hurt his quads more is because like they're not extremely detailed quads too sometimes. Like they look good here. Well, that's a lot of detail in there. But on stage, they don't look like that necessarily. I agree with you. But I think that's partially the dieting down to get that extreme crisp condition is he's losing something in his quads when they do that. Do you think that they have to diet during the peak to get the peeled look from the front because he's not as developed as he is from behind? Did that hurt his quads? You know what it is? That's re-loss of muscle maybe. You know what Hany's really good at? And maybe this year they just didn't nail it. I don't know why. But when I was getting ready, he was pushing me and pushing me and pushing me. And he's like, the top part of your glutes is not stripped out yet. He's like, everything's ready. He's like, there's a chunk left at the top quarter of your glute. And I want that feathered all the way around. I'm like, okay. So he's pushing me, pushing me, pushing me. And then what he sees is my quads start to go. And that piece on the top of my quads is not going. He's like, okay, we're stopping. I'm like, why are we stopping? He's like, because if I keep pushing, your legs are going to disappear. And this is the best you're going to look. So like basically he was able to figure out, like some people think like the most shredded you can get is the best. It's not. A lot of times it's not. It's not. It's where your body looks the best. So Hany stopped me at 98% shredded to make sure that I was full everywhere instead of pushing me to 100 and losing my legs. Yeah, my leanest looks were never my best ones. Right. So I think that's Derek's secret is like to get him in the condition they got him in in 23. He, his legs still weren't as balanced as upper body, but they weren't. It's like they pushed them further in 24. Yeah. So, and, and his upper body got bigger in 24 also. So I think the disparity looked even, even greater. Increase the disparity. Yeah. But this is phenomenal. Like that recent. This was, yeah, this was, it says there's, there's another one. Where's the other one, Seth? I don't know. Is it up at the top? No, that's the, that's the one. I think this is the one. Oh, there in the middle. Oh, this one. Yeah. But he's wearing a shirt. Yeah. Let's just see. I was just saying his legs. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that angle is also very favorable too, right? From the bottom up. Yeah. But his legs look fucking nuts. Like that's a, that's a wild physique, man. Yeah. When he loses that sweep, the way through the guy, his back looks, his back is so wide. Even there, his right leg, the leg on our left, how it's posed, you can still see the sweep is a little shallow there. Yeah. Wait, this leg should be able to leg out. Yeah. You should leave that like straight from the knee up is there's not a lot of building on the other leg. There's not, it's, he's very like a doctor teardrop dominant. Yeah. Yeah. Wait a minute. I think that's Mike. I think that's why he's putting his leg out. Cause a lot of guys that have leg. Sweet. Very noticeable. We'll put that leg out to create more of an X frame. So they don't, you know what I mean? Draws attention to the odd shape of your leg. I noticed it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, you can see. Look at how good the left leg looks compared to be just, if you just have more than the sweep, you know? I like to see him do it the other way at least like that. Yeah. I like that better. Yeah. Yeah. Fucking arms up and do a double right there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Those are huge legs. It looks crazy. The sweep looks wild right there. Yeah. It's going to be, the thing is, it's going to just depend how shredded he can get without losing that. Like, this is what they're going for. Like, that's why his quads are shrinking. Cause they're trying to get this. Yeah. I love critiquing guys like this. And then I look in the mirror before we go to bed and I'm like, God. I'm like, fuck man. Look at this. This guy's like, suck. And then I see my mirror and I'm like, wow, you're fucking awful. That's why I always talk so much shit when I was still competing against these guys. And I would get quirky because I'm going to never be like, yeah, we fucking kill you. I'm like, yeah, I fucking know. Listen, anybody, anybody fucking watching, like, look, just for the record, Derek's a fucking Mr. Olympia. Yeah. And he's better than all of us miles ahead of all of us. So a good guy. Yeah. And he's like, this is a person. We're just talking bodybuilding physique. We're not talking and we're not saying we're better. We're not saying he's shit. We're not saying we're just, you're talking about the best in the fucking world. So you're nitpicking every little fucking thing. We're putting him in the context of winning Olympias and Arnold's and he's competing against the Olympia winner of this year at the arm. So, you know, it's funny on that topic. So I posted a video of me squatting a couple of days ago and I was squatting like three plates or something like that, which I consider light. I don't consider like that special. It was right. Well, thank you. But anyway, somebody, somebody in the comments was like, you know, you guys, the way you talk on the podcast, you would think you were weak as fuck. This is still pretty good. But I think the thing that's lost on people that watch the podcast is we're talking relative to like, I'm talking, it's not even former selves. I'm talking relative to like Akeem. Akeem squats, Akeem squats nine fucking plates. Like, you know what I mean? Like I'm talking about James and Ben and Ian, like three plates is a warmup. Yeah. So it's this, I'm just saying that because this is along the same lines. So we talk about Derek, we're talking about this context we're talking about him in is the best in the world. Yes. So if it seems harsh. Yeah. It's like, it's like being talking about like comment, giving commentary on like a world's strongest man competition saying someone wasn't great at a lift. It's like, yeah, he's clearly fucking amazing. He just wasn't good as Brian Shaw. You know, it's like, right. Right. Fucking stupid. Right. Here's a question real quick before we move on. Do you think that Derek getting that stripped out look like he's hard as nails from behind? Do you think that him not being as hard, but still like full shredded? But do you think a fuller, less hard look is going to be a better or worse look? Like, I mean, like we're talking small percentages here, but it's going to, it would be a different look. Paul, I want to pass this to you, but I just want to say something so you can correct me if I'm wrong. Do watch. I'm going to ask, just ask you, do judges base? Like if let's say, let's say Derek decided to do what Seth is saying, would judges always look at him and be like, yeah, but in 23, he was stripped as fuck. Like, are they going to judge him against his former best or are they going to be like, this is what's in front of me? Well, I mean, like if you feel like someone's not as hard as they have been in the past, that might, you're going to think about that. I'm saying just, just human nature, right? Yeah. But you're judging what's on stage. If he's still better than the next guy he's standing next to, because his overall package is better, you know, you're still going to give it to him. I just don't, I don't, you know, this is my own bias, but I just don't think that happens. Well, like based on a previous look, you mean? Look, I'll say this. If, if Derek shows up at 90%, but full as fuck everywhere, legs massive, everything, I think he's going to get penalized. Well, I don't think, I think, but if that, if that fullness of that added, even if he's better than the other guys, I think they'll penalize him for not being as good as he was. I think though, sorry to cut you off, but as his physique changes, you know, as he has more muscle in certain areas, that fuller look might benefit him better now. Maybe I'm just speculating because you think it'd be better. Do you think it's a better look for what? That's what I'm saying. Like, Oh, okay. I thought you were saying like on stage, if it makes him look more balanced, if it enhances his taper because his quads are fuller, then maybe you could argue that that is a better look than him being stripped out and shredded and not having those advantages. I don't know if it's a better look, but I'll say this. I think if Derek wants to win again, he has to find a way to bring the look we just saw as crisp as it was in 23. And with fuller quads, probably. No, no, this is what I'm saying. This is what I'm saying. If Derek wants to beat Samson again, he has to look like this, but as crisp as he was on stage. That was shredded. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. Like, yes, he has to look like 23 Olympia level body fat, but with this level of fullness. I agree. And then he can compare with Samson. Then he's back in the conversation again. Yeah. But if he can't show up with this level of fullness and bring that condition, that looks way better. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. Like, but he's got to be able to bring that while being 2023 shredded. Right. But Ian, I'll ask you the question that Seth asked. Seth was asking, do you think Derek would do better? Are you saying, do you think you'd do better on stage or do you think personally he would look better? Both. Because if he looks, if he personally looks better, then I think that he'd do better on stage. Like, that's what I mean. Like, what happened? We're talking small percentages here. Like, right. Like a little less because he's left from behind. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, the thing was less hard, but still shredded, but fuller. Like, because that was, he just. Yeah. I agree. I agree. Because I think one of the things with Derek too, is like, you've seen him guest pose at Pittsburgh. And even when he's far out, he still has nice lines in his glutes. So he's a guy that has that kind of like, you know, good lines in the glutes, even when the body fat doesn't necessarily correlate to like what you would typically see on other people. So I think he could get a little less sharp and still have really good detail everywhere. You know, but I also haven't seen his progress pictures around the way of like, maybe there is like a little bit of his lower back or on his fucking hamstrings or obliques or like one spot where it's like, fuck, we need to push this a little more for like really like all come together. So it's tough to say without seeing like progress pictures throughout the entirety of a prep to really gauge accurately. But yeah, I do think if you're losing your quads, like you did with Hany, who had stopped when you reach that balance of keeping most amount of quads with most amount of conditioning without having too much loss of either one, you know? I think the problem, Seth, I think with your hypothetical that I see is Samson is more muscular or equally as muscular and he's got better shape. So the one thing that Derek was winning on was conditioning. So if he comes in with the same condition as Samson, Sam's going to beat him. He's got to be more conditioned than Samson or else it's not going to be enough to beat him. He won't. I don't think what I'm saying is I don't think he'll beat Samson with fullness. No, I don't. I don't think he will. I'm saying like the percentages, like we're talking like 98 or 97, like, okay, if he's at 95, what's he going to look like? He's still going to be leaner than everyone from the back. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I mean. Like, is it because that is, of course, it's that line. Yeah. It's interesting. Do you guys think we'll see Derek improve next year? You think we'll see we've seen his best? No, I think we're going to see him improve. I don't think he's done. I think not that he's done, but just that we've seen the best Derek. We're going to see. Sorry. That's what I mean by. Okay. I don't think he's done improving. He's still young. Isn't he like 30? I was just going to say, I don't want to say he's like young and like, but he's only done how many shows like he hasn't done a ton. Like there's a lot of developmental for him as well. How old is he? I thought he was like 30. I think he's 31 or 32. Derek Lunsford age 31, 1993. Fuck. I just got into high school at 1993. I don't see him being a guy 13. Yeah, no, I, no, man. I think, I think he's a fucking professional. I think he lives and breathes bodybuilding. And I think somebody that is that good that they could win a fucking Olympia or even be at that, that level is going to continue to improve. This guy, these kinds of guys are going to fucking do anything they can do under the sun to develop that body part. And he will do it. I guarantee he's going to do it. I don't think, I don't, I think Derek, I think he's far from finished. Yeah. Even if it's fucking simple. No, I think he's, I think he's far from finished. And that's what makes, that's what makes bodybuilding cool. That's what makes it so fun and entertaining too. Yeah. Like that. Speaking of entertaining, I don't know if I should say this yet, but signups are going to begin soon for the fantasy league that I'm starting. And it's going to be pretty fucking awesome. Everyone's going to be involved. It's going to be public, not just for us. Everybody watching will be able to join and set up their fantasy league and then pick their athletes. So we have a rating system for the athletes. You get like, it's going to be like, you get 10,000 points to start. And you got to use your 10,000 points to pick the athletes you think are going to place throughout the year. It's going to be fucking, it's going to be amazing. So we're going to do fantasy instead of fantasy football, it's fantasy bodybuilding. We're going to have like a draft night where we get together and, uh, yeah, our teams. We are. We are. As soon as it's ready, man. Cause we got, and you got to, it's funny cause you're gonna have to strategize. Cause like if you get 10,000 points and Samson's worth 4,000 points, say for example, that's half your fucking load is gone. And now you got, you know what I mean? And it's like, and then there might be somebody out there like a Roman who competes like eight fucking times. Right. All right. And he gets you all these points cause he's on stage every fucking every week. So, or like, or like you could pick, like maybe you can get Nick Walker pretty cheap cause Nick hasn't been on stage in two years. Maybe he's like, he's a bargain, right? How are you going to set their prices? You decided that there's a, they have an algorithm set up where they can, and I adjusted it a little bit. I'm like, it's not enough. You got to boost. You got to boost some of the top guys. Cause I don't want to make it, I don't want to make it easy. Right. Cause if Samson only costs like 1500 bucks, everyone's going to have a Samson on their team. Yeah. Well, it's got to be based like other recent performances and stuff like that. It is. It is based on their, it is based on their recent performances, but that's what I'm saying with Nick. Right. If you based on the last two years, he's only competed at the New York, I think. Right. Or whatever, something like that. So you might be able to get him cheap, but then he might win Pittsburgh. You might take top five at the Olympia. Then you got like this cheap athlete that all of a sudden is like kicking everyone's ass. Right. It's like, there's a little bit of strategy involved. Or you might pick a Theo that like destroys everybody in the European shows. That based on looks all over. He doesn't get any points for looking good though. That's just a, that's an asterisk. Anyway, listen, it's also within the software, within this webpage, there's going to be a rate your physique. So everyone will be able to put in their pictures and get rated by either all of us or a couple of us. And we'll feature like the best ones on the podcast. And then we're just, we're just rating physiques based on bodybuilding criteria. Like it get weird at all. Well, we're doing, we're not rating physiques on like cock size. It's going to be like, it's like it's a bodybuilding criteria. Make sure you set those down. That's the outline. Muscularity, symmetry, conditioning. And then I'm going to have a separate section for rate your form. So, so we can get Ian to come on and shit on everybody's squat form. Cause it's not depth. It's depth. Is it low enough? And Mike can come on and tell everybody to fucking lift their head and put their chest up, stuff like that. So anyway, I think it's going to be fun. We got it. We got a lot of like, it's going to be like, finally, everybody watching the podcast can participate. So it's going to be cool. It's exciting. Um, okay. Anyway, onto Arnold picks. Oh, that's the other thing too. Predictions will also be part of, you know what I was thinking for predictions, the top three of the predictions of everybody. Like the global, the global leaderboard, the top three will get more money for their fantasy league. Ooh. Right. So if you have 10,000 points and then like, let's say you win the predictions page for the New York, you get like a thousand dollars more for your fucking pot. So you can buy another, buy another player for next years. No, because there's one transfer in the middle of the year. So I hear this. I may ask chat GBT to make this and with the bodybuilders and give them points allocations. Okay. But it obviously doesn't know like who's still competing and who's not. Right. But it's interesting to see who it put where. Okay. Tell me. It has Ronnie Coleman, a hundred points. Phil Heath, 95 points. Rami, 90 points. Jay Cutler, 85 points. Dexter, 80 points. Brandon Curry, 75. Haughty, 70. That's horrible. Onaxe, 68. Key on 65. Chad GPT is basically taking the entire bodybuilding history instead of like just the last two years. Yeah. James Hollingshead ahead of Nick Walker with 58 points for Nick being 55. Can you redo it? Can you redo it and ask it for like the last two years of active bodybuilders? Chad GPT, I don't think is too current database. I'm not sure. Then it has Hunter Labrada with 52. Samson Dowda with 50. Chris Bumstead with 45. Sergio, Regan Grimes, Michael Crizzo. So basically, Chad GPT does no shit. Let me see. Can you do this with only bodybuilders who have peated within the last? 23 and 24. Yeah. Proximity is the one that is like pretty current. What do you mean? Oh, the AI? The AI proximity. I'm so bad. I'm so bad with AI. I just started getting into it, dude. It's really cool. Yeah. I made the list now. Nice. What number do you get? 20? How much are you? I'm ranked in the world. I'm 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16. I'm number 17. Fuck yeah. Behind. But like it has Brandon Hendrickson, who's a men's physique guy. Logan Franklin, Keyon. He rhymes higher than me. In fairness, Brandon Hendrickson's physique is nicer than yours. Oh, my God. I agree. His front pose, Ian. I don't know. Yeah. To have Sergio and Regan and James ahead of me, I'm going to contest that. But other than the rest, I mean, it's got like Bonac, Hunter, Stampton, J. Rammy. Ian, the whole thing is wrong. Yeah, but it's fucking hilarious to see. Yeah. Oh, it's got me higher than Derek Lunsford, so I'm basically in Mr. Olympia. Basically, yeah. And I'm higher than Andrew Jacked. Okay. Can we move on? Yeah. All right. Is anybody making any picks? Any pick changes? I haven't seen much. Yeah. On the Instagram or anything lately? On the Instagram. I feel like this is a bad one for me. Putting Carlos 5 ahead of Brandon and William feels wrong. Did you see Carlos' last updates? He looked pretty impressive. I know, but you know what? Can I tell you somebody who's really good at this? Mm-hmm. Samson's really good at this. Mm-hmm. Samson, I'm telling you, man, every fucking year, somebody will come out, right? Like somebody like a Vito or like a whoever, like Rubiel or, you know, the talk of the bodybuilding world. And I'll say, Samson, this guy's going to fucking do blah, blah, blah. And Samson will be doing predictions. He'll be like, no, I don't think so. Not yet. Really? He's never. He always gets it right on. He'll be like, Vito will be second or Rubiel will be this. Or like, he's never like, he never gets fooled by the fucking social media. Yeah. Well, he's been on stage with all of them. I think that's why. Yeah. So what do you say about Carlos? Because I get fooled every time. Yeah, me too. What do you say about Carlos? Well, he didn't say anything bad. I'm just going by his picks. His picks. Yeah. He's got Carlos. Probably ninth. Tenth. We should all just. Tenth? Got him tenth. Wow. We should all just follow Samson's lead. I don't know. I feel like he might be wrong this time. Yeah, he's got Samson, Andrew, Derek, William, Brandon, James, Sean, Akeem, John, Carlos. I think Samson's the kind of guy, like, you got to prove it to him. Well, yeah. Right? So, like, Carlos looks incredible, but he's never been, like, peeled, peeled. And he's still got to work on his back. I don't know how much his back has come up. He hasn't had that coming out show yet, you know? Or he makes his impact yet. It seems like all the guys Samson looks at, he's like, until I see, like, until he sees it, he's not, I'm easily fooled. I'm just like, oh, that guy looks great. That guy's going to lose me for it. Well, I mean, I think Carlos still has a lot of, like, young muscle on him. Like, so much young muscle that it's going to, it'll probably end up, especially at this level show, like, James, if James does what we all think, James is going to look like a fucking piece of granite up there. It's going to be wild. So, whenever you put those two next to each other, it becomes... Where's that update? We were all fucking shitting our pants over. This is a good fucking shot for him. But there was an update recently. I don't know where the fuck... Yeah, I saw it on... You're like way old. Where is it here? You can do it on front double bicep. No, that's it. Maybe it's on bison tries. I saw it on Nick Strength and Power. Let me see. Bodyguards on the Borders usually has this kind of stuff. Where the fuck did that update go? This guy looks really good. He's doing Detroit. Oh, yeah. Oh, I saw it. Yeah, I saw his pictures yesterday. I asked Terrence about Detroit. He said he might jump in. He's going to see how his prep goes. Really? Yeah. Detroit's coming together. Yeah. Oh, there he is. Look at that shit. That's fucking nutty. Fuck. That's a lot of muscle. Oh, yeah. That's huge. That's so big. Jesus. That's so big. It's really fucking crazy, man. It looks really cartoonish. It does look cartoonish. Let's see the front double. That's fucking wild, man. It's like Nick Richards. Yeah. That's a good eight-week out look, too. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'm pretty confident. The reason I put him higher in my picks is because he's working with Patrick. And I'm really confident in Patrick's ability to get guys in shape. Yeah. Obviously, I have immense faith in Patrick. Yeah. Yeah. Do you think the separation is going to come out in his legs? Yeah. What's it? Go back to that one real quick, Fuad? Where the fuck did it go? No, not that video, but on his page. Oh. Yeah. That first one right there. Like, his legs, like, they look like they got in good shape here. Do you think that they're going to be more separated based on what we've been seeing? Well, yeah. Because he wasn't in fantastic condition at this show. I think Patrick will get him in better condition than this. Way better. That's going to be a tough look. A tough look to beat. Yeah. I think, if anything, like, let's say his back hasn't come up at all. He'll lose the back shots to some people. But I don't know where he loses anything else. Like. Those front shots. Front shots are fucking wild. And the side shots, like, the thickness. Yeah. Because he could have just been pushed a little bit further for, like, three more weeks. Look at this. Look at this. Look at this hamstring. Look at this. And he's a little guy here, too. You can see. Yeah. Yeah. He's had that with another month or so. Yeah. Like, three. This is where I think he gets hurt a little bit. Great hamstrings. Great calves. Back is just a little. Like, the lats are a little bit numb. The lats are super wide. But they're, like, super high. Well, that's because his terries is really wide. It's not as. His lats are very empty. He's got great terries. But, like, see how thin that is? Yeah. That's the only body part he has that's not, like, world-class impressive. But that's only two fucking poses. So, even if he gives them up. Yeah. I mean, and this was also two years ago. So, I mean, I'd be interested. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We don't know how much, how many, like, how, what the improvements look like. So, I don't think he'll be out of the top eight. I can't see it either. Who do we have in the fucking show again? Top eight. Ugh. Yeah. I mean. Yeah. I think. Yeah. Because I think he beats Patrick. Unless, unless Justin, you know, gets his, you know, his last few showings haven't been the greatest. So, that's two. Who else has he beat? Like, John, like, John's smaller, but John's really fucking complete. Yeah. And he kind of figured out his conditioning. Yeah. And took fourth at the Arnold last year. Yeah. Like, who else is, like, who? Monak. I mean, look, there's a lot of people he could beat, but who does he beat for sure? Like, he's going to have a, or at least not for sure, we don't know for sure, but maybe have a good chance to beat. Like, he has a good chance of beating Patrick. He has a good chance of beating Justin based on his last two or three performances. Well, who else? You know, he'll, he'll compare really well with Akeem. Right. Because they both have the same weak point and the same great shape from the front. Right. And then I could see Monak in that call out too, because William's great from the back, but from the front, those guys will beat him in a couple of shots. I don't think so, man. I think William's going to beat both of them. Yeah. That's where I see though. That's where I see him in that chase. William just had an update. Huh? I think William just had an update. Let's take a look. I don't know. Bonak's tough to nail down, man. Like he can, when he was standing next to guys, he looks really good. Yeah. And yeah. Then sometimes he doesn't, doesn't show on video, you know, on a video or on a live feed, but then you see afterwards, he's really impressive. That was a long time ago. Yeah. Is this recent? First update of 2025. Yeah. Eight weeks, eight weeks out, morning weight, 113 kilograms, normally a barrel 108, trying something different. Huh. What do you think, Seth? Ian, what are you doing? I'm just answering a message. I mean, he's definitely bigger than he, he looks bigger here than he has previous times. Looks great. Yeah. Do you think as he's getting older though, his shape is starting to, you know, he never had great shape, but it's getting more. I think the limbs, I think the limbs are starting to come down a bit. Like, especially in that side shot. Like when you look at the side, the side chest, like the hamstring doesn't drop as low. His lats, his lats look to be the one that. Yeah. The width. Yeah. But he was never good in like a front double or an apple. Even those back shots. Something going on with that left lat? Yeah. Is that, is that just a bound up? No, it looks fine. I don't know. I don't know. That's tough to place William, man. I don't, I don't like he beat Brandon at the fucking Olympia. Yes. You know, like, I don't know if I can put an amazing bodybuilder, obviously. Dude, I don't know. I think I might have to change my picks. I don't think I can put Carlos ahead of William. No. I don't think so. I think it's, I think it's a mistake. The pits are going to go today. The points are coming in. Keep changing your picks, man. I haven't changed anything yet. It's my first change. Counting yourself right out of this race. How much is it again for a change? How many points you lose? One, I think. I forget what we said. I don't think we said. I think it was still. I mean, it would really make, the only thing that would make sense is to leave your picks until our last time and then change the time. Yeah. It doesn't make sense. You could be changing everything. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. Eight weeks out right now. It makes zero sense. Yeah. Yeah, but it's fun. Yeah, fuck that shit. People going. Who kind of win, right? I guess the people going. It's exciting. It's actually less exciting. You got to leave it and let the anticipation build. All right. Let's not do anything. We'll just sit here and stare at the camera, Ian. Can I see my picks for that? I just want to see mine. Yeah. Well, Ian said no. We can't do it. We just have to sit here. We can look at him. We just have to sit here. Just stare at him. Just stare at him, yeah. You can change whatever you want, but it's going to lower your chances of winning for sure. Right there. Samson, Derek, Andrew, Carlos, Brand. See, this is a tough one. This is a wild card. Those are the two that I might flip. And you have William all the way down here at eighth. Yeah, these are wild picks, Paul. You fucking shit. Those are wild. No disrespect to William. He's, you know. You shit the bet on this big time. I just think as he's getting older, I think the shape is starting to play less and less against him. Hey, Paul, Paul, just so you know, John De La Rosa, I think, was outside the top ten at the Olympia. I'm going to make some changes. And Brandon, I think, was eighth or ninth. Ninth, I think. William was ahead of both of them. Yeah. And you have them both beating William here. Yeah, I know. I jumped the gun a little bit. But I'm going to hold off for now. I'm going to hold off. Seth came along for the ride. I'm along for the ride. Yeah. I'm really assessing my entire life right now. Carlos beating both of them basically puts them around the level of Hunter. Yeah. Which is, that's wild. Because Hunter was like one place ahead of those guys. Yeah. Raphael was seventh. Hunter was sixth. Yeah. Never thought of it that way. And then Samson has William in fourth, which I think is actually pretty accurate. See, I like this. He's got friends though. No, no. I don't think that's why. I actually think this is pretty good. James, to me, is more of a wild card than Carlos. I agree. Yeah. James comes in shredding. I think James is the one that could jump in and break the top four. I think he could creep into fourth and be the wild card of it. And Akeem, honestly, man, Akeem's last few showings, his conditioning is getting better and better. Well, Sean too. Yeah. And, and Akeem is learning how to hide that back weakness with his posing. Yeah. Like the last time he did a standing relaxed or something. I can't remember what the fuck the shot was. I saw. I can't remember what picture it was like that. To me, that looks a lot better. He's like pushing out the center of his back. So maybe his lats don't look so great. Look at the thickness of that. But the, but the erectors make up for it. It's like, I don't know, man. It's hard to, uh, it's hard to ignore his size. Yeah. I'm not making any changes today. Like, do you think Carlos can beat that? I don't fucking know anymore for it. I don't know. Look at that. Look at that shit. Gonna have, you know, obviously he's going to have the, you know, the muscle maturity advantage. You know, he's been around a lot longer. I don't know. And he has that fresh muscle, that round muscle. Carlos, Carlos could like, it's, it's a, he could, like Paul said, he's got fresh muscle. It looks young. It looks, it looks fresh and round, bubbly and round and full, but it's like, is he going to nail it? If he doesn't nail it, then there's no, but I think if he does, I think he can, but it's all. The keys are really consistent the last, the last little while. Yeah. His last like three shows or something like that. Mm-hmm. Okay. Any bodybuilding news we have to cover that we didn't cover? So, I mean, you might have to cut this part out, but I got to say it because it was funny as fuck. I'm probably not going to cut it out, but go ahead. You got to cut it out because I don't know if Mike's allowed to talk about it. So I was watching a Ryan Humiston. Oh, I know Humiston. Yeah. Yeah. That guy. And he's like, and he was talking some shit about something. He's like, and you don't want to go and get nippered. And it's become a verb. That's awesome. I was like, this is funny as fuck. Well, Mike decided he wants to cut that out or not. I didn't know legally if we could. I don't know. I heard nothing. I heard nothing. I don't know what's happening. Instead of fuck around and find out, it's fuck around and get nippered now. I got to find it. It's going to be a new word out to the dictionary in a couple of years. Okay. Let's do some questions while we ponder the rest of the bodybuilding world's news that we don't know about. We had the prime minister of Canada step in. That's a big political news. I don't know. You know what's crazy? I don't know anything about Canadian politics. I know way more about American politics. Yeah. Well, yeah. Obviously, Canada is like a fucking fly on the back of the... I know that. But if you told an American that, they'd be like, hey, why don't you just give a fuck about your own politics? Who cares? Why do you care what we're doing? Because in some ways, the US politics almost affects us more than... It drives... Oh, yeah. It drives... Ever since Trump got elected, look at all the changes happening. Yeah. It drives our politics, for sure. Yeah. Would Paul give up weed for the rest of his life if he meant he got a pro card? No, I don't. I got a pro card. No, you don't. You have judges. It doesn't count. I can pull it on my wallet for you if it says I should be pro on it. Yeah, but it's checked off under judge. Judge. Hey, we could talk semantics all night long. I have an I can be pro card. You know, it's funny. If you turn pro and classic, you can switch to open. You can't do that as a judge. I mean, I could talk to Tyler about that. Imagine you could. You're like, you know what? I'm a pro. I could do it. I'd like a special invite to a big show. All right. So you wouldn't give up weed to be a pro. What am I going to do with a pro card now? Yeah. But what if you were like 25 again and they gave you a pro card? You're like, you know what, Paul? You're going to be honest. Sorry. No, go ahead. You know the scenario. To be honest, I wouldn't have made a good pro. Well, that's not so. Sounds very defeatist. Well, you know, not to shit on myself, but I didn't have no triceps. That would have gone well. Listen, Marcus Rowe didn't have any triceps. He's like the best in the world. His are still twice the size of mine are not existent. It's all relative. Would you give up weed for life to be like a, like, say you didn't have your physique, but you had a physique that was good enough to come like ninth at the Masters. It was good enough to come seventh at the Olympia. Do I have to work hard to maintain that? No, not that good. What the fuck? To place Hall High? That's an A-tier bodybuilder there. No, it's not. It's second tier. First tier. Okay. No, but like to be like, you know, coming like 11th at like fucking Orlando or like sixth or seventh at the Masters Olympia, you know? Okay. Would I give that up? Why would you want to be 11th at our, that's not, that's not incentive. Yeah, but I mean, that's, that's like a decent enough. Realistic. No, what if, what if, what if you, what if this? What if you gave up weed and you were going to be a top five bodybuilder for the rest of your life? Not at the Olympia at every small show. If I didn't have to work too hard to maintain that physique. Well, you have to work as hard as you're working right now. Okay. You work out every day. You don't, you know, you binge a little bit, but other than that. Okay. But yeah. Okay. Cause I probably get a decent contract out of that and some prize money. Yeah. I would do that. It's not too much prize money for. What if, what if you gate, if you, okay, you give up weed, but if you binge once you lose all of it. No, he would be done. Binge on food. Yeah. If you binge one time, it all goes away. Could you do that or take that risk or no? No, I can't hold myself to that. You'd be done in a week. Yeah. I would be especially, yeah. Yeah. No, I couldn't chance that. No. But, uh, but I have been considering taking a break from weed. That's how I'm fluent with this. Well, you took, you took a small break when you went to Mexico. I know. And I felt good. Oh. Yeah. Sleeping better. It's weird. It's weird. I wonder why. Sleeping better too. Do you ever, you ever wonder why people do that? You know what? Like people will do things that feel really good and then they just stop for some reason. But I told you. You can't be surprised that you sleep better without weed. Well, some people, like I know a lot of people who eat gummies now as part of their regular bedtime routine and they say they sleep better than ever. No. Yeah. But weed is proven. It's not, yeah. It's not like quality sleep is not there. No. It makes you fall asleep better, but the sleep quality is way worse. Yeah. You watched that sleep specialist on Rogan, right? I did. Yeah. I know what you talked about. He said that. He said that in that podcast. He said, yes, it will help you get to sleep, but it doesn't get you into REM sleep. Into deep cycle sleep is way less. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But you know, but when I went for a sleep study, they said like my REM sleep was like, you know, wasn't so bad and everything. Yeah. But okay. When was the last time you had dreams that you can remember when you went to bed after smoking weed? That's been a while. So that means you're in REM, right? When you can remember. When I stopped smoking weed when I retired, because I only smoked as a function of appetite. I don't like being high necessarily that much. Um, but when I stopped, like the day I stopped competing, I stopped smoking weed and I had started having dreams like 30 times more vividly within like five days. Yeah. Okay. And I hadn't had dreams for a decade. Like, okay. Can I ask you something related to this? I'm just going to, and I want to ask everybody, why do people do shit that feels good and then stop? Even though they know it feels good. Like, for example, you said you quit smoking weed for four or five days and you felt really good. Why would you stop? So for me, I told you this before, I think when I'm not smoking weed, I feel like I can be more moody. I feel like I can be more angry. You are. I don't like myself. Hey. I know. And I don't like myself when I'm like that. Can I just tell everybody, everybody loves Paul. You should see him when he's fucking sober. It's not a couple of days. This motherfucker had to quit smoking weed for, remember it was like three months or six months or something like that. Yeah. For life insurance. Yeah. He was getting his life insurance. So he had to quit smoking weed for like three months. Denied me anyways, motherfuckers. He was so fucking moody. I thought I was like talking to myself. I'm like, this guy's so fucking angry. But when I got over that, when I got over that first week, then I was fine. You met him. Yeah. And that happened in Mexico. Yeah. That happened to me in Mexico for the first two days, especially I was fucking miserable. Why couldn't you get weed in Mexico of all places? I was with the family. I wasn't going to try and get, you know, try and get. You can go to the bathroom stall of a restaurant. The guy has weed. Yeah. But I didn't want to. I don't smoke no dirty shit, Mike. I like to smoke the good stuff. I wasn't going to go smoke no Mexican shit. He's a connoisseur. Only smoke that dank OG shit. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. I don't smoke that Mexican shit. He's a connoisseur, Mike. He's a connoisseur. Yeah. It's not up to my standards. I don't know that dirt weed. Um, so anyway, after the second day, all of a sudden I felt myself just feeling way better and sleeping better and I should have continued it. But since I'm at home, you know, you get stressed. Okay. Can I ask around the horn set? Have you ever started something or done something that felt really good? You did it for a week, two weeks, a month, whatever. And then somehow just stopped doing it and fell back into your old habits. Yeah. I mean, I think it's all habitual. I think it's like a mental, uh, habitual thing. Yeah. But you can, you can create new habits, right? So you can, you can, but it's super easy to revert back into old habits. Right. I mean, it's super easy. Like, so for example, I pulled back the training on everything. I was only drinking one cup of coffee in the morning for like 15 weeks straight. Yeah. I love coffee. It's like my favorite. It's one of my favorite foods, drinks, whatever you want to say. Right. And, um, the second that I was like, okay, I'm going to change. I'm going to back off the training. I'm going to back off the drugs. I'm going to, you know, focus on, uh, making sure everything's good. Get the surgery done. Dude. I went right back into old habits with coffee. Like, I mean, fucking right back into it. Two cups in the morning, one in the afternoon. And I'm like, dude, everything was going so good. Why would you do that? It's just, it's, and I don't mind it. It's not like it's a problem or anything bad happens, but it's just personally, that's the one thing that I just experienced, but I think it's strong. Can I ask you something? Does it make you feel weak or fucked up that, you know, because listen, I did the same thing with caffeine, but I have an even better example, but does it make you feel fucked up that you're like, I know this feels better, but I don't care? No. I mean, I think, uh, like, I mean, I think all of us here could really put our minds to something and achieve it. Like whatever it is, it's like, we could just be like, yeah, I'm going to turn that on right now and go after it. Yeah. Yeah. Um, but, uh, I don't know. I, that's like I said, I don't mind it. One thing that I know that if I stay, if I don't do anything intense, that frightens me, like if I don't do something like, like physical intense type of training, I'll fall in and be like, I should just have a drink this afternoon. Like five 36 o'clock be like, man, I just sit down, have a drink, grab a smoke. And I'm like, what the fuck are you doing? Like that was, that came out of left field. So, um, but I think for a lot of people personally, that's why they have such a hard time staying on a diet because they just fall into old habits. Like they could be killing it for six weeks and then all of a sudden, like just some old type of feeling come up or some scenario or a ball game or something socially, and they fall right into it. And then they have a hard time getting back in. So I understand it with a diet because diets are yes, habitual, but they're also hard. Like it's hard to eat. It's hard to eat low calories. Cause you're like, you know what? If I'm in a deficit, I'm fucking hungry all the time. I hate being hungry. I don't want to be in a deficit. Right. Let's even say that they're not even in a deficit. Let's just say you're not going to eat bad foods. You're just going to eat healthy. Like, let's just say you can eat as much fruit, as much meat as you want. And like, you're, you're going to be way healthier than you would if you weren't. And like, I even think then that you'll be like, fuck, I just want to eat Doritos. Right. I just want to eat pasta dish or something. Yeah. And they fall right back into it because of one thing. It's pretty wild. So yours is coffee. Paul's is weed. Mike, do you have a, you have a thing that you did that you're like, oh, this feels really good, but didn't fucking take. No, I mean, you guys know, cause I told you about like health issues that came up around the Arnold last year that I found out about some stuff and I just kind of, I didn't think I'd be able to stick with it that long, but I've been eating clean and being way more active than I've ever been since that time. So for me to be like that consistent for a year is like, it, it kind of, it kind of came down to like, in my mind, I made it, it's not life or death at all, but I made it in my mind, life or death. So it's like, it's like I either, I can still do these things that I want to do and have this fun stuff. But now that I'm living this way where it's like, I'm on a better path, I have less desire to go there. Okay. Like, I don't, I don't desire to do, to like have this shit, but if I want to go, like, if I'm with you guys and we go to like a fucking dinner, I'm not going to not have like shit, but like when I go back to my shit, it's like, I'm eating what I eat, not in a deficit at all. Like there are any more, more food than I, yeah, more, and more food than I ate prior to when I decided to like be smarter about what I was doing. Right. So, and I, the way that makes me feel keeps me on track with that because I remember like, I wake up every morning, like most people, like you guys, I'm sure, but like I wake up like sore or like whatever, but I was, it was exacerbated even more because I was just showing shit in my body. Yeah. So like, I just fucking was like waking up just like, uh, and then I'd feel like shit and I'm like, just going to eat whatever makes me feel good. But now that I'm doing what I'm doing and being more, being even more active with a body that's really not that optimal, I feel better than I did before. I know. It's funny. It's funny. People don't usually take that into consideration, you know, for people watching that maybe aren't as experienced with diets. You know, one of the things Seth always told me that always sticks in my mind because we kind of have a similar life with work and stuff is I asked him sometimes like, how do you stay on a fucking diet all the time? He's like, I'm just more productive. And I think I'm sort of structured to, it's like a structured thing. It's not just the structure. It's, it's like, I'm, I'm, I'll put it this way. So I binge less now than I have in a long, long fucking time. It's mostly because of work, because when I'm eating clean food throughout the day, I sleep a little better. I don't need as much sleep. And then I wake up in the morning and I'm ready to go to work. Yeah. Whereas if I have like 30 bucks worth of fucking McDonald's before bed, I fucking sleep like shit. I want to stay in bed. I drag ass in the morning. And then on top of it, people also forget the emotional side of it. I'm literally depressed in the morning and I'm not depressed because I'm like, oh, I feel guilty because I eat shit. I'm like, literally like my, my brain is spiraling from like just all the garbage fucking food and the way like it affects my mental state. Yeah. So like Seth, when you said that to me, I think about that all the time. Sometimes I want to binge and I'm like, fuck man, tomorrow's like, I got a lot of stuff to do at work tomorrow. I should probably just fucking have some egg whites and go to bed. And I think as you get older, that gets more important. I think when you're younger, you get away with it a little more. The more responsibility you have, I think the more. Well that. Yeah. But I think it's easier to bounce back to though. Like, oh yeah. I used to go drinking, you know, all night and be able to do, be totally productive the next day. I said that to somebody. There was a, I, there's a period of time where I worked at the bar as a bouncer and then I worked as a prep cook at the keg in the mornings. Cause the prep cooks got to come in early in the morning and prep all the steaks and prep all the fucking vegetables, prep all the food for the line cooks when they come in. So I would bounce till like two in the morning. We would drink while we were bouncing. I would drink after work. I would go home and go to bed at like three 30 in the morning. I'd get up at seven and go to work and work all day as work all day as a line cook or a prep cook. And I'm like, and I did that for a while. And I'm like, now if I try to do that, like if I drink now, I need like five days to like recover. Yeah. You know, just to rehydrate. It's like, it's crazy. Um, Ian, is there something, it's probably gonna be harder for you cause you're a fucking robot. I don't know if you have any vices. Well, you do have some vices. Is there anything you stopped and then didn't take and you got back to it cause you're like, you just like it too much. You've quit smoking. You know, it's impressive. You've quit smoking. And Zins and stuff, right? Yeah. I'm pretty, no. Well, I'm still pretty. Nicotine is like my one lifelong on and off vice. Yeah. But like, I also live in a constant state of fear of dying randomly at any time of the day. I think we all, we all have that. We all have that in common. A little bit of that. Yeah. Yeah. But it obviously drives me. You mean Monday? Yeah. Like that's why I eat the way I do and stuff like that. It's like, yeah. Like I like to look good stuff, but I'm like, if I go off and eat shit for like a few days, I get like terrified. I'm going to die. It's like weird. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or if I like go out and be fucking drinking and I like smoke five too many fucking cigarettes, I'm like, I'm going to die the next day. You know? So it's kind of like a good thing, but it's also a bad thing. So I don't like the stress, anxiety makes me feel, but it also drives me to have better habits. So I'm like, I'm kind of glad I have it. Yeah. And it's also like a good chunk of why I retired from bodybuilding, which in the long run, I know was a good decision. Like, even though I had no health issues at all, I know that it made me probably do the like quit before you're, you know, too late. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, like, you know, even though now it's like, I miss bodybuilding, but when I'm like 70 years old and I'm like, you know, my health might be still be decent if I'm, if I lived to 70, but hopefully I do because of the decisions I've made, you know, then yeah. I mean, then obviously I'll look back to it and be like, okay, I'm fucking happy. I did those things. But in the time it's like, yeah, fuck this shit. You know? I'm looking for this fucking picture. Ian. It's the best fucking picture I have of you. It's the day after. Remember? Is that in the hotel? Bruh. Remember when we were in Toronto, Mike, this motherfucker drank like. Oh, yeah. Oh, my God. UFC. Oh, this is it. Look. I was so fucked, man. That was the most fucked I've been in 15, 20 years. Wait. Look at this fucking fucking face. It doesn't look bad from where we're looking at it. Dude, he's literally got alcohol poisoning in that photo. I think he's, I think he threw up all morning that morning. I threw up all morning and I had to take the train home, bro. Oh. So I had to like walk to fucking like Union Station. I had to fucking get on the train. Like this train, you know, train to go like. You know? I'm like. Fuck. That was, that was rough. That was a rough fucking day. You and Ben. I, I'm just as fucking retarded, but I tapped out just a little earlier than these two. You finished that entire bottle. Listen. You guys were. You should have. Seth, you should have seen these two idiots. They're. Well, it was the three of us, but I, I think I tapped out like just before them. We were, we drank all night and then we got back to the fucking hotel room and we emptied out my liquor fridge. And then after that, we went to fucking Ian's room or Ben's room. I can't remember. We emptied out. I went in there shit drunk where Melissa was sleeping. I'm like stumbling in fucking. She's like, what are you doing? I'm like, I'm just getting the mini fridge. I just emptied it into a garbage can. Just like threw everything in it. You know? They came back. I remember specifically sitting there, Seth. We're sitting like, I'm sitting on, everyone's got a seat somewhere either on the edge of a bed or. And at one point I remember looking at Ian going, why are we doing this? Yeah. He's like, who cares, bro? And he's like, just down another. It was gross because we would drink like one mini bottle of like gin. Yeah. One mini bottle of like tequila. Then one mini bottle of like whiskey. It was fucking gross. It was, it was just passing the bottles around. There was no cups. It was so fun though. Who cares? And Ben, Ben is the most extreme person I know. It doesn't matter what it is you're talking about. It doesn't matter if it's training. It doesn't matter if it's eating. It doesn't matter if it's drinking. He's like, I'm going to compete until I die. He would just like, he didn't know that about him. Oh my God. He's fucking wild. Like he just doesn't give a fuck. He's like, I won that night though. If that's what you want to call it. If that picture is winning. Yeah. First place. I didn't. I waited until everybody else was like, all right, I'm done. You know? And I knew it. The fucked up part is I knew he was doing that. We were competing all night. All night long. He would drink a bottle and he would look at me and be like, I was second place at the Arnold. Where were you? And I was like, I was six. He's like, yeah, that's why I'm still drinking. I was like, this is championship mentality. Oh my God. It's so bad. Okay. Um, I have one example that I, I honestly, it was probably the best I've, I felt in like since I was in my fucking teenage years, I did carnivore for six weeks before last year's Arnold. And you're talking about dreaming when you're sleeping, dude, I've never had such vivid dreams. I've never slept so good in my life. I lost like 25, 30 fucking pounds. Oh shit. It was the best I felt in so fucking long. And I just can't, I can't get back to it. I don't know why, but it was like, it was what you said there about sleep actually gave me a proper answer for this question. Like if there is one thing I know I feel better when I do and that I did for a short duration, especially after I stopped competing is my like sleep hygiene of like going to bed at reasonable hours. Cause like I go to bed, like I know. So do I random one, three, four, like, you know, I might like go watch TV on the couch and fall asleep from like 11 till two and then wake up and eat something and then go to bed, you know, get in bed by like two 30, fall asleep by two 45. Like, you know, I'm getting up at like, and then I'll still get up at like a regular ish hour. Like I'll get up at like eight 30, you know, where like I had a period where I was going to bed at like 10, 11 and getting up at like six, seven. And I felt so much better. You know, I was doing that when I was doing carnivore, everything in my life got better. And then for some reason I was like, it's like that period, you know, when you get really close to a bodybuilding show and you get hungry and your meals are getting closer and you start to go in bed earlier and you're waking up earlier to do cardio. So you're like more on like a, everything's functioning like midnight till 637 kind of timeframe. And everything's like, you feel good when you wake up, you're energized, you're ready to do your cardio, excited. Like that's how I felt. And I know I feel better when I do that, but I just like love staying up late. I don't know why. I'm the same way. I don't know if it's from like, I'm doing nothing. Like I'll stay, I'll stay up. I'll scroll YouTube shorts for seven hours. You know, I go to, I go on, I go on Facebook marketplace and I'll look at, I'll look at used motorcycles for three hours and I do it and I do it and I do it every night. So I'm looking at the same motorcycles and I'm like, it's just like brain cancer. I laid on my couch and I watched, have you guys seen this? This is embarrassing as fuck to say, but, um, have you ever seen on, there's a, this YouTube, what's a live show? Like that's done in like comedy clubs called updating. No. It's like where they basically do like blindfolded dating in person with people. They bring them on stage and, but it's like fucking hilarious, you know? And I, I literally just watched episodes of this for like six and a half hours, you know? The, uh, the closest, the closest I've seen to that is the one where they have the buzzer in between them. Yeah. No, they go and sit down and there's like, there's like a host, there's two hosts and they're fucking funny. Like they're, they're like trolly guys. Like they're fucking funny and they ask funny questions and like the people fucking like, you know, I was watching today one where a girl was saying she had a fetish for guys spitting in her mouth and a guy got out of the, yeah, a guy, guy, guy got out of the audience and spat in her mouth, you know? Like a stranger? A stranger got out and literally just spat in her mouth. Yeah. So stranger spit? I don't know what he's got. Wait a minute. So like fast forward to the middle of the video. See there. Now the girl's on stage with him. You'll see. I got to pay for premium. Yeah, you do. Cheat bastard. All right. So these two, so this guy was on stage first. She came out of the audience? No. So first, no. So first the guy will come up and the host will talk to him for a while and like ask him hilarious questions. Like they'll ask him how fucking big their dick is, how quick they come. Like fucking. Yeah. Oh man. Yeah. You know? And then, and then he'll leave the stage and the girl will come up. He'll ask her questions too. And then they bring them up together and then they fuck. And then say like at the end, then when they're blindfolded and they'll make out all the time blindfolded and be like, they'll both give each other a thumbs up and then they'll take the blindfold off. And the girl's like, no, you know? Oh, that sounds interesting. Yeah. So like this girl without the blindfold on saw this guy and liked him and she came from the audience. So the fatter girl came from the audience. The fatter girl. Look at this shirt. That's a lot of confidence. So sometimes you'll get like a guy that'll get like a guy or a girl that'll get rejected and then someone from the audience will come up and be like, yeah, I'm into them and they'll come up. That's hilarious. It's fucking funny to watch. It's funny. You watch a lot of like, you watch a lot of like teen girl shit. Teen mom. You watch Teen Mom? Yeah. No, no. Sorry. I don't watch that. Like on television. I don't watch like Melissa watches like Real Housewives and The Bachelor and stuff. I'm not really into those. But like on Instagram or on YouTube, I'll watch some fucking weird shit. All right. I'll give you a confession. You ever see the whatever podcast? I love that. Oh, the chicks. Yeah. We have like eight chicks and then the guys like just rip on them for like fucking two hours. Yeah. I get stuck watching that shit all the time. It's the best because they'll go around the horn to these to get the set. They'll go out. They'll get like eight, like 20 year old chicks off the street. Yeah. And they'll sit them down and they'll just ask them random fucking questions. They'll make them rate themselves and shit. And every girl will be like, I'm a 10. And then some other guy on the panel will be like, you're a fucking five. I think I've seen some of the clips and everything. I've never watched a whole podcast. Yeah. I get stuck watching that fucking shit all the time. If I'm being honest, it's probably that this is like slightly arousing pornographic for me, like watching the fucking weird conversations that these people have and shit. I'm like, I kind of get into it. Really? Really? I think I'm getting a little excited watching it. That's probably what I'm doing. Yeah. I was thinking. Working up a chub. Yeah. I came at it from another side. I was like, I think this is slightly misogynistic and I enjoy it. Proudly. On that show, it's not at all. Yeah. I, on the whatever show or the one? No, I'm talking about the one that I was watching. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah. Whatever is like the most misogynistic ever. And that's why it's fucking hilarious. Okay. So the one you're talking about, the dating one, that's a little pornographic. Yes. For Ian. Oh, Ian likes it because they're talking about their dick size and like their fucking title subjects. I just want to hear how big the guy's dicks are and be like, haha, mine's bigger. You know? Pussy. Pussy. And the better thing is that everyone's extremely honest. Like nobody goes up there and it's like, yeah, I got a fucking nine inch dick. Guys will be like, man, like pretty, you know, average, maybe a little bit below, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I got to check it out. All right. Well, that was one question. Good for us. Took us half an hour. Off to a good start. Recommend. Okay. We'll do a serious one. Recommendations for the first time bodybuilding contest at 56 plus. Didn't do it as a teenager when I wanted to, not too late, still breathing, lifting, eating, bodybuilding dreams never die, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Recommendations for a first time bodybuilding contest at 56 plus. I was just going to say a local show. Detroit pro. Well, I don't know if he's from Detroit. Do it anyway. Listen, I would, I would just say find a NPC website and see what's the timeframe you like. And that's close to you. Yeah. Find a local show in the timeframe you like and do the novice. Yeah. I would do novice and masters. Do novice and masters. And that's it. That way you know where you stand. You can do true novice too. Last podcast you had with Stefan on, he was talking about how he prefers less frequent injections for his guys. For his guys. Does that include GH as well? I don't think that includes GH based on the way he was talking about it. He kind of alluded to the fact that there are some shots that you got to take every day. I'm assuming he meant, he meant GH when he was talking about that. When he was talking about less frequent injections, he meant, he thought there was some perils that come with daily injections like scar tissue, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So it's not always all positive to do daily injections. That's all the kind of he was getting at, but I don't think that included GH. I would agree. Sorry. And just one more thing. Just because for people watching, I'm almost positive he wouldn't have meant GH because GH is a timing thing. You need to do it every day. It's not, it doesn't have a half-life where you can extend it past that. And I would agree with him. If you're shooting like 23 gauge one inch needles or fucking something every day, I would agree. That's not ideal. If you're doing something in small dosing and using insulin pins, like 28, 30 gauge half inch or, you know, fucking eight millimeter, you know, that I think is different. Your scar tissue is not the same. So yeah, I would never suggest, and I agree with him a hundred percent. The scar tissue is absolutely not worth shooting full size needles every single day. No, I think he, I think he also, and this is something I do agree with him on. I think he also alluded to that once the body is loaded, the half-life is irrelevant because the body is like, you know how, when we say that. Yeah. Cause you know how, when we talk about like the benefit to doing daily injections is the peaks and valleys. Yeah. Well, when you've overlapped the ester so many times and you're saturated, it doesn't matter if you do a shot every day or every other day, the fucking ester is there. Like you're already peaked out. The only, from, in terms of a gains perspective, I think he's a hundred percent right. I don't think you're going to get better progress from a, like a hypertrophy standpoint, from what I'm aware of. And I think John Jewett has done stuff on this and seen it translate pretty directly into blood work is in terms of like esteridial, like an aromatization conversion. Okay. So that I think you can mitigate more with frequent injections, but in terms of, if you want to just get fucking huge and you're not worried about, you know, estradiol, like estrogen control, then yeah, there's absolutely no. I always thought John's key to estrogen control is that he was maximizing his gear that doesn't aromatase like pre-motion. Yeah. That's true as well. And I'm not talking about his overarching theme of like the, like from what I recall, this was a conversation. I do recall him and I could be wrong. Maybe somebody else was talking about it of why that is. There's a reason why doing more frequent injections does have a less impact on aromatization. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Um, when maxed out their natty status, how much trend will you let Cade and Arnold run? Okay. Let's move on. Those for my dogs. Uh, advice for a 46 year old bodybuilder getting ready to start his second growth phase after long health phase. Oh, I actually go back to that last question. When maxed out their natty status, how long, how much trend will you let Cade and Arnold run? Oh, you're going to talk about your injection for your dog. Yeah. Because you, you mentioned on the last podcast, remember? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I had talked to Derek from workplace, more dates a couple months before when I talked to him about my dog and he gave me a bunch of recommendations, which I implemented. Um, and he did at the time recommend putting him on. He's like, if he's neutered, put them on TRT. He's like, especially with a brain tumor, eventually his back legs will start to go, which they have. So I honestly wish I had started it earlier. Yeah. Um, so yeah, I fucking tossed 16 milligrams of test anything. And what'd you do? Just, uh, like an insulin needle, just like in his, I used a half inch. Yeah. Like a longer slim pin and did it in like the muscle of his back leg. And did you notice a change in the way he's moving or feeling or anything? His energy, like now that it's been about a week, it seems to be, he seems to be a little better. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, cause the reason the place where I got it was watching Rogan talking to Huberman. Yeah. And Huberman said his dogs did like a fucking one 80 after he put them on test. Yeah. Cause he had his dogs fixed and he said they did it like they did. They totally changed after he, like he got them back on testosterone. I mean, like, and I looked at it this way too, like my dog is going to die soon. No matter what, might as well be happy. Might as well. Like if it'll even give them a little bit more strength and quality of life for a little bit of time, I'm like, it's not going to kill them before the fuck it. You know what I mean? It's like, it's, and I, from the research I did do on my own doing TRT for dogs is like extremely safe, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so yeah, I did the calculation. It said one to 2.2 milligrams per kilogram. I think it was. I don't know why. I don't know. I just went in the middle and I did 1.5 milligrams per kilogram. Yeah. I don't know why it's so wild, wildly, not wildly, widely accepted to neuter your fucking dog. Like, it seems like it's such a no brainer. Like you're totally, you're taking this male canine and removing his testosterone and then expecting him to have a normal life. Yeah. I, I understand it like they're horniness level and maybe like fucking jizzing on your pillows and shit. And also for them like in public with other dogs. Um, and I definitely understand it from female dogs going in heat and like bleeding on your shit. Nobody wants that. Listen, I get, I get the convenience of it, but it's pretty fucking like, if you think about it, it's pretty harsh. It's like, just like, you know what, Paul, you know what, Paul, you're out of control. I'm going to cut your nuts off. Yeah. Chop my balls off. Yeah. Yeah. Might as well. But I don't think of any more. Like Paul, like Paul has said to me many times, so is some people at work that, you know, when I bring Arnold around, they're like, you know, you should get them fixed. He'll be a lot more calm. I'm like, yeah. Cause I cut his nuts off. Like it doesn't feel like it just, and I'm not saying I'll never do it, but it just doesn't feel right. Well, what about like dog people get their dogs ears, crop things like that, just for aesthetics, you know, or even tails. Uh, I don't think that changes. Listen, I'm not, I'm not necessarily for or against it. I think that's a personal preference. If you do it young enough, I don't think it's on. There's two reasons why that could be a good thing. One, a lot of dogs get ear infections. And when you crop their ears, they get less ear infections. Okay. That's that's 100% not true. What do you mean? This dog has had nothing but ear infections her whole life. Well, I'm not saying every dog, but is it, wasn't that one of the premises of doing it other than dog fighting? I thought it was all aesthetics. Okay. Well, let's say, let's assume that's false, right? It still doesn't change the dog's way of life though. What about chopping his tail off? It doesn't change their way of life. Like if I cut your nuts off, that's changing your way of life. If I cut your tail off, you're still going to live the same life. Yeah. It's like, if you get a nose job, which you all want, then you're not going to change your way of life. But if you cut your balls off, it's going to, you know? Right. Well, why was an animal born with a tail that doesn't need it? Okay. Stop being, you're just being argumentative. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'll just be a devil's advocate. If you can tell me how cropping their ears would change their way of life, I'll agree with you. Well, if you had a tail, people would know when you're happy and when you're sad. That's right. You can still tell. It's hiding your emotions now. I had a Rottweiler with a tail this long and it would go, it would go like this. You could see it. You can still tell. They'd know from really far away. Yeah. I really thought that your thing was true, Mike. I mean, it might be true. I'm just, in her case, it's, she's her whole life, like ear infection after ear infection after ear infection. Yeah. Yeah. Um, if you could answer, if you could have the answer to one conspiracy theory or mystery, which one would you choose? I would JFK. Really? Yeah. What's the significance of that? Well, I could just be the one guy. Well, no, no. But what's the significance of knowing? Like, let's say you, let's say you knew the answer tomorrow. What would change? That's what you have to ask yourself about. Like every conspiracy. Yeah. Right. No, no. I know. I know that. But you think people think like, what would like, if I knew the answers to this stuff, it would change my perspective of things. But like, it would genuinely try to be changed. Nothing for me as an individual. Yeah. It was just maybe less people would trust government. Maybe that's about it. Oh, hold on a minute. Let's say tomorrow. The new, every news outlet, all the mainstream media, all the independent media, all gave the same news story about, oh, it's going to be a while. We should pause the podcast. Yeah. Bring your phone with you. Yeah. Let's say they all said 9-11 was an inside job. Which it was. Everyone would just be like, wow. I'm surprised the Americans said it. Everyone would be like, yeah, no shit. I'm proud of it. No, no, no. But like, let's say it was like fact and you got the, they just, it's fact. This is what happened. But do you think how much of the world's like psychology do you think would change versus just knowing who killed JFK? I think people's, people's views of the government and like life in general are so entrenched and so grilled into their brain. I don't think that it would resonate. I think the people that, I think the people that know, I think the people that are aware and are awake and understand what's going on would be like, no shit. Like we've been saying to you for how long, but it's like, look at, it's been how many years after COVID, right? I know, but hold on, Mike. And look at people like they're being told now that you were lied to and people, and like, people are like, so what? But wait a minute. And everyone else is like, yeah, no shit. Like, no, no, but wait a minute. I'll tell you the excuse they use. Cause I have some people close to me that are like that. The excuse they use is while maybe they know now, but they didn't know at the time and it makes them, and it makes them feel better. Whereas for nine 11, if a report came out that said, look, the government did it. This agency did it. These people were at the top and they made the decision and they killed 2000 or 3000. I don't know how many people died in nine 11. I think it was somewhere between two and 3000. They killed between two and 3000 people on purpose. I feel like that would change a lot of shit. Well, especially if you're someone who was directly affected, like your, you know, your brother or sister got sent to Iraq right after Afghanistan right after died. Maybe. Well, maybe, but also like, I think about what Mike is saying. How many people do you think in the U S as a percentage of a hundred, how many people in the U S do you think really believe it was, it was like an inside job? 50%. No, I think like 30, 30 max. That's what I think too. I think if you're talking to people, yeah. Like talking to people on an individual basis, you'd probably get a lot more answers than polling people because people want to stay with the herd. But if you had like a, like a deep conversation with a lot of people, they'd be like, if they didn't believe that it was an inside job, they definitely have suspicions about what happened that day. That's what I think. I think 20% might think for sure. I think there's like a 30% that are like maybe. And then the other, the other 50 are still like, I don't think people have all the fucking information either. I don't think there's people that even have even tried to dive into it. I don't think they've looked into like, you know, what's funny about that, Seth, I was having this conversation. I was having this conversation with my brother at dinner and he was like, you're an idiot. I'm like, I'm like, I'm an idiot. Like, really? If I go to lay out all the information, it doesn't fucking add up. I look at him. I go, I go, explain to me building seven. He goes, what do you mean? What about building seven? I go, building seven fell at free fall speed and nothing hit it. He goes, no, it didn't. I go, what are you? I'm like, do you want me to look it up for you? He goes, okay. And he's like talking to me. Like, he's got it like down pat. He's like, you're an idiot. Like, okay. So I look it up, literally says building seven fell free fall speed from office fires. I go, look, he goes, I didn't know that. I go, you're a fucking idiot. You're the fucking idiot. That's what I'm saying. You'll show people proof of something and they'll just literally, it's like they didn't hear it. It turned off. Like, cause it just, it's more convenient for them to believe the lie than it is to be like, oh, let me turn my brain on and think what that could mean in the grand scheme of things. Okay. So why would this happen? Right. Some people don't want to go there. They just rather not go there. So let me rephrase the question then. So let's say somehow you got, we could pick one conspiracy theory and I pick this one, but you got 100% of the people to go. Oh, cause everybody reported it. CNN, the view, all the shitty channels, they all report the same thing. So all the people would now believe it. How do you think they believe it? I think they'd still have a hard time believing, but I get it. Keep going. Sorry. I think if the view said it, all of the people would believe it. Yeah. I think that much trust. I think the, I think the 50% that believes the view is the problem. If Taylor Swift said it, everyone would believe it. Once, once something hits the mainstream media and you're hearing about it, it's too late. Cause it's already, it's already being spun. So in a way that's like, it's either being over sensationalized or overplayed or underplayed or whatever it is. And it's being, being sent, like pushing people in a certain direction to think a certain way. I agree with you, but we're playing this hypothetical. So I'll go back to it. Okay. I gave mine. Mine's on 11. Ian's design 11. Mike's or Paul's is JFK. Mike, if you could have the answer to one conspiracy theory, I know which one Mike wants answered. Let's just say the origins of the, of the earth human. Yeah. Of nature. The origins of man. I want to know, I want to know the real origins of man. Okay. Not what we were told. I get it. I do got to tell you, I'm becoming more and more interested in the fucking pyramids. That stuff's wild. It's starting to freak me out a little bit. We were kids and they would be like, how do you think the pyramids were built? And you'd feel like a fucking retard for not knowing how they were built. And you're going on and on and they're telling you what to do. And you're like, I have no clue. And then like, nobody knows. And then they would lie to you and be like, well, there was like a hundred slaves and they pushed it up a fucking hill. And they're like, that's not possible. It's literally awesome. Yeah. Well, and how's their appearance on different continents? You know, when there was no communication amongst these comments. Those things, I think like with an expert person is pretty easy to explain, but. How? Explain it. There's that special on Netflix I got into. Well, I think the pyramid shape, like if you took it, take the pyramids and like Giza and the pyramids and like, you know, the fucking. Yeah. In Giza. That's the Egypt. Or if you take the ones in like. Mexico. That's Mexico. Hey, Giza, man. Sorry. Go ahead. They're extremely different shapes and extremely different uses. And one is like the pyramids and Giza are mostly not. Wait, wait, wait. Before, before you say that, Ian. In that time, wait. To build structures that high, a pyramid structure was the obvious and best way to do it. Okay. But why the desire to get. One, one, one thing. One thing. They don't know why the pyramids were built. That's part of the problem. They originally thought. The pyramids were used as tombs. That's the original thought process. Yeah. To celebrate dead people. If you start, if you start looking into some of the new theories that are coming out, they're like, that's not even for that. Electricity. Power plants. That's what they taught us in school when we were seven. Oh, yeah. It was King Tut's tomb. Blah, blah, blah. And these. They were built. These things. These models were built. Were built to house dead bodies. Yeah. For what? They love their dead bodies that much. And there's literally. There's literally rooms in there. There's literally rooms in there with drawings on the walls, carvings, whatever, precision, whatever. There's no electricity. It's a windowless room where someone's drawing and doing stuff. Yeah, but you have to remember back then. And there's no candle soot. There's no nothing. Yeah, you have to remember back then, though, they were obsessed with the idea of the afterlife. So where you were buried and how you were buried, especially for someone at prestige, was extremely, extremely important. And you know they talk about those tombs. They talk about the rocks being cut to a millimeter. Like the precision in which the rocks were cut. Yeah, but I've also watched videos where these are like extremely explainable by people. You know? No. Well, explainable is relative. Like that's in quotes. Yeah. Because the explanation isn't necessarily the real explanation. Well, we don't know 100%, but I don't think it's like it's not so hard to believe. You know? Well, it is. When you talk. Listen, there's a couple of archaeologists that were recently on Rogan's podcast. And they were literally saying the steep, the level of steepness is the wrong word. The incline of the ramp they would have to build to push the fucking stone into position, which they said they've done. The ramp. The stone. To even get the stone from where it came from to where it had to go. They couldn't. No, no. But even if they did, it couldn't go up the ramp. Nobody could do that at the weight of the rock itself. And if they reduced the incline of it, the ramp would stretch for miles. And there's no evidence of that. So how the fuck did they push the rocks up the pyramid to mount them? Like the whole thing is not explainable. That gets back to my desire to know the origins of man. Yeah. I don't know. I'm kind of with Mike on this one now. Maybe that's more important than 9-11. But it's definitely interesting to know all these things for sure. I think there is definitely some things. I don't think we know exact. But my mind doesn't lean to them being like. Have you ever heard the saying, history is written by the victor? Who? Yeah. That to me rings true in my head more so than ever before in my life. There's so much history that we have no idea about. Exactly. We're fucking lied to. All we know is what we're told. Especially when you think of Egypt. The craziest thing about Egypt is when you're talking about like. The first pharaohs to the last. Is a longer distance than from the last to us. So like you think of how long ancient Egypt like that period was. That time from getting to end was longer than it's been since there was fucking pharaohs. You know? Yeah. So like it's already a huge amount of history. You think of how much our life has changed from like now till the pyramids were, you know. Or like till ancient Egypt like Cleopatra and the Roman Empire kind of came in there. Whatever. Greek. Whatever. That. How much we've changed since then. And think of how long the fucking, you know. Like how much shit actually happened in that time is crazy to think about. And we think of it as like a period that was small. Like the 1800s. But it's like this is like a fucking thousands of years. You know? Right. Yeah. Yeah. Seth. Do you have a conspiracy theory you want to know? I'm into them. I'm into all of them. I don't pick one. I mean there's so many of them. Pick your favorite. But it's hard because I don't know because every now and then like the one that I just saw was the dinosaurs and dragons one. Have you seen all that? You believe in dragons. Listen. I didn't fucking say I believe. You can believe. Listen. Son of a bitch. This is a safe circle. You can believe in dragons. We're friends to yourself. I believe there's dragons. No one's judging you. It's okay. But no. It's that. I don't know if you'd call it a conspiracy theory. But it's like they were. Again. I just came across this one recently. But I mean the Roman Empire. The fall of the Roman Empire. What happened with that? That's another big one I wouldn't know about. Listen. What is. What is it? What is a dragon? It's just a flying lizard. That's totally possible. Breeze fire. Well. That part. That part. That part. That part. Might be made up. I know. It's the only mythical creature in the Chinese New Year. Yeah. The Chinese New Year. It's the only mythical creature that's in it. Yeah. Why are the rest. Why are the rest of them real? But that's supposedly mythical. Well. Mike's watching. I mean. Yep. Mike's. Dude. Mike. You're the pig. You're the rat. You're the fucking. You're the dragon. And then they go through. And they say that a lot of the things from back in the day. Like. I don't know. Like. Now I'm getting into it. Like mythical potions. But like things that. They go back. And say. Dragon's blood. Or. Things like that. So it's kind of like. Man. A little unique there. And then. They say. Dinosaurs. Dinosaurs. Again. This is all from the internet. So I'm just. Do you think. So wait a minute. I need to. I need to like. I need to get like a concrete answer here. Out of this. Out of this conspiracy. So do you think dinosaurs are fake? No. Do you think dragons are real? They were saying that. They were saying that. Dinosaurs. They only got their name back in the 1800s. What did we call them before the 1800s? You know what I mean? So. That's. That's where. But where's the conspiracy? Where's the conspiracy? There's not really a conspiracy. It's just a topic that. It's becoming hot right now. That I got caught up in. On the internet. Is there a conspiracy that you don't believe in? Or that you do believe in? I think. I think like. I'm not. A conspiracy theorist. Like. I started like. I just saw this thing. I'm like. I'm pretty much just like. Things aren't adding up. Yeah. That's how a lot of people are. You lying sacks of shit. Have been doing this to us for so fucking long. When it comes to the government. How do you believe the government? Fuck them all. Well it's funny anyway. People are waking up. How many times have you lied to your wife about something. Or your kids about something. Like these people control the entire fucking country. And the world. And you think that they're just telling us the whole truth. Yeah. No. Give me a fucking break. They're always honest. And they're also run by massive corporations. That influence everything they do. Yeah. And have their interests in mind. Yeah. Dude. It's so. I don't believe any of these fucking assholes. I feel like Ian is the least conspiratorial out of the group. Ian Scientific. Yeah. Sure. I have too much of a. Like a. I just. I need more. I'm not. I'm not someone that can necessarily believes one or the other. I just need like overwhelming proof of something to even begin to believe it. And that's not saying that I think that the pyramids were built one way. But like I haven't seen anything that's so compelling from anyone that I trust in any regard to make me believe otherwise. Like something like look like 9-11. 100%. I believe that's a fucking farce. You know. Yeah. Or like. You know. I could get on board with the moon landing being faked 100%. I see the reasons why they would do that. And I think there's some adequate proof there. But I'm not like. I'm not. My mind unless it's like something really tangible that I can really like lock onto with a lot of proof. I'm not going to believe here or there. You know. My thing is. I don't know what the conspiracy behind the pyramids is. I just don't think they fucking know. I'm like. I don't think that's a conspiracy so much of something they don't want. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. They don't want you to tell you because that opens up a fucking. Oh wait. A wormhole of like understanding what happened prior. What about Antarctica? That's a good one. Yeah. That's a really good one. That one's a little bit. I've seen that one be debunked though. Really? Yeah. Because people are like you can't travel there and you can't. You just need to get. Because apparently. You need a special permit or something. Yeah. But that's because all of the countries that are. This is what. To my understanding. All of the countries that are there are equally. They have a treaty where they're all equally responsible for Antarctica. So you need to get like a special permission to be there because it's not one country's land. But then you read about all these like these. These. These lakes and stuff underneath the glaciers that. So you think. So wait. I just want to make sure we parse this out for the people watching. So you think that there's a crack in the ice wall somewhere and you go through it and then there's a bunch of like greenery and lakes where there's like a different world. Is that what you think? I think that's what the theory. I think that's what the theory is. No, no. I want to know your theory. I don't care. Theory? Well, maybe that's where so many people disappear to. Everyone's had an airplane a couple years ago. Look at General Admiral Byrd. I knew you were going to say that. I know about him. I knew you were going to. One guy got really high and fucking wrote some shit. And that's like every fucking guy. He went there. He crashed. He has fucking documented. He documented the visit. And then his expedition didn't have been his ship crash or something. Come on. There's a plane. And you guys. Come on. For real. It's a plane crash, right? You guys think in the middle of Antarctica, there's a whole other world that we don't know about. I don't think it's the middle of anything. Go ahead. I don't think it's the middle of anything. It's an extension. It's an extension. Go ahead, Ian. What were you going to say? I can't remember now. I think. Being like a green, nice place. The only thing that doesn't make sense to me with that is like climate wise, where that is geographically on the earth. But I mean, it depends if we're going with like flat earth here. But if with me believing in a globe earth, then I would believe that to be impossible because like climate is very tangible with where you are on the planet to me. You know? It is crazy how far and how quick these things can get out of here. Yes. You know why though? You know why though? You know why though? Because it's fun. It is. For sure it is. Like I have a field day with the 9-11 thing because it's so fucking blatantly obvious. Yeah. That it's unreal to me that other people haven't been like, okay, like. There's some fuck shit going on right now with that Tesla truck that blew up. Yeah. Yeah. And they just found dude's passport because they just seem to find passports all the time. The body's burned down recognition. Incinerated burn. Incinerated car. Right. I don't. It's wild. They leave their passports behind. Right. With me. Why is it? Except for the passport. Why is the passport always pristine? Because they got to show you. Right. Who's the guy? And then they take you on a MTV Crips tour of his house. Right. Oh, I saw that. This is where he made bombs. The chick of the yoga pants. It's like, what the fuck are we talking about? Are you guys thinking we're stupid? This chick of the yoga pants is looking at an apartment the next day. Nothing to worry about, guys. Wait a minute. Ian, what did you say? You said something there. Oh, I just said like, yeah. What's the convenience of them always having? Like, even when I travel, I'm not like leaving my fucking place with my passport in my bag or my pocket at all times. Why is it they conveniently all? Like, look, I understand if it's a plane crash having a passport. But like, when you're driving in a fucking, like, why has everyone got their passports with them all the time? And your military ID too, apparently. You have to have that next to your passport. All right. Let's move on. We can do this forever. We can do this forever. We sent an email out a few days before. This is a weird one. It just says, and maybe you guys tell me what it means. It says, does Samson being your athlete give you the pass? For being more biased with him. Yeah. Well, is that what they're saying? Yeah. Well, yeah. Why is that so hard to comprehend that you would back the person that you support? Right. Well, it's not. Well, because you know why? Because it's, I think it's because we have a, you know, we have like, I don't want to say a news show, but like we cover bodybuilding shows. So people expect me to be objective about the competitors. We would all have our biases to a fool. We like, man, just, yeah. I mean, like if I was like a huge Derek fan, I think I was always pumping Derek's tires. Like I, you know what I think is different about it, Mike? It's the conspiracy theory of, it's the conspiracy theory. You do secretly run the IFBB. No, no, no. You know what it is? It's because there's money involved. So if I wasn't paying Samson or he wasn't part of Hostile, would I still be his fan is what the theory is, right? So, but the reason that doesn't, the reason that doesn't fly is I signed him because I was a fan. So it's like the chicken or the egg, right? Like I signed him and then started paying him because I liked his physique. So it's really a strange. Yeah. Anyway, I didn't know what that's. You've been, you've been kind of screaming that he was going to be this guy for a few years now. Yeah. I think I would get a pass by now. Nope. Nope. Not yet. In prison. At what point is it no longer gay? 25 years, 40 life. Six months. Yeah. 25 years. You've fucked. Six months. I think whether you like it or not, it could be anytime they want. Yeah. Yeah. Depending on your circumstance. To this question though, I think timing how early matters to how long the sentence is. Cause like, say you only have a, yeah. If you only have six months and you're like three months in, you're like, I'm going to get a, like if you have a three year sentence, if you have a three year sentence and you start doing shit six months in, but if you have a fucking life sentence, well, six months in, you're like, I'm going to be here for my life anyways. Like, so I might as well get started. Fuck it. You know? Ian's like, is there the second day? He's like, lovely friends. Might as well. I'm going to be here. I'm going to be here. I hold my pocket, walking around and shit. Got my eye on you. You know what? You know what would be fucking hilarious? Ian gets in there for life. Second day he's like, I'm going to get a blow job. And then they're like, oh, we made a mistake. You can get up. He gets purred the next day. No regrets. No regrets. When you guys discuss possible coaches for guys who are in the market, why does nobody ever mention Neil Hill? Yeah. He doesn't get mentioned a lot. No, he doesn't. He doesn't seem to be as active anymore. Well, I mean, he coached, he was with Sergio for a little while. I mean, he's coaching Mike Summerfield who just pushed Chris at the Olympia. And he did coach Flex Lewis who won seven fucking Olympia titles or two 12 Olympias. So I don't know why he doesn't get met. He's kind of quiet. Maybe that's why he doesn't make it. He's quiet. That's why. He's just not like in the limelight as much. He doesn't coach a ton of guys. So like, obviously, you know, you have people like Stefan, because they're coaching so many guys, they're in the limelight more. So they get talked about more. So I mean, the more prevalent a coach is in the like scene, the more they're going to get talked about. It's just natural. Yeah. Which superhero has the most boring superpower? I'm going to say Batman. He doesn't even have a superpower. He doesn't have one. He doesn't have any superpowers yet. Yeah. So does that not count? Can we not name him? Daredevil's pretty bad. Who? What's his superpower? Daredevil's blind, right? He's got his sonar. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's pretty shit. I mean, if you watch X-Men, I'm sure you can find some in there that have some pretty fucking gay powers, you know? Flash, I mean. But Batman is considered a superhero. Flash would be dope. I have so much running you want to do. Oh, I'd like to be fine. He says in the Justice League movies, like, what's your superpower? He goes, I'm rich. Yeah. I mean, that's a pretty cool superpower, but it's not a good superpower. I'd love to be the Flash. You wouldn't like that, Paul? I want to fly. I want to fly all day. Great. You could fuck with people. Nobody could catch you. He'd sweat like crazy all the time. He'd be tired all the time. No, you're doing whatever you want. He's fucking slamming food constantly. Yeah, but it's effortless, Paul. You're not tired. That's just what he does. You can build up a sweat, though, and all that. No, it's a superpower. It's effortless. Paul's relating it to him running. Yeah. If I had to run 10,000 kilometers, I'd be dead. My feet would be killing me, too. Yeah. Let's see. We'll do one or two more, then we'll go. Favorite fruit? Go around the horn. Seth. Fuck. I'm a big banana fan. Flip that one. Flip that one. Flip that. That's the most immature group of people on earth. That sounds like. I like bananas. What can I say? Seth likes bananas. That fag likes bananas. Seth likes bananas. I can't. Yay. That's so bad. What a stupid, but I'm spoken retarded. Okay. I'm going to say pineapples. paul i like bananas are you talking like fruit on its own or in things just on its own what are you gonna put it in like yogurt or like fucking a smoothie you know i mean what are you laughing paul are you thinking what i'm oh okay i was thinking something else go ahead ian what do you go ahead mike what were you thinking yeah you gotta say it now no it was really it was really gross put your fucking dick in yeah yeah i was thinking of eating it out out of something i wasn't thinking of putting my dick in it oh oh god i like raspberries too they're up there yeah blueberries strawberries okay you get one seth banana paul banana yeah mike strawberry ian i'm probably with you like if a pineapple is like perfectly right that's pretty hard to beat i like mango too but that's really fucking fruity to say i want why is mango fruity fruity to say it's just like i'm not like typical kind of like a listen banana is the gayest fruit you can't beat banana yeah it's kind of like a shoe shoe bag boy fruit you know i like a seedless orange i do of course this fucking guy wants it seedless i like it i've never i like it i like it i like it i'm sick yeah can i tell you something paul i've never ever once i ate an orange and thought i wish this was seedless no i do i don't i won't eat the ones with seeds what i like watermelon too love watermelon watermelon watermelon yeah number two for me watermelon i had sumo oranges have you guys had sumo oranges no what's a sumo orange it's like a brand of an orange it's like a giant clementine they're fucking delicious really with oranges is like the roi is too low for me you know like how long you sound like paul now it's like peeling an orange is just like a pain in the dick compared to how good they taste you know they can be paul do you know what iris return on investment yeah i got it okay good yeah because he's like roi at first i didn't get it i had the sound out of my head right i do return on something i agree with you there is a lot of work involved but if you got a knife it's not that hard to peel an orange without a knife it can be messy without a knife yeah i give you that yeah if you get the chance they're really good the clementine's easy to peel though like that sumo orange seems really easy like super easy just yeah just right off i hate the ones that take a long time that you like just keep the skin on bitch peeling them they suck paul paul versus 100 baby ducks to fight yeah no quacking god we're talking here uh quacking contest paul what do you think 100 ducks yeah baby and they're for all baby ducks oh i stomp them all yeah listen paul's terrified of fucking animals you would not you'd run away for sure adult dogs adult ducks for sure i'm running away small baby ducks stomp on a duckling dude well i wouldn't want to but it depends on what's on the line here like is something gonna happen to me that i gotta defend it's gonna kill you or you're gonna kill it then i gotta kill it i gotta kill those little babies i gotta i gotta stop all over it'd be gross though like everywhere okay last last last question uh death row last meal no um get a better one we've done favorite foods a million times uh now that matt has retired who is going to coach ian valiere for his comeback fued is going to coach him yeah uh what would 20 year old fued do if bodybuilding wasn't a thing worked at strip clubs sell drugs and work as a strip club manager but any self-respecting man in canon would do that's right that was a good job fuck you man i like that job making decent living that's making good money and freedom yeah yeah casting coach was there and uh oh this is a good one i don't know if i want to bring this one up who would win in a fight one mike or two seths standing on top of each other no way i'm beating two sets on top of each other that's four i'll take i'll take me doubled up yeah that's eight that's eight eight weapons eight it's like the dude from myrtle combat right you have to think though two on top of each other it's like you don't get someone on your shoulders you're a bit slower you're kind of clumsy like that's gonna be tough but if you get a whole even if you get into with the guy on the bottom the guy on the top's just pounding you right yeah you can't defend all that you can't defend and the lower one can just fucking hook you in the nuts he's giving you body shots the other guy's clobbering your head and the middle the middle arms are just holding your arms so you can't move okay here we go fuhad with only a baseball bat for arms versus mike versus mike with 20 ounce boxing gloves versus paul with size 16 tile infected feet versus seth but he is a centaur versus versus ian is just himself so that's gonna be fucking kicking the shit out of us yeah we're fucked uh okay one more most no when going from no what's the best feeling in the world that you've experienced sex what's the best feeling in the world you've experienced i really like my dick i don't know i've done some i've done some drugs that made me feel really good you know better than better than sex better than the average sex not better than the best well the average sex doesn't count you're comparing the best drug to average sex you gotta yeah it's gotta be apple yeah yeah yeah what's that mental feeling though or is this like a physical thing anything whatever makes you feel good yeah you know it's crazy because you can go through we're all going through there's certain things in life that were physical like drugs or anything like i just you know for the you know the 14 weeks i got back on the shit i tell you what dude when you're on some shit there is nothing like a nasty fucking pump it's like a wild feeling it is like a drug you're just like but it doesn't compare to really good sex i know it doesn't i'm just saying if you compare if you can listen wait a minute the thing is if you are taking a lot of steroids and doing drugs and have crazy sex yeah that's like a trifecta of trifecta happiness happiness it's like you can't beat that while you're on a budget test promise land right there all right we'll end it there paul say a prayer for us okay remember it's the first prayer of 2025 i know i know oh i got the light good years well let us bow our heads i'm gonna take advantage as i have this uh this beam of light on me right now okay yeah well dear leader building upon the theme that uh we've established the last couple weeks with um with new year and uh wishes for the new year being uh the central topic um i still don't feel great about this year i still think it's gonna be pretty nuts but but but i think there's some optimism i think there's some good signs um so i don't think it's gonna be all shit but i think it's gonna be shit for a while i do sometimes the good sometimes the shit yeah i really think it's gonna it's gonna start in the shitter though you know these prayers are supposed to be positive and uplifting right yeah there's optimism i think towards the end of the year we'll start to see some so you're like you have to deal with shit for the first six months it always gets worse before it gets better okay it's always darkest before the dawn that's right yeah yeah so you know so let's be optimistic that it won't be that way you know what i've noticed you've perfected your um introduction to your prayer yeah yeah oh yeah like oh yeah it starts off well it starts off like a like it starts off like a real sermon like okay and then it nosedives yeah like you're good like i know you learned from seth like the introduction i i found out that you picked that up i've got that part down now yeah but now you just it goes to shit so now it's the meat potatoes the subject that i need to build on yeah you need some you need to throw some dear lords in there thank you for everything like yeah you need a little bit more grateful you need a little bit more grateful really i also do like the life updates too if you could add those okay well right now um there's uh you know uh the kids are feeling better they were sick while we're in mexico i told you guys that uh you're the worst pastor ever just don't want to work right now keep going i'm just grinding right now at work i'm just trying to put in some time right now at work and then uh then uh you know and then going into the spring like i said i'm looking hope it'll get better all right amen amen amen okay boys see you later good night you guys