 What's going on guys? Welcome back to the podcast and I want to thank Manscaped for sponsoring the show. If you go to manscaped.com forward slash RBP, you can get anything you want. Use code RBP, you get 20% off plus free shipping. If I take you to the website, I'm going to show you what they got. They're the best in men's hygiene. They got all the tools, trimmers, the Lawn Mower 5.0 is amazing, but my favorite thing is the beard trimmer, which is here, that has the adjustment on it already so you're not going to lose any of your guards or anything like that because that always happens to me. They also have some really good beard oils. If I can find them here, they got the lipids, lip balm, a foil blade, a foil blade, and all that stuff, but the beard conditioner. There it is. This is one of my favorite things they make. Also, guys, if you go to manscaped.com forward slash RBP or use code RBP at checkout, you get 20% off plus free shipping. Support them, support the podcast, and thank you guys very much. Get the best in men's hygiene. Hello. Hello. It's so monotone when you say it. Hello. Hello. Hello. How are you? What's going on, Seth? Just hanging out, got done doing some cardio, went in the sauna. How's the quad? Quad's fine. It's healing. Yeah. Put a bunch of stuff in it. It's healed up pretty quick. Still tender, but nothing that, you know, it's just, it's a minor, it's a minor tear, strain. Seth, do you have anything you waste money on that you know is a waste of money, but you do it anyway? Why are you looking at me like that? Is there something like right off the top of your head or are you? No, dude, this is like a, see, this is something I get mad at myself about because I'm so indecisive. Okay. I'm very blessed in my life. I'm so fortunate to do what we do. It's really cool to be able to be in this position and everything. I wish I bought really dumb shit. Like, I don't know why I don't pull the trigger on like an old square body truck. Those are badass. Yeah. Like, I don't know why I do it. And I'm like, I don't need it. I won't drive it as much because I'm always consumed with work or the kids are going here, going there. And I'm like, I drive myself crazy. You know what though? You won't drive it as much, but you know what's fun? You get something like that and then they're not that expensive if you get them like kind of beat up. Right? Yeah. And then you take your time, you know, one year you get it painted. One year you put a lift on it, some tires, you know, and it's kind of like your little project. And you're not, and you're not going to drive it every day. You're not going to, I'm telling you right now, because I've had like shit like that, that just kind of sits. It's like, but it's nice to be like, that's kind of my project and my, it's my, my reward to myself for working my ass off. I, I, I don't know why I don't do it. I always find a reason or an excuse not to do something. I know why you don't do it. Because I'm a pussy. No. That's such a, that's such a fuet answer. But no. That's such, that's such something like a dick would say. Like I would totally, no, that's not what I was going to say. I was going to say, it's because you got two kids and you've had two kids since you were like 25 fucking years old. So you're probably, you're probably in that mindset where you're like, I have to say for my kids, even though you're doing well enough now that you'd be fine. Yeah. That's what I mean. Like, I don't know why I don't do it. I'm just like, I do it to myself. I do. But I think it's a good mindset to have. Hi guys. How are you? Hi guys. What's the smile you got? Are you high? I actually am. I'm not. I was talking to you. I was talking to Ian. A little bit. I know you're high. I'm talking to Ian. I'm just happy to see you guys. I think Ian's fucked up. You look a little fucked up. What'd you do, Ian? Do I look fucked up? I look fucked up. Oh yeah. You're totally fucked up. I can tell. What did Ian do? I can't tell if anybody ever. He ate an edible or something. I can fucking tell. Good for you, Ian. He's got to be self-conscious now. You're bugging out. Mushrooms would you eat? I didn't eat anything. Who else trying to fuck with me now? That's all. We were talking about, before you guys got on, me and Seth were talking about wasting money on stuff. And Seth said that he's never been able to go ahead and buy something as a hobby, like toy kind of thing. It's like an old square body truck. I don't know why I just don't buy one. I feel like an idiot. I'm like, I love them. I look at them all the time. I just won't pull the trigger. Well, I was saying it's because I think people get certain mentalities in life that don't change. And I think if you had kids when you were 25, how old were you when your daughter was born? 22. Yeah. Like if you have a kid at 22, I think your mindset is probably like, yeah, you're terrified. Yeah. So I'm like, so even now that you have money and you're doing okay and you're comfortable, you're probably still have that mindset, which I think is like, I'm kind of jealous of, to be honest with you. You kind of have none of that. I have zero. I waste, I throw a flush all my money down the toilet. I have nothing. Which is where did they die with any money? That's good though. Yeah. Well, I'm just going to die with debt. So whoever's married to me at that time will be fucked. Yep. But you know, like you have like old school parents too, right? Like I do. Like my mom's from Italy. You're like, you know, I know your mom's from, you know, Lebanon and that. Like, and they were, yeah, I think they were like, you know, their tradition and where they're from, you don't spend money frivolously. So I'm surprised that didn't rub off on you. I'm always shocked by that. It goes the opposite way though. That's what I think. Not for me it didn't. That's what I think happened. I think it's, I think it's like, cause we grew up, my dad was a welder and he made like 40 grand a year and he had five kids to take care of. And my mom was a stay at home mom that cooked all our food from scratch and made half our clothes. So I was always the kid in the neighborhood that didn't have any fucking toys and didn't have any like cool lunches or didn't have it. So now I'm like, I want all that shit. I think it's just like, it went like the pendulum swung like the other fucking way. Yeah. But I was similar. I know. I'm not, I'm not saying it happens to everybody. I'm saying, I think that might be why I'm like this. I don't know. Right. I don't think it's like, there's a right way or a wrong way to enjoy life and live, you know? I mean, I think it's, I think is a right way in a sense of like being safe. So you don't always like, you know, so you're always kind of taken care of, but then it, like you said, it can go the other way where you're like, you don't necessarily buy those toys that you want. Like you're talking about. I think, uh, speaking as a parent, at least I think if you don't have kids, then spend your money, fucking blow it. Like, but if you're, but if you're, but if you got kids, I think you should try to set them up so that they have a good place when they start. I agree. I agree with that. I think that's the other thing, Paul, is we talk about like my, my spending habits, but I think if I had a couple of kids, I would probably be very, very different. Yeah. Cause I like, I would be worried about their future. Whereas I'm like, I don't have kids. So I'm like fucking whatever. Yeah. Cause at the very least, like, I mean the way I think at least like university is expensive. So at the very least, you know, put away RASPs. So they got money when they go to college and stuff. And better as smart kids get scholarships. Yeah. Right. Right. Right. That's on you, Paul. I'm trying to, and I got them in basketball. Ian, do you have anything? So Seth says he doesn't, so Seth, you can't think of anything that you buy that's frivolous. That is kind of like a waste. You kind of know it's a waste of money, but you want it anyway. No, dude. I, that's what I mean. Like I'm, I get Hannah, my wife, she gives me shit and says, just buy the fucking trucks. She's like, go buy them. She's like, just, well, you did buy, but hold on a minute. You did buy a TRX and then you crashed it. Two of them. Crashed one. Two. So yeah, I guess I do. I have two trucks that I don't, I have a dually and then I have my other diesel. I don't need two diesel trucks. How bad, how, how much do you love the dually though? I want a dually so bad. Yeah. It's super cool. It's really strong. Yeah. I don't pull much. Maybe one time a year. You don't pull anything. Do a bunch of outdoor work, but that's it. That's like, it's not even, it's, I should, I don't need the truck, but that's what I mean. Like I don't need it. And then I'm like, ah, so that's why I really just, I don't need it. Yeah. But what's wrong? But hold on a minute. And I'm going to play the, the waste, the wasteful guy for a minute. What's wrong with, what's wrong with just wanting something and having it? Cause you want it. Why do you have to need it? Everything? I don't know. Like if you think about it, if you think in my head, if you think about it, bodybuilding is like the most wasteful thing you could have got into. Right. Like I, like we, I think we calculated it one day. I think I've eaten like 10,000 chickens. Yeah. I had this old Italian uncle that's be like, you just waste some time and money. What are you doing this for? He's always saying that to me. Um, but what do you, what do you, what is yours? Where did the question come from? Were you just curious about me or? No, I was, I was on Instagram before I, before you logged on and I was looking at this motorcycle and I have a motorcycle, motorcycle like this. And for anybody who looks at like a bagger like this, they think they all look the same, but this one's got carbon fiber bags and they're a little bit shorter and it's just got a lot of little things that I want. And it's just a waste of money because my bike already looks fucking bad-ass, but this looks more bad-ass. Your bike looks nicer than this. Yeah. No, wait, let me show you. Let me show you. This is a grass. This is a grass is greener thing, bro. Your bike is way cooler than this. Yeah, I agree. Yeah. You think so, eh? I love the, I like the carbon fiber bags and they're smaller and shit. I think your bike looks way sicker than this. All right. Well, anyway, that's where it came from. I was looking at motorcycles and I was like, why do I just like, like Ian said, like my bike's done. It's nice. That's why I'm convincing myself to stay in the sport bike world because they're way cheaper. You know? Like Harleys and like fancy, like fucking bikes like that are so expensive. Well, it depends. It depends if you go to like some sport bikes, get up there. Yeah. If you're getting like a brand new fucking 1000RRH2 or like Ducati's, then they can get more. Then you're in the same, you're in the same boat park as a bag. They can be 40, 50 grand. Yeah. Yeah. But like you can get like a five-year-old fucking thousand CC bike for like six grand. You know? Yeah. Yeah. I agree. And go 400 kilometers an hour. So. So, okay. So Seth has nothing. Paul, you're pretty old school too. You don't, you don't waste money like that. Waste money on. You just buy a lot of weed. Yeah. Your, your money goes up in smoke. Yeah. But weed's cheap. Yeah. Yeah. Weed's cheap enough that that's like not that big of a thing. For sure. For sure. And also it's therapeutic. You're smoking like a pound a month. Like you ain't going. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. It's therapeutic. He says. That's. Yeah. Yeah. It's good for me in a lot of ways. For a walk away. You know? Well. Yeah. Right. Exactly. And appetite. But if that's. I can say that about motorcycles. Riding my motorcycle is therapeutic for me. Yeah. For sure. For sure. Right off. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. Therapy. And some guy with a hooker addiction could say, wait, it's fucking therapy. 60 hookers a month. It's therapy, man. But. If there's no, if there's no victim in there, then it's a victim. There's no crime. It's a victimless crime. But. At least I have something to show for my money. Your money just goes up in smoke. Yeah. But I'd be, I'm a happier man. Yeah. You are a happier man. Yeah. I, you know, I've been away. As you know. And I didn't smoke anything. Because it's illegal in Mexico. Were you miserable? First two days I was. First two days I was. Why didn't you get weed in Mexico? Yeah. With the family. I'm not going to take a chance. I don't know anybody there. Oh, your kids were there too. Yeah. Yeah. I was on a resort. I wasn't going to go out to the resort or nothing, you know. You could ask the fucking bag boy. He'll hook you up, you know. Yeah. Yeah. I could have asked the butler probably. But, but, you know, anyway, I thought it was good for me anyways. Take a break. Okay. Wait a minute. I must have a, go ahead. No, no, go ahead. Sorry. I said, I must have a look. Because every time I go to like resorts in the Caribbean, the bag boy immediately tries to sell me blow. You know? You just look like a cocaine. Yeah. I'm sneaking doing rails at the water park while my kids are on slides. All right. Before we get into your vacation, Paul, because I do want to hear about it. Because you just got back today, right? Yeah. A couple hours ago. Thanks. Ian, anything wasteful? You have some nice shit that you don't need. Shoes. Like what? Well, you have $100,000 in shoes. Yeah. Yeah. So, but wait. But you can sell that. That was, for one, that was a phase. I've grown out of it. Well, I'm going through a motorcycle phase. I can say the same thing. Yeah. So, those are, those are, those I will admit were extremely wasteful. And I, I do have buyer's remorse for 92% of them. I could not. Listen, man. I can't explain to you, Seth and Paul, how much fucking shoes this guy has. Really? Dude, Seth, we went to his fucking house where he was staying in Florida to pick up his stuff because he was moving back. And I walked in the fucking room and it's up to the fucking ceiling. You know those, um, I got one here somewhere. You know those plastic cubbies. You know those plastic cubbies. They're clear. You pull them out like a drawer. Yeah. Yeah, the sheet things. A whole wall full of fucking shoes that look like they've never been worn. I mean, most of them have never been worn and still to this day have not. We, we moved them, Seth. We moved them all. And we laid them down in the bed of his pickup truck. It filled the fucking bed of the pickup truck. I'm like, what the fuck? Who needs this many shoes? Does it become like a hobby, like a collection? Like cards? Stamps? Yeah. And it was like, when I was in Florida, the sneaker culture there was like hot at the time. You know, that was like a big thing in like 2020, 2021. Like getting, you know, cool sneakers was a thing, especially in Florida that obviously that culture is a lot more alive than in Canada because like the wearability of the seasons of the shoes is so much better. And then I came back to Canada and I'm like, I never wear any of these. Like even in the summer, I, I might bust out like some of the nicer pairs once in a while. But like, I really don't leave the house much, you know? So it's like, I don't know. And I'm going to the gym. I'm not going to put on like a $700 pair of sneakers to go work out at Good Life. You know what I mean? Like it's fucking weird. So. Do you ever find your hobbies are influenced by who you're around? A hundred percent. Because like when I was hanging out, when I lived in Toronto and I was hanging out with Dorian all the time and stuff, he would buy a car and then I would go buy a car. Then he would trade. My motorcycle hobby was influenced by you. So, I mean, that's a direct, you know? Yeah. And then. If you can ride, it probably, I probably never would have. Like I've always wanted to and I had biked before and blah, blah, blah. But like the idea of getting the license and doing the work and all this, I was just like, it was so out of sight, out of mind. Yeah. And then like when you were riding like a lot, then I was like, okay, fuck, I actually want to do this, you know? Yeah. Yeah. When I moved back from Toronto, because like Dorian would trade his car in for a faster car than I would want to trade my own car. And then we would soup them up and get fucking superchargers and blah, blah. So when I moved back to Windsor and I wasn't there anymore, I'm like, I don't care. Yeah. Yeah. But you guys were going to tracks and stuff too, right? Yeah. We were going to the track and stuff. So it was all part of like the whole hobby thing that we were doing at the time. Right. Whereas now I'm like, nah, just have my one car and it's good enough. So it's like, it's kind of like your hobbies sometimes are influenced by the people you're around. So. I don't really have anything other than that. Like I don't make egregious purchases. I mean, probably the thing I'd like spend the most outrageous money on is like gifts for Melissa, you know? Really? Yeah. That's kind of my, my problem too. Yeah. You know what I, you know what I'm starting to think though, as I get older, I don't mind spending the money on experiences. I think it's like when I spent, you know, the trip we did to Thailand last year cost me a lot of money, you know, like that was not a cheap trip, you know? Yeah. Like we flew a bit like, you know, business class and stayed there for like two weeks and it was, you know, stayed at a nice resort and shit. That I don't, I didn't have a semblance of buyer's remorse for that. You know? Yeah. Like I was like, this was, I would have paid double for that. Right. But you know, what's funny is when I was younger, I always thought to myself, it was the opposite. I thought if I'm going to waste money on something, I want to have something I can keep. You want to have it. Yeah. But now I feel differently. It's like the material thing kind of like wears off, but the experience is like always there. Well, and I think that's the thing with motorcycles is like kind of crosses that bridge. Like it's an entity that is also an experience. Yeah. Makes sense. You know? Cause it's like, you have it and you own it and you get to like play with it and soup it up and customize it and like make it you. The riding it is the experience. And I think that's why people get so into cars and bikes, especially, you know, people that actually like to drive and not people that just like soup them up to look like people that actually like to drive like you, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So even in a car, just go out and drive or get on your bike and just drive alone for three, four hours. I think that's like crossing that bridge. And I think that's why they're such like a awesome thing. You know? Well, I think like, you know, we spent money to go to California. Yeah. And then we went to Vegas and we rode like the whole time we were there. I'm like, that's kind of, kind of an expensive trip, but. But that was an experience that was worth every penny and some, you know? Yeah. Yeah. So I think it's weird. Seth, how do you, where do you think about that? I mean, Paul, same with you. You just got back from vacation. This trip for me, it didn't really come in a good financial time. I just had a couple of big financial hits recently. So I was still kind of recovering and, but then, you know, it's, it's, you know, you only, your kid's really young once, you know, and you know, so whatever. Yeah. Seth, you're in the same boat kind of. I, Hannah and I actually had this conversation because I like the, the, the hunts that I go on, like I want to do big, fuck you wild hunts all over the world throughout my life. Like that's just, I really want to. Do you want to hunt? Do you want to hunt like big game? Oh, huge. Yes. I want to go. Lions and shit. No, no, no. More or less. Canada. Moose. Caribou. I want to do archery. Caribou. I want to do moose. Archery. So then over overseas, like red stags in New Zealand, but then a red stag. I just watched a French video on YouTube where a monster red stag was killed in France. So just cool shit like that. It intrigues me. But then Hannah and I recently had a conversation. I was like, Hey, I was like, we need to travel like now with the family. Like we really do need to go experience the countryside of, of what the United States has to offer that we didn't go do. Like all of us are in shape. We should go hiking through the mountains together as a family. As long as no bears though. Yeah. No animals that could hurt you. You just kill the bears. Kill them. Fuck them. Paul, I know you wanted to ask him about a certain animal. What animal were you thinking of when he was talking about? What was that deer? That mule deer? What was that thing called? It was like, yeah, yeah. They're massive. It's the only, it's the only animal Paul knows. Cause he saw it on Joe Rogan. So every time somebody talks about hunting, he talks about mule deer. You ever kill a mule deer? There's a fuckload of different deer, man. Yeah. You know, I do want to go hunting this year though. That's one goal I have for 2025. You're not going to like hunting. You're going to come with me, Fuad. We're going to, we're going to go out East and do that thing. We have to do that. I want, I want to do that. I'm going to go. It's totally out of my comfort zone. I want to do it though. Listen, I want to go, but I'm going to, I'm going to predict that we hate it. Okay. I'm fine with that. But I still, but I want to do it. And I know I'm going to throw up probably if I got a gut an animal, but I'm going to, I want to do it. No, I think that part, that part, that part, I'm fine. A hundred percent. I have a very weak stomach. Yeah. Paul will throw up. If there's a smell at all. All of them, all of them. There's a lot more in there. It's a lot warmer and it's a lot like, yeah, a lot more and a lot warmer than you initially think the first time, you know? What do you mean? When you cut it open? When you're gutting an animal the first time, you're like, wow, there's a lot more shit in here than I thought there was, you know? I'm already getting a little anxious to be honest with you. Especially a big animal. Like, yeah, like you cut open a moose and you're like, holy fuck, this is a lot of shit. Okay, I want to start with a deer. I want to start with something really small. Ian, have you killed a moose? I haven't killed a moose, no. Seth? I killed an elk, not a moose yet. What's the biggest thing you killed, Ian? Weight-wise, I don't know. I don't know if I can say. Don't say. Okay. So an elk, what does an elk weigh approximately? Four or 500 pounds? They could probably weigh up to 600 pounds. Yeah, 60 more. Yeah, but the one I killed... Didn't I see you with a bear? Yeah, I killed a bear too. Really? And the elk was bigger? And the elk was bigger? The elk was, this elk was bigger than the bear. The bear that I shot was probably close to 300, around 300 maybe. We didn't, we were out there, we didn't really, we couldn't weigh it. Yeah, black bears are smaller anyway, right? Yeah, they're small. They're not, the brown bears, grizzly bears, Kodiaks, those are monsters. I'd like to hunt one of those one day, but I'm not ready for any of that. Are you confident enough to hunt a brown bear with a bow and arrow? No. Okay, I was going to say, because that's fucking terrifying. That's fucking balls. There's wild motherfuckers in the hunting world. They are crazy. That hunt bear with bow and arrow? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. That's fucking terrifying, dude. Fuck that. That's fucking... I want to start with like a duck, something really small. I do. I got to build up. I want to start with something like small and easy. A squirrel. Okay, listen. I... Gross. Like, gross is the best to shoot if you're wanting. What's gross? Let's be a dumb and like, yeah. What's gross? What is that? Like a chicken. Okay. Okay, let's start with that, Fuad. Let's do a chicken this year. Then every year we'll try to build up to a bigger animal. Duck hunting, apparently. I've never been duck hunting. Like getting into like just any type of bird hunting. It is a wild community. But the duck hunting is like the bougiest of bougies. Okay. Okay. When it comes to bird hunting. Yeah. Okay, wait. I got a question. Paul, why do you want to hunt so bad? I'm curious. Because you're not... Like you're scared of fucking spiders. I know. What is this? I know. Is this like a conquering your fear kind of thing? Yeah. Yeah. It's a growth moment. It's a growth moment. What if you just shit your pants when you're out there and you can't do it? I'm going to. I know I'm going to. But I have to get over it. Okay. You know, whenever you're hunting birds, like I went dove hunting. A friend of mine took me down there to go dove hunting. It was super cool in the Georgia. Bird hunting is, it's a different experience. And it's, you know, way easier because you're just cleaning the birds. They're just, it's super simple. Picking feathers. A deer, bear, elk. The bigger the animal gets, the wilder the feelings. I'm sure. If you're elk 50 yards from me, like I was like, holy fuck. Your heart's just like. Imagine. Do it in your throat. You'll be sitting like looking through the scope of it or if you're in a bow and you can literally feel it like it's as if your whole body is your heartbeat. Do you get into like a defense mode? Like in your head or you're like, fuck, this thing's going to kill me if I don't kill it? No, no, he's just excited as fuck. You're just like. Really? Well. You think a buck deer is going to turn around and kill you? I don't know, man. That's what I was going to ask. Like an elk is not going to come after you. No. No, moose. Moose is what will charge you. Yeah, moose. Moose might. They'll charge you maybe. Yeah. Yeah. A bull moose might charge you or like a cow if it's with its baby, maybe. But yeah, I mean, elk or deer, things like that won't. You know, if you're hunting boar or something, maybe if it's in the wild. Like, but, you know. You guys, correct me if I'm wrong. That feeling you're having is just the nervous excitement of killing a fucking animal that size. Yes. It's not fear. No. I thought it was fear. No. It's like the opposite of fear. Because whenever you're doing it, like you, if you're, if you're archery hunting, like you train for it. You have to train for it if you're archery hunting. Yeah, of course. So like, and you want to make sure you get your heart rate up because your heart rate is going to be through the fucking roof. If you see a doe that's 40 yards from you here in Western PA, you're super excited. Yeah. Going out into the mountains, like you're hiking up, like you have to be ready. You have to. Because if you, like you got to track this animal if you don't put it down. Right. Right. And then you want to get a good shot. I need to tell after this, Seth, I'll tell you about the hunting I did like a couple weeks back. When you, when you say that, Seth, you mean like, like if you hit him, but he doesn't go down, you got to finish it. Oh, yeah. You got to track him. Yeah. Yeah. You got to track the blood sign, find where it goes down, or if it's not dead, shoot it. It might be, it might be miles. Okay. You don't just leave. You're like, okay, he survived. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. This is all due to me. It's very frowned upon. Yes. Okay. Okay. Okay. Well, isn't it, isn't it also like, it's not just frowned upon, isn't it like you want the kill? Oh, yeah. Well, yeah. But I mean, if you can't get him. In many places, it's actually illegal, you know, to like wound an animal, your due diligence. You know, I don't know the exact legality on it, but yeah, I mean, it's, you obviously, if you've been out there, especially, you know, like he said, you know, seeing a deer in PA where he is, it's like, you actually got to like hunt for that. You know, like you ain't just like letting that thing get away. If you got a shot at it, like you're going to track. If you clip the zero, you're not just, you know, I'll get the next one. I'll get the next one. It might be that you go out there for four more days and see nothing, you know? He's told us before that he goes out for, last time he went out. Yeah, when I did, when I did moose this year. Yeah. A couple of times ago, he didn't get anything. You see nothing. I know. A full week of seeing absolutely nothing. Yeah. But you're not getting, what I'm saying is you're not going to let it go. If you know there's times you go there, you see nothing. If you, if you even thought there's a small chance you hit it, you're fucking tracking that bitch all night. You know? With deer, like you see a lot of deer, don't you? When you go deer hunting? Not necessarily. It really depends on your hunting. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. To get, to get a, like, like the mule deer, to get an archery shot off on a monster buck. You're going to be close. Mule deer. It is, you are, it is highly unlikely that you're going to get that. Sorry. Go ahead, Seth. No, I was going to say Instagram glorifies a lot of like, ah, you do this and everybody can get it. Yeah. Yeah. Dude, I'd say maybe in certain areas you have like eight to eight to 10% success rate. Well, I was watching that, uh, you know, that man eater show. The guy does like a really good job of explaining. Yeah. Awesome. But he was talking about like. Meat eater, not man eater. Meat eater. Sorry. Not man eater. I followed him. I was thinking about, yeah, yeah. I was thinking about tigers. No. Um, no, but I was watching that and he was talking about like, they can hear everything. If you're in the wrong spot, they can smell you down fucking wind. Like, Oh, if you've got to have your wind powder with you, checking the wind, making sure you're always down wind for them. Like they'll catch a whiff of you and they'll just fuck off. You know, like. That's what I'm saying. Like when Paul's saying you, Paul made it sound like you see deer everywhere. Yeah. And I'm like, but they're going to fucking see you. Yeah. You smell you. It depends where you are. Like, you know, if you go hunting in like Newfoundland for moose, like that's an island. The moose tip like population there is completely different than it is in Ontario. Right. Right. Right. Right. You get way more tags. Your opportunities to shoot are way more. And there is like that for everywhere. Like, you know, if you go hog hunting in certain places or deer hunting, you know, the populations are going to be a lot more rampant in certain areas. But like the majority of places you're hunting. It's not like you're just like walking out for an hour, seeing a deer, shooting it. And then, Oh, oops, I missed it. Oh, wait 20 minutes. See another one. Shoot it. Go home. Like that's not. That's the impression I had. You know, the reason, you know, the reason why I don't think I'll like hunting. I like like group activities where you're hanging out together. Yeah. But you said hunting is not like that. Like if all four of us went out hunting, we're going to go separate ways. And like, it would be ideal, but you certainly could hang together if you wanted to. Yeah. But even if you're hanging together, you can't really talk because you can't make noise and you can't. Yeah. You're being quiet. Oh, really? You can't talk. Well, if you are, you're like whispering at each other. You're not like having conversations. Oh, this is what I'm trying to say. The fucking just hanging out. But you guys hanging on the woods shooting stuff. Oh, this is what I'm trying to tell you. Smoking weed while you're doing it. It's not a campfire. It's fucking there. Listen. It's like the animals are going to hear you, smell you, fucking see you. You can't. These are animals that live their whole life being prey. You know, they're not predators in any regard. So they live their whole life being down the chain of being prey for wolves and shit like this and coyotes. He's like, all they are good at is surviving and avoiding things with smell and hearing. You know? Yeah. I didn't realize it was that intense. Okay. So now that you know that, do you still want to go and just sit by yourself? I do. I still want to experience it. Yes. There's one thing that you can do that's like that, though. Hang out with the boys. Do all kind of wild shit together. Not worry about that. And that's duck hunting. See, that's what I would do. Yeah. And being in duck blinds, like if you go to a spot where they have like a whole setup, a whole duck blind setup, I'll send you a bunch of videos about it. And you'll be like, oh, this is what I want to do. Yes. Well, what are we going? I'm in for duck hunting. When are we going to go? There's a place here at Point Peely. They do a pheasant hunt every year. And the way I understand it is like they bring in the pheasants. And so they're all farm pheasants. So they don't even fly. So they just set loose like a couple thousand pheasants. And apparently these guys have to like literally throw the pheasants in the air before they shoot them to make a sport. Yeah, but. They bring in strippers. These guys party all weekend. That's what I thought hunting was like. I mean, not the strippers, but I mean, you know, getting drunk, throwing birds in the air and shooting them. See, I think when I think of hunting, I think of a guy sitting in a bush by himself with a walkie talkie that he barely ever uses. And a gun waiting for fucking shit to walk by so he can kill it for hours on end. And I'm like, I don't know if I have that kind of patience. I mean, it depends what kind of hunting you're doing. Like, you know, like something like elk. Like if he's doing elk, most of the time you're doing some serious fucking hiking to shoot an elk. You know, like your odds of sitting in a tree stand or fucking sitting in a blind shooting elk are probably pretty low. Like you're finding like more mountainous regions and like areas where like elk are going to want to live. And you're probably doing a little more walking and hiking to get things like that. You know, there is areas where you can obviously shoot elk without that. But, you know, that still doesn't sound like Paul's stripper campfire drinking. Or cry. Or cry from it. Paul, it's like hard work. You're walking through the mountains and shit by yourself. I've got to do cardio before I go to do this. Plus, you're going to shit. Listen, you're going to shit. Let's be honest. You're going to shit your pants. For sure, man. You're going to be. You're carrying your, you know, your rifle. If you have a bag with you, like you're carrying your gear. And, you know, if it's cold temperatures, you're wearing a lot of clothes. You start walking. You might get hot. You know, it's like you've got to manage all this stuff. Yeah. You've got to bring food and stuff with you. Well, it depends how long you're staying out. But potentially, for sure. Yeah. I always think of hunting as glorified on TV and glorified on social media. But a very difficult activity. I don't see it as being fun. I see it as being, like, challenging. Which the challenge is fun. But I don't see it being, like, fun. Like, hanging out with the boys. Drinking a beer. Fun. In some ways. Once you shoot something, then you think it's fun. Yeah. In some ways, do you think it's kind of a rite of passage for men? Not anymore. I mean. It's in our ancestry, you know? Yeah. I think there's something cool about knowing that you've done it or can do it. Yeah. But I don't feel like less of a man because I haven't killed something. Yeah. Do you? Not that I feel like less of a man. No, no. But I do think it would be something good for me to get me out. Because I'm a very, at times, I'm a very conservative person. I don't get outside of my comfort zone. But I think it would be something. But what do you think shooting and killing an animal will do for you? Maybe have more respect for life. Maybe have more respect for nature. And like, you know, because I don't plan on just killing it and putting it on my wall. Like, I'm going to eat the meat and shit. But, um, so I don't know. I just think, like, it goes back to our, like, our primitive. So you want to experience, because on that same meat eater show, he was talking about that exact thing. About how people dog hunters all the time. But they don't understand that there's the respect that comes with killing something. Right. So you're talking about having that kind of newfound respect for animals. Yeah. Because you went through it. I think it would be a really good step in my life. I can see that. A good growth step, kind of. And it's something that is way outside of my comfort zone. Like, completely outside of my comfort zone. So I think it would be a good thing for me to experience. The guys I went hunting. The guys I go hunting with, Zach and Ryan. Like, they are, like, they're lifelong diehard hunters. Like, parts of their years are carved out for it. And I learned so much about them. Just so much about nature. So much about wildlife. So much about the circle of life. Of things that just, you're just mesmerized by it. And it's the whole time you're going. And you're like, I have such, I have so much more respect for what is out here and what these people do. Because I just go out for a week at a time with these guys and enjoy my life. And I learn. They put in the work year after year after year of where to hunt, how the migration goes with these animals. What they do. Like, what it means to find an older animal instead of something that's young and growing. Like, it's awesome. Do you think it's possible, though? Do you think it's possible to admire or respect something even though you've never done it? Oh, absolutely. Like, absolutely. Like, guys, listen, I'll relate it to something I know a little bit more. Like, guys who build motorcycles, I'm like, I don't know what the fuck I'm doing. I couldn't put together a fucking engine. Yeah. I don't need to put to, I don't want to go do it. But when I see the guys doing it, I'm like, those motherfuckers, like, I have a respect for them. So it's like kind of the same thing with hunting. Like, I don't know if I have to do it to have that respect for those people. No, I think that, I do think that it's, like, Paul's talking, like, even not even doing it, but experiencing it. Because when you are up close to an animal and you are, like, you cut it open, you pull its guts out, you kind of start feeling, you start feeling a certain way. Yeah, okay. No matter if it's your first time with a smaller deer and as the animal gets bigger, a bear, like, dude, a bear has a very distinct smell that you're like, that's a really fucked up smell. I'll never forget, I'm like, what bear smells like. So you're saying that, so you're saying it is something you need to do to really, like, have the respect? Or understand it, at least. No, I mean, you can have a respect for anything because you're a decent human being and look and say, I have respect because I know that's something that's very difficult. Yeah. I love the fact that I can get into it and watch it and you can do it from a distance, but whenever you get up close and you actually do it, it is another level of respect. Right, right, right. It's a level of respect that you're like, holy, I didn't even know I could feel this way. Right. So it's heavily emotional, eh? The first time especially, I imagine. Yes. For some people, for sure. That's why they have, like, there's things called, like, buck fever where you just uncontrollably shake. Yeah. And they can't stop shaking from what's occurring after they shot an animal, a big animal, no matter, like, people that have been killing their whole life go and shoot an animal of a lifetime. And they can't stop shaking from it, even though they've been doing it their whole life. Is it like a state of shock almost in some ways? I guess you could say that. Did that happen to you, Ian? No. You never had buck fever? It's cold. He's a cold killer. He's a cold, cold stone fucking murderer. He's a cold killer. He's a cold killer. My heart was definitely, like, pounding out of my fucking chest, for sure. Yeah. But, like, and after that, you know how I get when I'm excited? I just, like, talk a lot. I'm really excited. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm just like, oh, yeah. Have you guys ever seen somebody who, like, their first time going out, you know, maybe has their first kill lined up and then purposely misses a shot because they can't do it at the last second? Or they just can't pull the trigger? I haven't, no. No? I mean, there are people that, I mean, I imagine. That freeze. Yeah. Just can't do it when the moment comes. Sure. Um, you know what's really strange about this? And I want to get away from this. We've been talking about hunting for half an hour, but, um, the really, the strange thing about this is Paul is the least emotional person I know. And he's actively searching for an activity that will make him emotional. I don't know. I think, like I said, I think I got some growing to do. My 50s here. So, I, uh. You're like, maybe it's time to feel some emotion. It's got to change. You know what? You know what? You know what? I think it is. I think maybe because you think it's manly. That's part of it. I won't buy it. Let me finish for a second. So, you think emotions are gay. But I think because you think this is manly emotion that it's okay to feel. Yeah. Kind of. Yeah. Yeah. But I do think. Not bad logic. Not bad logic. It makes sense. I think it's got to help me grow as a person. I think it's something that would, I think I should go through once in my life at least. Is there anything else? At least try to. Is there anything else in your life that you think will make you grow as a person like this? Or is this the only thing that you're fixated on? I want to conquer my fear of swimming too. You have a fear of swimming? Yeah. Kind of. Why? I can't swim. Yeah. But it's because you weigh 250 pounds of muscle. It's not because you can't swim. I get a pool. Thank you for that. I take that. Well, there's some fat. There's some fat. 18% apparently. That's me. You did. But I want to get over that too. You know, I just, I don't know. But wait a second. I don't like, I don't like feeling vulnerable. Would you take women lessons? Yeah, I would. Yeah, for sure. I know. But hold on a minute. It doesn't matter how good you can swim. When you're overly, when you're muscle bound, it's just hard to fucking swim, period. Yeah. I know. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like, that's not necessarily a you fear. That's like every guy who's built with a lot of muscle has trouble swimming. Yeah. Is there anything other than swimming? Seth, can you swim okay? I mean, I can swim, but I'm not like a strong swimmer. Yeah. He's like every other meathead. You can't, you can't, this shit doesn't float. Like, you know my pool. I got a five foot deep. You don't float well, but I would be fine in the water. Like, I'm not worried. Yeah. For how long though? Like, how far can you swim? Like, I swam. There was, when I went to my brother's, my brother rented this cottage up in Traverse City in northern Michigan. And there was a, like a big floaty fucking bouncy castle fucking thing out in the middle of the lake. So we're on the, we're on the pontoon boat and we're, he's pulling everybody around in a, in a fucking tire or whatever. I get off and I swim to the fucking bouncy castle thing in the middle of the lake. And I'm like, I fuck around on it for a minute. And I'm like, okay, I got to swim back to shore now. Cause the boat's gone. How far was it? I gotta say in my head, it was 300 yards. It was probably like 50. There's no chance you swim 300 yards. It felt like 300 yards. 300 yards is like you're in the far side of the lake. I just said it was probably 50 yards. Okay. Well, that's decent length to swim. Dude. Fuck. I swear to you. And I'm not exaggerating this. If it was 50 yards at about 40 yards, I sank. Yeah. And I swear. Did you get tired? I couldn't, I couldn't swim anymore. I swear on my fucking father's life. I thought I was going to drown. I thought I was going to die. I was like, how did you get out? My nephew, my nephew jumped, my nephew jumped in. Really? And fucking started pulling me. And then I kind of like put my head up and my brother's like, stand up. There's a sandbar there. No way. I stood up and I was like this far underwater. Like it was like only a foot under. Yeah. So I kind of like ran the rest of the way. And then I got there and I was like, but I swear to God, I thought I was going to fucking die. I was just run out of breath. So is that why? Yeah. I just couldn't, I couldn't fucking swim anymore. Did you, did you panic too? It was all panic. It was, I'm like, I'm not going to fucking make it to that dock. Especially when you start panicking, your heart rate starts going. Yeah. Energy so fast. Scared the fuck out of me, man. I had that happen in Mexico the first time me and you went through it. Remember years ago we went to Mexico? Yeah. Remember I almost drowned? Yeah. Listen, my friend, my friend, Seth, my friend, Al was a lifeguard. And the currents were really strong out in Cancun. And Paul starts, Paul goes on the water. I love the beach. And the next thing you know, he's like a little too far out. And he's jumping, like trying to like get our attention. And we're all like, me and my buddy are like, look at this fucking idiot. He's going to die out there. We're like making fun of him. And then Al's like, no man, he's going to fucking die. So all you see is Al go running. I swear to God, it was like Baywatch. Motherfucker goes running, diving right through the fucking waves, grabs him and pulls him back. And he beat the fucking lifeguard out there. Yeah. Like what the, it's like, what the, he saved his fucking life. I don't think Paul will be alive right now. I swear to God. I know. I panicked. I totally panicked. Because I was just fucking around. All of a sudden, I couldn't touch the bottom anymore. And like I said, I can't swim. So all of a sudden, I was like, I can't touch the bottom. I'm under the water. I'm like, I just panicked instantly. I was like, oh, fuck. But the currents weren't so far out. The currents were strong, dude. I remember that. Because it would just pull you away. And we were throwing football on that, right? So I just kind of lost track to how deep I was getting. And we were drinking, you know. Bob does Ironman. And so he swims. I mean, for a full distance Ironman, I think they do. Oh, fuck. I think they do two miles in the water for a full distance. Like two miles swimming in the water. Not touching the ground. Not touching anything. But I'm like, and whenever he first started doing it, I was like, how do you do it? He's like, you have to be able to keep your heart rate under control. He's like, that is one of the most important things. And your hips. You can't let your hips sink. If your hips sink. How do you do that? I don't fucking know. Kick your. I have no idea. I thought you knew. Maybe you got to keep kicking your legs or something so your hips stay up. But what I was like, I was like, what's it feel like to be able to swim this good? Because he does open water swims in the ocean, in lakes, whatever. And he's like, he's like, if I saw somebody a half a mile out, he's like, I could go get them and bring them back within 40 minutes. That's pretty cool. I was like, dude, that's a badass statement. Yeah. Yeah. So is that what you want to do, Paul? You want to rescue people? You want to be a strong swimmer? No. I just want to be confident in the water. You just want to survive. Yeah. I want to survive and be confident that I can survive. Is there anything other than swimming and hunting? Right now? That's all I can think of? You can't ride a motorcycle for shit. Oh, well, I'm going to start with a three-wheeler there. But that's not a, there's no emotion attached to that. There's no, no, no. That's just something I'm going to do with you. But it's a fear of yours, though. Three-wheeler, not so much. Two-wheeler, yeah. Are you kidding me? I saw you on a fucking three-wheeler. You were terrified. But I do think I would get over that quickly. You were scared on your fucking e-bike the first time you got on it. Yeah. But my e-bike, I think, has conditioned me. Oh, okay. Yeah, because I've gotten her up to about 50 kilometers an hour. Seth, that's 20 miles an hour for your... Not bad. Not bad. I can ride a bicycle. I can ride a bicycle. But that, I think I can get over a lot quicker. All right. Let's talk about some body... Well, before we get into bodybuilding, how was your vacation, Paul? You just got back today. I'm shocked that you just got back today and you were like, when are we training and when's the podcast? You're like right back to work. Hey. Could you wait to come back? I've worked to do for that. Were you excited to come back home? Well, the first couple of days sucked because the weather was horrible. And both my daughters were sick as well. Where did you go first? Nobody knows where you went. Cancun. You went to Cancun. Okay. Yeah, I love Cancun. It's my fourth time going to Cancun. Wait. Before you go on, I'm sorry to interrupt you again, but... Do you ever feel like you want to go somewhere different? You don't care going back to this thing? I always feel like when I travel, I want to try somewhere different. Yeah, but this is my theory on what the kids are... While the kids are young. They don't know where the fuck they're at. We could be one county over as long as we're in a water park. Dude, that's not true. Your daughter's not six. She's 14. Yeah, okay. Well, she's starting to clue in. Yeah. And we actually did something. We went off Cancun. We went to an island this time. Actually, it was just yesterday. Island Madero, I think it was called. Anyway, it was really cool. We had to take a boat over there. And then we got the golf carts and drove around the island. And like Mexican restaurants there. It wasn't touristy. It is, but it isn't. But that was a really nice experience. So how was the trip overall? First couple days sucked because both my kids got sick as a dog. They were puking both days for the first couple days. Is this where you went? Yep. That's nice. It's beautiful. Yeah, it's super cool. Yeah. Is this it? No. Yep. You're talking. It's not Madero. It's Madero. Yeah, yeah. He is right. Yeah. I went there. I went there two years ago. What do you mean? What did I spell wrong? It's not Madero. This is a completely different thing. I'm wrong. How do you spell it? N. EJ. It's with a J. Yeah. You made fun of me. You don't even know. Island. And then Paul says yes. They're islands. They look alike. Thank you. They're all the same. You've seen one. You've seen them all. I had this really good experience. They're all the same. You know what? That reminds me of fucking. Okay, here. What? I got it. I got it. What? It's. Well, we can't see your screen, but. I know you can't. I-S-L-A. M-U-J. I know how you spell island. Yeah, it's not island, though. It's Isla. It's a short term for island. Oh, Isla what? M-U-J-E-R-E-S. I got it. I got it. Okay. What was the resort you went to? Royalton Splash. Okay. Cancun. Yeah, because we went here. Me, Chris, Courtney, and Melissa went to. Okay, can I just say something? A couple years ago. Can I say something? This is very different than the last photo. It was. The last place was in Portugal, I think. I didn't see the aerial views. Paul's like, yeah, that's it. It's like nothing. There's nothing the same, man. What the fuck? I thought you were. It's an island. I don't know. It's an island of the Caribbean. Oh, my God. I don't think it's actually. Like, this is connected to. Like, you didn't have to take a boat there, did you? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, you did? Yeah, it was about a 45-minute boat ride. Oh. I don't remember taking a boat. Did you guys stay on the island or just stay in Cancun? I stayed. Wait, what's the. We didn't? What did we stay at? Oh, we stayed in Playa Majuris across from the island. Oh, okay. Well, that's cool. So, what else did you do there? Did a hydrotherapy one day, which is beautiful. Oh, tell me about that again. I was kind of only half paying attention today when we were training. What exactly did you do? So, first, you start out in a sauna. Okay. How long in a sauna? You can do up to 20 minutes. What did you do? What did you do? 15. 15 minutes. I had him check on me at 12. I was starting to get a little warm. What did you say? Wait. Because you paid for a private butler, right? Yeah. So, did you tell the butler, hey, check on me at 12 minutes? No. No. This was in the spa. So, the butler didn't accompany me to the spa. So, he's not like your best friend that hangs out with you all weekend. You just text him when you need stuff. So, what do you mean they checked on you? Did they just pop in or did you say, hey, check on me in a little bit? Yeah. When he brought me in there, I was like, it's hot in there, right? And he's like, yeah, it's 100 and whatever it was. I think he said. Anyway, I could see the steam and I was like, fuck, I'm having a hard time breathing in there. I was like, just come back and check on me in about 12. So, and then he checked on me. I was like, okay, give me three more. So, I did 15 minutes in there. Then the steam room, that was really cool. So, you went from sauna to steam? Yeah. And the steam room had like eucalyptus and shit in there. Yeah. Which was really cool, but that was fucking super hot. How long in there? That one, I was starting to panic a little bit. 10. When you're panicking, what are you panicking about? You can't breathe? Can't fucking breathe. Okay, listen. Listen. Listen, I'm really enthused because I did one of these when we went to Mexico this past year. Okay. They're fucking awesome. Really? Yeah. Yeah. They are. They're great. So, then your next step is even better. Then they put you in this warm pool and they got these different like shower heads kind of, but they're big. Waterfall showers. Yeah. And the one's for your neck and the next one's for your back. And then they put you in these massage chairs and you're getting like this water massage. Oh, you're still in the water in a massage chair. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you go from the, I'm sorry. You go from the chairs, the first massage chair to the jets. Yeah. You do three different jets and then to another massage chair. Yeah. That does like your whole body. Are your kids doing this with you? No, no. Just me and Tony did. Okay. And then there's jets for his dog. He wants to, I don't know if they can bring your dog for that. I can ask for it. I have a note about this when we're done, but anyway, go ahead. He wants to bring his dog. Go ahead, Paul. Shut the fuck up. And then into the hot tub and then into a cold plunge back to the hot tub. Tell everybody how long you did the cold bunch for. You should be proud of yourself. One minute. One minute. My first time, Ian, I went neck up for one minute. One minute. Yeah. How long are you supposed to do? Two or three? Five minutes at least. Listen, one minute's the worst part. All you got to do is get past the first minute. Yeah. Once you get past the first minute, you're fine. Yeah. I probably, you know, I, I could have toughed it out a bit longer, but like Tony wanted to get out too. Once your, once your body goes numb, that's the best feeling. That's the best part of it. Yeah. It was fucking cold though. Yeah. I got to work up to that, man. Yeah. The first bit sucks. I don't know what temperature it was, but it was ice. Yeah. So anyway, and I went up to my neck. Was there actual ice though? Cause it probably was like 35. No, there was no ice. No, but it was really cold. Then back to the hot tub. And then, um, and then you're done. So how long was this whole thing? Like half an hour, 40 minutes? No, no, it was more than an hour and a half. I would say. Oh, okay. Okay. That's a long time. Yeah. Like, you know, each day, like there's like, you know, like it's slow, like between each stage, like, you know, and it's just supposed to like relax you, refresh your body kind of thing. Yeah. It felt great. I was telling, I was telling you for that. I think one day we should all go to one. I would do that. A heartbeat. Awesome. I loved it. That sounds amazing. That's better than hunting to me. There's other stuff you can add. You can add like a massage in Toronto. That's the fucking mothership or other ship or whatever. That's like what that is. Really? Really? Yeah. Like different saunas and cold plunges and fucking tubs and shit. What are we waiting for? It's like a place that's like really dark, like underground feeling like cool. Yeah. Let's go do it. I would love to. Yeah. We wanted to. That's what Melissa wanted to do when we were there for her birthday. Yeah. I know. But summer doesn't like cold plunges, but I'll just, I'll meet you there without summer. We'll leave her here. Okay. It'd be a cool thing with just, just the guys too, man. Paul, you just want to be in a pool with Ian. You leave your boxers on, whatever, you know, it's not. Look how bad. See how bashful he got there? We're going to see each other's physiques, but that's okay. Oh my God. All right. So about the dog, you will now be happy to know there are no more dog showers. Cause you realized it was. No, I totally think it's fine. I would go do it right now. I don't think it's a big deal at all, but. What do you do? What change? No, that's not why. I usually stop doing things I feel bad about too. No, no, that's not why. It's more, it's more out of laziness. So I've signed my dogs up for like a boarding training daycare. Okay. And when they're there, they get shampooed and bathed. Their nails clipped and all that shit while they're there. Oh, okay. That's good. I don't have to do it anymore. How often are they going there? Today was their first day, but I'm going to have them go there like three days a week. I need them to be, I need them to get trained, man. My dog, my lab has not accepted yet that Arnold is part of the house. Yeah. Arnold's so high energy. That's why I think I. Well, Kate is like fucking, my lab is fixated. Like he's constantly in his ass and he's like fucking wants to piss everywhere he pisses. And like, it's a fucking nightmare. So I'm like, you guys are going to fucking training school. They're going to teach you guys to be fucking normal. And then you're going to come back home. But I also, I also need a break. Like I take him to work with me every day. So this is kind of like my way of having a break. So like three days a week, I'll take him there. I'll leave him there. Then I'll go to the office. And then when I'm done at the office, then I'll go back and pick them up. So it gives me like a little bit of a fucking break from having to take care of him all day long. And there's no more showers. So Ian can be happy that my dog's not getting. They're going to think it's. Abused. You do want to shower with him though. No, they'll be like, I remember it. They'll be like, I remember this. This is good. Yeah. Like just like old times, dad. That's what I'm saying. My dog, my, you know, my one dog with the brain tumor, Doug. Starting to get a little, it's like, it's sad as shit, but it's also like kind of funny. You're smiling about it. So it can't be that sad. Well, it's sad because I've accepted that he's not going to be with us very longer. So it's like now when you watch him do these things, it is very sad, but he's got to the point now where he like gets lost, you know? So like, he'll like, you'll see him, like, he'll just be standing in a corner, like in the corner, facing the wall, staring at the wall, standing there with his face, like just in a corner or he'll like come out back his way, like behind the couch. And he's just standing behind the couch, like stuck, you know, or like under a chair in the kitchen. He like gets under them and he like, can't figure out how to get out because the chair legs and he's just like standing there, you know, that would break my heart. Yeah. It's sad to see, but sometimes I just look at him like you fucking idiot, like laughing. He's got the best name. This is such a goofus like dog to begin with, you know? Yeah. Yeah. But like even today, like I let him out in the backyard and he goes down the steps to like the yard and it's like, I'm standing outside the door and I'm like, okay, Doug, come back. I'm like, the stairs are right here. And then it's like the side of my deck and he's like, gets into the corner of the side of the deck, like where the stairs are, but not at the stairs. And he just like a staring at me, like he doesn't know that the stairs exist. Come get me. Yeah. Like, I don't know where to go. You know, it's funny. I got, um, when I got Arnold, he had this thing called pigeon chest, whereas his rib cage kind of sticks out a bit. So I had a friend's, uh, dad come over. Who's a vet. And I said, can you check him out, please for me? So he checked him out and he said to me, uh, you have the most popular family dog you can get with your lab. But he's like, you also have the most, uh, the dog that goes to the vet the most in North America, which is a Frenchie. Yeah. And he's like, if you're not attached to this dog yet, he's like, I would sell it. And I'm like, fuck, I can't fucking do that. I'm like, I was kind of already. That's don't like Frenchies. Well, now he's got a lump on his nuts and I'm like, fuck. So I got to take him on Thursday to check out this lump on his nuts. How old is he? Are you going to not, you're not, you weren't playing to neuter him or no? I don't want to neuter my animals, man. I just, I, maybe it's just my own thing about it, but I feel like removing an animal's testosterone is like not healthy. Like my cat, when I chopped my cat's nuts, he went from like this. Yeah. But if your dog's acting a fucking fool, it might be. No, no, no. If you listen, if he's got a problem with his testicles, we're going to chop them. But I'm saying like, I'm saying like, if he's acting like crazy, like that might chill them out a lot too, you know? Yeah. But I feel like that's also a training thing and it's a lazy way to fix a problem when you could probably train it out of them. It's a bit of both. Yeah. Yeah. Like I don't. Did you get your cat fixed? Yeah. That's why my cat's fat and lazy. Cause I got, we got our cats fixed. They're not, they're not fat. I know it doesn't happen every time, but like, listen, I was watching a Huberman was on Rogan and they were, and they were talking about his dog. Yeah. I know Rogan doesn't do it either. And he was saying his dog was having all these problems and he started giving them like TRT. And he said his dog changed overnight. He said his hair got better. His skin got better. He was more active. And I'm like, well, I don't want to fucking go through that. Like I've already experienced it with my cat. And even though my dogs are a little crazy and active, I'd rather have them be active than fucking depressed and fucking laying around doing nothing. You know what I mean? Yeah. I want my dogs to lay around and do nothing. I kind of do, but not in a depressed way. Like Arnold submission. Yeah. Arnold's so high energy that like it would knock it down a little bit, but maybe he still would be fairly high energy. You know, it's insane about that. You know, it's insane about that dog is Frenchies are supposed to be fucking lazy and that dog will play. We're just like, yeah. Yeah. Arnold will never do that. Yeah. Yeah. It's constantly like doing fucking zoomies and shit. Anyway. Um, okay. Bodybuilding. This is kind of a bodybuilding podcast. A little bit. Is there anything going on? Actually, actually, I want to know what, uh, people in the chat think. I kind of want to know what you guys think. Chat. We're not live. Not chat, but in the comment section. Yeah. Um, I'm kind of thinking about starting a fourth podcast. Cool. Not, but not bodybuilding related. What do you think? Oh, that is a great idea. I kind of want to do stuff that like, I'm interested. Like I want to have military people on or like hunters or like fucking motorcycle people or car people or political people. Athletes of different sports. Or athletes of different sports. Like, and figure out how they train, how they eat. Like, I just kind of want to do different shit. Yeah. But I feel like I have to name it something else because like, I've had a couple people on that weren't in the bodybuilding world. And when they come on the podcast and they, they know it's the real bodybuilding podcast, they think that all we're going to talk about is bodybuilding. Right. Yeah. And I don't, I'm going to have to come up with a fourth name, I think for a fourth podcast and make that one like separate from the bodybuilding world. I don't know if it'll be successful. Maybe you guys can tell me that are watching, but I don't know. What do you guys think? I think it's great. Seth? It's changing horizons. I mean, the more content, the better. Yeah. But not for content. I'm, this is going to sound really fucking, I don't know. I don't want to say the word gay, but. Gay. Why are you gay? Why are you gay? Why are you gay? Why are you? That guy's the best. That guy's the best. Why are you gay? I actually want to do it for more fulfilling reasons. Like I just want to. Yeah. But I mean, but it, and what I meant was like, like, like Paul, I just want to expand my horizons a little bit. Yeah. The more content, the better, because usually whenever you talk, bring on anybody in any capacity, talk to somebody like for content reasons, it gets out because people like to get out what they have to say inside. That's really what podcasts have provided for people. So, you know, you do so well with this one. I don't know why you wouldn't want to expand the horizons with more people and do cool shit. Well, part of the fear is this. So I've done everything in bodybuilding that you can possibly do except judge. So I can talk bodybuilding with anybody. Like I can have anybody on from the bodybuilding world and I can talk for fucking three hours because it's bodybuilding. I worry that, you know, if I have a military guy on, I don't know fuck all about what they do. So I'm like, is that going to be the same? Is it going to be shit? I think that's cool. Could be learning about different things now. Right. They'll probably the more genuine questions that you're actually want to learn about. Well, I guess you could still kind of ask them about how their training is, too. Like you can still kind of roll that in. For sure. To it. So I don't know. Fighters. Like it'd be great. Yeah. Like, you know. Well, I think as long as you have the like whenever you go into it, like bringing on different people from different areas, it'd be a little more. I don't want to say structured. You know what I mean? But I know I thought that, too. Yeah. Yeah. Like having like like the direction that you wanted to go in where you would take these people or where how do they want to go about it? But you'd have to make it sure with bringing on not just bodybuilding, because with bodybuilding, like you said, you can just talk about anything. We can get caught up in any subject at any time and just the knowledge is there for everything. Right. But then with that, it's like, OK, where are we going to take these people? But I wonder, but I wonder sometimes if the success of the podcast is because I don't make any notes. You know what I mean? Like it just goes anywhere. So it's like maybe that's why maybe that's why people like it. But I don't think you need to have notes for this kind of a thing either. Like maybe a couple of things just in case, you know, just in case someone's not someone doesn't like you got a guest who doesn't expand on things maybe or something. But because you have a genuine like curiosity. Yeah. So like imagine you're like talking to a boxer, like a like a real good boxer. Like, hey, man, like why do you train for boxing? Like what do you eat? What's your day look like every day? You know what I'm real? You know what I'm really interested in? I'm really interested in military people. Yeah. I don't know why. I don't know why I've always had a fascination with like military shit. Yeah. Because psychopaths. Yeah. You know, stuff like Navy SEALs, Delta Force, like these guys who are like insanely like just highly trained individuals that are extremely focused. Like that's so fascinating to me. Yeah. You know, like a fighter pilot. Like how the fuck do you fly a jet? Like that's fucking crazy shit. Right. Someone in the Navy who lives like for months and months on a ship. Yeah. Yeah. Like how do you sleep in this little fucking bunk underground in a submarine for a fucking submarine? I thought of that before. Like how the fuck do you live in a submarine, man? I'd be so claustrophobic. I know. Right. Fuck. Anyway. Okay. Let me know what you guys think. Okay. Let's move on. I want to do. I have a list here that we did on a, on a different podcast. So I'm not going to say anything. I'm just going to see what you guys think and see how many of these line up. I want to do, since we're doing a new year's Eve, since tomorrow's new year's Eve or when this airs or whatever, what are the top 10 moments of 2024? From bodybuilding. In the bodybuilding world. Yes. And they can, they can include classic. They can include fitness. They can include anything in the fitness world. There's been many. We're not going to individually pick 10. We're going to do a 10. No, no, no, no, no. I'm not going to join in because I did this already. So I don't want to like. We'll put together 10. Yeah. I want to see what you guys come up with. And then do a vote. I don't know. We're not going to vote. It's like, well, we actually, you know what we were going to do? Cause we did on the last podcast, we did 11. We did 11 and we never put them in order. So we can put them in order if you want, but I just want to see what 11 you guys come up with. I'm at a, you'll tell us that list after. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or like put up like those numbers and then do an online vote who, what everyone thinks. Yeah. We do that. I'm doing it on my Instagram or something. Okay. What do you think is the number one of the season or just something on the list? Pick one, Paul. Uh, Samson one in Olympia. Okay. Can I do another one? You guys can do as many as you want. Well, you're just doing open. Seth, go ahead. Uh, I was going to say Chris winning a six and then retiring. Yeah. That's where I would go. But then also you put Chris in doing the open. Yeah. I think that was an almost even bigger moment. Martin coming forth at the Olympia, I think was a pretty big moment at this year. For sure. Any of you guys watched the last podcast? Nope. Are we at the exact same list so far? No, no, no. Just go on. It's okay. Okay. Okay. You got four. Um, what else is big this year? Trying to think on the women's side. Well, are we just talking about, are we just talking about on stage? Are we just talking on stage stuff? Nope. Anything. Or just news in general? Anything in the fitness world. Go ahead. Are these positive things only? They can be anything. Just news. Nick Walker dropping out of the Olympia, obviously. Yes. One second. Okay. Hani retiring. Hani retiring. Yeah. Okay. Jansen. Quinton beef. I was just going to say Jansen. Okay. What'd you say? Seth? Mike. I just said the whole Jansen debacle. Like. Okay. I got that. Classified. Anyway. Mike. Mike. Okay. You got a one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. I need at least two more. Maybe we could say, and Seth saying that he might be come back. Yeah. But he didn't come back. So that's an honorable mention. Yeah. But it was, it was news. You know? I don't know. I don't think that's, I think if he steps on stage, it becomes a highlight. I agree. It'll be next year. Top 10. We'll put it in there anyway. I'll put it. That's your, that's your opinion. That's fine. Okay. So do you guys all agree with that? I agree with that. Ian, Paul, Seth, do you agree with that? No. Okay. Well, you got to all agree. Okay. So that's out. Well, I guess it was early in the year, but I guess Wesley winning Yardle was pretty huge this year when he won that. Yeah. That was huge. It was like, then he was talked about to be like, you know, competitive with Chris, which obviously turned out differently. So that was a huge moment when it happened. Okay. Hmm. I don't know. I mean, I've got to think of another division. Key on, Key on Olympia performance was pretty fucking. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Trying to think. I think there's going to be, I think there's going to be two. Oh, the creation of the new division. Yeah. Fit model. It's kind of big news. It's new. I don't know. Yeah. I don't know. How about the prize money going up every show? Yeah. Arnold, Arnold prize money and Olympia prize money. And, uh, maybe also prize money. I mean, yeah. Like all these shows that I've got. I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you guys something. So you guys got 10 out of 10. You added one that I didn't have, but you've forgotten one that I think is really big. Really? And it's an open bodybuilding. It's in the fitness world. So not open bodybuilding. I'm not saying anything. Are we going to say, are we going to say, uh, uh, Samson's wife? No, I think the last you guys can, if you guys all agree, I think on the last podcast, we gave her honorable mention. That was big. So you guys want to put that down then? That was big. So Samson doing a show before Olympia was big too. It was obviously like Stefan coaching the entire world of bodybuilding. Yeah. We got it. We remember we had 10. So you got to like, yeah. Kind of narrow down what's honorable mention. We can narrow down after you. Yeah. So you're going to put Mel. Fuck. I'm trying to think of something. Yeah. Something earlier in the year or something. You're going to put Mel. You're going to put, uh, Stefan. Okay. So you guys got, uh, 13 so far. I don't know if I'd put hottie winning the Arnold, you know? Yeah. But he was like, he was at obvious to win the Arnold. So I don't think that was a big moment. Yeah. That's what I mean. At the time he had just come second to the Olympiad and won the year before. Like, it's like, whatever, you know, did, um, we gave him honorable mention. We gave him honorable mention. Yeah. Was next Zilla. Was this his rookie year or was it last year? Last year. Okay. It was good vetoes first year. There's one big one that you guys are not going to get, but it's, it's pretty impressive. I'll give you a hint. It's a women's, the women's side. Like Sid Gillian, which, who are we talking about here? Women's side. Keep going. You're, you're, you're getting there. I mean, Missy Trescott won three, came back from a torn ACL. Oh yeah. That's it. That's true. Oh yeah. Think about, think about that. She tore her fucking ACL. Is that the one you're talking about? Yeah. Yeah. Tore her ACL on the Olympia stage. Left. Fixed it. Came back and won the Olympia. Yeah. Probably like one of the best number one moments. Yeah. Yeah. You know, you can also say Andrea Shaw. Sorry, good. You can also say Andrea Shaw, redeeming herself after losing a. Yeah. But she didn't lose the Olympia. She only lost the show. But she came back and won it like with. But it wasn't, but it wasn't, she didn't lose her title though. No. She just lost the rising of the Knicks. Like if I'm involved in this vote, that goes in the honorable mention category to me. Yeah. That's where I put it to. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm going to tell you guys, they had, we had the exact same. We had Samson winning Olympia. Chris 212 win. Chris doing the open. Chris is retirement. The sponsors and the promoters stepping up for prize money. Mike Van Wick push. The honey Rambod retirement. Jansen taking responsibility for his athletes. Martin's debut. Nick not doing the Olympia. Missy's comeback. And then you guys added. Wesley winning the Arnold. Mel coaching Samson and Stefan coaching a ton of people. So if I'm voting on this. I think Wesley needs to go in there. I don't. I do. I think that was a humongous upset when he beat Ramon there, man. Ramon had been second in the last couple of Olympias. Wesley was kind of coming out of nowhere. I think that was a, and then one of the most, if not the most like popular division. And the reason I don't. That's huge. Okay. But okay. Let's do it this way. Sorry, Seth. Go ahead. No, I was going to say the reason that I would, I would say that side with you, Fuad, is just because like, as it went through, like at the time in the Arnold was huge, but then him not doing well at the Olympia, like kind of played it down. But I do agree. I'm playing it as an isolated event of how big it was when it happened. Well, it wasn't. It was a big upset. I agree. The thing for me is it wasn't a big upset because Ramon wasn't at his best. So it was a little, so it was an upset, but it wasn't like. Yeah, but I mean, he still beat all the other. Okay. I think going into it, Ramon was a heavy favorite. Okay. Hold on a minute. We'll do it this way. We'll do it this way. At the time it was huge. At the time it was huge. Look back at that. Yeah. But we're looking at the year in review. So we're not looking at that individual moment. We're looking at the 2024 year best moments. So if you were going to put that in the category. We have to change it to biggest moments, not best moments. Okay. But if we were going to put that in the category, which one is it pushing out? That's the problem. We need them back again. Samson winning the Olympia. Keon's 2-12 win. Chris doing. Okay. So let's just say this. Samson. You can push out Keon's win because Keon was expected. Just hold on a minute. Hold on a minute. He was so good. Yeah. Let me ask you this. Wait a minute. Let's do this. Let's do this just to make sure. We'll say that Samson winning the Olympia, Chris doing the open, and Chris's retirement are in for sure. Yeah. Yes. Right? Okay. So Samson. Chris. And if we're doing it biggest, not best, then obviously you have to put Nick. Nick is in there for sure. Yep. For sure. Okay. So then what else do we have for sure? We have, um, fuck, where did I put that? Prize money. Honey retiring is huge. Yeah. I don't know if Honey retiring is Honey. Okay. Let me ask you this. Is Honey retiring bigger than Wesley winning the Arnold? I, I think so. Where did I put that list? Fuck me. Oh, there it is. Okay. Um, you think so. So Honey's in there for sure. In my opinion. Yeah. Cause he's just because of his record. I'm on the fence. I'm on the fence with that one, but. Okay. I'm going to put a little asterisk. Cause like, look, it's not like, you know, Honey is not a young guy. He's had a long career. So it's like, yeah, it's, it's, it's a big moment, but it's not like an unexpected or like spot, like shocking moment of the year, which I'm putting like the others are kind of like, you know, Samson winning was like a holy cow. And like these things, it's like, it's less like shock and awe to me and more of like congratulations on a great career. I guess, I guess, I guess I'm kind of judging it also by like how viral did it go? How many people were talking about it? How long did the story last? Like all these things, right? Like I think Wesley was bigger. Okay. So let's wait on Wesley for a second. We're going to put the Mike Van Wick push in there for sure. Right. That was like a month of fucking news. Everyone. Everyone. The Mike Van Wick push is in there for sure. Okay. And then we got to go. How about Missy's comeback is in there for sure. Yeah, for sure. Missy's comeback. How many are we at there? Well, if we add honey. Don't add honey. Without it, let's see how many we're at. One, two, three, four, five, six. Okay. What about, what about Jansen taking responsibility for the lack of. That was pretty big. That was big. That kind of went pretty viral. Well, because it's, he retired from coaching. That video with Quinton. Like there was a whole bunch of things that kind of happened. Nick dropping. It's kind of all interlaced. It's kind of the first time. Like I consider, I consider Matt, maybe not on honey's level, but not far below. So. We could almost even, you know, I think we should be honestly lumping that with Nick, you know, because I think it's like Nick missing the Olympia slash Matt retiring. It was kind of, it was kind of the same event. It's not about the same event, you know? Right. But I'm not calling that Matt retiring. I'm calling it. No, like that whole debacle of Nick dropping out the video that they dropped together, which is kind of what we're talking about. I know, but those are two separate. Kind of the same event. They're two separate events. Cause you've got two separate people. One guy missed the Olympia and one guy, and one guy, one guy who is, like I said, a top coach in the industry is the first time I think we've ever actually seen a coach sit down and go, I fucked up. I really, I really fucked up. I fucked up this guy, that guy, that guy. I've not paid attention. Like that's a totally separate thing to me. Like nobody's ever done that. Yeah. I've heard coaches say like, yeah, I missed the mark or blah, blah. I've never heard somebody sit down and go, my brain wasn't in the right place. Yeah. So I think he deserves a lot of credit for that, but it's also like one of the biggest moments in the. Yeah. So, yeah, I mean, you could put it, I was only lumping them together because that video, when it all came out was him and Nick together and it was kind of a joint operation at that time. And then it kind of spiraled out of there because of what was said there. Then that happened to Quinton. Then the Quinton happened to Matt retiring simultaneously. It was like, it kind of all trailed into it. So I just saying that the genesis of that is Nick's retire or Nick's missing the Olympia, which kind of started all that. You know, I agree. The reason I'm putting them separate though, is if you look online now at comment sections, they're two very different things. They are looked at very, very differently. Yeah. Nick is still taking a lot of shit. Yeah. People have kind of given Matt a pass for taking responsibility. Yeah. Yeah. So it's like, do we think it's two separate things or one? What do you put Seth and Paul? No, two separate is fair. I think it's two separate things. Okay. Jansen. I'm going to put Jansen. Saga. Saga. Saga. Saga. The Jansen Saga. Yeah. Okay. So cross that. Okay. Martin's debut. Is that in for sure? Or is it like an honorable mention slash in? A fourth of the Olympia was pretty fucking big, man. And that's like, yeah. The last person to do that was still here. Well, and then he also, he also beat Chris at Prague. Right. So like, you could just say as a 2024 moment, like Martin's season, you know? His breakout season. The emergence. Martin's breakout season. Yeah. Like, and that comes from winning Detroit, almost beating Nick or pushing Nick, you know, fourth of the Olympia, beating Chris. Like, you know, that's just that year of escalation in his career, you know? Hell every year. Like any competitor, like him handling it the way he's handled it as well. Like, I think he's got a good job. Yeah. Just Martin growth. Yeah. What about, okay. What about one career and personal? What about one thing we didn't think of? We haven't thought about any of the influencers. Like who? Well, like Sam Sulik was a 2023, like phenom, right? Is there somebody that we're not thinking of that maybe doesn't compete? That was like 2024. Like. I mean, the trend twins competing wasn't like a huge deal, but I think that them actually competing was pretty cool. They actually followed through with it. It'd be an honorable mention for sure. Yeah. I'd say an honorable mention. Like, it's just cool to see like young guys that are actually influencers. Yeah. That's, that is what they do, but they also competed. So it's pretty great. For sure. I don't think there's any other influencers that. I wonder if anybody did anything like, remember like the, uh, Eddie Hall half door fight, the boxing match. Yeah. Is there anything like that, that we didn't, that we haven't thought of? Yeah. What? Well, I don't know if it's big to you guys, but Eddie Hall and Brian Shaw just had like a professional arm wrestling thing. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I didn't see that. That's exactly my point though. Like. Not. And it was, and it was a good match too. Really? Who won? Yeah. It was supposed to be a Brian Shaw, like blowout and it actually like turned into like a half season match. Brian Shaw still won, but it was like a good match. You know? That's a risky move for both those guys. A lot of guys. No, they've been training for arm wrestling. They didn't just like arm wrestle out of nowhere. Okay. Hmm. And they're both retired from strong. Yeah. But no, they trained so that like, you know. Okay. Let me ask you this. Let's go back to the list we have here. Is promoters and sponsors stepping up to really, you raise the prize money. That's gotta be in there. That's right. Yeah. It's gotta be. That's the first time this has ever happened. I mean, Jake would. Well, it was Arnold. It was Arnold. I know. But the crazy thing, the crazy thing about Detroit, we went up to 30 grand. We raised the bar. That's a big. And then everybody else started. I mean, now you have shows coming out next year with insane purses, you know? Yeah. I think the crazy thing about the Olympia was nobody fucking knew about it. That's what I really liked about it. They sat there and waited until the very last fucking minute. And they, I remember sitting in the audience going, what the fuck? Yeah. They're going, they just took Arnold's five and said, we're going to do six. And nobody. And it's funny. Cause I remember when the Arnold said five, I remember the weeks following that everybody was waiting. What's the Olympia going to do? What's the Olympia? And no, and they didn't do anything. And then people were like, Oh, you fucking Olympia guys are not gonna do shit. They don't think they need you. Cause yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Everybody was talking shit. And then they fucking show up and they're like, yeah, we're going to do six. Yeah. They played it well. Cause where were they? The year before was three 50. 400. I don't remember. 400. Okay. So they went up 50%. I mean, second place was two 50. That's 850 grand for two guys. Yeah. You know what? On that topic, I want to ask you guys a separate question. Is it wrong to make 80% of the fucking purse sit in first place? Because then you got guys in like, I know what you're going to say, Ian, just think it out before you say anything. What do you think I'm going to say? You're going to say, fuck, you're going to say, fuck them all. The winner gets the fucking spoils. And I'm not, listen, I'm not. That's not me winning these kinds of shows either. Listen, I'm not for fucking socialism. So I'm fine with that. But what I'm saying to you is like, I don't know what the prize money for five through 15 is like, it's like, it goes down to like five grand. So like the 11th place guy gets like five grand or something like that. Doesn't he? Everything from 10 to 15 or 10 past whatever gets like, yeah, three or four grand or something like that. Everyone gets the same. But until 10th is the official prize money. All right. For other divisions, it's only top five. So one thing. So one thing I'll say is it's good that everybody gets something, but, and I'm not suggesting that this is what they should do. I'm just solely asking. I'm solely asking the question. Should that 600 grand that eventually could be seven or eight or nine, like they keep on upping it, right? Should some of that trickle back? No. So that's a tough call. Don't do what Ian does. Cause you're always taking inside. Just think for yourself. Thank you. Well, Seth always takes the inside. It's like, I know what he's going to say. Oh, I thought you were talking to Paul. No, I was talking to fucking Seth. You know, it depends on what it starts with. You know what I mean? Like what is. Well, okay. Let's say, let's say for example, Samson won 600 grand, right? Yeah. Second place is 250. That's huge. It's, it is huge. I'm not saying that should change, but it's a far drop after that. Like if you, if you just took, if you took first place and gave him a hundred K, but, but wait, if you took first place and gave him 500, for example, and took the a hundred grand and went each of these last five places or whatever, get 10 grand each. You know what I mean? Like that's still a big deal for 10th place to get for the 11th place guy to get 15 grand. I understand. I understand. My, my thought process would be maybe in time, like we're just starting to finally get there now. Right. Everything's starting to grow. Maybe in time it all grows. But I think the excitement right now is great for it to be as high as it is. Right. I mean, I'm never opposed for saying like, you know, top five at the Olympia is great. It depends on, I don't even know what, what is third? Does third get a hundred? I don't know. I can look it up. Third, a hundred. Like a hundred or 125 or something. Yeah. Dude. If thirds, 125, dude, you're still doing pretty fucking good there. For sure. Yeah. I always think it should be. Go ahead. No, go fish up. I was going to say it's a far drop from six, but if you go 500, like where it was at, it was 500 to 250 to 125. That's pretty damn good. Yeah. I think so too. I think it should be even more disproportionately always towards the winner, you know, I think the last, so I have, I have rewarded way more than everybody else. Like in a completely disproportionate manner for being the one that lost to no one, you know, do you think too? That makes it more. Okay. But wait, but wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I'm not saying that's wrong. I'm saying that's how it is in most other sports. I know that, but I'm saying 500 is still far and above. Like, look at this. If you look at last year's prizes. I mean, really, it should be like first place, be a million. And then look at, look at. It went 400 to 150 to a hundred. And then it goes fifth place is 35 grand. Yeah. Yeah. But that's a hundred. That's $365,000 less. Well, yeah. But this is what I wonder though. If you close that gap a little bit, does that lead to some guys going like, well, I'm not going to beat Samson, but if I can get fourth, that's good enough for me. Does it kind of eliminate some of that goal for the, to be the best? No, man. I don't think I don't listen. Let me ask you something. Do you think hottie is going, well, I got 150. That's good enough. No, he wants to fucking win. That's what I'm saying. So like, if you make it so like fourth. Yeah. But even, even, okay. But even if hottie was getting 250, you still think he's going to be like, yeah, you know what? It's 250. That's good enough. No, he still wants to fucking win. Nobody is going there going, oh, you know what? Maybe I'll just take fifth and that's good enough. Cause I got a hundred grand. The only thing with that prize money I see is that it's actually too close in pay to first and second and third. I think they should be split farther. I think it should be 150, like 75, not a hundred. I think those are too close. I think for placing, especially below first, like it should be a big drop off. Like it's a big difference to come first and second. Yeah. But five, but 500 to 250 is a big drop off. Yeah, I know. That's, that's okay. Even then I still do think it should be, but what I'm saying is like 750 to 250. Yeah, but dude, I mean, I think the first place should get like a million and then you pay to like fifth and don't pay everyone else down. Really? Yeah. I think it should be like a massively huge purse for the top five. And look, I never even placed in the top five in my life. I think I disagree with that for one reason. Like I'm paying guys in 15 and stuff. I don't think that should be happening. And I think that, you know, to five should be a massive purse with a humongously disproportionate amount for first. I half agree with you. I think it should be a disproportionate amount for first, but I also think that you're talking about the top 15 best bodybuilders in the entire world. And I think it's a little bit shitty that the 15th best bodybuilder in the fucking planet is walking away with $3,000. I don't I mean, I'm I'm not opposed to say like this is also like this is the point of competition and growing everything. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. In base with your social media with every opportunity you have with sponsors. Right. Like, I agree. I think the the the disproportionate first place, like if it's if it's 600 and then there's the 250 and then 125, that's pretty damn good. OK. But then I but then I don't know, like outside of top 10, I don't I don't think receiving a thousand dollar check or a two thousand dollar check is like, oh, that's great. It's kind of like, I'm cool, dude. I didn't I didn't get into the top 10 and that should suffice. Yeah. But OK, so I'm kind of torn. I half agree with you guys, but I also. I don't know. I don't know. I feel like these are the 15 best bodybuilders on the planet. Right. We're not talking. We're not. And they want and they want to show that got them there that won the money to compete. Yeah. They got contracts. But then you went lost to 14 other guys. So, yeah, I mean, you don't win money. You don't you're not rewarded for that in a financial means. You know, like the Olympia still paid your way there. OK, wait a second. They paid your flights and hotel. You know, if you're smart, you would have negotiated in some kind of I think I think a patient bonus from your company. But I think this is conflating kind of two things. We're conflating like the idea of a participation trophy. I'm not because I'm not because I'm not for that. Right. Like there should definitely be a hierarchy of who won and who took 15th. There should be a drastic difference between the guy who's the best in the world versus the guy who's 15th. But I also think if you are one of the elite bodybuilders in the world that want to show an achieved Olympia status. Yeah. You won money for that show. It doesn't matter. You're at the Olympia. I feel like you should get something for being at the Olympia. I disagree. But don't you think that is kind of a participation award for it? It is. It is to a certain degree. If I said they should all get the same thing, then yeah, it would be a participation award. What you got was your flights and hotel paid the opportunity to compete at the Olympia and partake in all the things that it is. And you got that experience covered by the Olympia. If they made you pay your own way, then I would say, OK, everyone gets three grand because that kind of covers it. You can do your own thing. But you've already been paid in some way to be there. So I think after that, unless you are really in the top, top placings, that there shouldn't be any pay because that is like, you know, like Paul said, I agree. I think that is a participation trophy. All right. What about 10th? You think five through 10? Because what's 10th place? Depends on how many. Are you talking 15 competitors every year? 15 max. And I would say not much past five to seven. Yeah. I'd like to see if I was going to make it myself. I'm actually shocked at you guys. If I was going to do it myself, I would have like a million for first place, then like two or three hundred thousand for second, like a hundred thousand for third, and then spread the rest out over four or five. And six through ten get nothing. Maybe if you want to do the participation trophy, then you could give that six through ten. But even then, it's still a participation trophy. I would do top half, I think. Somewhere around seven or eight. It's not a participation trophy. You're getting a check for being one of the best in the world. So should you get a check for just attending the Olympics? This isn't the Olympics. We're talking about 15 people in the whole world. No, but like, okay, so say you're in the semifinals and don't make the final. You're just a semifinal competitor, so you're in the top 15, 20. Should you get paid just for making a semifinal, not even making a final? No, you should get... This isn't like the Olympics. This is not the Olympics. Because it's one competition with 15 people. Yeah, so it's the Olympics. The Olympics is only actually four every four years. It's even less common than the Olympia. So if anything, you should be rewarded even more. But they're not getting paid. They're getting a... I'm just saying it's the one. Yeah, but we're not saying. We're saying they get a gold, silver, bronze. That's it. There's no money. Yeah. But I'm saying if you were, let's say we're going to do it in bodybuilding terms and you're going to pay, which would make sense, you know, just like any other world competition, then would you say... No, but wait a minute. It's not... Someone in the semifinal would make sense? It's not the same, Ian. If you're talking about 100-meter sprinters... I'm talking about any of it. Sure. Just hold on a minute. Say you're talking about a 100-meter sprinter in Olympics. Yeah. Because I don't fucking know anything about Olympics. Okay. Nobody gets paid. They get a gold, silver, and a bronze. Right? That's it. There's no pay. I don't think that's entirely true, but yes. Yeah. Well, they get paid from sponsors. They don't get paid... Or their countries. They don't get paid from the Olympics. Sure. Right? Let's say that, but I'm not saying that they do. What I'm saying is if we're using that as a comparable with bodybuilding in the sense of it's an elite, world-class individual competition, so it's not a team competition, that you're getting to the world level that's even harder to get to, in a sense, should you be rewarded? And if you were, let's say you were rewarded. Let's imagine everyone is. Should you be giving money to the people that are not even making finals and coming 12, 14, 15? This is a ridiculous hypothetical. You're talking about a sport where no money is given versus a sport where... It doesn't matter, though. It does matter. If there was no money paid by the Olympia, then I'd be like, fine. Give the guy who won the gold, and give the guy the guy silver, and give the guy bronze. And everybody else gets nothing. Okay, no, but the thing I'm saying is if you were going to give money to the Olympics, I'm saying. I'm not saying it does. I'm not using it in that sense. You're misinterpreting what I'm saying. If you were going to give money to the Olympics, let's say... Okay, so there's seven sprinters, or eight, whatever, how many lineups. Let's say eight or nine in the final. There's eight in the final that are the best in the fucking world, and they're doling out $2 million in prize money. Okay. Do I think they should give all $2 million to the top three? No. So, but you think to eighth, or what, like if we're to say there's, you know, how many people? You're just giving it to the finals? I think if you're the best in the fucking world, you should get something for being the best in the world. So if you come in the last place in the final? Yeah. I don't think it should be equal. I think they should all get the hierarchy of their pay based on their placing. But I think if you've achieved the status of being the best in the world, you should walk away with something. In other sports, like football or basketball, I think only the championship team gets bonuses. Yeah, but that's good. It's not, it's not, you can't compare that. It's not. I'm just saying, just to say what other sports do. But it's not a fair comparison. Like you're talking about a team sport with millions. Yeah, teams are harder to compare. With multi-million dollars. That's why I was using the Olympics, because I'm just saying like, my question was just how far down would you pay? Like if there's eight guys in a final, would you just pay them? Or like, are we talking about the top 20 where you're paying guys in a final? Because then what about Classic where you have 30 guys or so? Hold on a minute. We're just talking one class at a time. Classic has their entirely own prize money situation. Well, they're only top five. Every other class is only five. That's fine. But that's because there's not as much prize money, period. Yeah. What are you going to do? Spread out 60 grand? I agree. You can't, you know what I mean? So I'm like, I guess that's where we do differ. If there's eight guys running in the fucking Olympics, I feel like the eighth place guy, that's the eighth fastest runner in the world. No, but the last place guy gets something. Yes. The final, just top, just the final guys. Yes. The top, whatever, the top runners in the world, if there's eight of them. Yeah. I guess I'm seeing that as the first call out at the Olympia. So the final race, like those final guys, the top eight, I'm seeing that as Olympia first call out. I'm not thinking of it as the Olympia as a whole. So you're saying basically. It's like people all got to the Olympics, just like they got to the Olympia. They had to qualify to be there. They got there. They're there. But you didn't make the final. And the final is the first call out. And that, like five, six, is kind of where I see the money ending. You know? I see your point there. That could be a way to look at it. I don't know if it's a great comparison. I'm not saying it is. I'm just having a conversation. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Do you agree? Like, would you only pay the top eight at the Olympics? Or are we doing 15, like we're saying, in bodybuilding? Because then you're paying people that didn't even make a final. And that's how I see it in bodybuilding. I don't. You know what? I can't. It's tough. I'm not going to die on this hill only because I don't know how I feel about it. Yeah. Well, probably as a former bodybuilder yourself, too, Fred, you have a certain. No, no. That's not why I'm saying it. Like, it's not like, oh, I was 15th and I feel like I deserve something. Somebody that's watching this in the comments, make two comments and let's pin them. And I already know what's going to happen. People are going to say top five should get paid the most. No, I honestly think people might agree with you more than me. It doesn't matter. I don't even know what I believe. So I can't say whether I, like I said, I'm not dying. It's a good conversation, though. It is a great conversation. I'm not dying on this hill. I just don't know what's right and what's wrong. Yeah. Like, if the first place guy was getting a million and the last place guy is getting nothing, something about that doesn't feel right to me. Yeah. Because you're Canadian. One. Good point, Seth. Let's meet the middle and say top ten. We're good. Did you see that video of the girls? I could get down with that. I could get down with that. I think top five, I think, is too narrow. I think top 15 could be too much. I think top ten would be a healthy. Well, I was looking at. Well, top ten is the official prize money. I don't know how you break that down. That isn't prize money. It's just the general, like, I can't remember what it is. One year, I think I got four. And one year, I got three or 30. I think I got four when I did it. I think it was four, yeah. Yeah. And plus they pay your expenses, too, right? It was for sure. Sorry, go ahead. And plus they pay all your expenses, too. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I think that's more than fair. Ian. For when I placed 14th and when I placed 11th. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I like. That was a few years ago now. So probably a little bit more. Because when I came 7th most years, I made about the same as what they made in 4th there. Oh, really? I think the first year in 2020, when I placed 4th, I think I got paid 32, which they were like 35 there for that. So the one thing we can agree on is first place should be disproportionately larger. For sure. I don't think it should be double. Like, I think if you win, you're more than double second place. You're like 5th in second place. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I could see that. I could see that. For the Olympia, for sure. I think I agree with Seth. I think that's where I'm going to land on this one. All right. Well, I'll meet you guys in the middle of your 15 and Seth. We'll go to Seth. No, no. I said 7 or 8. I'm meeting in the middle. You said 5. I said 15 originally. Seth said 10. I think that's the best compromise. And I said 7 or 8. So we're all kind of close. Okay. But wait. That's not a round number. I said the first half. The conversation at 10 then, are you disproportionately or is it a pretty even trickle down? I think it's even. That's the next thing. To me, it's even from 6 to 10. So like 10th place would be 5 grand. No, no, no. 9th place would be 10 grand. No. Or close at least. I think there's still a hierarchy. But I think the first and second is a big disparity. Yeah. They could all separate by 4 or 5 grand apiece. Like 10th being 10,000. 9th being like 14. Then 18. Yeah. 22. I do think the top 3. Yeah. I do think top 3 should be disproportionate to 4 or 5 lower. And then I think number 1 should be disproportionate to everybody else. Yeah. I agree with that. I think top 3 is elite status. That's like gold, metal, bronze status. Yeah. And then to 5 maybe a little more. And then from 5 down, it gets a little smaller and a little narrower. Yeah. Because you think like whenever you're like for what it takes to be in the top 3. The top 5 people. Like dude, you're dedicated. Everybody's dedicating everything to it. But whenever you get into that realm of like first, second, third. It's what I like to call tier 1. Yeah. You're spending everything that you believe. You're spending everything. Ian always disliked it. When I call it tier 1. That's really what it is. First tier. Yeah. Tier 1 bodybuilding. Okay. So we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. If we include honey. And then we're going to include the sponsors, which is 10. I think that's a good top 10. Yeah. Sponsors and promoters. Yeah. That's a good top 10. I can't really think of anything else that's bigger than those. And we don't, I don't know if we have to put them in order. Cause that's kind of tough. What would be, what would be the top three? What do we, what do we, what do we, what do we, what do we, what do we, what do we, what is the criteria based on it off of? Would you say like the, the viralness of it or. Yeah. The scope of how big it is. Like, like Chris's retirement to me is. Chris's retirement is probably number one. Samson. Samson winning Olympia has got to be in the top three to me. Yeah. To me, Chris too. It opens number three. I have them written down as 1, 2, 3 to be honest with you I honestly think the Nick thing was one of the biggest news stories of the year I gotta tell you the truth and I hate to say this I don't think anything got more coverage than Mike's push Yes, that's true I went on YouTube In terms of viralness across the internet of the fitness industry That crossed every fucking scope of YouTuber from like the influencer to the hardcore bodybuilder to the fucking guy that doesn't know anything about bodybuilding It went Mike's is in the top 3 And how many podcasts were made about it? That's probably another 50 or so Yeah, I was thinking that that was in the top 3 So what does that push out then? I don't know Chris's retirement, Mike's push and then does my bat saga have an honorable mention? It has an honorable mention honorable mention but because you were the second thing after Mike and you're the same I know So you can do another one for a top 10 images of 24 Yeah You with a bat on your shoulder Yeah, yeah Okay, wait So Okay, question, question If Mike's is in the top 3 which I agree with Seth on what does that push out? Chris's prog Chris's retirement or Samson's Olympia win? If I had to guess I would say Chris's prog show Narrowly That was big news I know That was huge What are you going to push out then? What are you going to push out? I thought I'd put those 4 to a vote Okay, okay Okay, we'll put those 4 to a vote Yeah, let's put that 4 to a vote Samson's Samson's Okay, the 4 of you are going to vote These are the 4 things you vote on and I'll put it I'll try and put it in the comments section Samson's Oh, I'll do a poll in my community section Okay Samson's win Chris's prog Chris's retirement Mike Van Wick's push And then put Nick as a 5th to give an option and then vote on those 5th Nick is the 5th Nick dropping out Yeah Alright Okay, let's see And we can see them exactly by how many votes and that'll be 1st through 5th That's going to be a close poll I don't think it will So? No? What do you think's going to win? I don't think I don't think Mike's going to get the votes that he should only because it's a negative story not a positive Okay But if you think but if people when you're voting on this think of it in the scope of how many people like Chris wasn't on TMZ neither was Samson So so Mike has like to me Mike's story is number 1 of 2024 It probably reverberated more It's hard because like yeah Chris is such a different level of superstar than everything everyone that so everything he does is just bigger Right Like everything he does is like that so it's like you have to you know because like you know we're talking about Mike being on TMZ but like Chris goes on like mainstream Jordan Peterson That's true He's already made that bridge that we're talking about Mike making many times Right but we're not taking Chris out of the top 3 We're just saying which one of these 4 belong in the top or 5 Samson was big fucking news too Like I don't know It's interesting to see which one's gonna win Samson wasn't supposed to win the Olympia this year No No I had him winning Sorry guys If you would have done a poll early or even later in the year or even right up to France or after the fucking press conference when he took his clothes off and said who's the top 3 and vote on Norder it would have been Derek and Hadi ahead of him and it would have been by a significant voting margin It would have been like 50 40 10 You know Yeah Except for me I would have been the only one who's like Yeah You would have been in that 10% Yeah And telling everyone in the office to go vote on that 10% too Yeah Alright We'll put that in the chat Let's do some questions Uh We got some questions too I think Wow We got a good podcast tonight A lot of hunting talk Sorry guys for those who are watching who don't don't appreciate the hunt Wow We got like not a lot of questions What the fuck is going on here Okay I have a question I have a question for you Go ahead If a girl has only ever pegged someone is she a virgin Yes Yes Yes Yes What do you mean if she's only ever pegged someone So like say she's put on a dildo and fucked someone Yes Is she a virgin Yes Yes Why wouldn't she be Well because she's fucked someone Yeah but no Fucking is not a state of mind You're only a virgin physically Hey that's a good question No it's not It's thought provoking That's a good question No it's not thought provoking Fucking being a virgin is a physical act It's not a fucking thought I know but the way You either You either One of the way Ian said it One of the way Ian said it Ian Or Paul It's not thought provoking If you're If you got fucked You got fucked It's black and white It's not like It's not like Oh I thought about fucking So that means I'm not a virgin anymore No but the way He said it She fucked someone She fucked someone Okay Yeah that kind of makes sense But she didn't get fucked And she doesn't have a dick I agree with you She fucked somebody With a dildo I agree with you It just makes me think Thought provoking though Yeah Thought provoking That's all I said I didn't say that I agreed One of Melissa's girlfriends Asked that Okay I got another one Be honest Have you ever tasted Your own jizz No No I thought about it But I can't do it Gotta say I did You did You did Just out of pure curiosity I don't want to I should have never said it Cut that please Cut that I'm not cutting that out I mean like I mean like My tongue barely touched it If I gotta fucking Eat the shower dog shit You're eating this one I'm sorry I've got a lot of comments On this How was it Paul? I don't even know If I could taste Like I My tongue Like barely touched it Let me ask you this Did you eat a lot of Pineapple beforehand Just to make sure It was okay No That would have been That would have been Even fucking That would have been worse Yeah I like pineapples And then you're like Oh maybe I'll enjoy it If I have pineapples No no Like I didn't plan on doing this I was probably Is it the heat of the moment? The heat of the moment I don't know what I was even thinking Yeah but the weird But the weird part about that is After you blow your load The heat of the moment's over So then you still I don't know Then you still tried it Even after you were sober I literally put like a tiny You couldn't even see it On my finger You put a dollop You put a dollop No it wasn't like a scoop at all It was like You couldn't even see it And I just like Yeah I barely even touched it And I was just like I'm an idiot And I stopped And I washed my hands Alright Would you rather fight One Sean Clarita sized rabbit Or four rabbit sized Sean Claritas Four little Four little Sean Claritas For sure Yeah Yeah He doesn't Kick him away Yeah Fuck that I'm not fighting That big fire Um Do you think RFK could push And get gear legalized To be studied And improved upon In scientific settings Or would the money Not be there yet Is he talking about Legalizing peptides It is legalized It's already legal You know I think he means Recreationally I don't see that Well maybe I mean there's states Where you have like Fucking Like heroin's legal But is that very different I don't know Being in Mexico There's no way Gear's gonna be like Hey Anybody can make it There'll always be Regulations on something You know You know what I find funny I just put AI put a poll up A couple days ago About The state of bodybuilding And how people perceive it Oh yeah And the one thing I keep Coming back to is Bodybuilding is like The I don't want to say The only I'm sure there's Other categories But it seems to be One of the only categories That never gets any respect Because of steroids And doesn't get And also Doesn't get any sympathy Yeah And is also The least understood I have a friend of mine Who I went to Fucking school with Who was like Why would anybody Respect bodybuilders It's all about Vanity and Fucking And I'm like You don't really understand What you're talking about At all do you There's a Competitive Like Challenging Aspect to this That you don't even understand You think it's just about Looking in the fucking mirror It's because It's because They have a skewed Perception of what It actually is Because it's very Difficult to do So people Look at it And say Oh you're always Looking in the mirror Staring at your biceps You always flex in the mirror Anytime this And then like Like there are There is And the people That did have Certain run-ins They usually had A negative Experience with Complete fucking Douchebags In the gym That are fuckboys That are just Complete Bags And aren't even In the competitive realm Okay but Okay answer this question To me though And I think I kind of know The answer But why the fuck Is it okay To be a heroin addict A meth addict A fat Fucking obese Slob That can't control Themselves Or Any Any other Facet Like If you're fat And obese Sure You get looked at Poorly But you also Get a ton of Sympathy If you're a Meth addict Or a heroin Addict Or a fucking Whatever addict There's addictions Tied to it That's a Addiction So they Give a pass On it Yeah I made this Argument What I'm Saying is Everybody Gets a pass Except body I made this Argument once If you ever Experienced People treating you Negatively Or discrimination I'm like yeah I've been treated Like shit Because I got Muscles before I'm sure all You guys have Too Or comments Made to me Because of the way I look Or something like that And like Whether I choose To do this or not That's still Discrimination Yeah I mean Somebody also said When I put that Poll up They're like Why do you care I didn't ask The question Because I give a fuck If I gave a fuck I wouldn't have Done this from the Beginning I don't care What anybody thinks My question is Why Yeah Like I I actually It's not provoking Like so yeah I actually I actually Like I actually Like the Niche Cult Aspect To what we do But what I don't Like is None of the public Choose to Give us a pass A pass And just say It's something they love Who cares It's a great It's an easy way To fucking To just As a cop out To not look good Like that's the easiest Thing Oh you take steroids I could look like you If I took steroids It's like go ahead I'd never put that In my body Why do you eat like that But I But I But I understand Like that I understand that Seth But why Why if I'm at the Grocery store And the Slob in front of me Has like TV dinners And donuts And fucking whatever Yeah What food I eat It was like What I eat now But like not before Right But like my cart now Looks like that But like But And I got Egg whites Chicken bread Whatever And I'm looked at Like the fucking weirdo The cashier is like Oh That doesn't look like A lot of fun And I'm like Why do I gotta listen To you fucking Lip off to me Like Or even Look at the fucking Slop in front of me Or even I think The better comparison I think you made Was like a drug addict Or something You see people like You know You can look at that As a disease As a sickness Whatever We're not Listen When people look at When people look at us We We hold ourselves In a high regard They do as well In their heads They look at you And say You are one crazy Motherfucker It's almost a compliment In a way I don't think that I think I've never taken it I've never felt I've been negatively Impacted by being As big as I was In my life I'm not negatively Impacted Because I don't Give a fuck But if you think But if you think For negatively judging me For my groceries Or anything I've never If you think You're walking Through a mall And there's not Someone judging you Negatively You're not A thousand percent There is I don't give a fuck I think there is But I think there's that For almost anyone At any time Of their life Ever And I think I've never felt it Where I was like This is bothering me But like there's one thing To just worry about it And have no proof of it So it's like No You ever had someone Just like say something To you Ian The majority of all The only memories I have with that Is people only saying Good things I have people that said I mean look at me I'm a fucking That's really That's really strange For somebody who's Been doing it for 20 years I can't I don't think I could I don't think I could ever I don't think There's anybody else I can ask That hasn't had Somebody say Something shitty To them At some point In their career Somewhere Look I've had You know Online where like You're fucking Having a comment Battle with a kid And he's like You fucking Roided up Fucking faggot Or something Where I'm like Okay but like You know Never to your face You know Never to your face Though You never had that No I mean I've only ever Like you know People at the grocery store Or at the airport Or like wherever I am Like it's usually like Oh that's fucking crazy Like and like They like think it's cool Not like it's like You that's disgusting I just had it Happen to me in Mexico You think it's disgusting To me that's kind of A compliment Because I'm working To look that way So it's like I don't take that As a negative way But you're still Coming at it From a perspective Of why should I care That's not why I'm asking Why should I care I'm not saying I'm not saying I know but I'm just saying That's not why I'm asking the question The question was a more What I'm saying either The question was a General statement On how the public Perceives bodybuilding And I think if you think That the public Doesn't care Or look at us negatively I think that's kind of naive I had it happen to me Yesterday in Mexico When I was on that When I went to that island The tour guide Of our boat He made a couple cracks With me being muscular At first And then he leaned in He's like In front of my family He's like Hey man let me ask you A question Do you take juice And I go I used to When I used to compete Now I just use a little bit For TRT Whatever And then he's like Oh Does it make your dick small And this is my daughter I'm like No It actually makes my dick bigger Makes my balls small But I don't really want Big balls I just lean into it And then we're leaving the boat He's like Hey man He's like Stop taking so much juice And I was just like Maybe you should take some Man you're smaller than my daughter I just leaned into it But I had it yesterday I guess those things Have happened to me But I've never Thought of them As being inherently negative I don't know This guy would be a dick For sure What it is Is a guy obviously That was insecure Saw Paul And he wanted to make himself Feel better And I'm 52 He's 30 And my daughter Was literally bigger than him He's probably feeling A certain way about himself And I get I don't really have any memories Of things like that That I was like He had bad intentions I don't listen I don't have any clear memories Of being abused Fucking by the public What I'm saying to you is Just the general sentiment Of the public Of why we can't have sponsors Like Gatorade Or Nike Or these are The reasons are Because there's a negative stigma On bodybuilding And the perception Of bodybuilders So what I'm saying to you is Why does the rest of society Get a pass? Because that's That's That's That's the That's the normal dude Because we're toxic Talks at masculinity Everybody Like dude This is what makes us all so special Was that we have to Understand I mean I know you guys do But Not many people can do this Like there's influencers That can't hang in the competitive world Right And these influencers Look phenomenal When you get into Competitive bodybuilding You are in a Fucked up crazy place Yeah I think that that's like Why I'm like It is I take it as compliments And I let it roll off my back I mean I'm I have bearded Straight White dude That's jacked as fuck From western PA It's like Man you really fit that Dickhead redneck stick Don't you It's okay It's just It's who I am I'm not a bad person I'm a little fucked up But I think that like The normal population Will never understand it And I think the more They are exposed to it Like if they go and see That there is a brotherhood There is a camaraderie Amongst us Even though we are crazy And we are fucked up I think that that's Whenever they People can get warmed up to it And I think that the more The bigger it gets With TRT On On podcasts And more mainstream I think they can learn A little bit more about it And what Chris Has done a great job of On the front line Of talking about On these massive podcasts So I think that it is It's It's creeping its way up But It will always Because dude I mean There's a lot of people That can't handle their gear As well Listen Just for the record Just so Because I don't want to be Misconstrued My favorite time Was when I started Bodybuilding And literally Nobody was bodybuilding It was like There was no social media So it was just like There was bodybuilders And fucking Female bodybuilders And that was it And So I'm not saying I want to be accepted By everybody I'm just curious As to why What What it is That Separates us From all the other Fucked up groups Because we are fucked up Like bodybuilders Are fucked up 100% But So are all these other groups Or any extreme sport Any other extreme sport Is crazy Riding a motorcycle At 200 miles an hour I'm like No way Motocross No way You're nuts It's just strange to me Because they're like You know Even like my friend Who I was talking about Is a doctor And he's like Yeah You're You're Giving yourself Cardiac Disease And whatever Just to look good Or whatever And I'm like Okay But let's take The motorcycle example You just gave These guys are going 200 fucking miles an hour On a track And they can die In a fucking instant Nobody says anything About Well you could kill yourself I mean I think people say that All the time I think that's like The most common thing You'd say to a race car Yeah but why Okay but But are they making Netflix fucking Glorifying bodybuilding Are they making Netflix specials Like they did The Formula One shit No Because it's It's cool That's cool Right But when When bodybuilding Is looked at It's not It's looked at In a different light Which is You know It's fine I'm just Like I said I'm asking I guess Here's the Asking the question Let's break it down Of why you would Why one would say that Like getting behind A race car Doing all that Like we That's the first thing I think I'm like Man you are One crazy dude Right Accepting this Like you think About what we do Think about the act Of actually injecting Yourself With a syringe A lot I guess it's kind of Fucked up Yeah it's where You're like A lot People Is that any Weirder than people Putting Botox In their face Or anything like that Well it's not Wait a second A heroin addict Will stick a needle Between their fucking toes I can't do that Well yeah but Everyone thinks Everyone thinks Of a heroin addict In a bad light Like Yeah we're not You're talking Like you know Yeah Throw that out Yeah It's just It's It's Whenever you get down to it Like think of a documentary Let's think of a Fucking Full blown documentary On bodybuilding We're going to Follow around We're going to follow Around top bodybuilder Top five bodybuilder And see And see everything They do Yeah that's not good The injections The good The bad All of it Yeah That's a fucking Wild documentary You're good I asked For the answer Of this What's that Ian I asked Chat GBT The answer To this Question What did They say It says Bodybuilding Sometimes you Negatively Compared to Other sports Due to Variety Blah blah blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah The emphasis Is on The look And the muscle Size Rather than The performance Two was The steroid Usage And drug Controversies Obviously While other Sports struggle With doping Issues Bodybuilding Has long Been stigmatized For the extremes Some athletes Go in pursuit Of size And definition The perceived Unnaturalness Of it Okay Those are all Good The only one I would dispute Or not dispute I don't dispute It I think it Just takes The only one I would say Needs some Education Is the first One Yeah And then I asked It I'm like Well Motorcycle Racing Is very Dangerous Why is It looked At Differently And it Said You raise A valid Point Blah Blah I think It's Because Of the Cultural Perception! Of admiration Of the Skill And bravery Involved Racing Particularly In high Speed Events Like MotoGP Or the Isle of Manantiti Is seen As a sport That requires Exceptional Talent Precision And nerve The risk Is enhanced Where bodybuilding Is not Perceived In that Same way Yeah See that Goes back To my That goes Back to My argument About there Being very Little skill In bodybuilding And I Got People got Mad at Me For There is But there Is Because you Have to Learn how To train Properly Build Your body I don't But you Could argue Fighting Does the Same thing Too though But it's Not It's External But there's A lot Of skill And talent In fighting And football There's skill I know But you're Missing One of the Main points People And that Was the Very first Point he Said about The vanity Of it People Only see Bodybuilding At the Show They don't Understand the Months and Months and Years and Years and Years of But I guess The thing is All other Sports have That as Well Yeah but They have A level Of talent And skill That is Shown On the Day Yes Ours Is not Shown On the Day Just the Vanity Of ours Is shown On the Day Yeah We're not Showing Any fucking Skill On stage We're showing The size Of our Muscles Yes Yeah Whereas when You practice For basketball From when you're Three fucking Years old And then you go Dunk a basketball Or shoot Fifteen three Fros Or fifteen Fucking three Pointers That's a talent That you can See visibly In that Event Right Building your Body Proportionately You know And plus Aesthetically Is a different Kind of It even Makes sense Because even If you look Very directly Within our World Like strong Man is even Perceived much Differently Than bodybuilding Like that was That's still on Like mainstream Television Right World's Strongest man Will still get Televised and Shit like that And that's Because it Is still It's These guys Are taken And you know Strong men Are probably Abusing steroids Worse than most Bodybuilders In a lot of Cases Plus 100 pounds Heavier And like all This shit You know But there is Then you said They're putting On display Their training Like the The skill Is there Lifting the Weight And showing You know Right Right And I think That's That kind of Hits it on The head For me Is like When people When people See a Bodybuilding Competition They just See the Vanity Of it Right Yeah And you Can And I Can agree That Across the World There's a Whole Vanity Like that Like is You know Girls that Have Excessively Large Fake Boobs Or lips Or whatever You know As a Whole is Generally Frowned Upon By the Most Public There may Be a World Just like Bodybuilders Where some You know People like Oh I Really like That look You know Or think It's in But then The majority Of people In the world Are like That's Fucking Weird It's Unnatural Like they're Saying For body You know Would you Guys say Like body Building Is more Pageantry Than Sport Yes Yes Yeah It's a Muscle It's a Muscle Pageant Because It's There's Nothing It's It's All subjective There's No objective Winner No Right You can't Score Enough Points And beat Somebody Else It's Just Like What Are Those Seven Guys Think Yeah Isn't It Also Crazy That Whenever We Break It Bodybuilding Comes In The Acceptance Of The Monotony And The Discipline That Comes With It That's Where The Skill Is So To Me The Best Bodybuilders Are Not Necessarily The Guys Who Can Do The Best Deadlift Or The Best Squat To Me The Best Bodybuilders Are The The One Who Can Do The Plan The Same Fucking Way Every Day Year After Year Day In Out Without Veering From It To Me That's Not The Same Kind Of Skill As A Gymnast Who Learns How To Do A Triple Back Flip Twist Off A Horse Right You Know What Does Genetics And You Have To Have Some Type Of History And Physical Gifts Bodybuilding Is Like One Of Those Things Where You Can't Start It Young You You Know You You're Like I'm 20 Years Old You Know What I Think I'm Going To Do That Thing And You Can Do It Yeah So There's No Barrier To Entry And It Doesn't Require Years The Average Person Doesn't Know There's No Buried Entry They Don't Know Like How We Get There But I Guess Like Yeah But This Is The The Second Point Of It Is There's An Immediate Gratification That Doesn't Come With Other Sports If You Go Learn How To Play Golf It Could Take You A Year To Learn How To Properly Play Golf If You Start Bodybuilding Especially As To Do This Forever Because You Get This Immediate Gratification Of You Did X And You Got Y Do You Think Bodybuilding It Gives Your Life A Certain Structure You Have To Have The Same Routine Every Day To Be Addicted To That So Is That Part Of The Draw You Think For A Lot Of People Yeah But Don't Other Sports Have That You Have Some Type Of Structure To Be A Boxer For Like You Have To Have That In Boxing If I Want To Be A Professional Boxer It Is Similar I Think Fighting Similar But Most Other Sports You Get An offseason But I Think If You Want To Be The Best Football Player Your offseason Is Still Not An offseason You You Have To Follow The Same Diet Every Day You Have You Know There's A Little Obviously There's Not At That Level Most Of These Guys Are Working With Top Level You Know Dietitians And They're With Trainers Every Day And They're Following A Meal Plan They All Got Chefs They're All On The Ball Everyone But I Know What Paul Is Saying You Can Go For A Pasta Dinner Whenever You You Can Drink! Yeah You Could Your Chances Are Less Likely Maybe Depends On Your Genetics Kind Of Agree With Ian On That Yeah Okay Yeah I Don't Know I Honestly Think Having No Buried Or Entry And Having Immediate Gratification Are Two Of The Biggest Draws To Our Sport Think About How Many Girls Are Like I Don't Know What I Want To Do I Think I Can Compete Huh A Lot Like As A Judge You Know For A Lot Of Years Like You Get That 35 Year Old Age Female Or So That Jumps In The Sport For The First Time And Get Hooked For Five Years So And Then You You Had Girls At 35 Turning Pro You Couldn't Get A 35 Year Old Guy And Be Yeah Go Play In The NFL Right Yeah And If It Why Is Trans On Woman Technically The Most Straight Porn You Can Watch Besides Solo Girl So Trans Because You're Watching A Woman Fuck Another Woman And It's Straight Because She's Got A Dick Yeah But Then If You're Watching A Dude Fuck A Girl That's A Dude With A Dick Now You're Watching A Girl With A Dick So It's More Straight Yeah I'm Agreeing With You Yeah Well Even More Straight Would Be A Girl To Strap On Another Girl Other Than Just Girl Girl Oh Okay So Trans On Girl Is Technically More Straight Than Man But Why Does It Make Me Feel Funny Inside When I Watch Makes You Feel A little Gay Doesn't It I Don't Like It I Don't Like It At All Turn That J Turn That That That One Specifically Said Ask All Right Before We Go New Year's Resolutions Any Or Do You Guys Hardcore You're Like Fuck Dad I Don't Fucking Do That You You! You! You! You! To when it comes to waking up, eating the food, lifting the weights, having our routines, it's just it's in your blood now. But for me personally, I said it earlier, I honestly want to travel more. Like that's going to be something that I make a make a point to do with my family, do something. It is on my list that I have to do something extravagant with my family this year. New Year's resolution is to travel somewhere really cool with your family. Yes. OK, create the memories. I want the pictures. I want them to remember it because they're all young enough, but old enough. So it's important to me. I want to make sure I do it more. You know what? I'm really bad. I'm really bad with the pictures. I am too, dude. I'm really bad. I'm usually ask these guys. I'm usually the guy that's like, come on, guys, let's take a photo because I'm like, we never. Yeah, it feels kind of like, you know, I had a wonderful little fruity, but with my brother, I had his family came over. We took no pictures. No pictures. Yeah. I think we didn't get one. You know what? One of the best times I ever had, Ian and Mike came down with their girlfriends or sorry, their wives, and they stayed at my house. Paul came over and we all got fucked up here, like whatever, for a couple of days. I have no pictures and we had them. Well, except that one really good picture of us all sitting on your front porch. Yeah. Having a smoke. That's right. Yeah. We're all smoking dark on your front porch. Yeah. But we have no fucking pictures for like three fucking days. But it's like. Because you're enjoying yourself. Sometimes when you're having a really good time, you just forget. Yeah. But if you bring your wife, Seth, women are, they're overboard. Don't get Paul started. I'm not a picture taker. Paul is the 52-year-old guy that is like screaming, get off my lawn about a phone. He's just like that guy. Like, put your phone away. Put your phone away. Yeah. I got to. That's my resolution. I got to balance myself. I do have to give Paul a little bit of respect for this though. You know, a lot of times you'll be around somebody and you'll be having a conversation and they'll be looking at their phone while you're having a conversation. Paul is the one guy, and I do it too now because of him. When we're talking, I'm never holding my phone. Maybe it's my era. No, I think it's respectful. Yeah. Because I think, you know what I think? So I think when you're talking to somebody and they're doing this while you're talking. Yeah. They're not listening. It's the same thing as like somebody having a magazine in your face. Yeah. Yeah. It just doesn't feel. But it becomes so normalized, you know? I know nowadays it has. But you know what? If you hang out with Paul enough, you'll be like, yeah, you know what? I kind of feel bad about it. Yeah. Yeah. I don't. Yeah. Something to me is respect. I don't. I'm on my phone when I'm with somebody. All right, Ian. What's your New Year's resolution? Hmm. I got a good one that I'm going to make happen this year for sure. Yeah. Let's hear yours. I'm going to ride across America. Oh. Okay. Well, that's why you're here. I'm going to ride across America or Canada. I'm definitely going to ride from where I am now to the Pacific Ocean. Let's do from here to Vancouver. I really want to ride. I want to do Route 66. It goes right from Chicago all the way to California. On the U. Oh, that. No, I'm talking in Canada, west to east. No, I know. I know. I'm saying I want to ride across the country one or the other, but I would rather do Route 66 all the way. Yeah. All the way to California. How long did that take you? Like three days. Yeah. If I took my time five. Okay. Probably more like five. You're probably going to ride like eight to ten hours a day max. Right? It's like a 34-hour trip, I think. So, it just looks like a lot of fun though, man. I'm in for watching it. I'm in for watching it happen. Seth, I got a three-wheeler. You can come with us. Me and you, Seth, on the three-wheelers. Why not? You would never do it? No. Why? I'm not good enough. I'm not educated. Dude, listen. The three-wheeler is like a car. It's like a little car. There's no clutch. It's literally like hand and foot. It's actually the exact same as driving a snowmobile. Have you ever seen those things? A hand throttle and a foot brake. That's it. Driving a snowmobile literally is the same thing. What about a slingshot? I'm not riding a three-wheeler with you guys riding Harleys. Not at all. Not at all. With me, Seth, me and you. We'll sit next to each other. Paul, go in your sidecar. Paul can ride on the back. I was thinking we got a slingshot. That'd be cool. That's a car. That's a car. That's a car, but it's cool. You might as well just go in your car. That's the same thing. All right. I got another hypothetical question if you want to do another one. Yeah, yeah. Go ahead. Okay, so this one isn't a question. Why are they all sexual? This is what people ask me on mine, but this one's different. It just made me think. It is sexual as well. Okay, go ahead. Okay, so I was listening to a podcast, and a girl had never known her real father. He was a sperm donor. I'm sure you can already guess where I'm going with this. And she got married to a guy. A few years later, they did a 23andMe and realized they were like half siblings, same father. They were like, they'd been married and had three children, everything. What would you do in that situation? Oh. If you had my summer and you had the same- Don't tell nobody. Just keep it a secret. Don't tell nobody. Yeah, you and summer, literally 50%. Like your father is the same father, you know? What are the chances of that? Are my kids retarded? Yeah, that's what I want to know. Your kids are okay. I would just keep it a secret. They turned out normal? They turned out normal, yeah. Fuck, that's tough. Yeah. People would understand. If people found out, they'd understand. No, no. I'm not worried about anybody finding out. I'm worried about me. I don't know if I could stay with my sister. Jesus. But the tough part is I have kids. Right. What the fuck do I do with this? You've already fucking eaten her ass. So like, what's the difference? Yeah, what's the point now? It's not about people finding out. It's like, the next time I try to eat her ass, I'm like, this is my sister. I would just bury that shit. I would just bury that as low as I could bury it. Paul would bury it. I would. I would never breathe a word of anything. Paul's really good at burying his feelings. I don't know. I don't know if I could. I'm really. You have to. You're fucking burying that. I don't think I could do it. I don't think I could do it. You'd have to. You'd have to. What are you going to do? The next time I tried to fuck, I would be like, this is my sister. You got to get over it. You got to like it. You got to bury it. You got to get over it. You got to like it. You got to get into it. Yeah. You got to change your mindset. Okay. I got it. I got one. That's unwinnable. Me and Ian got this put to the test with this one. It's fucking gross. We already did this one with them. No, we didn't. Oh. I don't think we did. That's where it came from. I think. No, we, I think we did a version of it, but then Steve made it more gross. Okay. Yeah. Go ahead. Okay. So a girl's got 10 loads on her face. Oh yeah. No, no, no. You did part of it. I'm not kissing her. Okay. Hold on. She's got 10 loads on her face. She's got 10 loads in her box. Are you making out with her for five minutes or eating your box? Oh, come on. And you got to eat. And you got to eat. You got to eat the whole. Like you got to eat where the cream pie is. No. This is like from the movie Saw. This is a fucking thing. I told Ian. You're disgusting bastards. I said, I said to Ian, I said, this fucking guy just ruined the game. And he goes, why? I said, because this is an unwinnable challenge. Yeah. It's totally unwinnable. There's not one that's like a little better. They're both fucking absolutely horrible. Yeah, but that's the point is you have to decide which one's better for you. I know, but usually this guy. You're talking. I'd rather take my own life right there. I don't know. You know what? As gross as it is, it's a pretty obvious answer to eat the box for me. No way. It's the opposite. Stop. Don't eat that. Yeah, because once you put your lip. Jeez. Listen, once you put your lips on her lips. Oh, don't get into detail about this. You put your lips on her lips and you move aside some of the cum, then you can make out for five minutes. But if you're eating your box, think about it. It's all dripping out into your mouth the whole time. Yeah. So it's just like sustained release. Yeah. You're just going to eat all of it. It's just going to. I don't know. Because like, it's like. I'm taking the makeup session. If I'm picking. Look, they're both equally gross in the cum. Wait. No. I'm like, this is my mind. Okay. I'm eating cum in the same regard either way. But I'd rather be eating box than making out. Okay. But think of this. I don't know, man. I don't know. But wait a second. I don't know. Think of this. Just hold on for a minute. There's 10 loads in the box. You got to eat the whole. So it's going to come out slowly. You're going to get all 10 loads. Or you can tell her to fucking kegel that shit up. But wait a minute. If I kiss her. There's only so much load that's going to be on her lips. So I'm not getting all the load. No. It's in her mouth. And she's going. Paul took his headphones off. He's going to gag. No. But in a mouth. She's just like going. Using it out. No. But it's not in her mouth. It's all over her face. We're going to get a shot at Paul's dick here. All right, Paul. Come back. We're done. We'll come back. We're finished. Okay. Please. Was that that rough for you? I don't want to throw up. Yeah. I don't want to throw up. You're the guy who ate his own cum. I feel like. I fucking. My tongue didn't even touch it. I swear. It was like. It wasn't even a drop. I didn't eat it. Yeah. I didn't eat it. Okay. You just ate one sperm. You're like. No. No. It wasn't even. It wasn't even. I don't even think. I don't even think my tongue touched it. If you're that with your own. For any of you though. Would you eat your wife out after you busted in her? No. Am I eating. In the hole or the clit? Just wherever. Neither. I'd probably do it if I didn't have to like get in there. Would you kiss her after you busted her mouth and she swallowed it? How long after? With tongue. How long after? Oh God. Oh God. Like literally you busted her mouth. Swallows it. Then kiss. Jesus. No. What's wrong with you? No. Maybe. See I don't have a problem with either of those. You know? Yeah. I might. I might. Yeah. Seth? Anyway. I'm not going for the box dude. I'm staying away. If you blow your. If she gives you a blowie and you finish and then she swallows her. Are you going to kiss her after? Is she going to ruin like having a drink? Wait. Shut up. I want to hear Seth's answer. I want to hear Seth's answer. I want to hear Seth's answer. I want to hear Seth's answer. But if she wanted to. She's like I want to kiss you. No. Oh no. Go rinse. Go brush. Go take a shower. But Paul. Would you. You would kiss your. She would have no problem kissing you after you've gone down on her. That's hot though. Oh yeah. If anything it's fucking worse. Seth you didn't answer. I mean I would. I would have to entertain it for her. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. All right. Paul. New Year's resolution. Before we go. Actually Ian didn't give me one. I had two. I have one. Oh you're hunting. Hunting and swimming. Okay. I got a joke to kick off the podcast. Okay. Let's go. Well give me your New Year's resolution. Let's make it the prayer. What? Give me your New Year's resolution. I'm going to get it with prayer. That's not happening. He's like let's stop with the questions. Let's just make it up with prayer. Let's go on the end joke. I don't know. I don't know if I have an obvious one that I can think of. Is there something that you want to do that you haven't done that you're going to do this year? You're going to ride to California with me? Yeah. I guess. Like I want to do that. I want to. You want to become a dad. Oh yeah. That's your new resolution right there. Yeah. Sure. Okay. Do you want to be a dad more or do you want to make a comeback more? I want to be a dad way more. Because if that wasn't the case, if that wasn't the case, I would just come back and not worry about being a dad. I know, but you're kind of like I want to be a dad so I can get over with so I can come back. No, I want to be a dad because I want to be a dad. And then if that allows me to do that after then so be it. Okay. All right. Tell me your question or your joke. Okay. A leaf and an emo kid fall from a tree. What hits the ground first? Sorry. An emo kid. A leaf and an emo kid fall from a tree. What hits the ground first, Paul? Emo kid. The leaf. The emo kid just hangs there. Oh, that's not a good joke. Cut that. That's so bad. Cut that to it. Thank you, Carboholic and Lifes9. Oh, my God. That's not a good joke. Oh. Yeah, I probably cut that one. All right. You better lead us off with a nice prayer to counter that. Yeah, I'll try to wash those demons away. Yeah. Okay. Well, wash it, dear leader. A mouthful of cum. Okay. Let's bow our heads. Dear leader. Well, as we close out 2024, I want to dedicate my prayers tonight to Ian becoming a dad so we can sperm. Seth traveling with his family this year. I hope he gets to fulfill that dream. Fu, I hope you get to ride across the country like you want to. And I hope Mike is okay. Okay. So this time, I didn't want to make about myself this time, Fu. I'm actually really proud of you. This is nice. I'm going to end 2024 on a positive note. I know the last one. The last one, you hit the fucking wall. Yeah, I wasn't feeling too good that night, I don't think. Yeah, you were like 25 is going to suck. I still don't know if it's going to be great, but I'm going to try my best to make it great. But we can hope, Paul. We can hope. We can hope, Ian. So let's hope that 2025... For better tomorrow, you know? Yes. Okay. Yes. Amen. Amen. Amen. All right. See you guys. All right, boys. See you guys. Bye. Bye.