 What's going on guys? Bodybuilding is one of the most extreme sports on earth when it comes to our health and I think it is very important to work with somebody like Merrick Health with the proper consultants that can help you optimize that can help you optimize your hormone levels to make sure you're making the gains you need to make without hurting yourself on the health side of things. So I'm going to take you to their website and get show you the panels that I got done when I got my panels done just a short while ago. This is a checkup panel. This is not the one I did. This is just a checking 53 different biomarkers. This is the panel I did here is 84 different biomarkers, but more importantly came with a consultation with one of their providers. That is the important part because you're going to be able to help with one of their providers. You can get blood work done anywhere. You can get your hormones checked anywhere. The most important part is getting them checked and having them explained to you by somebody who knows what they're doing, what they're talking about when it comes to your hormones, your blood work in relation to bodybuilding. So guys, get to merrickhealth.com forward slash RBP. Use code RBP on your first order for 10% off and make sure you have somebody with the experience needed to help you guys look over your blood work and talk to you about what your hormones should look like and what you're doing. Make sure you're on the right track to make sure you're on the right track to making the best gains you can make. Get into it and some don't. Some cultures don't like the nickname, like the short forms of their, like, like I'm Lebanese. If you called me, like I'm not Lebanese. I'm actually Canadian, but I'm of Lebanese descent. So if you called me a leb, I wouldn't take offense to that. No, you wouldn't. No, why would I take offense to that? Oh, you're a leb. Why would that be offensive? No, I don't think it should be. But I think, I think some cultures are, um, are more open to laughing at themselves, not laughing, you know, than others. I agree, but that's not even offensive. Like if I called you a walk, that's offensive. Well, I'm not offended by that. No, I mean, I'm not saying whether you're offended by it or not, it's insensitive. Yeah. But, but if I just shortened Italian into like something else, I wouldn't be like, you shortened Lebanese to leb, like that's not offensive. Like that's not, if you are trying to offend me, that's not a good, like, you're not doing a good job of it. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like there's, there's racial slurs. That's not really a slur. It's like, it's like, if you called a Jewish person a Jew, is that, is that, is that bad? On its own? I don't think so. But what if you said like that, that fucking leb? Well, if you said fucking Jew, that's different. That's different. Or fucking leb. Right. But that's, that's, but that's because you're using it in an aggressive tone. The, the extra word adds the aggressive tone. Yeah. But if you said like, fu adds a leb. That's not. Okay. What if you did this? What if you did this? Like, let's say, um, let's say. Fucking lebo. Fucking lebo. I do. Mike from Michael definitely have a opinion on this. Okay. What, what if, what if, uh, what if, uh. Fucking lebos everywhere. What if a guy walks by and you smell heavy cologne and you're like, leb. I've never, I've never referred to a Lebanese person as a leb in my life. I would say fucking Italian shower. That's what I would say. I would say that guy must be Italian. An Italian would say he must be loves. Mike, we're discussing short forms of. I can hear you when I sing a shit. Yeah. Oh, you could. So like, if you're like, like, like, like if you're a Pakistani and I called you a Paki, is that offensive? Oh, it's the way you say it, I guess. Probably. So if I was like, if I was like, Hey, uh, Stuart, Stuart is a Paki. Is that offensive? Well, first of all, Paki probably wouldn't be named Stuart, but if that was like. I don't think I've got one. That's a weird, that's a weird Paki name. I'm assuming he's second generation comedian at that point. But like, is that offensive? Because it's just shortening. Like if you said, like I said, if you said, who adds a lead. Usually when you short form stuff, like you're using it in an aggressive way with people. You're not like, you're not like getting cut off in traffic and being like, Pakistani. No, like I've said, uh, I've said like, like if I, if someone's like Jewish, I'd be like, yeah, that guy's a Jew, but it's not offensive. I'm just saying like, that's, I'm just shortening. Like, you know what I mean? It's like, what if you say you look like fucking Jews? Yeah. But that's the word, but the word before is what changes it. Yeah. But if I'm just saying like, uh, what's a Jewish? Someone's going to soundbite what I just said and put it over to you. But if I was just saying like what that guy's religion is and we're just speaking objectively. Yeah. And I said, so-and-so is a Jew. Like Abram. Abram. Abram. Abram. Jebediah. You guys are fucked up. So if I said Jebediah is a Jew. Isn't Jebediah like a Mormon name? I don't know. I think so. See, that's even weirder than fucking Stuart. Stuart is back. If there's a, if there's a Pakistani guy watching this named Stuart, please comment. Or anything, anything remotely like Stuart. We want to know. Have you guys watched Tulsa Kane? Not yet. No. Yeah. I watched last night when I got home. Stallone's character is Dwight Manfredi. Have you ever met an Italian guy named Dwight? Dwight. Yeah. Oh, never. You know what I, you know what I found interesting? You know, um, Tyrone is actually Irish. Really? Tyrone's name? You mean? Yeah. I think it has an Irish origin. Yeah. Because my, my wife's grandfather, I think is named Tyrone. And I was like, that's fucking weird. And she goes, no, she goes, it's an Irish name. Did that morph into Tyson later? I don't know. Let me see. I want to, I want to see if that's right. Tyrone name origin. Tyrone is a male Tyrone. Yeah. Look, Tyrone is a male given name of Irish origin. The name originates from the toponym County Tyrone in Northern Ireland, which in turn derives from the Irish language. Wait, a hundred percent. If someone says that they know a guy named Tyrone. It's usually a black guy. He's not Irish. Not anymore. Tides have changed. That's funny though. I didn't, uh, yeah, I didn't know that. It's weird. Anyways, what's going on, Mike? We missed you. I haven't talked to you in a couple of weeks. How are you been? How's everything going? I feel better. I just felt kind of sick that first, that day that I was supposed to record with you guys, but I felt better. It's more run down than sick. I was just tired and shit. Well, there's a, there was a thing going around that people with lesser genetics couldn't overcome. That's why I came up with overcome so fast. Very quickly. You and Paul succumbed to it. I just, I breezed right through it. I'm pretty sure I caught an Asian flu wells in Vancouver. That is racist. That's where I got it. A hundred percent. That's racist. And like the population of Vancouver, for those that don't know, is heavily Asian. Yeah. You're going to get fired for whatever job you have. There's nothing racist about that. There's so many things. What do you mean? There's nothing racist about it. It's so racist. I caught a virus while I was in Vancouver. Yeah. Which one though? Yeah. How do you know it's an Asian one? Because a whole bunch of Asians are around? I was mostly around Asian people. I stayed in a casino. It was all Asian people. I think we're going a little too far. This fucking podcast is going to get canceled. It's a known fact Asian people like to gamble. What the fuck? Isn't it? Is it? I've never heard that before. I used to work at a casino. I used to deal cards. Yeah. But I think it's not like more Asian than other people. I would think it is. Certain games are. I think if you look up some statistics. Okay. Bacara, which I used to deal. Weirdly. I was just going to say. I was just going to say. How do you even. I don't even know how you fucking play that game. It's a boring game. But people get fucking mad when they play that game. Yeah. Full Bacara special. Gambling. I've seen dudes like flip out and yell at the fucking dealer and smash fucking chips down. Yeah. Well, you get like the players handle the cards in Bacara too. So like they'll rip them in half and shit. You know. One second. Gambling addiction and race. Who is the most affected? I'll bet you it's Asian. Black is first. See, I told you. Wow. Asian's number three. Asian's three. You're so off. No, that's not that far off. What do you mean? You're third. You just told everybody. Of all the reasons. I have to find that. But what? Define gambling though. Is that like. Yeah. Scratch off tickets or is that like going to the casino? Yeah. Does that include bingo and stuff? They don't do bingo. Black people. I'm reading, by the way, for those people listening on audio. This isn't my. Black people represent some of the most significant rates of gambling disorders. Studies show that black people have over twice the rate of gambling addictions compared to white people. Black youth are also considerably more likely than white youth to engage in gambling activities leading leading to problem gambling and addiction later in their lives. Really? Yeah. Overall, overall young black males are associated with the highest rates of gambling disorders in the United States. Studies have shown that black people with lower general health measures living in disadvantaged neighborhoods with lowest income brackets are the most likely affected by gambling. Additionally, black people with gambling disorders are more likely to develop higher rates of anxiety, personality disorders. They might even develop substance use disorders. Wow. This is from the website gatewayfoundation.org. So I don't know if this is like a. Sounds like a. What's the most common gambling name, Tyrone? Irish. Well, because I was going to say I was just in Vegas and I was walking through the casinos. I didn't see like a heavily anything. Like I didn't. Well, Vegas is different. Vegas is touristy. Yeah. Vegas is like a. Yeah. It's every. Everyone. Yeah. But that's where you would see. That's where you'd see it represented most, wouldn't you? Well, yes and no. I think it depends on where you're at, really. I think Vegas is a heavily tourist area. Of course. Of course. Of course. It depends where you're at. If you're in a casino in Vancouver, it's going to be heavily Asian. That's all I'm saying about the flu. I don't know why. I think I'm saying something wrong. There's nothing wrong with saying there is a heavy Asian population in Vancouver. There is something wrong with saying I got Asian flu because I was in Vancouver. I'll tie the two things together. That's all. Highly correlated. Yeah. Anyway, what'd you do while we were away, Mike? What did we miss out on? Anything good? No, man. I watched the live stream, which I, other than seeing what I wanted to see, I regretted so much because it was so fucking awful. I heard it was just like dark and it kept cutting out and like. Mine never cut out because I was watching on my box. No, and chance of hell I was paying $80 for that. Oh, yeah. But just like, I don't know, man. They got to do something to like up the production value of that fucking show because it's like it's supposed to be the Super Bowl and like the highest thing in bodybuilding. And it's just like, it's like watching an amateur show. I wonder why it's so difficult. Like we. Like being there, I can understand it's probably a little more. But even because I've been there in the past with you guys, like there's lulls, right? Like there's like these dead zones and you can't help that. But like you have to do something to mitigate that. You have to like give Bob some help up there and have like a co-host or something that's like backstage, maybe talking to guys who are warming up or like play video. Yeah, we did. We did. Yeah, we did that at the Arnold at the Arnold. They had. So it was me, Janet, Dennis, and then the host. I can't remember. Why can't I remember his name now? I feel like a total asshole. He's a great guy. Anyway, I'm sorry. When there was a lull, they would send me or Janet down. They like basically asked who wanted to do it. And I said I would do it. Janet said she would do it. We would go down and talk to people pumping up. So like, you know how sometimes in a football game, they have like, they'll have like sideline interviews. We're trying to do that thing backstage. It kind of, I think it worked out. But then they kiboshed it the second year I was there. Well, I wonder one thing. Like, live feeds are fairly new to bodybuilding. So I think they'll get better as promoters in that you learn the value in them. And, you know, and more and more people watch them too. I think they know the value in them. I wonder what's going on with the tech. Because I wonder if it's a matter of how many people watch. Because, you know, we're able to do live streams that are pretty good. But I wonder if it's because like Detroit is a small show. So like, there's not that many people online. It's easy to like, there's no way it's going to crash or anything like that. But I mean, even like the, even the production of it, like, you know, like right now, I think the live feed is something that's, you know, they don't focus as much on as the show production, like in person production of it. So, but I, but it's still pretty new. So maybe as time goes, I'll learn and learn these things to, you know, have more filler stuff. I wonder why though, too, because, you know, being a promoter, like Paul, you know, you can sell that live stream to, or pieces of that live stream or whatever to sponsors. Right. Yeah. So you can say to, you can say to like Panada, like, Hey, if you help us with a live stream, give us X amount of dollars, we'll put your logo in the corner for the whole show. Yeah. Yeah. So if they're helping and they're giving you like whatever amount of money, I don't know, 10 grand, 20 grand, 30 grand, 50 grand, whatever it is. I mean, that should be enough to have a live stream, like get some, you know, have three cameramans, three cameramans, three cameramen. Fucking level. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've been doing that more and more lately. I've just been fucking stumbling over my words. As you get older, it gets worse. Isn't that what it is? I got four, I'm 46 now. Today's my birthday. So I'm fucking. Yes. Happy birthday. Even though I wish you had a birthday yesterday on accident. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. That was my fault. Cause we did the podcast. It was your fault too. We did the podcast on Sunday and I said, my birthday, my birthday's tomorrow. Yeah. I thought Monday was the 15th. Cause I've been traveling and I don't know what the fuck's going on. So it was my fault. So I was thinking in my head all along that it was Tuesday. But then when you said that, I was like, fuck tomorrow's the 15th. I didn't realize that. Yeah. So that I kind of. Yeah. Sorry. That's okay. I just wanted two birthdays. I was like, you know what? I'm going to have two birthdays. I'm going to trick everybody. So I can have two birthdays. Yeah. Anyways. Yeah. I did stumble into my words, but yeah, all they have to have is three cameramen and three cameras, one stationary, two moving. And it should, it should take care of itself. Like I don't, I really think it's a matter of the size of the show is an issue. I don't know why, but like, it's not that fucking, it's not that hard. So there must be something else that we don't know about that's holding them up from having a good live stream. My opinion is, and I'm not trying to defend it. I just think it's something they're going to get better with with time. No, no. I agree. I agree with you. I agree with you. But what I'm saying is like, I'm not, I'm trying to figure out what it is that's holding up the value of it because we've done it and it's been pretty good and other shows do it and it's pretty good. So I'm wondering if it's the size of the show that somehow makes it more difficult, but the Arnold seems to do a pretty good job of it. The Arnold. Yeah. Well, the Arnold has a pretty experienced, like don't, don't they use like Brian and that they're from Comic-Con and that, right? Like they're used to putting on big productions and that. Maybe that's why too. They have more experience on the TV space. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know. But that's kind of a shame because like Mike said, it is the biggest show in bodybuilding and they do spend a ton of time and money making the stage and venue amazing. Like whether people like it or not, because the backdrop, whatever, that's personal opinion. But like when you're sitting in there, you're like, you know what? They spend a lot of fucking money. Like this looks really cool to be here. So it's kind of a shame that you don't get to really feel it at home. If their live stream sucks. Yeah. It was just like when you saw like when they were showing like comparisons, when they're going through comparisons, it's like you're watching a VHS tape from the fucking nineties. And then when they got into like, when they got into individual posing, it was a lot clearer because they were focused in on the individual. Right. So like when you're watching the comparisons, it's like, I, when you're watching a live stream, you're like, I don't know who the fuck's going to win this. Like, obviously I kind of knew Samson was going to win. Like it's fucking obvious, but it's like, when you're looking at them, you're like, what the fuck? They all look like some parts are off and on and you're getting closer and you're like, holy fuck. They're not off at all. They're fucking shitting out of their minds. Like, yeah. Right. It's frustrating. You can't get a gauge for how the show really is unless you start looking at people's fucking videos they're posting because they're literally better than the live stream. Yeah. And the darker skin, the person, the worse, you couldn't see anything. You know, it's funny. That's the confusing part about Hunter. Hunter, Hunter doesn't come across in video or photo. So nearly like not even remotely close to as good as he looked on Friday night. Friday's Hunter looked amazing. And, uh, and, but he's a lighter skin guy. So I'm like, I don't, I don't get, I just don't get it. But his tan was spot on Friday. I don't know if it was the same Saturday, but Friday was. I know that. But for some reason, even with a tan, whatever, like whatever shade of color he is, whether his tan is darker or lighter, it doesn't matter. Hunter doesn't translate well in media for some reason. And I think that's why he gets roasted so badly because when you're sitting there, you place them somewhere, like, you know, the judges will put them in a certain place and people get the photos and they're like, what the fuck are they thinking? They're crazy. And I'm like, I know people don't understand. Like when you say like you have to be there, but because they're like, why a photo is a photo. And if you're there, you're there. I'm like, it's, it's really like the 3d dimension versus a 2d dimension. It just does not, but some guys just do not translate in media. I don't know why I'm not going to sit here and pretend to be able to explain it, but I'm telling you, we were sitting two rows behind the judges on Friday night with some influential people and everybody around us was blown away by Hunter. And everybody online was like, he shit. And when I looked and when I looked at the photos, I was like, oh, this isn't at all what I was seeing. So it's just, it's really, really crazy. And then the craziest part about it is you have a lot of these channels doing breakdowns of the show, having never been, having not been at the show. And we we've done that. We've broken down. I think the difference is when we break down shows, we say we weren't there, but judging by the photos, this is what we see. These other, these other channels are like, they're, they're dying on their hill. They're like, no, they were wrong. And I'm like, you motherfuckers weren't there. You can't say they were wrong if you weren't there to see it. It's frustrating to watch it, to be honest, because it's like, you're trying to, you're trying to get a gauge of what's going on. It's like from one scene, from one shot to the next, to like a pan out shot to like guys moving or switching around. You're not seeing anything. Like it literally looks like blurs moving with each other and everybody looks fantastic, but everyone looks off. Like everyone looks like they're big and full and hard and stuff, but no one looks crisp because you're like, I can't see shit. Right. But then you look at this, like that Gilco guy, like, why can't that motherfucker film the whole show? Yeah. Because he seems to have a camera that's like fucking light years ahead of everyone's on the fucking stage. Like, right. Yeah. Yeah. You go look at this guy's pictures and you're like, oh, I see now what the fuck's going on because I can actually see this guy. Right. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. Now you wonder, right? Why can't that translate through a live feed? That same video quality. I'm trying to think if anybody was 100% crisp all the way around. Probably Martin was the only one. And Martin got better, I think, Saturday and Friday. Well, the thing is, because I'm saying like, I'm trying to think of who was peeled both days in every shot. Yeah. Yeah. Martin, Martin, Martin translated the best over the video, to be honest. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like he, he really, like his condition stood out. I don't know whether it was tan or. Yeah. Whatever it was, but like he even stood out. Like he was like beating, he was beating Hottie on shots and fucking looking insane. Right. Yeah. Yeah. People thought I was crazy. Cause I was, people thought I was crazy. Cause I had Martin in third on Saturday. I'm like, if you're sitting there, I mean, they put them in there, they put them next to Hottie for a reason. Right. And they put them and they put them next to Derek for a reason. And I bet you, if we look at the scores, I bet you, I wonder if they have Martin beating anybody. I don't believe so. I took a look at the scores myself. Oh no. I think he got straight thirds. I think he got straight thirds. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There was other people I talked to in the audience though, that were, you know, people that I trust their opinions, um, that, you know, thought Martin was a little bit higher on Saturday night, but Friday night maybe slowed him down a bit. Cause he faded at the end of pre-judge there. To be honest, I had Hunter and Fred and Martin on Friday. Yeah. But then Saturday had the reverse. Well, I think cause cause Hunter came out on Saturday night, a little bit bloated in the stomach. He wasn't pulling up. He wasn't pulling a vacuum. It's like, he must've had trouble like digesting his food or something. And he also, it was crisp. And he also, yeah, it seemed like he had a film of water. Everywhere. So it was a little tougher. Um, here I'll show you guys. So we can look together. These are the scorecards. Derek has straight thirds at pre-judge and finals. Uh, Martin, where's Hunter, Hunter and Martin. No. So Hunter was. No, no, no. Martin was ahead of Hunter at pre-judge and finals. By two points. Yeah. 25, 23. Yeah. And Andrew made a big move of their A on Saturday. Well, cause I think Hunter was ahead of Andrew. Yeah. Was he? Cause he had 25. Where's Andrew? 29. Right above him. Oh, right above him. Yeah. Yeah. Hunter was ahead of Andrew. And then on Saturday he came back and slipped. Yeah. So Andrew beat Hunter by one point. Yeah. It's interesting. Look how far Rafa dropped on Saturday. Rafa, Rafa, Rafa. Well, he, yeah. You know what's funny? I don't think he was that much worse. I thought he was a lot more full on Saturday. He was a little bit softer. Cause I think they maybe, he spilled a bit maybe. But he was so much bigger from being full. I thought he actually looked better on Saturday. Did you? Yeah. He just seemed to like not in the lineup. He seemed to fade a little bit on Saturday, but it was hard to tell him the life. But see, Akeem too. Akeem jumped huge on Saturday. Akeem looked great. Akeem looked great. Like I said, me and you, when we were talking about it, if Akeem had a better back, it would be a whole totally different story. It was good though. It was exciting. So Mike, what did you think? Me and Paul already broke this down. What did you think of the whole show? Was there anybody you thought placed where they shouldn't have placed or anything else you thought of the show? Do you think it's cool? Do you think it's cool that, like you said, the new era of big men kind of finally came into play or what are your overall thoughts on the show? Yeah. I mean, I think they got it right. I don't think, I think Martin could have pushed for being in the top three. I think it should have been a lot closer than it was. And I also think that like, I don't know, I just think that like, this is going to be, it's, it's weird. Cause like you saw, it's almost like they did it on purpose. It's like, they put like, I think there's one point where it was like, Andrew was in between or Derek was between Andrew and Samson at one point. And you could see, like, it was almost like we're showing you now what we don't want anymore. Like, do you know what I mean? Like, this is where we're moving away from and we're going to show you why. We got this guy in the middle and we got these monsters here and like one's 300 pounds. I don't know what Samson was or whatever, but it's like. Samson was 305. Yeah. This is like, this is where we're going and you guys are going to get left in the dust. That's why it's like, I don't know. It kind of rubbed me the wrong way. Also, like I saw this interview after Derek did where he said something about like, if it's not in the plans, Jesus, God doesn't have in the plans. You're going to be Mr. Olympia. He doesn't want to do it anymore. I saw that. It's like, bro, you were fucking Mr. Olympia one time. Yeah. In like the most competitive class of like Olympians in a long time. And like, you're coming back this year and everyone's improved. Everyone's improved. And you haven't, to be honest, you don't look that much better. Yeah. So it's like, why are you expecting stuff to be handed to you? Like now just go back and work your ass off and try and do what you got to do to whatever. But don't go in there and like fucking immediately like sore loser. Oh, I'm fucking not. God doesn't want this for me. I'm quitting. It's like, it's, I don't know, man. It just rubbed me the wrong way. I don't like how people, there's a few things that rubbed me the wrong way in that show, to be honest. What is this? Like Theo getting 15th. Shit. Shit. I'm trying to share something and I can't. Okay. Stop that. Sorry guys. And the whole thing, the whole thing with Andrew, with the music. And I think it, like someone told me it happened to Breon too. It's like, why are you, it's almost like he's being like, Bob was almost belittling him. Like pose, man. Like, what are you waiting for? Like, this isn't an amateur show, dude. This isn't like, let's run through the fucking thing and get going here. Like, this is like, like we said, the Superbowl of the fucking bodybuilding. So send him off stage, fix his fucking music and tell him to come back out. Like, don't make him stand there like an asshole. Like, that's what I was expecting. You got to pose, man. Pose one. He's like, what? Like, that's what I was wondering at home. I'm like, why don't you just have him go off the stage and fix it and have him come back out again? Because he, he did address it too, Andrew. I know he addressed it, but I thought it was because of, I thought it was because of profanity in the music. He said, he did say, he did take responsibility for that. He said he had like a three song cut or something like that. The first one did have profanity. He made a mistake. He meant to submit the clean version or should have submitted the clean version, but didn't. But he said the other two got, they did mix. They messed up the mix up or something like that. He said he tried to go through it. And then when the third mix up happened, then he was like, I'm just thrown off too much. And he, and he decided not to do it. What is this thing with like no profanity? Like we're adults here. There's not a fucking child in the audience. I got to tell you, I got to tell you though, Mike, unless it's like, I'm not saying like consecutive swear words, like, that's what happened. That's what happened. That's what it was that bad. Listen, I don't know about Andrew's music. One, I don't know if Brandon Curry was the person before or one person before that. Like Brandon Curry was before Andrew. I don't know if it was the first, right before him or if there was somebody in between them. But Brandon Curry's music was like, and bomb after fucking and bomb. Like basically, I thought it was like one F bomb. And they were like, man, we're not doing that. I was like, no, Brandon Curry's music was like, and this and that fuck you and this. It was like, it was like every, so I think I saw they let it. And I was actually kind of, I'm looking around going, this is a little bit uncomfortable. So, like, it's a little much. So, I think when Andrew came out, like the first swear word that hit, they fucking cut it. They were like, yeah, when they missed that. Well, it happened at one of our shows. We didn't vet the music at one of our shows and a guy came out and it was just too much. And I was like texting a DJ, I'm like, stop that music. Yeah. And then since then, we've had it now, you know. I mean, look, it is all adults, but there is some kids in the crowd. And it's, you know, bodybuilding's, I think it's got a dirty enough image that they're like, let's try and at least control this one thing. Keep it kind of professional a little bit too. I was just having the impression that it was like one swear word. No, it was, I think they were traumatized from Brandon Curry's music. I think they were because I don't, whenever there's one swear word. Yeah, they don't cut. They don't really do anything. Right. Yeah. I mean, you dropped 25 N-bombs. You're going to be like, hey, he's got a long pump on you right now. Listen, listen, I don't normally notice that shit. When Brandon Curry's posing and I'm looking around going, are all the white people really uncomfortable right now? Because it's like, holy fuck, it was brutal. Yeah. I mean, you got to draw it because you never know what someone could come out to. It could be something really offensive. You got to bet the music. Seth, how are you? You got a haircut? Looks good? Yeah. Trimmed up. Make sure you look leaner. Younger. Yeah, much younger. Yeah. Are you telling me I look like I'm in my 50s? I'm like, fuck me. You look 32. Oh, thank you. These wrinkles. Definitely 32. That's nothing, Seth. That's nothing. Hold that out of your fucking ass. He looks funny. 32. No. Look at that hair. He's got hair, but he's got wrinkles like you. That's from hard work and son. That's all that is. People, people, they're like, they're always like steroids. They're, they're really taking a toll on you. I'm like, Hey, I get it. Steroids can have an effect, but I will put stress. Yeah. Above steroids. Yeah. Oh. Yeah. Look at my beard. Look at my beard. Ever since I started hostile, it's just gone completely gray. It was black. It was black before I fucking started hostile. Now look. Mine was kids. It's like the, it's like the president thing. You know, when a president comes on and he's like got nice black hair. Yeah. Barack Obama was like gray by the time he was done. Oh, dude. He took it like, cause everybody was like, Oh, you know, he looked like a young virile fucking president ready to kill him. By the end, it's like, man, they put him through the fucking wringer. He looked like Mr. He looked like Mr. Burns by the time he was done. I'm like, what the fuck? Whether it's, whether it's business or kids or anything like it, dude. It happened to George Bush too. Remember George Bush when he first became president? Yeah. He strut around. By the end, he was just beat up. Cause I got a cane and shit. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, Seth, you're good. How did your all American roughneck drop go? We it's Thursday. We do, I do like an IG live on Tuesdays just to tell everybody how it fits. Oh, that's a good idea. Every cause we've with all the new products we cut, we would come out with. Like we drop a new style, like a new fitment or a new material. Right. And it's like, well, how does it fit? And it's like, okay, let's me as the model and just be like, this is what we were going for. And cause I'm short as fuck. I'm five foot six, but why? Right. And like, dude, whenever you're like, well, you're not, you're not, you're not wide. You're like, you're what? Yeah. You got a nice, really nice V taper. Damn. He does. No, he doesn't. Seth's got a great V taper. No, he's got a, listen, Seth has a great way of making the illusion of a V taper. So bodybuilding is all about for it. That's right. That's right. Okay. But no, it's good. We just, you know, run through everything. Make sure everybody knows a fitment that way they can watch something in live feed of me trying things on, but it's good. Can I steal that idea? I like it a lot. Absolutely. That's a great idea because we, cause the same thing like you, like we'll come up with this. They'll be like, is it baggy? Is it fitted? Is it this? So yeah, it's a good idea to do that. Like, cause all those little details matter. Cause whenever you buy something, you're like, I want to make sure like, even like the ribbing on a new hoodie, like if it's tight around the waist or is it just hangs the fitment of the sweat pants. Like, are they going to give you the muffin top or are they like a looser fit? What if I always have the muffin top? It doesn't matter what pair of pants I'm wearing. Automatic having a muffin top. You should see, dude, you should see how fucking crazy Ian is. This motherfucker hasn't realized he's retired yet. We go on a bike trip. We're in Northern California. We're riding, we rode 750 miles, which for Canadians is like 1200 kilometers over the course of two days. He's got a BMW GS 1200, which is an adventure bike. And it's got a bag on the back and two bags on the sides, like hard, hard cases that you can put your luggage in. This motherfucker, one of the bags was just full of food. It was just full of, full of fucking meals. So like every hour we'd pull over, I'd drink a Gatorade, have a smoke. So this motherfucker, this motherfucker's pounding turkey and rice. Chicken and rice. I'm like, dude, we're riding motorcycles. You're retired. Why are you packing your fucking meals? He's not totally retired. I mean, he's, yeah, he's still crazy. He's still crazy. He ate, he ate just like he was still bodybuilding. Yeah. I was with him, Saskatchewan. Still huge. Yeah. Oh, he is. Yeah. He is still big. We were the same weight, but it looks different on him for some reason. He's younger, Fred. He's got a few years, a few years. I think he's got, I think he's got thicker bones, maybe. Right. Husky. He's husky. Big weekend for you, dude. Samson won the Olympia. Bro. Bro. Crazy, right? Martin took fourth in his debut. Fuck. I, whenever, like, I, I sent him a message, uh, the other day because like that dude, when you saw him at the night show on Saturday, you fucking saw it in the dude. You saw it. Yeah. Like you saw his fucking passion and love for bodybuilding. Yep. Like he was in a moment and it was like, it gave me goosebumps. Cause I'm like, you can see how much fucking, how much this dude loves bodybuilding. Well, you know, the crazy thing is. So before the show, he was saying he was going to be first call out, but you know, everybody has a, you know, I wonder how much he doubted himself or really believed he was going to be first call out. Right. I didn't know where he was going to be. I'm like, he could be like, to me, first call out of six guys. I know they did. I know they did seven, but to me it's six. So I'm like, in my mind, I was thinking he could be anywhere between five and eight. So I'm like, I don't know if he's going to get first call out. Maybe he'll be top of the second call out. The kid gets first call out. You can see him beaming on stage. And then when they did the, I don't know, second call out or something like that and they moved him or sorry when they, yeah, it was a second call out. I think they were trying to place fourth through eighth or fourth through ninth or something like that. And they moved Hunt, they moved Martin into the middle. All of a sudden this kid's posing like he's just on top of the fucking universe, just harder than I've ever seen him pose. And then when they moved him out, you saw his emotion kind of come down a bit. And that, and that's when he started to fade. The next night when he came back, he was on fire from the second he walked out and it didn't go away. He just stayed that way the whole way through the whole way through Saturday. Whenever they started comparing him with the top three guys and he was, he was hanging with them. Like the most muscular, his most muscular is fucking nuts. Oh, I know. It is nuts. It was side shots too. Yeah. His back shots too. Like everything. The kid's literally, I said this ball in our wrap up. The kid's literally the most balanced bodybuilder on that stage. Yeah. The white Dexter. The biggest. The white Dexter, yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah, it was pretty incredible though. Samson's on top of the world. This motherfucker. Samson is like, he picked the exact right year to finish his journey to like this, this amazing story. Right. And not only does he get a gold dip Sandow, which only Phil Heath has, he gets a, I don't know. I think it's like 80 or $90,000 fucking ring, which is incredible. It's like, it's this fucking big. And then he gets 600 grand. I'm like, what the fuck? And he's the people's champ. Yeah. I'm like, he won everything. He won everything. Yeah. I mean, what, how can you not be excited for the guy? The whole, the whole audience was cheering for him. Like they were, cause when the last two were standing, the whole audience started chanting Samson. Really? And honey too. Good sportsmanship. You know, they, uh, it was nice to see that. Um, but I saw some, but I saw some bad sportsmanship afterwards. Oh, really? Not bad. I just, I saw him say something like it was kind of, it was seemed like it was taking a dig a little bit. He's like, I'm paraphrasing now, but it was like, I will come in bigger at the next show because I worked all year to be this shredded. It was almost like he was saying like, Oh, no, he's almost saying like Samson wasn't as shredded. So if you want size, I'll come back bigger. That's how I read it. I don't know if that's like not what he meant, but that's how I read it. Yeah. Well, he's a competitor. That's for sure. He's a fierce competitor. Yeah. Yeah. But, but go ahead. Like you said, like Samson did everything against the playbook that you would do to become Mr. Olympia. Everything. Everything. Yeah. Amazing, man. All year long and not even just here every year because he travels more than everybody because I hear all the time. Oh man, he's traveling too much. He's never going to win like that. He travels all the time. He competes way more than everybody else. He trains differently. Like he doesn't, there's no scientific shit to his training. It's just hard, high volume crushing the fucking weights. Like he just doesn't do anything like the norm nowadays. He just does his own shit. He has his wife coaching him. His wife's coaching him. Not some big name guru. Right. I was, I was telling Hannah about it because we were watching it. Yeah. And, uh, I was like the white, you know, his wife coaches her, coaches him. And she's like, how does that work? I'm like, well, she used to be a competitor. She's like, but why? And I'm like, because he trusts her. Because it works. And she's like, well, obviously it's working, you know, saw it all. And then, um, and then for it to happen, I was just like, this is, and I didn't know. I remember we were talking about it, how, uh, uh, he doesn't, you were saying, I think it was me and you talking on Saturday, Fuad, about how he doesn't eat a lot or less, less carbs. Right. Because it's already so full and round. Oh yeah. You mean to, to, to, to carb load for the show. Yeah. Yeah. But then it was like leading into it. I can't remember who asked him the question. I was just scrolling through Instagram or YouTube. And it was like, he's like, man, she was starving me because to get, to go from France into this show. To get them harder. Hour and a half of cardio. Yeah. And like, he's like, I wasn't eating a whole lot of carbohydrates because we didn't need it. And she was starving me down to this point. And it fucking worked. Yeah. I think it's funny when people say like in the past, well, he didn't work hard enough. This, this fucking guy comes from a construction background. Like I know what his work ethic is. Cause I like, I'm his boss. There's no, I've never heard him say no ever. He doesn't say no. He doesn't say no. And I'm almost positive. I don't think he's ever said no. Like when it comes to physically doing the work. Like you don't come from a construction background and then be like, I don't want to do an extra half an hour cardio. Right. It's like, it just doesn't make fucking sense. These are bullshit stories that are told to cover somebody else. So his wife put him through the fucking ringer. She's like, you're going to, this is what you need to do. So, and I think also, you know, when somebody's running their mouth about you or people are running their mouth about you or about your wife, especially you dial that shit up a notch. Yeah. So the Samson had a lot of, I call it fury this year that he just channeled into his fucking work ethic. So. Yeah. Cause, uh, careful who, careful who you fuck with. He'll just prove you wrong. And then, uh, Adeline was with us, uh, for a minute, uh, before, you know, she went, she ended up going to bed, but we were watching. I was like, oh, Samson's up. And she's like, that's the guy sat with at dinner at the Pittsburgh, isn't it? And I'm like, yes, that's, that's who you sat with at dinner. He looks great. Amazing. Yeah. So I've, I've heard some things about conditioning and people saying, uh, conditioning should be better and blah, blah, blah. And I'm like, it's not a conditioning show. It's a bodybuilding show. And they are very consistent. Cause if you look at women's bodybuilding, that Angela, I don't know how to say her now last name, if it's yo or yo, I don't know. But the girl that, the girl that Andrea Shaw at the, at the wings of strength, she was peeled out of her fucking mind, like peeled everywhere, front to back, pretty balanced. But Andrea Shaw's physique is just like, it's fucking beautiful. Yeah. And she's not, she wasn't as hard as Angela, but you can't just ignore muscularity, muscle bellies, shape, size. Like these are all things that factor into a show. Yeah. It's wow factor too. It's like, what makes you, what takes your breath away when you see it? You know what I mean? Like, fuck. You see Samson walk out, especially once he stands next to everyone else and you're like, Jesus fuck. What the fuck is that dude? Yeah. You can't deny that. That has to count for something. And then, and then it's also like, what is he improving every year? So let's say, okay, fine. Let's just say, let's just give it to people. The conditioning, even though Hottie's conditioning from the back, wasn't the same as the front. Especially on Friday. Let's just say, fine. He didn't match Hottie and conditioning. Or Derek and conditioning. That's fine. But like, his back got better. His shoulders got rounder. His arms got bigger. So he grew in all the areas that the judges told him they want to see him grow. And then the judges told him they want him a little leaner. And all year long, we've been saying he doesn't have to be as hard as Derek or Hottie. He just has to be close. Which, if you were sitting there, he was very fucking close. I mean, yeah, Derek's glutes are way more peeled. But that's one body part. No one's got glutes like Derek, though. Yeah. When you're talking about overall conditioning, he was almost as conditioned as both of them. So he did what he had to do. And he did exactly what the judges told him to do. And when you look at the whole physique, we were talking about it earlier. Like the back double bicep, for example. Derek's back double bicep is incredible. His back is crazy. His glutes are crazy. But you start analyzing. There's not a lot of detail to the hamstrings. No. The quads don't sweep out so well. And then you look at Samson. Hamstrings are dug out right to the top. Glutes aren't as hard as Derek's. But all other things considered. Derek's weakness is his legs. Well, I want to show you guys something. I think they're so bad. I want to show you guys something. Just because we're talking about this. I wanted to emphasize a point. Because somebody kind of tried to call me out for it. So I'm going to show you guys this. Because I don't talk shit. There's always a basis behind what I'm saying. So. This is Derek from last year to this year. Now, I'm going to show you guys a few things at home. For those people who are watching. Who don't necessarily know how to analyze the physique. First, look at the legs. The legs in 23 are bigger than the legs in 24. Okay. That's noticeably different. Right. The second thing is the upper body is smaller in 23 than in 24. So what you have here is a perfectly balanced physique from the front. So it actually looks better. Because now he's bigger up top. But he's smaller in the lower body. So now it looks completely unbalanced. And I think. And I mean. We'll wait for Tyler's. We'll wait for Tyler's breakdown to come out. But I think this is what lost him the show. Is this imbalance. Because his conditioning. You can see here. His conditioning is pretty similar to last year. And it was still lights out from the back. But this imbalance. Like really, really threw you off. When you were looking at it on stage. And Mike just said it. Mike wasn't even there. So. Like that imbalance. It's glaringly obvious from the fucking live stream too. Like. Yeah. He's standing. He's standing on two little twigs that stick out. With a fucking upper body frame. That belongs on a guy like the size of Samson. Well, because his upper body grew so much in one year too. That's what I'm saying. Like fucking chill out on your upper body, bro. You could really see it in the sweep. Stop doing all these fucking videos. You pulling this and pulling that. And showing your back. Like. Ease up on the fucking upper body. You got it nailed, dude. Start doing your legs. Start really focusing on them. I wonder. Seth. I want to know what you think. Or Paul. Or Mike. Or whatever. I just want to know. Do you think if he would have come in like this. He could have won? It would have made it a lot closer. That's for sure. Like if he came in. If he came in like last year. With this balance. He would have been a lot harder. To beat. Definitely. You really see the quad sweep there. Especially. And like you said. That was a good point that you made. That if his legs are smaller. The upper body got bigger. It's twice as bad. Right. Yeah. Like that's a big problem. Like. Do you think he overdied? What do you think happened to his legs? I don't know. But that's kind of how I feel about it. Because when we saw. It's hard to tell. Because when you see pictures on Instagram. You're like. Oh. His legs are bigger this year. But that was like three weeks out. Or four weeks out. Or something like that. So you're like. There's two scenarios here. Either Instagram's not telling the truth. Or they pushed really hard. To get that final bit of conditioning. And it flattened him out. Yeah. Because last year. Like his legs. Yeah. Like his quads especially. Like I've always thought they're overdeveloped in the inner. And underdeveloped on the sweep. But last year. That didn't seem to be as big of an issue. As it was this year. Yeah. It was still there last year. But definitely not nearly as bad. Yeah. And that picture really shows that. Yeah. I was wondering the same thing. Because last year. I mean. He was complete. He is complete head to toe. Yeah. He obviously. The most muscular. Is his weakest pose. And that's something that. Will always be that. I mean. Not always. He's going to continue to work on it. But hopefully. He starts getting the. The. Chest development. Yeah. To come out. Excuse me. But. Whenever he came out. On Friday. I was like. What the fuck happened? I was like. I was like. Is this a miss? Did he miss somewhere? And it wasn't that he missed someone. It wasn't that. I was wondering. Is it a miss? Or. Did he try and pull too hard at the end? Like. Did he end up. Taking the sweeps. Off of his quads. Like. The last. Couple weeks. Of doing too many stairs. Or doing too much walking. And not staying full enough. To try and get that hard look on there. Right. I don't know. I don't know if we'll ever know. Until the next show he does. To see if the legs actually. Pop a little more. But Friday night. It was not good. Well. I mean. Honey's got a podcast. So maybe. Honey will shed some light on this. On to what. You know. If they over dieted. If they over diuretic. If. Maybe he did something different. With his leg training. Maybe he had an injury. Like. Who knows. Like. Maybe he's. You know. Sometimes that. That's kind of stuff too. People don't know. And a lot of bodybuilders won't say. Like. Maybe. Maybe he had a knee injury. And he couldn't fucking train as heavy. As he normally does. Or something like that. Who knows. There's a lot of different. There's a lot of different scenarios. That could play out. I'm sure. I'm sure Derek will be back. I just wanted people to see. Like. When people are like. Confused as to why. Someone is placing where they are. I'm trying to show them kind of what. I think. Was the culprit. And what I heard when I was there. And it's super unfortunate. Because Derek. Was. Last year. Just lights out. Phenomenal. And it's like. You know. We were hoping to see. That same type of package. And his upper body. Was fucking crazy. And made improvements. In everything that he could. But his legs just were. That lacking part. From the front. From the side. Incredible. I thought it was okay. I didn't think it was. It was so good from the side. I felt like. Last year was like. You think the shop stocks. Were better last year too? I thought they were. I didn't like the way. He was doing a side chest. He was twisting too much. Me, you. Me, you and Ian. Were sitting what? Four rows up last year? Paul? Oh yeah. We were very close last year. Yeah. We were like. Three or four rows up last year. Yeah. And when Derek. Walked out last year. All three of us were like. Holy fuck. This is going to be hard to beat. I was blown away by it. We were all. We were all like. I was making a case for Hottie. But I was like. I think Derek. Is going to win this fucking thing. He had that wow factor. In person last year. That was just like crazy. Like last year was pretty solid. Like you could see. It was Derek Hottie. Samson. Like you could. You were. You were pretty certain. That it was going to end up like that. I was obviously. Was hoping that Samson would place higher. But like. Derek was very. Very complete. And. Everything fit together. And he was a little sharper. Yeah. This year. I felt like. He was way bigger up top. Way smaller on the bottom. And he. He didn't have the same sharpness. He was close. But didn't have the same sharpness. Yeah. So. Watching it at home. I still thought. I still thought. Sorry to interrupt you. I still thought. Derek was at. I still thought. Derek was at Hottie. On Friday or Saturday? Both. Yeah. Watching it at home. I look to me. Just. I came. Like when Derek first came out. I was. I didn't think he was as sharp as last year. But I thought he was still pretty good. But then I thought he got stronger Friday night. As he posed on. But. When he came out Saturday. To me. He looked. Flat. Like he really didn't fill out much. Derek did. Derek. Derek. And Hottie. To me. Again. Just watching the live feed. But. When he came out Saturday. Hottie. I was like. Holy fuck. Saturday. He really got hurt. Well. You're right. Because Saturday. I could see the switch. Because it almost looked like. And I could be way off on this. So I'm sure. Connie or Derek. Whoever. Will shed some light on it. If they want to. It looked like they tried to sharpen him up. More Saturday. Like the condition he had in last year. That's what it looked like to me. But it looked like. It almost like. They were a little flatter. Yeah. They were sharp. They were sharper. But it wasn't like. Yeah. Yeah. The detail was crazy though. On Saturday. I thought from the front especially. Yeah. But I thought Samson was most consistent. On both days. Out of those three. But he came back. But Samson came back. He was a little bit better on Saturday. He was a lot fuller. Yeah. People who were on the fence. Yeah. People who were on the fence on Friday. Were like. Holy fuck. He looked huge on Saturday. Next to those guys. Yeah. Yeah. He. He didn't lose any conditioning. But he filled up like a lot more. Yeah. Yeah. And Andrew came back sharper. On Saturday too. I thought. Well I think that was a switch too. Between Hunter and Andrew. Right. Because Hunter slipped a bit. Yeah. So what about Brandon Curry. What do you think. What did you guys think at home. Like Seth and. I know me and Paul talked about it already. But Seth and Mike. What did you guys think of Brandon Curry. Did he get overlooked. Or was he not separated enough. Why do you think he was. Like eighth or ninth. I think. I think he ended up right where he was supposed to. He was. Ninth I think. He was ninth place. There's nothing like overly impressive about what was going on there. From the live stream anyway. He just looked like Brandon Curry. Brandon Curry is like. Not good enough to beat those guys that were ahead of him. Because they're just younger and pushing harder. And bigger. Fuller. Stronger. So. Yeah. It's like. He's still got a beautiful physique. Don't get me wrong. I'd trade with him any day. Take those arms. Yeah. Like at the same time. It's like you can see. Especially in the legs and stuff. They're coming down. Like getting a little old man leg-ish. Yeah. And like. It just. It just doesn't pop like it used to. All right. Let's take a look. You probably got ninth. You probably got ninth because of all the N-bombs. Yeah. Maybe. All right. Let's see what happened here. Going to our prediction page. Hmm. What about Chris Bumstedt fucking retiring? Holy shit. I had a strong feeling that it was going to happen. Just because it being the 60th. Whenever I was like. I'm looking at the. I'm looking at the logo being like. This is a big year for the Olympian. I could. I could see him calling it quits here. Because. I mean. He's talked about it enough. But. Yeah. He was incredible. You know. Mike Summerfield. Fucking right dude. Looked great. He won. He won a couple shots. I was like. This is close. You know. It would be really cool to see Chris do. Do like an Arnold did for pumping iron. Like walk away from the sport for a couple of years. Get even more famous. And then come back and win it. Probably will. I bet you he will. That would be awesome. That would be a great story. I bet you we haven't seen the last of Chris. Yeah. He's still young. He's still like what? 30? 29? I got to tell you. He was crazy in the fucking auditorium. Like it was really emotional. I think everybody feels like they know Chris. Because we've seen him like. Kind of grow up. As Mr. Olympia. And he's giving his speech. And people are just like. You know. You could hear a fucking pin drop in there man. And then when he. When he was done. The whole fucking audience. The whole auditorium stood up. And cheered for like. Had to be at least a minute and a half. It was pretty fucking crazy. So. You know. If you're. If you're. If you're a youngster. If you're 15. 16 years old. You. And you're. And you know. You have parents. And you're wondering what they're watching. And if they're a Chris Bumstead fan. I mean. The dude doesn't really. Do anything wrong. It doesn't. It's annoying. Like. Do something. Fuck it up. It is. But. Genuinely. Dude's a good. I mean. Every. Every interaction I've ever had with him. Hanging out with him. I'm like. Just a good dude. You know what. I know what it is. He probably likes to get caught. Like I do. I say. He's got something. But that's. That's got to be it. We're going to. We're going to dig. We're going to find something. Guys. I'm going to. I'm going to ask him. I'm going to be like. You like. You like to get caught. Don't you. When you're fucking around. With yourself. No. He is. You call Pakistani people. Packies. Don't you? Yeah. We're having that. Dinaman. You know. We're having this conversation. Before you got on. Do you think it's wrong. To shorten. Like a nationality. Or a religion. Like if you said. That guy's Jewish. And then you said. Like if you said. Peter is a Jew. Is that. Why are you laughing? Is that. Is that wrong? Like. Because if you said. Because if you said. Like. If Fuad is a lead. Like. I wouldn't be. Like. That's not insensitive to me. It's a. It's just a short point. I mean. I think. Yeah. People probably take it offensive. And. Why? For sure. But I mean. But should it be? No. Absolutely not. Like. You're Italian. Right? I'm a WAP. Yes. Yeah. So if I called you a WAP. If I called you a WAP. That's racially insensitive. But. If there was a short form. For an Italian. Fucking eye ties. Yeah. Yeah. That's not. Fucking marinara. Marinara. Marinara boys. Fucking guidos. I just. I just don't think the short form thing is offensive. Like it's not. Who fucking gives a shit? Yeah. Guido is around for a while. Yeah. And then it faded off. Yeah. Yeah. But those are actually. But those are actually racially insensitive. Because they're slurs. Just an Italian name. I'm saying. If you just shorten. The name. Like that's not. How is that racially insensitive? There's that Dennis Leary show. Where he was a fireman. Yeah. I remember that show. So there was a scene. That I just came across on Instagram. A couple weeks ago. And I have it somewhere. I'm going to send it to you. Because all they do is throw out racial slurs. The whole time. They're taking this. Yeah. Like a sensitivity course. And it's funny as hell. Okay. But racial slurs are one thing. I'm asking. I'm only asking about short forms. Like we were talking about. Like Stuart. The Pakistani guy. If we said Stuart is a Paki. Is that insensitive? Well. Okay. So an Aussie. An Australian. That's not offensive. It's not Aussie. It's Aussie. Aussie. I think it's awesome. It's not Aussie. It's not Aussie. It's Aussie. It's not Aussie. It's Aussie. It's two S's. Yeah. But it's pronounced Aussie. It's not pronounced Aussie. Let's agree to disagree. Or what about. What about someone who's Turkish. If you call him a Turk. Yeah. Right. That's okay. That's okay. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. So like. Some people get offended. But it's not really offensive. Like I don't understand that one. It doesn't need to be. Like a Scotsman. Sometimes it's called a Scott. Scott. Right. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Like. If someone calls me a honky. I'm fine with it. But that's actually a slur. That's actually a slur though. What about. What about Japanese. Call him a Jap. That was like. That's a little tougher. They prefer. They prefer slant eye. I know. So what is it? Is it just the harshness sound of the word. When you short form it for certain. I don't think so. I think it's the word you used before. Like you said fucking Jap. That's different. But if I said Carl's a Jap. Let's ask Steve Chan. I always think of Carl Chung. Is Steve Chan Korean? Steve Chan is Chinese. Japanese. Steve Chan is Chinese. Can you call him a Chinaman? I don't think you could. No. You can't do that. I'm Oriental. Yes. No that's not. You can't do that anymore either. Really? I don't think there's a good one. I don't think there's a good one. Oriental's out? I didn't know that either. Yeah. Mike Bolton's. News to me, man. No. Mike's fucking around. You actually didn't know. No. I didn't know that. Oh, got it. Oriental's out. Oriental cuisine. You know what's funny, Paul? That's a good one. I think Jap is offensive. It sounds offensive. Yeah. But I don't know why. Isn't there another racial slur for Japanese? Yeah, but that's not a racial slur. It's just a short form. Yeah, right. Not a slur, but isn't there another short form for Japanese? No. That starts with the. Yeah. What? He doesn't want to say it. What? I don't want to say it. Rhymes with dips. Rhymes with dips. That's not a short form. It's a racial slur. Oh, okay. Can we use that one? No. Guys, this show's going to get canceled. We're not trying to. Why? We're just trying to figure out the rules. We're not talking about racial slurs. We're talking about short forms. Stop saying racial slurs. Well, maybe we've got to be more specific about what we're talking about. I mean, look, people call me a terrorist. I don't give a shit. It's not. It's not true, though. They said it. We say it in a loving way, though. Yeah, yeah. You tell me I smell because I'm Italian. This is my first boy. The terrorist. No, I never said. I never said. No, no. I never said Italian smell. Italians don't have that stereotype. Italians have. You said we cover up our funk with. Italian shower. Yeah, that's different. I guess that's OK, I guess. Italian shower is not racially insensitive. It's just what it is. You make fun of our food all the time. Well, I just make fun of your food. I make fun of our cuisine. I only make fun of your food because you try and make it a lot bigger than it is. It's not. It's just a noodle. Listen. Hey, listen. Japs do the same thing. They take a noodle and they make a wide noodle, a narrow noodle. If I can, they make it 18 different. It's just one dish. I don't know. Can I say jab? I don't think you can. I don't know. I don't think you can. No. Okay. It didn't sound good. Like when I said it, I felt bad. You're like, yeah, the Japs. It feels wrong. It feels wrong. I can't say it. Yeah. Well, just say LOL for it. Just kidding. Just kidding. Just kidding. But again, if you say leb, I don't feel offended at all. No, Lebanese people don't have a problem with that. We'll go lebo. If lebo. Would that offend you? No, I think it's because it sounds happier. Like Jap sounds mean. It's the harshness of the word. It's the harshness of the word. Because lebo, I'm cool with. You call me a lebo. I'm a lebo. Well, then pack. What do you say for Canadian people? Packy's also harsh. Is that harsh? Packy is harsh. It's got a harsh end to it. How about yank then? Like a Yankee? Nah. Yeah, see? I don't know. What do you call a Canadian to offend them? A canuck. That's not offensive. Yeah, that's a hockey team name. Or just a dumb Canadian. I don't know what you call Canadian to offend them. I'm sure somebody in the comments section knows. It's hard to offend Canadians. Yeah, it's hard to offend Canadians. Well, Canadians are so nice, they just apologize. I was just going to say, oh, thank you. That's nice. Thank you. I love the South Park where they depict Canadians. I wonder what... You know what's funny? We need to ask people overseas, like the Japanese or the Pakistanis or the Lebos, what they refer to Americans as. Yeah. If they could comment in the comment section. Yeah. They tend to call them Yankees. That's not offensive, though. They got to have more offensive... No, they probably have something more offensive. Infidels. Well, infidels? Oh, my God. Sorry, I just got that off. I don't know. It's funny. Oh, my God. All right. I didn't mean nothing by that. Death to the infidels. What the fuck? We should probably edit that part of it. Okay. No, we'll leave it in. Why did I know? Seth is so traumatized. He's not saying anything. He's like, I don't... I love offensive shit like this because it's always curious. Like, how are you perceived or like, you know, I haven't done much international travel. So, like, I want the culture shock. I want to be like, holy fuck, you guys live like this? This is nuts. Well, you know who's the... In my experience, you know who the most racist people are? Europeans to other Europeans. When I was with Sightech, I would be traveling with, like, Germans and all they would do is talk shit about the French. Or I'd be traveling with French people and they'd be talking shit about the Italians. Like, it's so fucking hilarious. What do they say about Italians? Whoa, whoa, whoa. They shower with cologne, but other than that. No, but it's funny. It's like... But it's weird. It's like they don't... They're not sensitive about it. Yeah. Because on the Sightech team, you'd have a German, you'd have a Hungarian, you'd have a fucking... A person from the UK. And they make fun of each other's stereotypes. Oh. And they don't get offended. They're totally cool about it. They don't care. We used to not get so offended, you know, here. And then... I think most... I think we were taught to. I think... They taught us to be offended. Honestly, Seth. Honestly, Seth. I haven't come across a normal person that gets offended. Because honestly, I think a lot of it is the intent behind what you're saying. Yeah. Sure. Like, if we were actually, like, nasty people, this conversation would be very different. Yeah. But I think people have forgotten how to accept humor and, like, decipher between humor and hate. Yeah. So everything is just painted with a hate brush. And if you say anything, you're a hateful person. That's why you get no good comments anymore. It's so literal nowadays. Yeah. Everyone takes everything so literally. Like, you can't... You almost have to, like, preface everything by being like, this is a joke. Yeah. It's okay to laugh. Yeah. Like, look at all the shows you could never make today. Oh, my God. Like, Tropic Thunder. Oh, man. You couldn't make Sopranos today. No. You couldn't make anything. That's why movies suck nowadays. Yep. Sopranos is wild. Oh, I love it, man. I love it. I showed Fuetta clip by the other day. It was a Columbus day. Oh, my God. Paul is one of those... Paul is one of those guys... This is our history right here. This is our history. It was great. Paul is one of the Italians that was, like, a proud Mafia member during the Sopranos. I was not Fuetta. During the Sopranos. I didn't take on a Tony Soprano accent or nothing. I'm just joking. I'm joking. Yeah. Okay. All right. Let's go. Let's see who won what. Results. I got to get my food. I'll be back in one second. I don't know if you noticed my name today, but I'd like you to please acknowledge that. Dick insider. Very creative. I like these. I'll get Mike. All right. Let's see here. Samson one. Potty two. Derek three. Martin. Four. Andrew. Where the fuck is Andrew? Andrew. Hunter. Bonac. Rafa. Where's Rafa? Raphael. Who is ninth? Hakeem? I think so. Curry. Wait. Oh, no. Curry. You're right. Yeah. Hakeem was 10. Brandon. Hakeem is 10. Okay. Are we going to add the other rows? Because we went up to 15. Yeah. Might as well. So 11. 11. John. De La Rosa? No. Jewett. Okay. Jewett. 12 is John De La Rosa. Addero. De La Rosa. Addero. Who is 13? Bruno? Let me go back to results. One second. I got it. Bruno or Mo? One second. I got the results right here. Bruno was 13. And Mo. Where's Bruno? Bruno. Mo. Fuda. And the worst call of the night for Paul was Theo. Theo got ripped off. Okay. That's it. Ready? We're going to do this. See if it works. If I win, Paul, you have to just have a mustache for the next, till January, till January 1st. I never agreed to that. Well, we should make some bets right now before I hit results. No, too late. We can't. That's not. Too late. Because you know you picked fucking Samson to be third. That's why, motherfucker. I did not pick him to be third. I picked him to be second. Did you? Yep. I had Hottie first. One second. Let's see what everybody picked before we generate results. Build the suspense a little bit. Predictions. Paul had Hottie, Samson, Derek, Andrew. Okay. Pretty good. They're pretty good. The only one that fucked me up was Bonak. Foda. You had Foda in 10th. That's also fucked you. Your picks are pretty fucking good. I think Martin, listen, somebody sent me somebody, because Martin's not in this, because he was on the old page. I think Martin beat everybody. He had all of them right, except for Nick, because he was obviously on the old page when Nick was still in the show. He had Bonak in 7th? Bonak, he had, somebody sent it to me. He had every single one right, except for Nick. So he must have had Bonak in 8th, because he had Nick, like, in 5th or something like that. Okay. Okay. But if you just moved everybody up, he had them all right. He had himself in 4th. He, like, he had everything right. But he's not in this, so it doesn't count. Yeah. He put himself in 4th, eh? Yeah. Good for him. Yeah. I mean, that was my, that was my dark horse. I was like, I think he might be able to come in front of Andrew and... Is it? We have our dark horses here. Where did we put our dark horses? Seth. Oh, no. Do we take it out? We did do it, but I don't know if we added it. I don't know if it's a program. Yeah. It doesn't matter. All right. Let's go to generate results. Let's see. Wait. Let's see what... James had fucking Hottie winning. Or no, had Andrew winning. I think he just did that on purpose, because he's a huge Andrew fan. Roman had Derek winning. Justin Compton had Derek winning. Ben had Samson winning. Yeah. Samson, Hottie, Derek, Andrew, Hunter. Fitzwater, Nick. Oh, we didn't get to remove Nick from his. Brandon, Akeem, De La Rose. That's pretty close. He didn't have bone. He didn't have bone. He probably would have had bone act 10th here if Nick wasn't there. Did you guys talk about where you would have had Nick if we would have got Nick? We haven't talked about that yet. Okay. Let's generate the results, then we'll talk about Nick. So this gives you a score? Very good. First, make sure your picks are correct. Results, blah, blah, blah. You can check your picks. We did that already. Did any athlete not compete? They will be scored as if they were placed outside of the rankings. 16th. Oh. Well, all of us already took Nick out, right? Yeah, we're good. Okay. Let's go then. Shut up. Oh, my God. Who's that? Brett Wilkin. That's not right. I can't. I got third. That can't be true. Wait a minute. I like that picture of me, Doug. Oh, wait a second. That can't be true. He was a handsome fella there. Brett. Brett had. Hotty Derek Sampson. That can't be right. We're going to have to have a conversation. Check to Steve's corrupted program. Did I win or what? I think I fucking won. Is it because he only picked 10 people? Oh, that's why. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So just make it between the guys. Us five. Or we can just do the top 10. Yeah. Oh, you can do that? I don't know if I can do it now. You just did it and you're in first place now. No. I'm equal. No, no, no. Wait. I don't know how to delete a row. Fuck. I don't. Wait. No. Go back. Go to the results. No. Just right click it, Fuet, when you get on the row. Shut up. Your result. Right click it to the right. Is this right? Yeah. Who did Mike have winning? Let's go back to predictions. How can I win? I told you I won. No, that can't be right, man. I'm tied with you. Oh, he didn't do the top 15. He only did. Oh, because Mike wasn't here last week. Right. So maybe that's. Yeah, remove the row. You had that thing there where you can remove rows. I know that, but I can't do it from the results, Paul. Well, let's just do it ourselves. Let's go. Keep going down. One second. Where's Paul here? Oh, I can't be right. That's right. I don't know. There's no way that's right. I was third a minute ago. No, no. It's actually now it's generated the results. Based on what? This is my breakdown. Look, I got it's right here. The negative one, negative one. Because this is it's a right. Look, Andrew is fifth. I have him in fourth. It's water was fourth. I have him in fifth. These are all right. Raphael. Raphael was eight. So let's cut up your points. OK, go ahead. OK, so three, six, nine, 10, 12, 14, 16 for you. Yeah, it says 16 right there. Oh, OK. OK, I'll check mine. OK. Yeah, you lost. Go to mine anyway. Let's see Paul's breakdown. OK. 24. One, one. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Foda. Foda fucked you. 24. Foda and Foda and Bonac fucked you. And it says 24. Yeah. I don't know if I agree with all those calls, though. What do you mean? You mean the judges at the Olympia got it wrong? Let's see Mike's. Yeah, Mike was reversed. Oh, me and you tied, Mike. Tied. Yeah. Yeah, but Mike only picked 10. Yeah. That's kind of bullshit. That's real. It's not worth it. Yeah, it counts. It counts. He would have got the other five. Look how bad it is. Look, negative two, negative two, negative one, negative one, negative three. Negative three. If he would have picked the other five, for sure he would have lost. But Mike would have had the next five bang on. Bang on. Hang on. Paul just doesn't want me to win no matter what. I have to tell everybody over on Saturday, Fuad was making a lot of solid points, and I was like, I now know why everybody loves to hate to admit when you're right. I still don't know why. I still don't know why. I still don't understand that. But yeah, Seth was really irritated. I was like, man, you're fucking right, dude. All right. Seth is sixth place. Derek first. Samson, the loss two, two. Fitzwater, Brandon. Brandon screwed you on three points. Yep. And Foda killed me. Foda and Bonak killed you, too. Yeah. Bonak killed me, too. Let's see where Ian is, because I had been wrestling with this motherfucker. He was fourth. Two for Derek. Two for Samson. Three for Brandon. Yeah. Yeah. He just got a little bit on everybody. Two, two, two. So does this mean I win the whole season, then? No. I mean, it's the most important show of the year. Well, you and Mike. Well, Mike is second place. And pretty much Ben. No. Mike is second place. Ben is one placing off. Oh, no. Ben only did the top ten also. Yeah. So you, Mike, and Ben. So I win. And Mike and Ben are second. I win. I win. Technically. I win. I win. Look, I created a program for myself to win. I win the whole season. That's it. I won the fucking finals. Thanks, all. Ian's going to be so mad. I won the whole season. He is going to. He's going to eat a dick. He's going to. Talk shit about Ian while he's not here. He's going to be furious. Fuck you, Ian. That guy's horrible at picking stuff. All right. So on to Nick. I got to tell you. I got to tell everybody. And I don't know if I said this already when we were talking about Nick. But I feel really bad for Nick. And I feel like. And I hope this. I know this is probably going to cause some controversy. And I apologize. But I think it's Matt's fault. I have to. I have to place the blame on Matt. Or his health. We don't know which one it is. But. From what I've heard. Nick is healthy. So to me, I'm like. Your coach didn't get you ready. You have a partnership with somebody. Who wasn't able to get you ready. That's it. I don't. I don't think it's Nick's fault. And like I said before. When we've talked about this. Nick is one of the hardest working bodybuilders. I fucking know. So. I feel like he was either given wrong instruction. Or. There's something else going on. That he doesn't want to disclose. But when I look at Matt's. Guys lately. I feel like Sean. Was brought in too small. I feel like Quinton. Was. Had an amazing offseason. And brought in off. And I think. You know. I'm not trying to be. Negative. But. We critique bodybuilders all the time. Why not critique coaches. If. A guy. Has an amazing track record. And then his. His clients start to. Take a turn. It's. Has to be. You know. We can't be scared to say it. And it can't. If you have. One miss. Or two misses. You can be like. Okay. Maybe the athlete's the problem. But when you start having. Multiple misses like this. You have to ask yourself. Is. The coach having a problem. Getting the athlete motivated. Is the coach giving the athlete. The wrong. Information. Is the coach. Has a different strategy. Is the coach. Is the coach busy doing other things. Is he about running his business. Is he have like. Now he's a triathlete. He's got like. All these other things going on. Like. Maybe he's not. Paying attention to the body. Bodybuilding as much as he used to. Like. These questions have to be asked. Because you lost. A major athlete in Nick. From doing the Olympia. And after watching the show. I honestly believe. Look. Nick could have been fifth. Or he could have been battling for first. We don't know. Like. I had to see him in the lineup. Because. Derek's legs were down in size. So now Nick's not going to look as bad. So does Derek. Does Nick beat Derek. Derek. And then. Nick is better from the back. Than Hottie. So does Nick beat Hottie. I think. I mean. You're. You make a lot of. You make a lot of valid points. You do. This is some. Again. I don't. I don't know. Because it's such. It's a subject. That it's like. This is. It's so odd. It's so odd. We're talking about. Two of the top. Guys. In both of their categories. In bodybuilding. Like. Matt is known to be one of the best coaches in bodybuilding. Nick is one of the top bodybuilders. In the fucking world. Right. What the fuck. That's why these things. Have to be asked. Like. What's going on. Right. This is a. This is. You bring up a lot of valid points. And I'm still. Like. I don't even know. I'm. I'd love to know. What in the flying fuck happened. But. I don't know if we'll ever find out. But. You know. It's. It's. Like you said. It's definitely a touchy subject. For sure. How do you. I think. Not realize what's. How do you not realize that. This is going to go the way it's going to go. And you're going to do what you're going to do. Until a week out. Yeah. How do you not see the writing on the wall. Like a month out. Yeah. But that's. But that's why I wonder. What. It's so odd. Do you think. Do you think that if it was that. Them stating. Them waiting to the last minute. Or. Like the last week. Instead of four weeks. Because a lot of us. If they said I'm dipping out. Because I'm not. I don't look good enough at this point in prep. They'd be like. Well you still got four weeks. You got a lot to happen in four weeks. Seth. I don't think that. I don't think that. I don't think that excuse ever. Would work. Whether it was ten weeks out. Or two weeks out. I don't think. I'm not trying to say it would. No. No. No. I know. I'm just. I don't think. Things and they just kept not working. And then. They got to a week ago. They just threw in the towels. No. Are you. Are you saying. That's what they should have said. Like four weeks out. They should have said it. No. I'm just. What I'm saying is like. They might have known. Four weeks out. But they might have been like. Hey. Let's just see if we could do. A couple things. If it works. But I don't think it's going to work. And they just tried. Like. Maybe. But that's. But that's wrong in itself. Because you know. And I'm not saying. You're defending them. I'm just saying. That's wrong in itself. Because. We all know how fast. A body can change. And just because. It's not going to be perfect. It doesn't mean. You're allowed to stop. No. I. That's what I mean. Like. You're not guaranteed to win. So it's not like. You got to go there. And show up. And see how you do. Like everybody else. Like. Get on stage dude. If I was the promoter. I'd be fucking pissed. Out of my mind. I'd be like. Are you fucking serious? You're pulling out of my show. A week before. And like. You're literally a draw. For the fucking show. And like. God forbid. There's something. Actually wrong with him. Like. If we're going. Just based off of like. They didn't like the way he looked. Da da da da da. But like. I'm like. Bro. Too bad. Get on fucking stage. Like. But what I'm asking you Mike. Is that something that. The coach convinced him to do. Because I don't. It seems. It honestly seems like. To me. To be honest. It seems like. Matt's taking the heat. From Nick. I feel like. It's. I feel like. It's the opposite. Like. I feel like. He's like. He's like. Let me kind of. Take care of this. And like. They both know. Whether it's one fucking up. Or the other. And Matt's just stepping forward. Being like. Let me be the one. Be the voice. So you're just like. The athlete. And I don't want to talk about. Who did what. It's just like. I'm your representative. At this point. Like. You know. This is tough for us. And blah blah blah. It's like. I didn't. I didn't think of that. I didn't think of that. Aspect. Maybe that's true. I kind of. I kind of looked at it. The other way. Like. Matt didn't want. To put Nick on stage. So it didn't look back. Bad on him. I wonder. If it was a thing. Where. Maybe Nick. Didn't like the way he looked. And that was causing him. You know. Mentally. To just. Whatever. You know. Stress causing more issues. And then Matt was just like. You know. You're just not there. For this year. Yeah. I guess. I don't think it was. I don't. I think they still. Should have competed. No matter what. I think now. It's way harder to come back. If the story they're telling is true. If there's. If. Like Mike said. If there's. God forbid. Something wrong. Health. Yeah. That changes everything. For sure. Yeah. Yeah. But one thing. That's weird to be. It's a mental thing too. Right. That's what I'm saying. We don't know if this. Nick is like. I hope it's not true. But I mean. You don't know. And it's. I'm not saying it's true. I don't have any information about Nick. I don't know him at all. But it's like. Shit like anxiety. Can pop up on another. Right. And like. And like. Literally overtake your body and mind. Yeah. Right. And there's nothing you do. Nothing you can do. To get away from it. Other than to just run from things. Right. Right. Right. I agree. It's like. If there's a lot of pressure coming into that situation. There's a lot of like. Pressure he's put on himself. There's a lot of pressure people are putting on him. And it's like. Did all this add up. And become something. It could become. Like. I don't know. No one only. Only know. Only he and him and Matt know that. Right. But. Right. But that would make more sense than a physical issue. Like his body's not responding. Because he's worked with Matt since day one. Right. Like Matt knows his body. I mean. It could be. It could be. It could be a combination of things too. It could be that maybe Mike's right. It's anxiety. Anxiety is. Is causing his cortisol levels to spike. And him not to get in shape. Like. Or maybe it's causing. Listen. I don't. I don't want to. You know what. It's a speculation. Yeah. I apologize for all this. We're all just speculating. We should probably just leave it. I don't want to be one of those channels. I might. I might even cut. Cut this out. I don't know. We don't. Before. Before. In case I don't cut this out. I just want to say this. We don't know anything. Other than what everybody else knows. So we're just speculating like everybody else. I just feel like. It would have to be something like. Very significant. Profound. To make. A guy like Nick. Who seems like an ultimate competitor. To want to just be like. Okay. Right. That's. I don't want to. It's just so odd man. Like. Whatever you think of Nick. If you're a hater. You like him or whatever. It's like. You can't deny that the guy's a competitor. And he fucking. Works his ass off. And he's. Right. Big as a fucking house. Like. Him looking. Not ideal. Is still top five in the world. Right. Yeah. Like he's not. Like. He's not walking in a blubbery mess guys. Like. I hate to rape that to everybody. He's not that off. And he has no. Like. He has no. Go ahead. He has no. He has no history of doing this before. No. You know. So it's not like this is a pattern or anything. All right. So anyway. I don't want to. Like I said. I don't want to speculate anymore. We probably shouldn't have gone down that road. But. I do want to talk to. I do want to talk about Seth's question. Because like I said. Nick at his absolute best. In my opinion. Like New York Nick. When he won his New York debut. Or. Arnold Classic winner Nick. That Nick. In my opinion. Is second place. Cool. Cool. Listen. I did not think. Hadi and Derek were at their best. I don't think they were either. I think Hadi's. Legs from the back and side. Especially looked a little smaller. I thought overall. He looked a little bit down in size. And I think Nick. If he looked like those two versions of himself. Not. Not the New York that just passed. The original New York debut. Or the Arnold. I think he's second place. I think he's battling with Samson for first. The more. You know. We meant. You mentioned it. We were talking on Saturday. And. I went back and looked. And he was. Relatively fucking nasty. At those. I still. At those two shows. Yeah. Yeah. I still. I still think that. I think him and Derek. Would have been a comparison. If he showed up looking like that. I think him and Derek. Would have been in a comparison. I don't know where I would have placed him. Just because. From behind. Derek is just. It was. He's just. Scary. From behind. Yeah. But Nick is. But Nick was like that. At those two shows also. I was just going to say. At that. At that Arnold. He was pretty damn good. Yeah. So I think he would have been battling. For that third and fourth spot. There. I don't know if I would have put him. With Hottie. I don't know if I would have did that. Because Hottie. Hottie from the front. Just absolutely. Murders people. Yeah. But that's. That's the thing though. Is. Is you have to start. You have to start looking at it like this. When they're that different. You have to go. Okay. Hottie's going to kill him from the front. And. Maybe not kill him. Because front double. When Nick is peeled and crisp. His abs. Even though he's got a thicker midsection. His abs actually work for him. Because they're so dug out. They don't actually. They're not a hindrance. When he's. Like. In that condition. From those two shows. So. From the front. Let's say Hottie wins from the front. Yes. Nick. Nick for sure wins from the back. And there is. Nobody in the show. With a nastier side chest than Nick. Like. Like. You get that fucking. 24 inch arm. Blasting big shoulder. Leg. Like a fucking tree trunk. I'm sorry. Like. He's going to win that side shot. And his side tricep is good too. Like. He can compare with Hottie. I don't know if he can beat him. But he can definitely. He can definitely compare with him. You can compare. Compare with him. I don't know if he. I don't know. I don't. I don't think he beats him. Okay. But we're. We're. We're splitting here. So basically. We're saying. Second or third. We're saying second or third. Yes. We're talking. Would you. Paul and Mike. Would you agree. Second or third is fair. Not. Not against this Martin. In my opinion. Oh. You think Martin would have beat him. In my opinion. Just going by what I saw from Martin at this show. Based on. But are you. Next last appearance. Yeah. But that's not what we're saying. I'm not saying. I know. But I got to go. My most recent. No. Listen. If you. But that's not what we're saying. If you say Nick at New York. Yes. I think he's fifth. You're saying Nick at his all time. But if you say Nick at his all time best. Like the year he got second. Samson at the Arnold. Or the year. Nick. Arnold. Classic. Winner. Wait. Let me put Walker. Nick. Nick. Walker. Image. Okay. Share. Let's see. I'm talking this Nick. This Nick is fucking wild. Because. He wasn't big enough up top yet. So it's still. His sweet. The sweet. Was nice. His stomach was so chiseled. That his abs actually worked for him. Yeah. Like this is really impressive. Yeah. Yeah. I like that version of Nick. He hasn't looked like that. Yet. And. But I mean. That's the Nick we're talking about. Not Nick. Okay. Like this Nick. Look at this fucking shit. Oh this is a drawing. But this is what he looked like. Here. Is this the real version? Like. That's a good fucking. That's for 21. Yeah. That's. Yeah. That's way better than Nick. Right now. I think. Look at. Look at this. Yeah. That's good. That's really good. And then look at the back shots. Like he's peeled man. Yeah. Look at the fucking bicep peak on this one. Yeah. Yeah. That'd be tough to beat for Martin. For sure. But I'd love to see that comparison. But. Look at that. Yeah. That. On the back. He's great. Like. Look at this. Yeah. That's a great shot. Look at the details. Hamstrings. That was. That was the. That was the one right after COVID. That was 21. This is. This is the one where he lost to Samson and Andrew. And I thought. This was even one of his better looks too. He was a little smaller. Like from the front. It was not as good because his stomach wasn't chiseled. But when his stomach is peeled. Like when his stomach is hard and dry. Like there. It actually works for him. Like. Yeah. When I see him in this shot. Like you see the fucking way his abs pop and shit. Mm-hmm. Like. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean definitely. You're right. I mean definitely that version of Nick. Would be hard to beat. Yeah. See. I don't know. I think in that shot. Martin still beats him because of shape. And. The front double. Yeah. Yeah. But anyway. But it would be a good battle. But I would have. I'd have him in that battle with Martin and Hunter. So you'd have him beating. You'd have Derek beating him for sure. Yeah. But. At this. Last year's version of Derek for sure. No. This year's version of Derek. This year's version. Maybe that might be a closer battle. We're putting. We're putting the best version of Nick. Into this Olympia. Okay. Then maybe you're talking third. Yeah. In that. In that battle for third or fourth. Yeah. I think that's. Yeah. But I don't think he's top two. I think he compares with Hadi. I don't know if he beats him. All right. Let's do some questions. Let's do some questions. I think Martin's doing prog. I don't know if I'm supposed to say that or not. What is that? I might have just spilled the beans. I think Martin's a packy. He's a chap. I don't know. I don't know if he is. I don't know if I'm supposed to say that. What is that show, Fouette? Four weeks. Yeah. I'd say a month. Anybody else confirmed? Not that I know. No. Well, Samson's probably going to do it. No. I think Samson's. I think Samson's waiting for the Arnold. Yeah. Okay. He wants another big. He wants another big fat check. They're going to raise the money for that one too. Probably. No. They are. You think they're going to raise it again? I would be surprised. It's a race right now. This dick swinging contest between bodybuilding shows is great for bodybuilders. Sure is. It's going to. Samson's going to do all the big shows and walk away with like $3 million this year. I told Samson to just do every show this year. So he only has to compete against Derek and Hadi next year. Yeah. Just take everybody's. Take everybody's. I said. Just go on every single show with every single one of them. Well, I said. Yeah. I shouldn't say anymore. Forget it. Imagine someone did that. Someone like Samson just did every single show and they actually beat this year and won every one of them. I think he does want to keep competing. I don't know how long. I know he wants to do the Arnold. I don't know what else he wants to do. Okay. Let's do some questions. 255 questions. Martin. Martin says, when do we, when are we doing my post O interview? Tomorrow. Tomorrow we're doing it. I'll call you. Where do you think New York pro version of Nick would have placed? We just said that. Where would Keon place in the open? Where would Keon place in the open? I'm going to say, I'm going to say, I don't know how small he would look next to Andrew and Hunter, but I'm going to say either right behind Andrew Hunter or right in front of Andrew Hunter. I was thinking the same thing. So in front of Bonac and Rafa in front of that group there? I don't know. It depends how big or small he looks with this in this lineup. He's only 205 pounds. Yeah. I know that would, that would definitely stand out the size of that lineup. I don't know. I don't like he's, he's absolutely perfect, but I don't know if like that size discrepancy is going to hold him back standing next to Andrew who outweighs him by 80 pounds. Right. You know what I mean? Like stuff. Oh yeah. Should Hunter have placed ahead of Andrew? If he would have looked like he looked on Friday on Saturday, I think he would have. I think he would have. Yep. If Samson stopped training and only died at how many years would it take for Paul to beat him for Mr. Olympia? That's a great question. Next year. You better get back into Jim Samson. Never. Never. I don't think I could ever. No, no, never. Not my lifetime. Let me remind you, never. I don't care what I took and what, you know, it doesn't matter. What did Fuad get for his birthday? I got a Ninja Foodie. Nice. Oh yeah. It's like a crock pot, Dutch oven, steamer fucking thing. Yeah. You love, you love your cooking accessories. I love kitchen appliances. And I got it. Really? I didn't know this. Dude, if you go into my storage room, it's got, I got every kitchen appliance stone demand. My wife is constantly like, come on, not another one. You're going to use it once and you're going to put it in the storage room. I'm like, I use it when it's needed. Right. A lot of people need, a lot of people need six air fryers. This is gold. And I got, uh, I got, uh, a bunch of helmet racks because I wanted these helmet racks for the garage so I could hang all my helmets. Cause I have like five or six motorcycle elements now. So I got that too. So anyway, um, if Fuad and Ian both went shot for shot at each of their best physiques, who would win what shot? I would win all of them. Next question. Moving on. Uh, do you think bagels really need holes in them? If you've got a bagel without a hole in it, would you be disappointed or happy? Then it's just a speed. It's a BUN. It's a BUN. It's a BUN. You're right. Yeah. It's a ciabatta. Yeah. It's a ciabatta. It's a ciabatta. Who do you guys think will take over as the next classic physique champ? Mike. Summerfield. Great. Amazing. I think it opens it up. I think dude, Mike Summerfield from last year to this year, dude made crazy improvements. How about Wesley? What happened to Wesley? I don't know. Do you think Wesley got worse or do you think just standing next to better guys exposed the legs? That's what I think. I think that I don't think he was, I don't think he, he didn't have the same pop as he did earlier this year, but I don't think that he, uh, I think standing next to some of these guys just changed the lineup for him. Yeah. That was, that was a tough top five. Oh, those guys were incredible. Yeah. Classic's getting so competitive. Me and Ian had a hard fucking laugh in Vegas when we were driving because I, we were talking about this guy. This guy. Say his name, Paul. Josema. Josema. Seth, say his name. You know. Josema? Mike. Mike, say his name. Josema. Josema. Josema. Jose, man. Ma. I said to Ian, I said, he said Josema or something like that. I said, I thought his name was Josema. So Ian goes, Ian goes, what is he? Fucking Asian? Jose Ma. He's Latin and Asian. He was doing an Asian accent. We were fucking pissing ourselves. We were pissing ourselves laughing. I was like, I don't know why I assumed it was like that. He goes, he's not fucking Asian, man. Why the fuck would it be Josema? You're reading it like two words, two names. Yeah. Oh my God. We fucking pissed ourselves laughing. It was so bad. I'm such an idiot. Why would it be Josema? I think Paul was right the first time. I think it's Josema. Oh, really? Yeah, I think so. Or Josema or something. I don't know which one it is. But anyway, what were we talking about? Oh, where do you guys think? So you guys think Mike Summerfield will take over for Chris? Are you saying that because he was second and it's just obvious? Or do you think? I think he's the first guy to push Chris a little bit. Okay. But do you guys think that's the standard for classic? I don't know. Look, he's amazing. But I don't think it's the same kind of standard that Chris set. It's not the same structure. That's for sure. It's a different structure. Well, I was just going to say that over the next year, we're going to see everybody show up. But then at the Olympia, that's going to be the new standard. Like, is it a stature thing? Are we going to see somebody that's, you know, I don't know. I think that Mike, out of everybody else, I think that it was, I think Mike was the one that's been the most recent over the past few years to push CBUM. But I don't know if that's the standard that they're looking at. Well, he is. It's the first time in a while that he's split points with someone. Yeah, it's been, I think, three years or something. Yeah. But I don't know. I really like Mike's physique. I think he looked great this year. I think that Erz showed up better this year than he did last year. I think Dino slipped drastically. I don't know. Do you think Dino, like, comes back? Yeah. I don't know what happened to his prep, man. He was sweating like crazy at pre-judge. It was a mess. Really? Yeah. Yeah. His whole back was soaked. Yeah. Mess. Yeah. I don't know what happened to his prep. Something obviously went wrong. I think with Mike, like, yeah, I know what you're saying, Fouad. Like, the structure, you don't think of his structure as a classic. I like Ramon's physique better than Mike's. You do, eh? But when you go shot for shot, who do you have winning? Well, I don't even mean that way. I don't mean, like, I'm not talking as a bodybuilding analyst for a second. Because I don't pretend to know classic. Yeah. Like, I'm not an expert at classic judging. Yeah. I just, if you're asking me what type of physique I prefer, if it's after Chris, I would want to look like Ramon. I agree with you ideally, but I think Mike has a better physique than Ramon right now, though. I think, and I think. I mean, if you're talking in judging standards, like I said, I don't know that well enough to argue. I just. But I think even when they have a guy like Mike who may not have that same structure as a guy like Ramon or Chris, how he presents himself on stage, oh, I think, can make him more conducive to classic, you know? Right. Right. Right. Ramon just seems to be like all arms. Like, if you take away arms and look at Ramon's physique, you're like. He's definitely limb dominant. Like, his torso is smaller. Is he, like, at a weight cap? Is Ramon right there? Ramon's close, yeah. As far as I know, he's very close, yeah. He has to, because that's why the limb dominant thing is big with him. It's like, you'd expect him to, you know, size up, but he just. But I always, you know, sometimes you like, sometimes you, things appeal to you that you don't have yourself. And I was always, like, a torso dominant bodybuilder. So when I see guys that are limb dominant, I'm, like, jealous. Yeah. Because, yeah, you have a little bit smaller chest. Maybe your back's not as huge. But, like, it always looks cool when you have big arms and big legs. It just kind of fits better. Like, if I could trade, I would trade. I would rather have big limbs and a small torso or a smaller torso than the reverse. I think Ramon has one of the coolest physiques. Just, like, if you saw him in the gym, you'd be like, motherfucker. That's what he's going to look like. Yeah. Yeah. Cool gym physique. I don't, like, I like Orr's physique. I like Mike Summerfield's physique. I think Wesley is probably the closest to, like, golden era because he has smaller legs and those guys all had smaller legs. But I don't think that's what classic is supposed to be. I don't think so. I think that's what Herr is. I think the imbalance is just too much with Wesley. I don't really know too many of the other guys. Like, when I think of Matt Grego, I think of, like, a bodybuilder because he's fucking huge. Huge. Uh, Michael DeBool is shredded as fuck, but maybe a little bit too straight up and down. Doesn't really have a round physique. Uh, Breon feels, like, almost, like, a little bit smaller 212 guy. Doesn't necessarily feel like he's, fits the standard that Chris has set. So, I don't know. Like, I don't, I don't really know all the guys. So, I don't know enough. Some of the newer guys, like that, uh, Managate. You guys know who Managate is? Let me show you this guy. Yeah, the Jose Omar? No. Jose? Managate? That Nunez fella. Yeah, he's good. There's a lot of good young guys in classic. This young guy, I think this was his first year. I love this guy's physique. Oh, yeah. This guy. Uh, see, there's a video. Looked great. Yeah, look at that X-frame. Look at those legs. Jeez. Look at that fucking pop on them sweeps. Look at that. Look at the fucking waist on this kid with the fucking slur. What the fuck's going on here? I didn't say he was Asian. Oh, Managate. He's a Managate. I said Managate. That's different than Managate. Hey. Man, this guy's really good. Right? He's really complete. Really like his physique. There's a lot of guys with a lot of potential. Look at this. Watch from the back. Check it out. Look at that. He could use a little bit bigger back. Yeah. I mean, his legs. But even like. Look at that. It's good, man. It's complete. Yep. One more dancing to the back. It's crazy that his upper back doesn't match his legs. Yeah. Yeah. You'd think it's the opposite. It's the only thing he really needs by the looks of it. I think he's young. I don't know. I don't know how old he is. But he's very good. That's him next to Wesley. And Jose Ma. Jose Ma. Jose Ma. Jose Ma. Jose Ma. That's a great pose on him. Yeah. Young guy. Anyway. Good for him. Okay. On a scale of one to ten, how proud are you of Samson? Twelve. What do you think you're going to say? One. Pretty disappointing. Four or five. Three. Three. He could do better. Could have been better. Come on. Do you wash your hands before or after peeing? I don't wash my hands either before or after. Yeah. Be a man. Well, I don't because I'm usually wearing a jogger of some sort. And if I just pulled my pants down, then it just slops out. Yeah. And so then when I'm done, I just. Flop it. You tuck it up under your balls and just let it hang there? Yeah. Then you just like pull it up real quick? And then I just. When I'm done, I just put it back in and I don't ever have to touch my dick. I do the same. Do you really put it under your balls? The waistband? What? And just let your dick float there? What are you talking about? Like when you pull your pants down. Pull your dick out. And do you like put the pants underneath your balls and just have your hand. Or do you just keep your hand there? No, I keep my hand on the waistband because if you let the waistband tuck under your nuts, it cuts off your pee stream. Yes. Kind of. Yeah. You can still pee, but it's not as. It won't drip empty. You don't get your free flow. I just put my pants around my ankles and pee. I saw a guy doing that at the rest stop. Stap just takes his pants all the way off. Stands there. I stopped to take a visit at the rest stop last week. Rends over with stiff legs to pick them up too. Seatballs. Oh my God. Get that hamstring stretch. Yeah. Oh my God. No, who washes their. I wash my hands after. What do you guys. Do you guys. What? Before or after? I do it in public. At all. You wash. You wash your hands before or after? Oh, after. Only in public though. Yeah. At home I don't. At home you don't wash your hands. No. Okay. I don't do it in public either. Fuck everybody. No. Don't come near me then. But if you don't touch your dick, do you have to wash your hands? No. That's exactly right. Why am I taking this clean though? I understand this whole thing. It literally is not even exposed to the elements. It's in my fucking pants all day. Yeah. But your gooch is probably sweaty. And shit. Your pubic hairs. Yeah. But you're not touching your gooch when you pee. I'm just asking a question. When you pee. Am I giving myself a rub down when I get done? Do you touch your dick when you piss? I don't touch my dick when I piss. I'll touch my dick. My dick. No. Not really. No. No. What are you laughing at, Mike? I don't touch my dick. Nope. Nope. I'm a no dick toucher. What are you laughing at? I just pictured both of you standing there next to us. Yeah. Go to work, man. Well, why do I need to hold it? I don't need to direct it. You shake your body to get it off and then pull it back. No. No. You shake the band. Yeah. You shake the band. And that shakes the whole shaft. And that shakes the whole dick. I'm lost. How small is your dick? Where are you putting the band? If I pull my pants down, my dick flops out, and the band is right at the base of the shaft, but my balls are still underneath. Uh-huh. And then I'm pissing. I pull mine down a bit lower. And then when I'm done pissing, I just shake the band. And then it shakes my dick. And then I- You get it all over your pants. No. You got to shake properly. Yeah, you do. No, I don't. No, I don't. You do. No, I don't. I mean, how many dicks do you think you guys have shook? Like, if your dick's on your hand, and there's other dicks on other hands. But my dick's not on my hand. Oh, yeah. I must have touched a whole bunch of dicks, though, because I know not a lot of guys wash their hands. The back of my thumb might touch my bag for a second. Yeah. Because I'm holding it down like that. So there might be a little touch there. Like right here. You might have a gun. Right there. Nobody touches that. But they do, because if I shake their hand, I'm grabbing this. You don't give a little shake? No. You shake the pants. No. I'll stand there until it's done. Listen to me, man. You have piss all over your pants. No. There's piss everywhere. Especially as you're getting older. You know what I'm talking about. There's still a lot of pee left in there. No. No. He means if you shake it with the band, it's flipping back and forth. Oh. No. No. See. Yeah. You don't have to shake it. You're a big guy, Mike. It's different for you. I get it. You're just like giving a little. Yeah. But you don't have to jiggle it that much where it's flying all over the place. You're just giving it a little. I know. But still, it's like when you go to pull it up, there's pee inside your underwear. But see, Mike, you're a big guy. You're a big guy. You stand way above the stall. I don't. So when I'm. Yeah. Like you're. Like you've got a lot more leverage. How tall do you think he is? He's only like six. Mike's only like six two. No. No. I'm six foot. Yeah. He looks six two. He's three. I'm five six. Yeah. Six two. Now you're five six? I'm five. I got measured. I'm five six and three quarters. This motherfucker shortens his height. Just for his own. I've lost an inch and a half. I see five and a half. I'm five six and three quarters now. You're bigger than this. He's like, I'm five four. I'm five six and three quarters. What the fuck? What is it? I don't understand what the height has to do with him shaking his dick. Because I don't. So the bull. The what do you call it? The urinal. Are you talking about the urinal? Yeah. So like, yeah, the urinal. So it's right around dick level for me. So when I. You're not four feet tall. That thing's so fucking low. I don't use the kid ones. I use the adult ones. The ones that are like mid-level. Wait. So when I'm pissing in there. Yeah. So you're pissing in there. Then what? So pretty much like my whole shaft is over the urinal. How long is your dick? I'm done. He's fucking got a hog hanging out there. He's just like. He's got 12 inches. He's like a horse dick hanging out there. 12 inches flaccid. He's like, and then I just turn and just knock it kind of stuff. When I rip out that anaconda and start winging it around. This guy. I'm not trying to say anything like that. It's at dick level. So you take your dick out. It's in the urinal. Well, it's slightly above dick level. Sorry. The urinal is slightly below my dick level. All right. So what's the problem? No problem. Well, you're saying he's. You're saying he's taller. I'm saying, what is the problem? Oh, you like because he drips on his pants. So my pants are pretty much. I'm saying you're doing. Oh, I thought you did. You guys aren't touching your dicks. Yeah. Don't need to shake it off. Don't need to. Just a little bit of dribble. You just go like this and it dribbles out. And just make sure you're right over the urinal. Yeah. Your shaft. Seth. Do you grab your dick and shake it out? I don't wash my hands, period. You're done. If you shake my hand, you feel my dick. I never wash my hands unless I get something on it. Do you. What about your number two? No. You don't wash your hands with number two? Okay. Here's. Depends on messy. Oh, I do. I got like crazy in there. You guys are animals. After number two, you got to. This is how this is how this works for me. If I'm at a meet and greet or I'm out somewhere and I shake a lot of hands and touch a lot of people or I'm doing a lot of stuff, I will wash my hands before I touch my dick. 100%. That's smart. Yeah, because I'm like, okay, if I just, I was at an event and I just touched a hundred people's hands. Yeah. I'm like, hey, bud. I don't know. That's a hundred people touch your dick. Yeah. I don't want them there because I'm hoping Hannah's going to put her mouth there maybe after I'm done. So I don't want all that. Yeah, but you're going to shower before Hannah puts her mouth there. Maybe. Oh, I feel bad. His hands will be clean though. My hands are clean. But no, it's just, you know, respect out of my dick. But then like after, again, like my dick is the cleanest, one of the cleanest things on my body. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. Top two. Top two. Top two. What's first? What's first? Top two. I don't think so. I don't think so at all. I think the skin everywhere else is cleaner than the skin on your dick. Your dick. But it's covered all day for it. There's no exposure to germs. There's no exposure to elements. Paul. Germs fester in hot, humid areas. Your dick. They have to have dirt there. You're a dick in ball. No, you don't. Your dick in balls. There's oils in your skin. Your dick in balls are the fucking hottest place on your body. And they're covered. So that means that shit's just musty and festering. Why do you think your dick stinks when you've been running around for two hours? My dick has never stuck. My dick has never stuck. Okay. So you come home from a leg day and you didn't shower beforehand. You went to work all day. Then you went and trained legs. And you go home and your balls smell like roses. My ass might stink. But my dick is fine. I beg. You know what? We're going to ask your wife. I beg to differ. I beg to differ. There's definitely a study out there about this. There's got to be a study. Guys, come on. There's a reason Manscaped makes fucking ball deodorant. Okay. You know what? I'll give you that. In the summertime, it's hot. It's humid. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. That's what I'm talking about. But my dick skin is fine. No, man. Because the shit's sweaty and musty and fucking. My dick don't sweat. My balls might sweat. My dick don't sweat. Yeah. But that's all in one area in your fucking underwear. But my dick rides above my balls. So it's not touching. That's going on a shirt my dick don't see. My balls stink. My dick don't stink. I'm just saying, like, the skin on my stomach is probably cleaner than my dick skin. Oh, yeah. Probably. There's no sweat. Less germs. There's no sweat. There's no mustiness. It's still covered by my clothes. Well, why do you assume that mustiness and sweat means dirty? Yeah. Because your skin has oils and shit. And when that stuff, it can collect bacteria. That's why they tell you to keep your balls dry. I think bacteria, though, has to come from an environmental influence, too. No, it doesn't. You have bacteria in your body. No, it doesn't. It doesn't come from a roadside. That's good back. Okay. This is what I want you to do. I want you to fucking... Tomorrow in the morning... Let's get Petri dishes. Tomorrow morning. You torture. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Tomorrow morning, don't shower. Go do cardio. Go to work. Go to the gym. And then just go to sleep. Don't fucking take a shower afterwards. And then the next morning, get up and smell your nuts. Smell my dick or my nuts? Yeah, exactly. The whole area will stink. What do you mean? It's a fucking one inch difference. We need to know where we're rubbing. Underneath? Underneath or on top. We're going to take it. Yeah. If you were just to smell the top of my dick, I'll guarantee you it wouldn't stink. If you were to take a line off the top of my dick, it would be perfectly dry. I bet you. If you took your fucking underwear off after everything I just said, the whole room would stink. I agree with you. My underwear would stink. But that's not coming from my dick. That's coming from my balls. My ass. Yeah. It's been so many times he's farted that day, too. But that. And shit. Big, big, big, big problem. All right. Yeah. You know what? That's fine. Your shaft is. I disagree. Your shaft. Your shaft is all great. A degree is great. Come on. We're good. I'll prove it to you right now. Come smell it. I'll come to your house right now. Maybe we're getting a little too much into the weeds. Oh, my God. Never tell me my shaft stinks. Ever. Okay. Let's move on. Okay. Great conversation, guys. I think we dissected that subject enough. Yeah. Okay. Top five or ten favorite action characters of all time without superpowers. Without superpowers. Batman. Batman. Without superpowers. All the good ones have superpowers. I don't know. I guess they're talking about, like, yeah. Rambo. Yeah. The action guys. Commando. Arnold. Arnold, for sure. He's not a superhero. Let's go to the next one. This one's bunk. Let's go to the next one. Jason Statham's pretty good. The bee killer or whatever the fuck he is. Bee keeper. Bee keeper. That was a great movie. Did you watch it, Mike? Yeah. It wasn't as bad as I thought. Have you guys watched A Million Miles Away yet? It's amazing. Yeah. I missed that. I missed that one. What do you recommend to lose water retention after a show? Don't eat like a fucking slob. Take a diuretic. You don't know. Diaside, dieside. Diaside. Don't take a diuretic. Any of the sides. Good evening. Any of the sides. Any of the sides. Don't take a diuretic. Cut your water. Would you please. I'm just joking. I'm sorry. Your fat ass is doing cardio again. Don't take a diuretic. Don't take a diuretic. Sorry. Don't cut your. Don't cut your water. That's what Paul puts in his reviews for the people who want feedback. He's like. Take a diuretic. Cut your water. I recommend next time you cut your water for the next couple days. Guys. There's some people that actually want to learn something. Okay. I'm sorry for that. Like. Okay. I just. I don't want some kid watching this being like. Oh. I'm retaining 20 pounds of water after because I ate a pizza. So I'm going to take a diuretic. And then destroy my kidneys even further. Okay. I'll be clear. I was joking. Don't do that. Okay. After a show. Your body is fucking hypersensitive. Your kidneys have already taken a beating from the diuretic before the show. And cutting your water before the show. Make sure you're super fucking hydrated. If you're retaining water. Don't cut your water. Don't take a diuretic. Cut your carbs. And do some cardio. That's a cardio. Yeah. Because the mistake people make is they get back on an off-season diet. They start eating three, four, or 500 grams of carbs. And they stop doing cardio. And then they retain a shitload of water. So cut down on the fucking binge food you're eating. Or cut down on your carbs. And ease back into it while you're doing some cardio. And water. Yeah. I would keep your water high. And don't take a diuretic. You're trying to get your body back to a regulatory state. You're finding that homeostasis. And you have to do it in a nice, smooth transition. And it's going to suck. Because you're going to be like, I just want to eat all this food. Don't do that. Yeah. You become very regular with your water. And get on the cardio so that your body starts, you know. Seth, what do you think about one cheat meal a day? Because I think I got to a point where I realized, like, my post-show binge. As long as I wasn't eating, like, an asshole all day long. I could have, like, one thing. Like, if I had a burger or something, my body would regulate itself pretty quickly. Yeah. I think that it's really tough depending on, like, the type of person that you are. Whether you're a sweet or a salty person. I think that plays a role. Because, like, your hormones are a mess. You know, you just depleted yourself. You fucked your water all up. And now, like, don't binge. Just go have a nice dinner and a dessert. Don't go eat like crazy after the show. You're going to fuck yourself up. And then, like, every day after a show, if you're, like, if you're starting to freak out, go back to a reward system and be like, hey, in the morning I'm going to have a muffin. And that's your thing for the day. Or, like, you're like, oh, I'm going to have, if you're a sweet person, you're like, I want to eat these cookies. You've got to keep doing your cardio. You've got to stay on your program. Because your body needs to get back into that homeostasis and find a regulatory space. Don't cut your water. Don't do anything dumb. And don't overeat. But you can reward yourself with that. That's what I did after I had one fucking wild showing that, like, didn't know what just happened to my body. Yeah. Yeah. So does that mean you're coming back to Detroit? Is that what you said? I mean, I'll be in Detroit. I don't, I'm not going to. But probably on stage, though. I'll probably have my clothes on on stage. Maybe take my shirt off. Maybe take your pants off, though. We'll put you on a poster just in case, though. Yeah. Yeah. You know what? Shirtless. Shirtless on a poster. Yeah. Just in case we might come back. Right. We'll see. If you decide not to, that's fine. Yeah. We'll take it off the week before. Yeah. Jesus. Do you crave flavor or volume more in prep? For example, would you prefer your coach give you a single burger as a replacement for your usual post-workout meal or substantially larger portion of rice with each regular meal? That's actually a good question. So do you prefer a smaller cheat or do you prefer more volume of clean food? Volume. I would have went with volume back when I computed. I don't know. Do you feel full? I think Mike's right. I prefer to feel full over. Because if you gave me one burger, I'd be like. I'd be like. Smash through that fucking thing. It would just piss me off. Yeah. I'd be more angry. I think it depends on where you are in the prep as well. Yeah. Yeah. Early on, maybe. But we're talking like you're hungry. Like it's three weeks out. Think about one single patty burger. It's not going to fill you up. Versus like a couple days of high carbs. Versus like 150 grams of cream of rice. Like a big ass fucking bowl. Oh, yeah. Berries and peanut butter. We're talking about one fucking one small burger and not like a fucking juicy burger with a french fries. Fuck them. Give me the volume. No, no. Let's say it's one meal. Let's say it's one burger, french fries, and a drink. You'll be pretty full after that. I will. All right. Three weeks out, you might not be. I will be. I will. I need like six of those. Yeah. You know what I wish was around when I competed as cream of rice? I know it was, but it wasn't like a thing. Me either. Cream of rice is so fucking amazing. I never got into it either. You know what's funny? You said that though, Mike? The more hungry I am, the more I want to eat oatmeal. Really? Because it keeps you full longer? Well, because I could always, the macros are lower. Like you get more volume for the same macros. Right. Okay. Right. So like making me overnight oats and I love them. Yeah. Yeah. Like when I'm really, really hungry, like during a prep, because John would always give me the option of switching between cream of rice and oats. I would always start to prep with cream of rice. And as I got more hungry, I would put in more oats because I felt like I got more volume. I find cream of rice, it digests so fast. I'm hungry. That's the other thing too. 30 minutes later. And when I used to eat cream of rice during my preps, I used to do cream of brown rice. Oh, so it could be full a little bit longer? It's not. It just felt like it digested a little slower because when I ate the cream of white rice, I would go hypo. Yeah. Because it would hit me so quickly and then disappear and I'd be like, I'd go hypo like an hour later. Yeah. So I would do cream of brown rice because I felt like it digested a little slower. Because you're brown. Probably because I'm brown. Because you're Lebo. Because I'm a Lebo. I think Lebo is cute. Like I'm going to put it on a shirt. Yeah. If you were Keon, would you stay in 212 or move to open? Why? You know. 212. It's a good question. It's a good question. But yeah, I agree with you guys. I would be like, you know what? I'm staying where I am because I'm killing everybody. And he's still quite a bit, not quite a bit, but he still has some room under the cap, I believe. Seven pounds of muscle is a lot. Yeah, it's a lot of muscle. Yeah. As a fan, I'd like to see him do an open show. Seven pounds of muscle on that frame is a lot of muscle. For sure. If I were him, I would do an open show like during the year, like Detroit. Yeah. I would do a good, yeah. Detroit. You know? Because you've got to think Seth is coming back, plus Keon's doing it. Right. I mean, it's a good. Bumstead's coming back, too. Samson might as good to it. I think Samson and Martin are doing it as well. So it's really like a mini Olympian. Chris Bumstead. Yeah. Happy birthday, Fouad. Salute you and the hostile team. Got a lot of motivation going on over there. Thank you. One second here. I got a repeat of these things for some reason. Are you guys coming down to Australia anytime soon? If somebody from Australia wants to fly the bro chat crew down there for a live bro chat episode, we are all game to come down. We love Aussies. Aussies. The Aussies. Not Aussie. I don't know what an Aussie is. A-U-S-S-I-E. Aussie. It's not. Okay. Okay. Have you seen the... R is A-W-E. R. What's A-U then? I don't know. But not R. It's awesome. R. It's also R. Yeah. R. R. Yeah. So Aussie. It's not. The S's are... What other situation is two S's a Z sound? It doesn't matter. Assistant. It's not a Zistant. Assistant. Yeah, exactly. It doesn't... It's not the fucking point. Okay, here. If I say... Miz is zippy. Here, watch. I'll give you one. I'll give you one from the fucking... This dude on Instagram does these all the time. It's hilarious. Okay. Spell Cove. Cove. Yeah, Clove. And then Love. Spell Cove. C-L-O-V-E. No, no. Not Clove. Cove. What? Cove. C-O-V-E. Now spell Love. C-O-V-E. Why don't they sound the same? They do. They don't. One is Cove and one is Love. It's not Love. Oh, yeah. I don't know why. Exactly. I don't know why it's Aussie, but it is. Aussie. Like, how confused he is. Just say it with an Australian accent. You're right. No matter what... Maybe one other example of two S's making a Z sound. Okay, wait. We're going to find out right now, Paul. Aussie. Where? Aussie. Wait. How do I... Aussie. Yeah, that's what I said. Aussie. Aussie. No. No. Sorry. I'm right. You don't want to admit I'm right. You're not right. I am right. Tell them to pronounce it in Australian. You just felt Aussie wrong for it. Shut up. Can you hear that? You are looking at how to pronounce this word. Wait. Can you hear that or no? I can hear that. One second. Can you hear better if I do this? As well as how to say more Australia-related words. So, make sure to stay tuned and consider subscribing. This is the short form for the word Australian. So, how do you go about pronouncing it? Aussie. Aussie. Yes, it's a double L. You have to pick the one. It's a double Z. You got Vincent Price there, fucking, as a narrator. Vincent Price. That guy sounds cryptic. Welcome to Australia. I told you. That's how they say it. Aussie. They don't say Aussie. I'm having Aussie rules. We've seen two different pronunciations. Aussie rules. Paul. Yep. Why can't you admit that just because something is spelled with the same characters, it doesn't necessarily sound the same. We just proved it with love and cove. Yeah, but you have no other examples where that's being used. Yes, I do. Okay. Wait, wait. Spell bear. No, no, no. I mean with the two S's. It doesn't have to be. The point is the English language is not perfectly, it's not all uniform. So what's your thing with bear? If I spell bear, B-E-A-R. Okay, now spell near. What? Near? Yeah. And E-A-R. Same spelling, different sound. It's not a beard. It's not a beard. That's not, yeah. Okay. Spell bear. B-E-A-R. Now spell beard. Beard? Yeah. B-E-A-R-D. Why isn't it beard? I don't know. I don't know. See what I'm saying? Let's talk about something else. Okay, let's do something else. Wait a minute, though. It's bear. B-A-R-E. Like you're bear, naked. Yeah, that's fine. Yeah, that's fine. I'm telling you that you can spell things the same way, but they can have a different sound. Oh, they can have the same sound and be spelled two different ways. Yes. I didn't say that's not. That's fine. That doesn't prove your point. That proves a totally different point. it's just a point i'm making that's all uh do you see martin as a potential mr olympia in the future can't rule it out yeah uh did you purposely get caught on your birthday week uh today well well i was with ian all week so no i didn't yeah i hope you didn't i asked you and i said did you jerk off while i was here he goes no i waited till you left i'm like thanks dude uh what is the merrick health alternative in canada i honestly don't know i wish i wish i did know nothing canada sucks yeah true uh how quickly can the gains come back after an eight-month hiatus due to illness anybody want to answer that it depends on what it looked like before well he's not saying he's not saying pharmacology buddy he's not saying can i get bigger he's saying like if i was 240 and i got sick and i was away for eight months how fast can i get back to 240. he's an experienced lifter probably no time i think yeah if you're an intermediate lifter and you're you know back on gear and training hard and eating right two or three months yeah let's say two months probably it depends it really depends how much you lost in the in the eight months you're off yeah i mean hopefully it wasn't that bad yeah was it like a solid 240 before or is it you know a sloppy 240. this guy answers i love how people just give an answer this guy says two months doesn't ask him doesn't ask him doesn't ask him how big he was his age just like just two months back into it you're good riding a bike uh what's your favorite part about being a retired bodybuilder that's good for all of us go ahead seth you're still retired you haven't come back yet what's your favorite part uh i don't know i miss it so you you're like it sucks i don't want to be retired that's why i don't want to be retired i want to go back in mike mike what's your favorite part about being a retired bodybuilder uh i kind of got back into living that lifestyle recently so i guess i miss it too i've been eating better and taking better care of myself so yeah but i don't think it's full circle but okay that's what i would say is my was my enjoyment of not being a bodybuilder is just not being so conscious of what i'm eating and whatever but that led me in a direction that was not positive so i'm looking at it a little different way let's change the question to yeah uh what's your favorite part about being a retired competitive bodybuilder because mike even though you're eating healthy and stuff you're not ever going to compete again so like was there something about is there something that you love about not having to compete i guess is a little bit better oh yeah hard hard dieting though yeah yeah i'm gonna do that again be hungry all the time the hunger is is a killer that just it kind of your head all up yeah low energy i think my favorite part my favorite part about being a retired bodybuilder is not having to take all the drugs yeah i i can still like if i want to i can still do a shot a week or something if i want to like feel good in the gym but i don't have to do like massive stacks and that's not because i'm like a health conscious or anything everybody knows like i kind of play a little bit of russian real light with my health even though i shouldn't um i just don't like the way i feel mentally on a ton of gear i like feeling a little bit more calm i like like you know i just yeah i think that's not i don't like doing a ton of shots or taking a bunch of pills and even though i'm not like the most health conscious person i don't like like necessarily like just making it worse on purpose so i like not having to take all the gear i like not having the anxiety of having to compete and honestly i've really enjoyed living other people's dreams with them it's part of it that i didn't think i would enjoy but like i like supporting the guys and see them get ahead and then being able to be part of that journey is like super super fulfilling and i think you've done a really good job of that with your athletes and and having a strong presence with them in their con in their competitive uh careers it's funny though because sometimes it backfires obviously you know there's athletes that have left the company yeah and people are people are always like oh you shouldn't be friends with your employees and i'm like to a certain degree i agree with that but i also like but i can't i i can't help but care about the people that are working for the company so i'm sorry i don't want to be like a black and white numbers person yeah i mean i'm i'm not gonna uh i'll you do a tremendous job because you love this like that's why you and i were such we're such good friends from the start because it was just like we're like oh this is so cool it's great you love bodybuilding you love talking about it you love living it and in 2020 whenever like i tore my tricep and i had to go get my blood work done and doc was like hey dude you you need to calm your shit down and it was like i i took myself out of it and that's why i find myself going back in because dude i just love this shit i fucking love bodybuilding it's never gonna leave me it's never gonna go away i'm never not gonna be like knowing who's in the olympia or who's doing what the top 15 guys the top 20 guys i'm never not gonna know it because i love it yeah and that's like why it's like you just embrace it and if you're not competing it's like and you have a company you should involve yourself in in that because it's your passion it's why you have a company right and people can criticize all those things they want to but you know and everybody's their own human being so when you have an athlete that's like hey things aren't just vibing with us yeah hey no harm no foul we're still gonna see each other we're still friends let's just take a step back and yeah but i think that you know your your passion and excitement for bodybuilding is why this podcast exists and why you know like you you have such a a presence in the public with uh the scrutiny of the public on you for it yeah because you fucking you you inject yourself into it because you love it so much yeah i'm willing to take it i i'd rather i i know i've you know i know there's been some ups and downs with the company but i'd rather do things my way than be the black and white ceo that is just has the athlete manager do everything and just signs checks and like stays out of like i don't want to be just the numbers guy that's not fun for me i would have never started the company if i was just going to sit behind a desk somewhere and like not actually be part of you know like i was at the photo shoot the other day with the guys like just yesterday i think yesterday morning we did a photo shoot i didn't take any photos but i was there like directing the photos helping the guys pose like do what they had to do like that feels good to me i actually think i enjoy this role better than being the competitor because i'm a little bit more confident in the role i'm in now than i was as a bodybuilder yeah and it's a nice progression it's an evolution yeah yeah yeah anyway um um lasagna or chicken alfredo bonnie lasagna all day veal i gotta go with lasagna because the chicken alfredo will just bang my stomach up yeah i like can i say i agree with you guys but i probably if i was at a restaurant would order the chicken alfredo because you don't get a good lasagna in restaurants that way i don't know why i love lasagna but i never order it you should my mom's i'll get her to make us one one day but she's half french it's probably my mom is not half french my mom's not your mom never even gave you any pistachios i don't know how italian she is she don't eat that my mom gives you prosciutto though she's not that type of italian no cut you a truck of prosciutto though you never forget i don't like that man you like that stuff with my mom's prosciutto i hate i i you know what i'm not a big fan of like those kind of deli meats i only like like turkey breast maybe ham i don't like salami you don't like salami those those like peppered or like spiced meat spiced meats i'm not really a fan of them oh you like capicola i don't even know what capicola is is that the one with the pepper chunks in it no it's like it's like a spicy sausage yeah i don't like that no no that's why i like turkey breast and ham there's no they're not like spiced meats they're just like you know that's why people meet cold cuts well i was born i was born in canada yeah no i like turkey too i like turkey too i think turkey's my favorite deli meat yeah i wouldn't argue with that a good roasted turkey is that roast beef you know what i sorry go ahead so no i was gonna say i don't really i don't really fuck with deli meats you're too healthy that's the annoying part ever since i was a kid i never even ate him as a kid really yeah no i was you know why that means you guys weren't poor everybody else in my house ate it but me i was the fucking pain in the ass kid really oh huge somebody said to me what the fuck did somebody say to me yesterday a hunter i think said to me a patisserie do you guys know what a patisserie is no what is it you guys don't a patisserie no not a road pastry but isn't like a restaurant of some sort a patisserie is a place that makes pastries i guess or baked goods yeah and i said as soon as as he said patisserie i'm like you're a rich kid for sure for sure you're a rich kid for sure you did not grow up poor 100 percent in this texas accent so he goes so he goes history he goes everybody knows what a pit history is there's 15 people at the table i go everybody i need a second i go does anybody know what a patisserie is not one person knew what it was i'm like see you're a rich kid i've never heard of that word in my entire life let me make sure let me make sure he's not fucking with me yeah yeah yeah patisserie doesn't sound right patisserie it's there yeah yeah how do you spell it how do you spell it it's p-a-t-i-s-s-e-r-i-e i know yeah so it's it's patisserie yeah i knew you i knew you were gonna say that in australia it's pronounced yeah this is right mike um okay mike favorite deli meat growing up as a kid do you remember the macaroni loaf with the yes it was like bologna with chunks of yellow yeah yeah yeah and the noodles i couldn't do that one inhale that oh god that's a huge shit i think when i was younger i would you know like i like cold cut like i talked about jersey mics i like that kind of stuff for firehouse subs in canada i like that they're good i used to uh we were poor so my parents would buy like the big stack of bologna for like for like two bucks and it was all sliced yeah and it was like thin yeah yeah yeah super thin yeah so i would take it i would wake up early before everybody else i'd turn the stove on you know the stove with the rings yeah yeah not like a gas grill like it had the rings right was it stuck out yeah the coils yeah the coils yeah i would take a piece off and i would put it right on the coils and it and it would get like and it would go from flat to like this like it would ball up a little bit all plastic in it and get chris yeah yeah and i'd be like delicious and i'd put another one on the on the on the coils and let it burn oh yeah my mom would wake up like what the are you doing that was reeks i used to make the macaroni when i used to pop out the pieces of the macaroni no i roll i roll it up like a burrito and i just munch on him like a fucking animal uh why is paul why is paul beating in a 1v1 from the pod in basketball i don't know what that means oh who is who is paul i'm sorry oh who is one versus one one on one on one of basketball who are you beating oh yeah not in this career i can't be it'd be me i can't i was gonna say back and maybe maybe guy back in the day no no i just block all the shots basketball why can you have men and women in underwear on stage all day and night but if someone has cussing in their music it's a big deal what the is that how does that even coincide guys are in okay first of all guys in their underwear or girls in their underwear and bra is not sexual nobody goes to a bodybuilding show and is like turned on by people well maybe maybe some but whatever never i've never been okay maybe some but most most don't go to a fucking bodybuilding show and like jerk off afterwards so it's not it's not sexual it's a fucking sport so it's not looked at as derogatory whereas i think somebody coming out with like n bombs every other word is a little bit fucked up you know what's crazy about that too to like the average person who watches the sport and doesn't get it like all of us know because we've been there like when you're competing and you're standing there in your underwear or your bra you are literally the most furthest removed from a sexual being you could ever be oh like you're literally like a fucking like my dick is like shriveled in my body you could see a fucking pair of tits and be like okay cool i have i i have because they're all getting sprayed and we're just like yeah i have i've walked in listen i've walked into a tanning room and there's been girls they're naked and i'm like whatever just spray me not to mention the smell coming out of those rooms i know right yeah it's like people are like oh it's the sexualized thing it's like not anything but you never competed then and if you think it's just because it's bodybuilding it's not because even the bikini girls okay they're a little bit more sexual they walk more sexual whatever but most of the guys there are like so up trying to compete nobody's looking at the maybe people in the audience are looking at the bikini girls that way maybe it's because i'm in the sport i don't know but i've never gone to a show and been like i don't know turned on but i've never just it's weird i look at it like a sport i don't look at it like sexually get the off stage so i can get up there and be done with this okay we'll do a couple more what areas do you think martin needs to improve on to crack the top three he's doing what he's doing it's obviously working just overall size i don't think there's any one area that he's a mix i don't think that'll be a problem for him either it's fucking crazy uh if if pictures from bodybuilding shows can be dodgy on showing the physique of athletes then why do coaches check in with their athletes through photos instead of in person and it is common to be the reason why athletes are off at shows well coaches check in with pictures because there's no other way to do it if if like patrick tours in italy and keon is in fucking wherever florida wherever he lives pictures the only way and is it perfect no but you're looking at the same picture in the same place in the same light every day so there's consistent so there's a lot of consistency as to what he's looking at and there's and there's now you can literally facetime you can literally do high quality but i think i think what i think what he's implying is like if people can't judge a show by watching video then how can a coach judge his athlete if he's sending a check-in in video well there's more than just but that's what i mean there's more than just pictures there's more than and like you said like whenever you're doing this it's not like hey i'm going to take a picture here and then i'm going to take a picture over here and then a picture at home and one at the office no it's consistent every single fucking time so you can see the changes and you can make the adjustments from there and if and then also it's like hey take a video i want to see you after you're done training i want to see you in the morning depleted right after you take a piss i want to see what you look like take a video in the same pic in the same spot and you're not comparing one body right to build a throat next you're comparing you're comparing one guy to his previous photo you're not you're not comparing samson hottie derrick martin you know i mean you can't do that like you just can't it's not it's not that sorry let me rephrase it it's not that you can't do it it's not the most accurate way to do it yeah and it doesn't sometimes it doesn't translate the same so we've all done it where we've been here we've tried to judge shows through photos and when the the placings are different than we agree with the difference between us and a lot of the public is we usually err on the side of caution and trust the judge's experience and say oh it must be that whatever they pick doesn't translate in photos that's the difference so like if we try and judge like some european show and we weren't there and we don't agree with the placing most of the time one of us will say well we're not there so maybe the judges saw something we didn't see the problem is online people are it are are emphatic about their opinion and they can't fathom that seven judges with decades of experience being four rows away from the stage might have a better opinion or better or more value valid uh critique of what happened in the show yeah and i think and i think that's the problem with like our sport is people don't have the humility to say i see it this way but the judges are experienced and they have a different opinion and i trust therapy and over my own plus all of us have you like you know the three of you guys have experience as competitors knowing that sometimes your pictures don't translate they did on state as you looked on stage i had the the you know being a judge for a lot of years i've probably judged over 200 shows 300 shows in my life so i've seen pictures that don't translate on stage so we're speaking on experience not just you know but you bring up a great point and this is what i'm talking about so let's say you've judged 200 shows right that's probably on the low end there is some fan out there that has never been to a show right they've never been to a show maybe they follow bodybuilding for 10 years but they've never been to a show and in their opinion they know more than you do yeah and i just find that and maybe because i'm older maybe i would have thought that way when i was younger i don't know but i just find that to be the height of arrogance to say there are seven people on that judging panel they have all judged for 5 10 15 20 30 years on olympia probably 20 to 30 on average yeah and at the highest and lowest side of the sport and i know more because i saw a picture on instagram to me that's to me that's crazy i think that there's you know as we've gotten as we've been gone from nobodies to amateurs to professionals to competitive professionals to owning our own companies being involved with shows like uh i saw this one comment uh because it was somebody it was you know there was a a plethora of comments of eight towards you samson uh and all this stuff no they weren't they were they were hating me were they never see that but uh but no it was uh they said you know uh that fuad paid off the judges for win and i'm like hey guys like that doesn't occur as much as you think it might no it does not occur there's no amount of money they these guys are making the the ifbb and npc make plenty of money make enough money there's no way that you could pay someone enough money to replace of that can i just say something about that if that was the case wouldn't i have paid him two years ago when samson was first at the olympia like or last year or wouldn't i paid them to make martin second instead of fourth like what are they and where the did i get the money we're not like i would have bought a Ferrari if i had that kind of money like what are you fucking i'm not spending it on that samson can manage on his own just won 600 grand i'm not paying them i gotta i want to buy my own right but it's also like i remember when i was like man when i turned pro i'm gonna get a growth i'm gonna get a growth hookup like jay cutler doesn't happen it's all five for the same guy he said here's the contact for all the real gear but yeah yeah yeah yeah it didn't have a lot of like you're just a sponsor now yeah it would be a great sponsorship oh my god why did they have that people used to have this thing that they thought when you're a pro you all these doors open up to you that these am but like these secret doors that to drugs and whatever else and it's like no man the same thing they just got broke i legitimately thought that though so i could some of these people that are inexperienced or don't know they're like thinking oh this happens and this happens it doesn't happen but you know why you know why that exists seth you know that exists i'll tell you why that exists so we have a channel like this where we tell as much truth as possible but it's hard for people to believe that it's that simple they don't want to believe it's that simple so then you have other channels that have people that never reached the heights that we reached but they've been dabbling in the industry so they have some credibility so people watch these other videos these other people you know whether whatever level they're at maybe they're amateurs maybe they're pros but they just never got a ton of success but they know enough and they are the ones that are saying so and so paid off so and so so and so did 4 000 milligrams of test so and so and so the people that are watching are like oh wait a minute seth was at the highest level so he can't tell the truth but this other guy wasn't so he's probably really telling the truth that's the way that this shit fucking starts because they're like oh it's kind of like when you say like oh that those people are part of the establishment so fued's in bed with the ifbb so he's not going to tell the truth but this other guy is a piece of shit and doesn't have any connections so he'll tell me the truth that's that's what and that's what not everybody but that's what a lot of people start believing and then that rumor keeps keeps going it has its own life i mean i like i i can understand it yeah you're you're you're right i have i have a relationship with jim and right right sponsor the pittsburgh that guy doesn't give too many fucks dude no but that's but that's what people think they're like well seth has a relationship with jim so he's not going to tell us the real story yeah it's like so you can't and you can never beat it it's kind of like look before samson won the olympia every time i said i think sam's gonna win people just be like you're biased and i'm like i'm like i'm i swear to you guys this has nothing to do with me sponsoring him i just think he's better one sec i gotta change this hi guys i know this is your favorite view but anyway um and so i think sometimes you just can't escape like what people are gonna think like that's all there is to it people want to believe that there's a boogeyman or a bigger thing behind the scenes rather than you just telling what you just told them which is it's not that crazy it's all the same yeah it's almost like it's human nature though for us to think that way it is it's also super fun like i remember like that that was the thing i was like i'm gonna get real stuff whenever i turn pro and this and this is gonna happen and i mean like i didn't i wasn't honey didn't give me a a person to go contact for for gear he's like no dude i'm not doing that get you need no that's not that's not what i do i was like holy so i actually have to keep doing this yeah you're still like kevin kevin kevin down the street still your dealer that's what i mean i was just it was yeah i did i have noticed that a lot of east coast guys they they're the ones that get the good growth hormone the east coast i actually got some good growth hormone for a guy out east so i would shout out to jersey uh anyway in jersey i won't say his name but he knows who i is you know you are man kevin kevin it's kevin yeah kevin that's his name uh paul pookie last question oh no fuck you we're not reading that one that guy's weird uh you know what let's call it there i read the weird one no no no it's disgusting i don't want to read it yeah why can you have men why can you have men and women in oh no we wrote that one already would you rather have it no would you rather have a massive dick in small arms or a massive arms in a small dick am i married i'll small the arms they're at 12 year old's irons on a 30 year old body 12 inches 12 inch dick 12 inch arms either way you're in you're in you're in the you know what i don't think that's a good combination first of all how small of a dick most most value yeah most valuable women this is probably gonna be so controversial i said most most most valuable women like most keeping is that what you mean by that most high value women like big arms big arms and most high value and don't like 12 inch dicks so it's not really but no one likes a thumb dick so that's always like how are we saying like two inches that's what i'm saying if it's average okay i'll take it but if it's a thumb dick well that's why i said am i married already because i'm already married i don't do AI'm like whatever it's what it is what it is you get imagine that but imagine the insecurity you would have if you had a thumb dick no because i'd have 24 inch arms yeah i don't think that would cover up for it anytime anyone looked at your dick you just flex your bicep yeah that ain't gonna satisfy anybody if you had i don't but i'm already but i'm already married and i eat really good pussy she ain't gonna marry you with the thumb dick probably no i'm already married what your dick shrinks yes but what if i eat really good some chicks will take that i no i don't well no i don't think too many will no i may be a lesbian i don't think any i don't think any any heterosexual girls are going to take that i disagree you don't think this could satisfy satisfy someone right here right yeah like what are you doing that let's have anal sex all the time it's fine even still that's not going to do nothing either you just break the seal like an anal anal plug yeah so getting back to the question i think we need to know specifically what sizes we're talking about in arms and penises we'll say three inches three inches dick three inch dick so we'll be talking like three inches that's this that's three inches but i got 24 inch arms that's my dick my finger that's your dick but i got 24 inch arms yeah it also we have to establish how thick because if it's this long right but it's like a can of corn i'm taking it i'm taking it but if it's a thumb no way if it's literally like this that's the problem but if it's this it's a spaghetti noodle yeah this but even i can deal with this even this like like no no really but imagine the embarrassment you'd feel yeah how thick is it i don't think it matters when it's that small even if it's this big and this thick it's like it's still just like a fire hydrant it's like a can it's like it's like a can of tuna yeah yeah yeah yeah like a tumbler back there what's the minimum length you think a girl will take and be happy with i'm gonna say four inches i'd say three to four well i just said three you said no you said this i was talking thumb we said that's not three that's two inches yeah two is not enough i have to go at least three three to four i said it's three inches that's what i said yeah but that's not a thumb then a thumbs too i'm not i don't care about your thumb i said it's three inches okay but thick yes okay i'll take it for 24 inch arms it looks like that now 24 inch arms for life though right they're not going to get straight they're not going to shrink when i get old you know how bad that would look you're 75 years old and you have 24 inch arms and the rest of your body is shriveled and shitty well they can they can they can size down according to my body i don't want them to be like can i choose can i choose the length of my dick if i take the big dick versus in a small arms yeah sure sure i i technically have the second one now i have small arms and a big dick so i'm already in that camp but how's that i'm it's good i feel great okay i'm on top of the world it's not broke that don't fix it living the life all right let's finish it let's end it there okay paul sign us off all right those bower heads dear leader well today's fued's birthday so happy birthday fued thank you um yeah yeah yeah today's your day you know to celebrate you and all the things that you've done you've done a great job with your company and this podcast and you're a good friend congratulations to samson and martin and everyone else who won titles chris keon you don't even know them no i don't know them but congratulations i made it an olympia to remember i'm trying to get to know them better you're coming to detroit coming to detroit yeah i'll probably meet those guys in detroit yeah yeah so yeah happy birthday fued okay thank you paul amen amen amen amen all right boys we'll see you next week see you guys good night