 exclusางhty, Yeah, I have actually. Well, I think we should show everybody else. If you go to supplements and pre-workout right now, and you go to back, sorry, that's our RTD, which is absolutely amazing. If you go to foundation, see you're $24.99 right now, 50% off, Paul. If I paid for my supplements, I'd probably buy four to stock up. Yeah, right? Yeah, because that's what I used to do. Guess what else? We still have some Samson bloodshot left. Well, those would be limited edition now. Limited edition collector's item, $26.50. $26.50 is 50% off. You could probably resale that on eBay for quite a bit more if you hold on to it for a bit. You can't. What's going on, Paul? Nothing for what's going on with you. I am getting bigger, leaner, and stronger. I know you are. As am I. But I think in another week, maybe two, I will have surpassed you in strength again. Well, how do you measure strength? Because right now you're lifting with one arm. I'm lifting with two. So you're not going to be my two arm lifts. Yeah, but when we squat, I will surpass you. But squat's not my best exercise. Oh, but that's the measurement. I'm limited. Okay, but if we're testing someone's leg strength, the squat is king. Is it? Well, let's ask Ian. Ian's somewhat of a scholar on this issue. Ian's anti-squat. He doesn't count. I think if you're... Can you guys hear me okay? Yes. I think if you're testing just leg strength, I think a leg press would be better. What? Are you crazy? Well, yeah. Just squat? Because you're eliminating other factors that aren't your legs. I think you're stabilized where it's just the legs. If you're like... Yeah, so for just legs... So are you telling me we should go to all the powerlifting competitions and tell them not to squat anymore? Let's get some leg presses out. But that's not... You're assuming that in a powerlifting competition, they're just trying to test leg strength, which nobody ever said. What I'm saying to you is if we're measuring lower body strength, the squat is the measurement. Nobody says, how much can you leg press? Ian, how much can you leg press? 3,000 pounds? It depends what you're asking, though. If you're saying just leg strength or if you're using large multi-joint compound movements as a test of a competition, then I do think a squat is better. You're so annoying. How you asked me is just leg strength. Leg strength, a leg press is more direct. It wasn't trying to be specific. Like, tell me exactly how to measure quad strength. Disagree with me. I'm saying when you ask anybody just randomly, like, hey, how do you test how strong your legs are? It's usually the squat or else in a powerlifting competition... Yeah, I would agree. Well, if you see a guy with big legs, you're not like, hey, how much do you leg extension? No, of course not. But sorry, when I came into this, I was answering it just as the question of if you wanted to most accurately test how strong someone's legs are from like a testing parameter, from a competition parameter, I do agree that a squat is way more interesting. Just to be disagreeable, because it's a podcast, I actually think the hack squat would be better than the leg press. Okay, I could get on board because it's the same movement as a leg press, so I'm like, I'm fine with that. Why would hack squat be more than a leg press? A hack squat and a leg press is the same thing on the same angle, just one you're down, one you're up. It's almost the same. It's totally not. It is. A hundred percent is. Why can I leg press 8,000 pounds and I can only hack squat like 400? Yeah, I mean, it's different in where you're supported, but I'm saying the angle and the force driven is very similar. Yeah. But the weight I do, the weight I do on the hack, on the arsenal hack and on the arsenal leg press that are the same angle, it's almost the exact same machine. They literally probably use the same frame. I do the exact same amount of weight. Really? Yeah. I'll do like 12 plates on one, 12 plates on the other. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it all, it's, it's very machine dependent, but like back in the day when I was strong, grr, like I would like press 14, 14 plates aside and I'd probably hack squat seven. Yeah. I mean, it definitely depends on the piece of machinery, but that's why I used arsenal to arsenal where like their leg press and their hack squat are almost identical pieces. Same angle, same everything, you know, obviously it's just your, the weight being above you versus below you is different, you know, to an extent, but like the angle of which you're driving the leg and it's coming in at the hip and stuff is very similar for sure. But yeah, I mean, they're obviously have their, have their differences. I'm not a biomechanics expert. I'm a bro. I'm a bro scientist. So all I can, the way I would argue it or think of it, not even argue it, but just think of it in my mind is the hack squat feels so different. Yeah. Like even though they're on the same angle, but like reversed or whatever. Yeah. It's because the weight's sitting, sitting on your shoulders, like it's the weight is above you and up on your shoulders versus it's on your feet. It's, it is different in that capacity, but like the motion is the same. Moving, but like moving weight is massive. Like, like moving where the weight, like people could say, okay, well, your legs are at the same position and they move the same way, but just moving weight from one area to another. Like, I'll tell you why I got a. What do you find? What do you find worth taxing? Hold on one minute. Tax for sure. Me too. Yeah. So you know that machine squat I have in my gym? Yep. So me, Ben and Sam were in there, uh, using it and they, they both love it. Cause they're like, it's really like, it really hits your quads in a good spot, but it wasn't heavy enough for those, for those guys. So, uh, Ben moved the plates from in front of him. Yeah. Where do you change it? Yeah. To directly onto his shoulders. He actually put them on the handles. Yeah. And then I tried it night and day. Like it wasn't even close. Like a hundred percent. Yeah. Where, where, where the weight is in relationship, especially to like your center of mass and stuff is definitely going to affect how heavy it feels for sure. Yeah. Like doing a front squat versus a back squat, even if you didn't have to support the weight, which is obviously one of the things make it hard. Yeah. It's still harder, you know, or like using a, a safety squat bar, you know, how the weight sits more forward. It's obviously harder than when it's lower on your back. Much harder. I find it for sure. Yeah. Well, yeah, because when it's lower on your back, like actually even, even if you take, you can use more hip, even if you take it a step further, Paul doing a high bar squat and a low bar squat, you can feel the difference. Yeah. Right. Just moving it down in your traps. You know what I mean? Yeah. Because the, the farther back the movement is behind you, the more ability to use your hip you have. Okay. Because if it's more in front of you, you can't get the hips behind it. Right. Because the weight's in front of you. So it's, you know, the more ability you have to incorporate more, especially your hips, which are like, you know, glutes and stuff are some of your strongest muscles. You're definitely going to be stronger in that movement for sure. Well, the reason this even came up is I just, I told Paul that he squandered the, when I was on my deathbed and I lost all my muscle. Paul squandered that period of time. He had to stay way ahead of me because I'm about to surpass him again. And like strength. That's embarrassing, Paul. I will say one thing. My strength has exponentially gone up, but my, but it hasn't equaled the same in terms of gains physically. Yeah. But even strength, it hasn't gone up because I'm going to pass you in like another two weeks. No, I'm finding this training that we're doing right now. If we had this, like stopping before failure, I'm getting way stronger. Yeah. We changed our training up a lot. But I'm, I mean, there's, there's definitely an argument. Like if you watch power lifters, how they train, they don't train to failure at all. Yeah. Well, I'll tell you why. When me and John used to work together. So I had like failure days and then active rest. He would, we would call it because I didn't know how to just stay home. So he would like go in, but do this. And what it was, was like, we would, I'd say I'd still squat, but if I had four plates on the bar, instead of doing it for 10, I'd do it for five. Sure. He'd be like, just do five, feel it, use it and put it back. Yeah. And so me and Paul started doing a push pull legs because I can't really train my upper body that well. So I'm like, I might as well get two leg days in. So we started doing push pull legs, push pull legs, same week. Hi, Mike. Hi, Anita. Hi, Anita. What does it say? Anita Anjab. Anita Anjab. Is that like, it's kind of Indian actually, the last name. Yeah. Jab. Anjab. Anjab. So anyway, because we're doing all the body parts twice a week, I decided like, let's not go to failure because we're old and we're just going to get fucking run down. Yeah. And I think it's been actually helping us more because we're like recovering and getting stronger. Oh, you disappeared. Yeah, I agree. You bumped, you bumped them off, Mike. Yeah. I didn't think I would like this, but I'm actually liking it. Why didn't you think you'd like it? Uh, probably just cause old habits, you know, I'm so used to doing like a five day split, you know, maybe a four at times, but mostly a five day split my whole life. You know what? I'm with you on it. But when you're forced to do something, then you kind of have to, and because it's like, you know, I'm only training with half my upper body. Yeah. So doing like a, like a traditional bro spit, it's like split. I feel like it's kind of wasting four days for me. Yeah. Right. Cause I'm like, I can only train one arm or one shoulder or one. Like it doesn't. Yeah. You're limited how many different exercises you can do. Yeah. So I figured if we do push bowl legs, then at least I can get two leg days in. Right. You know, so. But going into that, thinking about like, but just like running it through my head to first, you know, going into this program change. I was a bit, I was a bit thinking like, I was a bit pessimistic about it. I didn't think I was going to like it. And, um, I didn't think I'd recover, but I, but I, but I have. Well, you wouldn't have, if we kept training the way we were though. Right. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. The whole training change. Yeah. Because if you keep trying to go to failure, every workout, you're doing body parts twice a week. Even if you change the exercises, you're probably still at our age. You're probably still going to fucking wear yourself out. Right. Yeah. I'm noticing like less joint pain in the last couple of weeks. Um, recovering. Well, yeah. Mike, how are you? Still wrong, Mike at 50. Pull back a little bit. That's a miracle. Right. I think, I think, I think as you get older too, it's like we have like us guys like us, we have so much, you have so much like compounded interest in terms of like the work you've done and the muscle you've accrued. It's like to keep like, yeah, you can step on the gas here and there and you know when to push yourself and when you got like feel good in the gym that day. But I just think guys knowing how to like buffer their training to like their age. Like there's no reason why I need to be pushing as hard as I did when I was 21. Yeah. Because like I, one, I'm not 21 and two, I'm, I'm way bigger than I was at 21. I have way more muscle. So yeah, I'm not in this like starved state to like really hungry about getting big. You know what? I think the reason for that though, Mike too, is like all of that makes a hundred percent sense until you add in emotions because you're like in, in your mind, you're like, well, I used to do this and then you kind of want to do it still or else you feel like you're failing. Yeah. Well, I think about that was stupid. I wasn't when I was 21 and I don't want to be that stupid again. So yeah, I'm like perspective is a great thing as you get older. For sure. No, I know. But like I used to, I remember like when I even like, you know, when I retired, I could still, you know, bench or dumbbell press pretty good weight. I could still squat. Like I was squatting four plates up to like fucking five, six, seven months ago. So you kind of have these benchmarks. You're like, okay, well I know I can dumbbell press 150 pound dumbbells. I don't want to go below a hundred pound dumbbells. Yeah. And then when you start, when you start getting there and you start getting to like, oh fuck nineties are heavy now. Then you're like, you start feeling like the age is like caught up with you. Hey, if we had the wonder if like we have, I think we have a nice advantage of having a private gym to train at. So, you know, we're not like, so your ego is left at the door, you know, you're not worried about like, I know like it shouldn't play into your head, but sometimes it does. Yeah. But I'm not talking about ego towards other people. I'm talking about your own ego and realizing that you're like, fuck, I'm getting old. Like it actually like is a real thing. Yeah. But do you think you'd be able to do that though? If you were training in a public gym, you have to, I can't, I guess you're forced to, but like you're forced to. Right. Sorry. I think that's a good, I think that's a good thing and a bad thing. I mean, it is good to, to hold yourself to standards and to push yourself, but it's also, you gotta know you're like someday, like I did, like, I'm sure you guys don't like get it. Maybe not Ian cause Ian's on a different kind of wavelength than us, but cause stupid strong for no reason. Like some days you're just like, you know, you have it and it's like fucking, yeah, I'm pushing myself through extra reps and I'm, I may do a drop or, you know what I mean? Like I'm like last week, 50, 50 on this felt heavy. Now it's like fucking going up like butter. So those are the days when like, it's like, okay, I have the, I have the gas in the tank. I'm going to really step on, I'm going to let this thing go. And the next day might be the same. And the day after that, you might be like, I'm a little fucking run down today. So you're saying like, you know more when to like pull back and when to push forward. Yeah. Like John telling you to like pull, like do this, but like only do this much. It's like, he's kind of creating that environment in your brain of like, it's okay to not every day is going to be the best day, but every day can be a productive day. Do you know what I mean? Like, yeah. The problem with that though, Mike is it takes even more wisdom that I haven't really gotten until recently more probably because of my accident, but like John used to always say, don't dig a ditch so deep that you can't crawl out of it. Yeah. So like take your example, right? Where you have good days and bad days. So I would have a good day and be like, oh, I can squat four plates today. So I would squat four plates and then my back would be ruined for like two weeks. Whereas now I know like yesterday me and Paul were squatting and I knew how I was feeling. And I even, I just stopped. We're like, you know what? Two, two plates. I'm good at two plates. Let's just stay here. I'm not going to try and push it. And then that was it. And I feel fine today. I feel better. I don't feel like fucked up. I went to two and a half. I mean, it depends on, it depends on your, your version in your mind of like, what do I do? You weren't dead six months ago. Fuck you. Did you die though? Well, I meant some ways, not, not physically, but not emotionally, not emotionally. Anyway. Yeah. I think it just takes, um, it takes, yeah. You have to leave emotion at the door, I guess. And you have to really like analyze what your body could do, what it can't do. Yeah. I was lucky that that, that guy died a long time ago for me. So I didn't, I've had too many injuries and too much stuff to get over that. I'm like, okay, that guy's dead. I know how to lift now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, how's everybody doing? Paul, actually, you know what? Paul wanted to host tonight. We're going to call Paul tonight was going to be called the Paul, the Paul cast. Paul cast 2026. Nice. This really goes well. Every time we do it, we should do it again. I got some, uh, I made myself some notes on Mike, uh, to keep the conversation flowing. Okay. Let's roll. How do you feel about the Venezuelan situation? Huh? I want to stay with politics. I know that can be very polarizing. Yeah. Yeah. It's your show, Paul. Well, being the new year, um, I thought maybe we would, um, you know, any, you make a new year's resolution this year, Mike? Nope. Did we do this last episode? Yes. We talk about resolutions. Yeah. Yeah. Scratch that one off. Fuck it. Yeah. Yes. Well, no resolutions. Next. I want to touch on sleep. Next. I love the way you say it. You're like a troll. Yeah. Next. I thought we were talking. Okay. Go on. I'm only got a couple. Okay. What about sleep? What about sleep? I've been approved my sleep the last, the last little while. You got to do a, you have to do a segue from new year's resolutions into sleep somehow. So let's see that. Okay. So since the new year began, my sleep has improved. Um, or you could have said, or you could, or you could have said, or you could have said, you know, speaking of resolutions, one of my resolutions actually was to improve my sleep. You know, I was noticing. It wasn't cool. It just happened. It's a goddamn podcast, Paul. I have one resolution. Um, well, I haven't started yet though. I was going to smoke, stop smoking weed, but I haven't started yet. Stop altogether. That's going to go well for a little while. Yes. Yeah. What do we want to take bets on if that actually happens? Well, give me a timeframe. Uh, the year. I think that bet. 2026. Okay. And, uh, quit by quit. How long do I have to go free? Like forever. Forever. No, no, no. I didn't say that. No, I just said I want to take a break. Let's not get carried away. So you want to take a, so that's not, that's not quitting. Well, it's taking, okay. Well, I'm taking, I already know. Wait, I already know. Sabbatical. Sabbatical. Yeah. A pause. I already know you can take a break, so I'm not betting on that. You're not going to quit though. Okay. You don't think so? No. I'll give it up for 30 days. I'll give you a clean month. That's not even. No, no edibles either. You can't have edibles. I know. I was going to say three months. A month is fucking no problem. Just quit. Just quit altogether, dude. Yeah. He's like, I'm sorry. I lost you guys. I can't hear you. He's stunned. He doesn't even know what to say. Next question. Next topic I had here to discuss. Sleep. Yeah. Let's talk about sleep. So what about sleep, Paul? Yeah. So sleep. Well, for one thing, I started going to bed a bit earlier. Nice. So that's been helping me sleep better. So I feel like part of that too isn't just that I'm getting more sleep. It's that I'm not rushing to fall asleep. Yeah. I'm not like stressed out because I got to fall asleep soon because I only got like six hours of sleep. That makes sense. I never thought of that. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm going to bed at a more rested state peacefully. Yeah. That's good. Yeah. I think when you can get into bed with like, it's okay if I take two hours to fall asleep kind of mindset, like I'll just get comfortable. And as long as it takes, it takes, it's definitely a better, like more peaceful mindset to put yourself in to have better sleep for sure. Like, I agree with you. The days where, you know, when I was competing and I'd stay up super late and I knew I had something to do the next day, I would then like stress, like, okay, I got to fall asleep quick. You know, because you're stressing it, then you can't fall asleep or your sleep is less restful because that's in the back of your head. Or I'm waking up five times a night because I'm probably panicked. Yeah. The problem that happens to me is I'll go to bed early because I have to get up the next morning because I'm like, okay, I've gone to bed at 10 o'clock. I got till midnight to fall asleep, but then I'm on my phone fucking doom scrolling and fucking the two hours flies by and I haven't gone to sleep. I don't, I don't touch my phone in bed. You don't bring my plug it in and I leave it on the, on the nightstand. I watch TV to fall asleep. Me too. You have that control to plug it in and just leave it next to you. Yeah. I'm not, you know, I'm not that big on my phone. I actually, yeah, it's crazy. Melissa's phone doesn't even like gum in our bedroom. Like seven o'clock PM that's plugged in in the kitchen. She won't see it until the next morning. Ben's like that too. Ben does that too. When he goes to bed, he plugs it in the, in the kitchen and goes to bed. You should do that. I would, I would have to do that. I don't, I don't Instagram or like social media scroll in bed. Like I'll, I'll go on my phone to watch a movie. Yeah. Cause I don't want to turn the TV on. It's like big and bright, but I'll, I don't watch, don't go on social media when I'm trying to sleep. You know what I've been doing? It's a total waste of time. I'm not going to buy anything. You know what my scrolling has been for the last three months? What? Facebook marketplace. Yeah. Yeah. That's so addictive. What are you looking for? I'm on Facebook. Everything. Anything. Maybe I'll buy anything. I can spend my money on. I'll buy it. I just bought something off there. If it's a good deal, I'm going to buy it. I'm scrolling. I'm like, maybe I'll buy a belt squat. Maybe I'll buy a truck. Maybe I'll buy a fucking motorcycle. You know what I'm just like? Oh my God. I actually got, got a great. Cause we're moving obviously like in a couple of weeks. I got a bunch of free boxes off a marketplace, you know? It's awesome, man. I just went on there and typed in moving boxes. First one. Someone had posted it like 20 minutes before and they had like 70 fucking home Depot, like nice moving boxes of all sizes. They're like free. I'm like, I'll be there in 10 minutes. They're like, great. Really? It's awesome. Not that box are crazy expensive, but fuck. I mean, it's still, you buy 50, 60 boxes. It's like, you know, for sure. And then when I'm done with them, I'll just put them up for free. Like they did for me and we can keep the fucking, keep the chain going. Yeah. What's, what's that called again? Pay it forward. Pay it forward. That's it. Wow. It's a good movie. You guys see that movie? No. It's isn't, isn't pay it forward with the fucking six cents kid. Six cents. Hey, you never seen six cents. Oh, wait a minute. Did I pay it? Hey, Haley, Joe Osmond or something. Yeah. What's that? What's that movie? Pay it forward movie. The movie payback with Mel Gibson. Yeah. It's good. Haley, Joel Osmond and Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt. Hey, I love Mel Gibson. Why did he eat so much shit for so much, so long? I think he said some, he says some crazy shit that some people don't like, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I think he got a little whacked out as he got older. Yeah. He's back though. They let him back now. Yeah. They let him back. Yeah. He repented. He repented. I saw Mickey Rourke's going through a tough time. He's got to go fund me to pay his rent right now. Really? Yeah. He got a victory or something. He was doing big movies in the last like five years. That's crazy. He's out of money. Did you see him on that reality show in England? What's it called? It's a show where they put you in a house with a bunch of people. The reality show? No. Is it Big Brother or something like that? Well, Big Brother is a show, but. I think it was that one. They put him on there with, there was a lesbian in the house or something like that. And he was joking about her being a lesbian the whole time. And they pulled him to leave after the second day. That was great. All right, Paul. Next topic. You're leading the show. Yeah. Anyone? Don't let me in talk. Anyone? Yeah. I thought that would lead in more. Some different conversation. No, I got nothing. I got an ear infection. I'm getting over. I'll just finish up a round of antibiotics right now. I don't know where that came from. But it was weird, too, because I felt this, like, fluid in my ear. And then, so I made a doctor's appointment. And then it went away. And then, like, four weeks later, it came back. So I made an appointment. It turns out I had an ear infection. Sounds like HIV to me. I don't know how I would have got it. No, it actually works well. What actually works well for those ear infections and shit, if you don't want to go to the doctor, is you get the, like, Vizine antibiotic eye drops. So, like, the same ones you would use if you had, like, pink eye. Right. Any of those, those work for ears as well. I've used that when I've had, like, a fucking ear getting sore, ear infection coming. Drop that in. It's fucking gone in a day. Can you buy the prescription for that? Nope. So many people are going to do that. It's just a lucky thing that happened for you. No, I actually like it. No, because it's just a general antibiotic that works for both kind of things. So, like, eye things, ear things, like, you can use them for both. I researched it, and it's like, you can use them for both. Really? Yeah, I've done it, honestly, many times. If, like, I can feel, like, my ear's getting, like, something's coming in there, I'm like, fuck, just drop it, drop or two in there. Next day I wake up, I'm fine. Oh, and it works for pink eye. Yeah, well, that's what they're made for. They're an antibiotic eye drop. Oh, right. But some of them I actually think, say, eye slash ear on them. So I think they can be, they're meant to be used for both, yeah. I've never seen that. I'll look for it, yeah. Yeah, they're just, like, in the eye drop aisle and shit, and you'll just find, like, the antibiotic ones, and they work for both. Yeah. Yeah. A little tip for you. Keep it going, Paul. So the green, does that, I'll shoot the red a little bit? Yeah, you're good. Yeah, I think it looks, I think it works a little better, right? You look festive. Yeah. Well, I'm not mean to be. I just, I just wanted to, I'll shoot the red a little bit. Red skin, green shirt, you know? Yeah, yeah. Very holiday-esque. Yeah, yeah. Hey, can I say something? I'll turn it over to you now for that. Yeah. No. You're done? That's it. I'm not hosting anymore. I'm not hosting anymore. I can't say anything. Don't interrupt. Well, we're getting together next weekend. Yeah. Well, sorry, Mike can't be there. I wish Mike could be there, too. Yeah, what's your guys' plan? You're driving up on Friday? For those people who don't know. For those people who don't know. What? 8 o'clock on Friday, for it? VIP. Yes, 8 o'clock, Paul. Paul, the fourth time he's asked me. For those people who don't know, because not everybody watches the show every week, this weekend, East Norton, Pennsylvania, Powerhouse Gym, me, Ian, and Guy, Paul, and a whole bunch of other people are going to be there for another grand opening. Or I think they did a soft opening, or maybe it's just a special event. I don't know if it's a grand opening. I think it's their grand opening. Yeah, I think it's their grand opening. Yeah, grand opening. So we're going to be there. We're going to do a live podcast, meet and greet. Ian's going to try and squat 800 pounds. And what else? That's it. Hell yeah, brother. It's going to be awesome. Are we going to train legs? I mean, Saturday is my leg day, but I really don't like training legs on the road. But because that's what would make sense for us to train, I'll do it. Yeah. All right. Paul, are you excited? Yeah, I'm excited. I don't think I've never trained legs with Ian. No. We've trained shoulders, chest, arms. We trained a couple in the UK together. Yeah, that's right. At Dino's gym. We haven't done back and legs. No, not at Dino's gym. Well, Dino's, but also at... Oh. Yeah, what's that gym called? Where we do the muscle... Fuck. Fuck, what's that gym called? What gym? We all went there. The gym we did at, we did a live podcast event there in the UK. I'm for work. Muscle works. Muscle works, yes. Yeah, you and me got a couple workouts in there. That's right, yeah. Good workouts. Yeah. Because Fuad, you were sick as a dog then, remember? That's right. That was the worst trip ever. Yeah, you were fucking so sick, yeah. Dude, I fucking... I don't even remember what happened to me. I was fucked that weekend. Yeah, you were pretty fucked up. You had like a super bad cold or something that was fucking you up. Yeah. Didn't you start getting sick at the Arnold's in Ohio already? And then it just got worse. I did, and then it was Arnold UK. And when I went there, I was okay the first day, but then I was fucked. Yeah, you fly and shit, it fucks you up. Are you going to UK? I don't know. I don't have any plans to, but I mean, if you guys are going, I'll go. I don't know. Probably not. No. I think I'm going to be in Columbus doing some podcasting for Merrick and doing some stuff like that, but that's about it. I'm obviously not working in any booths or anything, so... Yeah, I'm sure I'll be in Columbus and then I'll be in Detroit, obviously. I got fucking a lot because we're this weekend, and then the next weekend I'm going with some friends to Tromblox, do some snowboarding, and then the next weekend after that, we get our house, and then Melissa and I are going to go away in February, and then it's the Arnold and then Detroit and shit, so that's fucking a lot. Where are you going? You're going to Switzerland in February. No, we decided to go to Costa Rica. So you switched Switzerland to Costa Rica? I switched completely other side of the fucking map. How the fuck do you go from snowboarding in the snow to fucking Costa Rica and just... Just YouTube, you know? Are you worried about any travel distractions? I was just looking at places that had like... We wanted to do something that had a lot of shit to do every day. We wanted our days to be full of fun stuff, you know? So yeah, we just found a place that had a lot of cool shit to do like that, so we're like, all right, fuck, let's fucking do it. Mike, are you... Mike, I know you love Costa Rica. Are you going? I love Costa Rica. Wait, where did you go when you went with Kat and... The Turks. Turks and Caicos. Oh, Turks and Caicos. Oh, Turks and Caicos. That's right. Sorry, you love Turks and Caicos. Costa Rica. Fuck, I want to go, dude, but it's such a busy time for us, man, right now. Oh, just go for like five days, you know? I can't take five days off work, dude. It's like really busy for us right now. Yeah, just five days. It's okay. You bring your laptop, you know? Bring your computer. It's all good. Next time. I'll go with the next one. Once we get through the first quarter. We'll make something happen. It's going to be good. Anyway, what's next, Paul? I'm judging Columbus. I'm judging the Arnold Amateurs. Nice. Yeah. I'm looking forward to that. And then Detroit, and then I don't know, after that. Dude, the podcast sucks. I thought you were like raring to go here. You had a whole bunch of stuff. It's organic. You know, that builds the conversation as it goes. You know, we all start sharing and it builds. Can I give you a tip? It's not how it works, Paul. All you've done is talk about yourself. Well, okay. You're like, I got good sleep. I got an ear infection. I'm going to be in this place. Okay, you're right. You've asked nobody anything. Yeah, you're right. Like, I just gave you six things that I'm doing in the next month that Fuad would have asked a follow-up question on almost all of those. You know? And then the conversation goes from that. And then that's where you get more games. I did have a follow-up question for you. Are you worried about travel disruptions going to Costa Rica? No. Should I be? Maybe. Why? Why? Well, there's a conflict going on in Latin America. Huh. Maybe. How close is Costa Rica to Venezuela? I don't know. It's in Latin America. You're like, they're both Latin. It can't be like fucking not even close. Pull up a map. Pull up a map. They're south. Imagine they're like bordering countries. I don't even know how close they are, to be honest. They're probably pretty close. Yeah, it's all pretty close in there. It's all pretty close. It's a tight little congested area. I'm not worried about it. It's also, I'm not going until like mid to end of February, Paul. It's like in a month at a bit. You know how crazy? Can I just touch on this for one second? Yeah. So it's funny how sheltered we all are like to conflict like this, because my aunt, all my family lives in Lebanon and there's conflict there obviously all the time. So there was conflict there like, I don't know, it was a few years back now or maybe even more than that, but there were, there were bombing South Lebanon and we're all worried. I call my aunt like, how are you? How's everything? I, you know, I know there's conflict and blah, blah, blah. And she's like, oh, that's in the South. It's far away. We're totally fine. Yeah. It's just like one town over probably. I know. I'm like, it's fucking like, you know, Lebanon's the size of fucking Windsor. It's like, you drive, you drive from one end to the other and like fucking five hours or something. So I'm like, that's not far away. But for some reason, I think it's because they've dealt with this stuff their whole lives. Yeah. It's not a fucking thing for them. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. We're definitely sheltered over here when it comes to life. It's just crazy. You know the difference? Yeah. This is Costa Rica here. Where's Venezuela? It'd be north. Right there. Here. Yeah. So. Oh, they're kind of far. Well. Yeah. Well, I imagine your route to will probably bypass that. You'll probably go down that way. What do you mean? I'm not driving, Paul. No, I mean, you're, you're. You're not. That's interesting. Why not? I would fly direct. You can fly. You can fly direct from Montreal or Toronto to Costa Rica. Yeah. But that's what I'm saying. So you wouldn't be in that. Yeah. You know, you wouldn't be. It's north of there. So you're good. Anyway. You got great cocaine there. So you'll enjoy yourself. It's really what I'm going. Isn't there a tax haven there too? Because that's where all people go to hide their money. A lot of Canadians, whether during COVID, they took off. Really? Yeah. It's like a lot of Canadians down there now. It's a fugitive. It's a fugitive haven too, because there's no extra. Tradition laws there or something. I've always thought of that. A lot of people move to like Central America and shit like that after like a little while. Like a lot of Canadians move there. And I'm like, imagine like if, you know, if you had like a few hundred thousand dollars saved up over the course of your life, or you sold your house or whatever you did, you could probably live pretty comfortably there for quite a while. Oh, yeah. For sure. Dude, I know guys. A lot of Canadians go to Thailand. I was literally about to say. Yeah. Jeep as fuck. Yeah. I know people that have moved to Thailand that like, you know, don't make a shit ton of money and they go over there and they live like a fucking king. You know? Yeah. Like housing and that's really cheap too. Oh, yeah. Just food. Everything. Yeah. I think for me, it's family. Like I don't, I don't see my family every day or anything. Like we're not, well, a couple of my brothers, but I think just knowing that I can. Yeah. Is important to me. Yeah. That's why we live in Ottawa specifically is our families here. I mean, we, we literally live in the city because of our family, you know, even where I'm moving is like, you know, I'm moving closer to like where my dad lives and shit like that. Like, you know, it's closer to family as well. There's some things like that that are nice as well. So, um, yeah, I mean, it's, it wouldn't be somewhere I would want to move anytime super soon, especially if we want to have kids soon. I'd like to be where my family is, but you know, maybe when you're older and your kids are moved out or something, it'd be something cool to do. But yeah, when, when your kids are young, you need to help with family. A hundred percent. It's, it's huge. Yeah. What's going on with your move, Mike, Alberta? It's on the back burner right now. Is it? Probably in the spring we'll go. Yeah. Yeah. It's just, I'm not trying to make that move in the winter. It's fun. Yeah. Fuck that. Right. Yeah. Yeah. You'll probably come home in a week. Yeah. I'm going to go. Bad idea. This sucks. No, we're going to visit soon though. So. Yeah. We're going to hang out there. I just, the actual physical move would be a lot more convenient in the spring. It's like near summer. And yeah. Especially if you got to drive cars out there and shit and it's a little bit of a burden. Yeah. My, my sister's moving back from Vancouver all the way back here in like middle of March, which is like, that's fucking rough, you know? Yeah. Fucking driving, moving trucks and shit through the Rocky mountains and stuff. That's fucking brutal in the middle of March. Why is she moving back? Yeah. I mean, exactly what we're talking about. Be closer to family. I mean, she's lived in Vancouver basically since she graduated high school. Well, no, she went to college and she went to university. She went to Western in London. And then after that, then she moved out West. So she's lived in BC for, you know, 15 years plus, 20 years. So, you know, and she's got a six year old kid now and the jobs like that are, they do is like, they can kind of do remote and shit. So, so yeah, I think they just want to be closer to home and to her family, our family and shit. So yeah. You'll have those babies pretty soon. Hopefully man. That's the fucking plan. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What's going on with that? With what? With your kids. Sperm. Yeah. What about it? Tell us about your sperm. Is it going to have? I froze enough to have 70 children. So when are you going to start having children? Like probably in the spring. Okay. Yeah. Timing it for like a certain delivery time. No, it's based off of like the Ontario systems, like funding for IDF. Cause we like, we're doing our first round. You get funded Ontario by, by OHIP. So that's when their funding renews is in the spring so that we can do our, our funded rounds in the spring. So we're just waiting till then. Yeah. Spread, spread that seed in. Yeah. How many are you going to have? Two? I mean, fucking, I don't know, man. Like we're doing the IVF process. So like, depends how fucking brutal that is. I mean, if it's a very stressful, long process that doesn't stick easily, then probably fucking one. But you also never know. Sometimes like you'll, you hear so many stories of people that do the IVF process. Cause they haven't been able to have kids for a long time. And then they just like naturally have a fucking kid like five years later, you know? Yeah. So who knows? I mean, yeah, look, if the IVF process is easy, you know, which, fingers crossed it is, you know, then we would probably try for another for sure. We would like to have more than one, but like, obviously I'd be fucking just happy having one at this point, you know? So IVF is like, do they like put the sperm in the egg, like in a lab and then they put it inside like the womb later? Correct. Yeah. So like I, I have my sperm frozen or you would get a fresh sample, whatever you want to do. And then they would harvest her eggs and then they make it into an embryo and then they implant the embryo. Crazy. Mike, what are you doing? Any kids ever? No. For real? It's just more dogs. Yeah. Can I ask you something? Cause I mean, you're kind of, we're the same age, right? How old are you, Mike? 45. Oh, okay. I'm a couple of years old or whatever. Same age. So. Way younger than you. Anyway. Well, you're most of your age in your forties. I just read recently. The reason, the reason I'm saying that is. Shut up, Paul. I, uh, I always wonder if I'm going to regret it further that I don't have kids. Well, I've never desired to have them, so I can't regret it. Really? No. I thought about it in my head. Like it might be cool, but I've never had this overwhelming like desire to do it. I always just assumed everybody wanted to have kids. It's getting less and less these days for sure. Yeah. These days for sure. Well, I think less people can afford to have kids. Yeah. But I, but I, do you think less people actually don't like, they actually don't want to have kids? Yes. Mm-hmm. Really? In the Western world, at least. In the Western world. Yeah. Hmm. Well, I went through a small phase of like, ah, fuck, I'm never going to have kids. And now I think I'm okay. Like me and my wife are good. We have like kind of a good schedule. We're happy with our lives. Like everything is pretty awesome. But I wonder if it's going to hit me again later. Like when I'm 70, you know what I mean? I'm like, fuck it. I don't have any kids. You know, this fucking blows. Have some kids then, dude. No, I'm not having kids now. I told myself, I told myself, I, my dad was 50 when I was born. Mm-hmm. And I told myself I would never do that to my kids. Why? Because you can't be as involved, like not as energetic at that point in your life. I don't know if that's as true anymore. Like, I mean, my dad would have been like in his mid forties, like early to mid forties, like around your and Mike's age. Yeah. And I never felt that as a kid, but I mean, I guess it depends like how old they are and how old they display, you know? Right. Right. Like I, I'm not, I think it's a little different with my dad too, because culturally. Yes. He was so separated. Like he was still, you know, he didn't even speak the language. Like he, you know what I mean? He didn't really understand. Yeah. Your English is pretty good. Yeah. I picked it up. All right. You'll do. All right. You'll do. The accent's almost gone. It's such an asshole. No, but I'm like, I don't know. I wonder. Sure. Cause I'm like, I really, really subscribe to the idea of use it or lose it. So I don't want to ever get old. Cause I feel like I'm always going to work out. I'm always going to train. I'm always going to do cardio. So I feel like I'll always be able to, you know, play with my kid or whatever. Sure. But I don't know. I'm like, is it good to have a kid? Like when you're 50, you're, your kid's fucking, you're 70 years old when your kid's 20. Yeah. I mean, it completely depends on how you are. Like, I mean, you know, like you said, I mean, you could be 50 years old and be an old 50, or you could be 50 years old and not be an old 50, you know? Like my dad's almost 80. And like, he's fucking killing it. Like I, I don't feel any difference in his physical abilities even now than when I was like in my young, younger age. Yeah. I met your dad. He seems, doesn't look fucking. No, I mean, he still fucking works out every day. Everything physical. He's like, it's completely like, it's not even remotely close to someone that age. Like he could do everything, physical labor to the highest degree. Like he can go hunting and fucking hike 10 kilometers with all his gear. And he does it easier than I do. Like he's still completely physically able. And like, even you've met my mom, like my mom's 70, you know? Yeah. She didn't look 70 at all. Not like, you know, she still fucking goes to the gym, has social life, goes on vacation all the time. Like she lives the life of a very young person. Right. Yeah. She's very, very, very pretty. And she looks like she's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, man. Keep saying it. She's going to listen. She knows. Shut up, Mike. She's watching this. She looks like she's 40. Yeah. I would have said 30. No, but I mean, both, both my parents are fucking killing it. So like, you know, you know, it's, it, it depends, you know, what, how you're going to be or how you want to be at that age, you know, depends on how you live. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I had kids. Well, I had my kids in my forties. Well, I had my first from my late thirties, my second one in my early forties. Well, look, I mean, you're all broken down and shit. No, I'm good. But, um, what I noticed more than anything is, um, like there's a lot of excitement with your first one, you know, a ton of excitement. Yeah. Um, so like you're totally immersed in, you know, parenthood and family and all that stuff and, you know, rightfully so. But then with the second one, it's not that you'd love the second one any less or nothing like that, or that you're less energetic. It's just your life is that much more busier now. Yeah. Like, cause now you got two fucking kids to take care of. So you also, what I noticed from the outside looking in watching you, there's less helicopter parenting going on with the second one. Yeah. You learn your mistakes the first time. Cause you're kind of like calm the fuck down a little bit. Oh man. I, I'm such a helicopter parent with my, with my oldest one for her first like five years or so. And it was, and I noticed, uh, I noticed that it was a negative effect on her cause it made her too soft. Yeah. So I've tried hard to reverse a lot of that. Yeah. Chris and Courtney about that. Yeah. I started beating the crap out of her. Courtney's about. Oh, I said, Courtney's about to pop out her second kid like today or tomorrow or something. Oh, it's that close. Hey, well, her, her, she's a week past her due date already. So, yeah, I mean, she's, I think she's like rearing to go in the next like couple of days. Yeah. So I was asked, I was asked on, uh, the news channel, the RBP news channel. We were talking about Chris and Suki, the guy I do with was like, do you think Chris will come back? And I was like, you know, if he gets his family in order and he has stuff in order, he might come back, blah, blah, blah. I said all this thing. But with two kids and the one just coming to the second one, just being born, that doesn't seem like it'd be a possibility anytime soon. Like he's going to want to spend time with the newborn, especially. Yeah. I personally don't think he would ever, he has any interest in it, but, um, yeah, it's, it's impossible to say, you know, once, you know, you give it a couple of a year or two and your kids are, you know, like out of that, like very baby stage and you've got a good schedule going and stuff like that. Um, you know, you can never say never, but if I was going to put money on it now, I would definitely put it on that. I don't think he'll ever compete again. Really? He's enjoying this new avenue of life. Like he's got new, you know, business stuff going on. You know, that's very busy and shit like that. And, uh, and you know, he's like in this fucking new fucking CrossFit era he's doing and shit. And I think he's dove pretty headfirst into that. So, um, yeah, I think he's like content enough with the shit he's doing that I don't think he is being drawn back, but I also would have said the same for myself within a year of retiring. So that's what I say. Cause when someone retires, the, the initial feeling is relief. Yeah. Oh, like, Oh, I get to do all this new fucking shit. And then there's a feeling of finding something new and then there's a feeling of missing it. Yeah. And I think Chris is in the, like finding something new phase still. A hundred percent. So it's like what I said on the news channel was like, once he gets the businesses running where they're all, he's happy with all of them, not that obviously they're all killing it, but I meant more like once he kind of gets his hands and everything, once he kind of has his fill of his family, like he feels like they're all kind of older. Like he's just said, then he might be like, I'm still in awesome shape and I can still win. You know what I mean? Like, I don't know. I don't see it. I think for him, it's like, that's kind of behind me. I love my mark. I think I'm good. But yeah, like you said, you never know, you know, I mean, it's, it's impossible to say, especially with, you know, people that do something like that. So it's so based out of passion. That passion doesn't just like disappear, you know? Right. That's right. It can be like, you know, you're like, okay, it's exciting. I'm doing something different for this new season of life. And you can be excited for that for a while, but depends how much that is still, that fire still burns inside you, which for some people it still does. Some people it's like, you know, they're very ready to move on from that. So it really depends. You know, the question I want to ask you about it more so is where the fuck, who does all his, um, like his exercise selection and all that, where does he get all that? Uh, he, well, he works with Justin King, the guy that was doing, uh, my track training when I was doing it. So he plans all this out for him. Oh yeah. He still looks big. He does look big. Hey, yeah. Like he looks like, cause that's why the, that's why the conversation came up because, uh, Suki put a side by side of this. And then when he, he's lean, so he still looks really good. Yeah. Yeah. So he did a side by side and it didn't look very different. Obviously he's more full, uh, in the, in the pre-show picture, but I'm like, he's still there. Like he's still, um, not far off. Like where the fuck is that picture? The side by side. No, but that won't, that won't go away anywhere, anywhere soon, especially if he's, you know, still training and eating well, like that's not just going to disappear. You know, what do you think, Paul? Can we handle that training regimen? Do you want to do, I don't know what he's doing. Um, I've seen a couple of videos, but I don't know exactly what kind of training he's doing. Well, the reason I said it is I'm like, when I watch him train, I'm thinking to myself, you know, that's probably, obviously I don't want to get away from bodybuilding, but as you age doing more functional things and moving in different ways. Yeah. So his, his right now is kind of what I gather from it is like, it's kind of a hybrid of like, he does most of his like lower body movements and performance based movements. Um, but then he also does like still some like upper body train. That's like bodybuilding to like, keep looking fucking yoked, you know? Yeah. So like a lot of this stuff that you'll see is lower body training. That's like, you know, so to get him to be athletic and be able to jump and run and stuff like that. Um, and then still a lot of, you'll see him still doing fucking curls and dumbbell press and, you know, shit like that. That's still bodybuilding style training for his upper body, you know? Right. Yeah. Yeah. What do you think, Paul? Can we do it? I'd like to try it. Well, I want to start, uh, including more functional athletic training to tell you that for a while. Let's look at, oh, you're telling me, so it's my fault that we're not doing it. No, no. Well, you got injured, so we couldn't start it right away. All right. Could you want to do this? We'll do this tomorrow. I would like to do that. Yeah. We'll do this one and then we can do this one. Can you do that one? I could definitely do that one. Can you even raise your leg that high? Yes, I can. Yes. And as I, as I do more of them, I'll get higher. I don't think you can. I don't know if I'm going to be able to do Chris kind of a form. Still front squatting? I don't like front squatting. I don't like front squatting. You don't like front squatting? No, no. What about this one? Lunges? Can we do that? Yeah. I like to do that. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Oh, we got the fucking earthquake bar, if that's what we call it. Whatever you want to call it. Or the stabilizers. All right. We'll do that too. All right. This is what we're going to do. We're just going to watch Chris's Instagram. Just call it. And every day. We'll copy his workouts. We're going to do it exact. That way we don't have to pay Justin King because we can't afford him. We probably can't afford him. Get the standard app, bro. Oh, that's right. Yeah. You can follow along on the app. Mike, what's going on with you? How's your dog doing? Oh, yeah. She's good. She's got a sling on for a few weeks now. They set the hit back so quickly that there was no damage really. Yeah. That's the same as ours. If you do it quick enough, you can be lucky. Yeah. Dude, I worry about that all the time. My dog's constantly jumping off the bed. And I'm like, when's that going to be a problem? So that's what happened. We don't know because Cat woke up in the middle of the night to go to the bathroom. And Sophia will kind of freak out when she's not in the bed. So she might have got to the edge and just been like, she kind of like patters her feet. Yeah. So she could have not been able to see that well. And she slipped and like fell because she's jumped off beds before and bigger things before. And she's been fine. So we think she might have like fell backwards. Which it was the back hip, obviously. Yeah. It was her back, like left side. Yeah. Yeah. Have you guys heard what's going on with Hadi in Iran? No. Yeah. People are not happy with Hadi right now. That's for sure. Yeah. Apparently. It's foam background. Yeah. So apparently Hadi has got the Ayatollah's picture up. Okay. Oh, there's a point. And there's like a revolution right now going on or protests, however you want to word it, in Iran. So people are really upset that he's supporting the government. And the government's like apparently executing people and like doing some like crazy shit. So I don't know, man. How's that? Like Hadi's going to lose fucking half his fan base, if not more. Politics is a great divider, eh? Yeah. He's got to be in a tough spot though, man. Because he's, he's competed for the government kind of. Right. Right. So he's got to. For so long. Right. And he owns businesses there. So it's like. Oh, does he? Well, he owns, I think he owns a couple gyms or something like that. So I'm like, what does that mean? Does this take away his businesses and shit and fucking. Yeah. I don't think it's the kind of place where you can fight the authorities so much, you know? I know, but people are mad because they're like, we supported you this whole time. And you said you were a man of the people and all these things. And now he's not, he's kind of, I don't know if he's siding with the government. I don't really know exactly. Like, but I'm like, I don't know. It's crazy. Like you lose your fan base in a fucking day. It's all because he has a full, they caught his phone background. Is that what it was, Ian? That's what I saw or heard or read or something. It was something to do with, yeah, that this, this Ayatollah guy was like his background on his phone or something like that. And somebody saw in a video or some shit. And then, you know, obviously because of the stuff that's going on there, then people really didn't like that. Yeah. It's funny how like that, that didn't really seem to affect bodybuilders in a U.S. The political divide so much. Well, it came to fans. All bodybuilders are fucking on one side of the fence. Pretty much. That's definitely true. Yeah. But it's also the intensity of what the government's doing. Like, apparently, like they're executing people and like it's not. Yeah, it's a big difference. Yeah. It's not just, I've been, I've been informed that it's not just a matter of liking one political side or another. Like the government apparently is doing some really fucked up shit. So, but I, to lead it more, cause this is not a political podcast to lead it more to a bodybuilding conversation. How the fuck is that going to affect his prep? Like if you. It might affect his ability to fucking leave the country. Yeah. Yeah. If he's not on the good side of the government. They're the ones who are lobbying for him to be able to do these shows. They could be like, fuck you bud, you're staying here. Yeah. You're not going anywhere. Yeah. Right. So I wonder if that'll affect him for the Arnolds. I wonder if that's why he's supporting them. Because if he does. Because he wants to stay on their good side. Right. Get the visa. I wonder why fans don't understand that though. Yeah. They're too emotional. Yeah. Or maybe they don't care. Maybe they're like, hey, they're doing such fucked up shit. Maybe you need to put bodybuilding aside. Yeah. It doesn't matter what you're doing. This is more important. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like, what do you, what do you do in that situation, Paul? Man, that's a tough spot to be in. I mean, like, you know, like I always liked the Michael Jordan approach to politics, you know, like just stay neutral. But this isn't, this isn't that simple. You can't in this situation. I don't think he has that ability to, eh? Yeah. I think because of this. You can't bite the hand that feeds you either. But I think because of the severity of what they're doing, it's not really a Michael Jordan situation. Right. I understand. But to say, like, you know, like if, you know, that's like something you can't bite the hand that feeds you either. The thing I'm thinking is like, if you're a fan, right? If you're, if you're the person watching this person, you're basically expecting this person that you follow to give up their entire livelihood. That's what you're saying. Right. You're saying because of the severity of the matter, we want you to, if it is going to cause him to not be able to leave the country, if it is going to cause him to lose his gyms or whatever, you're expecting this person to give up all of that stuff. Right. Is that fair? For some people it's, you know, I guess if you're someone who's really dug in on this topic and you're from that country. Yeah. They would say what is, what is right versus what is more self-based. I mean, it's, it's definitely a tough spot to be in. Yeah. All right. So bodybuilding wise, let's assume he is going to be, he will, he is able to travel. How does that affect your prep when you're being bombarded on your socials every day? Yeah. People telling you they hate you. Like, is that right? That's fighting cortisol for fucking the next eight. Especially for a guy that was like the fucking hometown hero. Right. Right. You know, like that's such a, that's such a 180 in terms of like his, you know, he was so popular and come home to fucking parades and shit like that. And, you know, he was so beloved by the people of Iran to kind of have that, you know, my fucking thing is like this. Oh, stuck in my beard. Yeah. You know, that's definitely got to weigh on you mentally for sure. You know, if I was him and I decided to do the Arnold and he, you know, he's able to, I would shut down my social media for all just to stay focused and try to keep that out of your head. I'd come to the U S now and train with hottie. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I just wonder, cause I know people that have, I know bodybuilders in the past. Like I think of a few that never got any backlash and kind of always had support. And then all of a sudden had backlash from some reason or other. And it fucking weighs really hard on them. Like it's not, it's not easy to overcome. Like it can be very, it can be very shocking. Cause you're not used to it. You're always like the people love me, the people love me. You don't even know what it feels like to be on the other side of it. And then all of a sudden, like I saw one post with him on it. It had shit emojis. I saw that. Really? Every single fucking comment. It was a shit. Wow. It's also a big motivating factor, you know, when, you know, like you're doing it for your country and for your people and they're standing behind you. And that's like a big motivating factor to like, you know, come to the U S and win an Olympia, you know, like for Iran, I think it's like a big motivating factor for people. And I, you know, obviously he's still a very motivated person, but when that's kind of gone a bit, it's tough, you know, I wonder if there's anything on his actual page. It can't see comments. I think comments have turned off. Right. Yeah. That's his son. He's got a call. How old is he? I got, I think that's his son. Yeah. The comments turned off on all these fucking posts. Oh wait, this one has some, I don't know if there's probably nothing here. I don't know if people are going back and doing it. I don't know, but I saw some stuff on the Olympia page. Yeah. I saw it too. Where it's just like the whole thing is shit emojis. And I'm like, fuck man, that sucks. Yeah. Like I feel like I understand people's anger, but I kind of also feel bad for him because he's really in a fucking no win situation. Yeah. If you're, if you're, if someone watching this is Iranian and like from their perspective, I'd be interested to hear what they think about it and like what, where they're coming from. And if you were to put yourself in Hottie's shoes, how you would kind of go about it. Um, you know, someone that maybe has a bit more context to the situation there and someone like Hottie, you know, how you would conduct yourself. I'd be interested to hear someone. I think, I think what those people are going to say is the people got you here. Like the people supported you all this time. Yeah. You got to support the people. You have to, you, even if it means this, this, this, you still have to stand, stand, stand, stand. Losing everything potentially. You have to stand with people. Right. It's one of those, it's one of those drop line in the sand type, uh, type issues. I think so. Yeah. That's fucking crazy, man. So anyway, so let's just hypothetical. Let's just say Hottie might not be able to get a visa. We've got the Arnold coming up. Is that Andrew then? Is Andrew now the favorite? He would have to be. Yeah. Yeah. Andrew, Andrew, Andrew, Andrew Martin have had a few head to heads that were actually really interesting and both are better now. So. So, but Andrew hasn't lost to Martin yet. Has he? No. Oh, wait. No. No. At the, at the, at the 2024 Olympia. Oh, you're right. You're right. Yeah. Yeah. 2024 Olympia. Yeah. You're right. Martin B. Andrew. So they've traded, they've traded back and forth. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That means, is it, does that mean it's Andrew's the favorite then? Yeah. I mean, I think he, because of the Olympia, he was the highest placing. You would have to kind of put him as the favorite, but you know, I think Martin's not like Martin and Nick aren't far behind that, you know? And does that change things at all for Nick? You think like, you know, Nick kind of compares well with Hottie. Does he compare as well with Andrew, you know, being such a different body type? I think Andrew and Martin are shape monsters, right? Whereas Hottie, even though he still has great shape is more of a, I consider more muscular than shape. Yes. You know what I mean? Um, it's funny. We were having this conversation earlier about Nick. Isn't it interesting that you have a guy and I'm just going to throw out some statements. I don't care if people get mad. Okay. I could be wrong. I'm just going to toss them out. I think Nick can beat almost anybody in the IFBB in both side shots and both back shots. What do you think about that statement? I agree. I would agree. Yeah. You agree? Okay. So I don't get, is it crazy that you have a guy that can win four out of eight poses and potentially the most muscular? There's not many guys that beat him in the most muscular. So five out of eight poses, but still isn't the favorite. Yeah. I guess it's the discrepancy of how much you're losing the other poses that you're not winning. You know? Exactly. Exactly. You know, like if you're, you're winning, like, you know, we always go this nine, 10 round kind of thing. If you're winning those like 10, nine rounds, but then you're losing like 10, seven, 10, eight rounds. Right. And you average that over all those poses. Like that's not really how it works, but like, you know, that's kind of how I would see it. Um, it still makes it that it's a, it's a tough battle. Right. And then we were talking about veins, right? People are always like veins, veins, veins. And I said, I don't think it's actually the veins. I don't think they matter. I think it's the shape of his legs. It's the sweep where the sweep inserts. Yeah. If you imagine Nick with like Sean Roden quads and they were that, and they were that veiny. Nobody, nobody would give a fuck. It would be like, it would be like, holy fuck. What is this crazy shit? Cause if you remember Paul Dillette had crazy fucking veins all through his chest and shoulders, but he was so impressive to look at. Nobody ever said Paul's losing because of his veins. Yeah. No, I don't think it's the way. I think, I think, um, I think part of it is like you said, because it's already a body part. That's not like probably his weakest body part. And then you add in that, that also blurs some of the lines maybe. And also isn't as aesthetically pleasing. And it just, you know, I would say that the aesthetics is the thing that sets him down. Yeah. Right. I don't, I don't, I don't find like, I'm all for like heavily muscle dudes. And Nick is definitely heavy, heavily muscle, but it's like, there's something off. There's just something off from head to toe. Like there's no questioning the quality of muscle and the, the, how big he is. But like, just as a whole picture, something just looks off and the legs, maybe what it does it because of the shape of them or whatever. But it's just something like, to me, it's not as, it's just not as pleasing to look at as some other physiques, like a guy like Martin or Andrew. So it's like, that's that, that's like the only him winning these shots and not winning these shots and all this stuff. Overall, the overall impact of the physique is like, it doesn't look as good as these other guys. Well, I could, it has to come down to that at some point because it's like, you know, this is about shape, symmetry, whatever, blah, blah, blah. But it's also comes down to like, like, where does your eye go and what looks more like visually appealing to you as a diet? If everything's equal and everyone's got lots of muscle, it's like, he is the least aesthetically pleasing out of that group of people. But that's not, that's not first of all, that's not how you judge a bodybuilding show. If they want to judge it that way, they should make it that way. They don't judge. But regardless, you're a human, you're an, you're a human that has perception. You're going to, you're going to go to what looks the best. No, no. I know that. That's where, look where you play, look where you placed at the Olympia. I get it. But that's not because, but that's not because, so when you say there's something wrong, the something is long torso, short legs, sweep that doesn't sweep. That's kind of starts low. That's the problem. What I'm saying is it kind of does come down to not just where your eye goes though, because you might like the, that, then that's really subjective. You're like, well, I love the way Andrew looks. That's all I look at is Andrew because he's so imposing. Well, that means that Andrew should be, should be Mr. Olympia, but that's kind of, that's not the way bodybuilding is judged though. Yeah. Yeah. But I would guess that it's, I would guess that there's more of a lean towards an aesthetically pleasing physique overall than a less aesthetically pleasing and a less, a more symmetrical and like even physique as opposed to like a disjointed and like weird shaped physique. Cause I just, I just don't like, I think Nick is cool and like, he's got lots of muscle. I'm just not a fan. Yeah. If he's in, if he's in shorts and he takes his shots in the mirror and you see these like shots in the gym, I'm Nick all day. I'm Nick's Mr. Olympia. But when he gets on stage, I don't think so. Cause I don't see it. Cause you think when he's on stage, all the flaws are evident versus. I just think visually like he has an, he has an amazing back. He has an amazing shy chest. He has all this muscle. There's nothing wrong with him. It's just doesn't look that great, bro. When it's all put together and under the lights and you have your suit on. It just, I just don't see it. Yeah. I see. I see it. So my argument to that would be, I don't think you can be. So for me, if we're looking at, take all the side shots, all the back shots, I do. My eye is drawn to him in those shots. I do look at that and go, Holy fuck. Like that's a perfect side chest or that's the best back double bicep I've seen in the IFBB. Like my eye does go there in those shots. It's the front shots where I agree with you, Mike, where you're like, eh, it doesn't look as good. But I think that's what I'm saying is Nick just has to know like, okay, I'm going to lose this front lat spread. I got to lose it by as little as possible. Right. Got to close the gap on those shots. But like, so let me ask you, Mike, taking your like way of thinking of it when he's in a back double, is that not where your eye goes? No, like I said, he's, he's got great shots and he's got good muscle in this in the back doubles. He looks good. Side chest. He looks great. It's just like when, if all things are equal and everybody is like points or a point or two off each other, they're trading points, trading poses. Right. When it comes down to it, like standing front relaxed on stage and like hitting like a front double. It's like you're, you're whether you want to or not, you can be as critical as you want and be a judge under like certain things. You're still going to be like, I want that as an individual. Like you're just going to be, even if you're a judge and you're being hypercritical, it's like, he's got those side shots, but like this fucking front double is like two back shots to me compared to that back. Yeah. I think we're saying the same thing then. So you're saying like, it's got to even out somewhere. And if it doesn't, I have to lean this way. Yeah. Cause he's like, he reminds me, like I played, I played football with a guy who had the same kind of nowhere near the same amount of muscle, but the same type of structure where he had a very long torso, crazy, like developed biceps peaks. He had this short, his legs were like, I'm talking like they look like Deadpool's legs when he gets his legs shot off and he's got like a little baby legs. His legs were like that compared to his upper body. So I'm not saying it's like Nick, but like that discrepancy is like, it reminds me of that. Like, it's obviously nowhere near that, that like dramatic I'm saying, but it's like, like, I think you guys would all agree. Like when I see pictures of Nick online, like I said, in the gym shots. Yeah. And like fucking even just like in his base or whatever. I'm like, Holy every year. I'm like, I picked him to win the Olympia this year. Yeah. I'm like, fuck, look at the size of this fucking guy. And that looks great there. But then on stage, something happens. I don't know whether it's because there's bigger people around him that have more structure and more shape that he like somehow disappears. Cause I don't like everyone's like all these shots and goon lighting and all this stuff. I think, no, I think it's just a structure thing. But it's definitely, it's definitely not a muscle thing. Right. You said earlier that, you know, if he can like close the gap a little bit of those shots that he's losing, that it might be a different story. Similar to Samson. Like remember Samson was winning probably, you know, arguably the front shots for a while and a couple of the side shots, but his back shots, he was giving up a little too much, especially that back to a bicep to a couple of top guys until he closed that gap. Then he got the Olympia. Well, listen, I think that statement kind of goes for anybody in bodybuilding. Like, yes, if you're losing shots, you have to close the gap in those shots. I think with Nick, it's especially true because he's so dominant in the other ones. Like Samson wasn't like, there isn't so many, like Sam, you wouldn't say Samson's got the best front double, the best front lap, the best, like Samson was more like a nine in everything. You know what I mean? Like if you put, if you put Andrew next to Samson in a front double, you might pick, you might take Andrew. You might say like that shape is perfect. The bicep peaks, like the, the everything. Right. But like when, when Sam, when you go all through all to eight poses or whatever, and Samson's got a 9.5 in all of them, then you're like, right. He's Mr. Olympia total package, right. With Nick, it's to me, it's different. It's like side and back shots. You're like fucking 10, 10, 10, 10. And then you go to the front and you're like, what the fuck? Eight. So I think it's, it's not, I don't, I feel like it's a different thing. So I don't know if that, so that's, I think why when you see Nick in Pittsburgh, that's why it's so close with him and Derek, because I think he was losing the front shots, but not by much because he was in better shape. So like Derek, his structure looks better, especially lower body wise from the back and from the side. Yeah. Like it's just like, cause it hides. Yeah. He's got so much density in those hamstrings and like thickness in those legs and like the fucking V taper at the back, like everything fills gaps there and the quads are turned out a little bit. So you see the outer quad like hanging because there's nothing to block it. Right. There's no distraction. Right. Like they're, they're flared out. Right. So like that, that shot, if you could turn his head around and have his fucking, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know what I mean? Like if that was a front double. Yeah. Yeah. That's fucking fantastic. It's just when he goes to the front, it's like, there's some thing with the quads and like the layout of the body that makes it look what looks like undersized the legs, but they don't look undersized in any other shot. Right. It's because it's just because they start low, right? Like this is the sweep starts here. So it creates a little bit of a, it can't get as much as an, as an X frame. As when he's here. Cause the quad looks like it starts higher. He's got those, the glutes kicking out at the side to make it look like that taper flares even higher up. Right. Yeah. Ian, you're being quiet. Anything to add to this? Yeah, no, I, I agree. I mean, obviously he has, you know, some structural inadequacies that are inadequacies that are definitely more apparent from the front that, you know, you can kind of that, that don't get exposed as much from the side of the back. And I do agree with like the Samson thing of like, you know, it's, you, you have to be relatively strong in all poses to, you know, really to, to, to win Olympia title like that. I mean, you kind of have to be very well-rounded and I think, you know, Nick has absolute knockout shots, but if you look at the guys that are winning you know, they're, they're pretty well balanced. And I think that that balance goes a long way, especially when you're with other guys that are more balanced. Cause it, cause it's tough when you can stand in certain shots and you lose a bit of ground, but they gain it back. Sometimes it's already lost there, like the momentum in the minds of the judges. Yeah. You know, and it's tough to forget, especially, you know, your first couple of shots being front, relax, front, double front lat, you know, it's, it's, it's sometimes tough to get that favor back, even if you do have some awesome shots and Nick's obviously been able to be extremely successful because he has so much muscle and he has some really amazing shots. But getting to that very, very, you know, top, top level of winning an Olympia or beating guys like Hottie you know, it's, it's a bit tougher when they don't really have any shots that are like, you know, quite as weak as some of yours, even if you have ones that are stronger than some of theirs, you know? Yeah. Like, you know, I could say that for Martin. Yeah. Martin's very well balanced. Like if I put Martin next to Nick in a side, you lose his shots for sure. In a side chest, Martin's side chest is beautiful, but Nick's got so much fucking muscle in that side chest. I would have to give it to Nick. Yeah. But then if you go all the way around, Martin's losing to Nick in a, in those like back and side shots maybe, but not by much. No. And then there is also just like Mike said, like it's not even a je ne sais quoi, but like that, that X factor of aesthetics and just like pleasing to the eye and how it all comes together as a total package definitely is valuable as a bodybuilder. You know, you, you want to be, you know, it wants to all flow and have a synergy to the physique in all areas. Right. Can I just say that Ian loves to use the French, je ne sais quoi, wherever possible. I use it at least once a month. Cause that's eloquent. At least once an episode, I get it. It's just such a good way to describe like the, I don't know factory. Yeah. If you don't know how to describe something, you just throw in a je ne sais quoi and that's the end of it. Nobody can debate that. There's no argument to that. But you know exactly what I mean when I say it. It's perfect. You know, it's somehow. I do know. Tony O's out. Obviously we talked about that last week. Why? I wasn't there. I think, I don't, did we talk about it last week? I don't know. Tony O's got some personal, he's got some personal problems at home to deal with. And that's kind of all I can say. So he's, he's kind of dealing with his own personal life, but also it wouldn't make sense for him anyway. Like, I don't know. I don't know why they even, I don't know why they even submitted an application because he was already qualified. And the only thing holding him back from the top six is size. Yeah. I mean, he, he said it on his Instagram. He did kind of look, he did sign the contract and he kind of did it when he was excited earlier in the season. And then, you know, it's the time for the Arnold comes. You're like, fuck, like, you know, maybe I got too much shit going on. I shouldn't have signed up for that. It's a tough spot to be in. Cause like, you know, obviously you want to fulfill that contractual, you know, agreement of I signed up to do the Arnold. There's, you know, promotional marketing things going on using my name and I'm part of that. But sometimes you also have to do like what makes sense for you and, you know, pushing yourself into a show when you're not mentally a hundred percent there or physically maybe is not always the right thing. So yeah, I mean, it's a tough spot to do for sure. I mean, and I've been on the other side of it. I mean, like Melissa did the Arnold, the last show she ever did, she did the Arnold when she really shouldn't have. She stuck to that contractual obligation when she probably shouldn't have mentally and physically. And it was, you know, the fucking worst thing ever for her. So, you know, I can, I see that the repercussions that that can have on the other side. So yeah, I mean, it's, it's a, it's not an easy decision to make for sure. Hey, Paul, do you know, I found out who's doing, is doing Detroit today. Who? Nathan Epler. Oh yeah. It'd be nice to see Nathan. He didn't compete at all last year, did he? I don't think so. I don't think so. It'd be nice to see a big Nathan Epler under those fucking lights. I like his physique. Yeah, me too. I like Nathan too. He reminds me of a small Martin. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Good comparison for sure. Yeah. Very similar, kind of well-balanced, you know, good aesthetics. Yeah. Another former 212. Uh. Yeah. He's 212. Did he compete as the 212? Oh, he did compete as the 212. Yeah. Yeah. That's where he came from. Because him and Antonio were both, I think they came in around the same time. And Antonio moved to open. And I think Nathan moved up to open shortly after that. Because he saw how well Nathan did. Or, sorry, Antonio did. But, yeah. He did well a couple years ago when he did compete. I think it was late in the season. He did a couple late shows. Yeah. He did a couple shows in 24. Yeah. Great physique. Yeah. Gets in good condition. Good to see him there. But, yeah. I think, uh. I always liked the, uh, the shitter shots. You like seeing the toilet in the background? Show me your shitter shots. Yes. So, is there any surprises in this show? Do we expect any, like, the only, like, do we expect any shockers? Because we got. Rafa's, like, obviously the biggest unknown here. Because he was out for a full season. And, you know, I mean, and Anthony Williams, obviously. Because this is, like, his kind of big debut here. So, I think those are the two that have kind of the biggest, you know, shock factor. Brandau could come in here and place really high. A really good Brandau can battle with anyone. And, obviously, Anthony Williams is a bit of an unknown. Because he hasn't competed since he turned pro. And he was really good then. His pictures do look really good. So, those, I think, are the two that have, like, the most potential to, you know, leave an impact. I'm very excited to see Brandon Curry. This is a sick physique, man. Like, I love this. It's a big, he's a big dude, too. This isn't, like. Yeah. I don't know if it, I don't know if this shows how big he is from what I've heard. No. And he's working with Jewett, too. So, you know, he's going to fucking probably nail it. So. Yeah. Okay. If you had to pick one shocker of the show, what would you say it would be? One shocker? Yeah. Like, surprise? What unexpected surprise do you expect, good or bad, at the Arnold? Everybody gets one. I'll just say it because it's fun that Andrew beats Hottie. If he makes it. If Hottie gets there. Yeah. We're just going with the lineup as it exists. I still picked Hottie to win, but I'm saying now, that would be, like, a cool shocker, you know? I don't know how shocking it would be, but it would still be shocking. That's what I was just about to say. I don't know how shocking that is. It would be huge because. Yeah. I mean, they were, like, what, one place apart at the Olympia? It's not like. Yeah. It would be huge because he got over that hump. Yeah. Yeah. Paul, anything? Well, like I said earlier, I'm excited to see Brandon Curry. I think, you know, based on what he looked at at Olympia and with a smaller lineup like this, I think he can really shine here if he brings the same kind of look as he did at the Olympia. I agree. I could. Brandon could easily be. He could win. You know, his guy's a former Mr. Olympia. But at the very least, he could put, he could be a top two, top three guy. He could push Andrew. He could push Martin. Any of those guys. Nick. Nick. You know, people, arguably, a lot of people had him beating Nick at the Olympia. I could see Brandon in third. Yeah. I could see him up there. If the same, if the same Brandon shows up that showed up at the Olympia, I could see him in third place. Yeah. Behind Martin. I just can't. I know people. Ben hates it when I say this. Cause he's like, he's like, you're such a fucking Brandon Curry fan boy. I'm like, maybe I am, but I just think he should have placed higher at the Olympia. I just do. I just think his fucking physique is awesome. And I think, I think he gets. What his knock was always his legs, but they've gotten bigger over the last few years. Much bigger. Him and fucking Justin Harris. Yeah. Whatever they're doing, it's working. So what's your shocker? Brandon Curry. If not winning, at least placing in the top three. Okay. Mike. I'm not a shocker, but I think Raphael Brando is going to do a lot better than people think. I think he's a shocker. I agree. Like what? What do you, how high are you saying? Three, four. Three, four. Yeah. I could. So that means he beats, you're going to say he like beats Nick. Nick or Martin or Martin. Some, one of those guys. Yep. Okay. Everyone has Andrew winning. No, I don't. I mean, if I'm betting, I'm probably still putting money on Hottie. Yeah. No, I'm saying if Hottie's not there. Then yeah, I would put it on Andrew. Yeah. Yeah. Fucking maybe. Am I, why am I, am I such a Nick fan? Like I, I'd love to see Nick win. I think that'd be fucking sick, but. I just, Andrew impressed so much with the improvements last year at the end there. I just can't get, I can't get over the fact that just like seven or eight months ago, half the judges had him beating Derek. Who then went to one, went, went to win the Olympia. That's insane. But I think that lineup also. It's different. I agree. Right. Samson and Andrew on that stage, it might've been a different story. Martin was in that lineup. He wasn't at his best. Right. But Martin was there. Yeah. Martin missed the mark there. And then he did beat Nick at the Olympia, but it was Nick missed his mark there. So yeah. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. Like to me, you know what? That's going to be my shocker. Nick winning. Yeah. Because I don't think there's very many people other than like the diehard Nick fans that have him winning. Yeah. So I think the shocker is this guy goes from sixth place to where a lot of people had him. Like even Mike just said, he had him winning the Olympia. I picked him on my. He picked him to win the Olympia. A lot of people did. And then when he didn't show up, people were like, ah, Nick's done. And I'm like, you guys all had him in first. Like he's definitely not done. You guys all had him in first. Your predictions. Now you're like, he's done. And I'm like, and he just beat our current Mr. Olympia. Not beat, but like half the judges had him beating the beating him. And I'm like, it's not. It's a shocker because of how the tide has turned. But I don't think it's out of the question that Nick can win the show. Definitely not at all. It's been like the inconsistencies, let's say like a Nixon coaches the last couple of years, a little bit of drama surrounding that at times. You think that plays into some people's doubts? Well, yeah, I think Nick started out pretty consistent. You know, him and Matt had a good relationship. Yeah. He had a good run. He had some different looks, but for the most part, they were all pretty bang on. Right. And then the shit with Matt happened. And then he had a couple missed looks with, you know, he had one good showing and one bad showing with Kyle. So, yeah, there's been in the last couple of years. Yeah. I mean, the hardest thing to predict with Nick right now is like the ability to land the plane without like a definite, you know, someone in the coaching corner. And I really don't know what's going on with him from a coaching perspective. If there is someone really helping him or if he is completely doing his own thing or what the deal is. But I mean, that's tough when you don't have, you know, if you've never done it on your own to do it at the Arnold with that kind of pressures. And Nick is always one of the people that's really in the limelight and has a lot of pressure on him to succeed, especially after the Olympia placing, you know, to land that, make the right decisions under the gun is not easy. You know, it's going to be a tough task. Yeah. Yeah. To make it's and to make the right calls under the pressure is hard. You know, it's like when you're there to not like overdo or underdo something, you know, push yourself down too hard because you're really trying to, you know, shock people, but then you overdo it. And, you know, it's it's tough to say. Right. I'm going to give you one more shocker. MoFuda. Yeah, I think MoFuda too. I was going to say that. Beats Raphael. I don't think that. I don't think that either. All right. I'll take that. Let's bet on that. I want to bet on that. I can see that happening. I'll take that bet. I can see him right behind, right behind Raphael. I can see him behind him, but I don't think he's beating him. How should I bet? I can see him like right behind him. What do you want to do? A hundred bucks? You got to shave all the hair on your head. No. No. Come on. What? I would maybe shave my head, but not my eyebrows. No. All the hair from here up. No. Do a reverse Mohawk with the guy from Prodigy. Yeah. Just have those two strips right here. I would maybe do that. All right. We'll figure out a bet. I think it's a good bet. I think Mo's going to beat him. Mo's more heavily muscled. He's working with Patrick. He's going to nail his condition. I don't think he's more heavily muscled. Oh, for sure he is. Are you kidding me? No. Brando's big. Brando's big. Brando's bigger. He's a big guy. He's a bigger guy. Brando might have a bigger structure, but he also has more gaps. I disagree. I think the back on Foda has a bigger gap than Rafael has anywhere. That's the problem with Mo, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, but he's brought it up. But back isn't Raf's strong point either. It's not, but it's still better, and he's taller and more aesthetic. His back is not that bad. He's just a pose better. I don't say it's that bad, but I don't think it's as good. Like, you know, that's still on the thinner side, you know? Yeah. I think he just needs to get upright. Do you think he's leaning back too far? I think it's part of it. Dude, I can see his chest. Yeah, I don't think this is a more heavily muscled guy than Rafael. Oh, my God. Are you kidding? No. Pound for pound? I don't know. Look at that. No. Yes. 100%. Most impressive is just the other back. Most extremely impressive, but Rafael is too. Yeah. Rafael is beautiful to look at. I wouldn't call him heavily muscled. It's RAF. Oh, is it? Raf. Rafa. Rafa. Bruh. Wait. Are you saying this because Rafa beat you? Do you know? I'm saying it because he's bigger and better. I know what's happening now. You have to say this. I didn't even think of that. No, that's exactly where your mind went. That's it. It didn't at all. You're like, Rafa beat me. I have to say he's better than everybody. No. Come on. No. Okay. I mean, look at that picture. The first one you pulled up. That's a more heavily muscled guy. No way. What are you looking at? Look how thin his limbs are. Put up the slide. That's why every time he posts a picture, people are like, Matt Rafa should do classic. He's big, but he's not bigger than Mo. People say he should do classic because he has a beautiful aesthetics to him, but he's big, man. Think so? Yeah. He's a big dude. He's huge. I think pound for pound, they're both equal. Maybe pound for pound for pound. I wouldn't dispute that. But then you're talking he's inches taller. He's heavier. He's wider. He takes up more space. Yeah. I think he's got really good legs. I'll give you structure. I already said that. I'll give you a structurally, but not muscularity wise. Like, look at that. Most muscular first shot. Like, look at that chest. The leg flares crazy. Like, that's a fucking crazy physique, dude. Arms are lagging. Chest could be legs. Could be bigger. Not at all. His head's too small. Some of the craziest quads ever, man. All right. That's all. I don't like the shape of his pinky finger at all. Ian's going to shave all the hair on his head from the neck up. And you're going to eat the one chip. I'll eat the chip if you shave all the hair on your head. Oh. No, I won't do that. I won't shave my eyebrows. Yeah. Shaving the eyebrows is like. Yeah. That's crazy. That's a real. Yeah. That's a real. I can't go in public. I can't fucking do anything. That's fucking. You just draw them on. Yeah. Oh, my God. Imagine. Straight across like this. Like an old lady's plucked too much. I'll get them tattooed on fucking like. What do you call that? Micro. Microblading. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Get some big thick ones. Paul, why don't you do that since you're so crazy about your hair? What? Oh, the tattooing? I've thought about it for a while. You know what? Don't do it, Paul. Oh, no. No, I'm not going to. It's stupid. I've learned to accept my fitting hair. Just shave your head and fucking be cool with it, man. Yeah. I do. It's already shaved. I do. Yeah. I've just been lazy this week, so it grew in. But I'm going to shave it before we leave. You look like a Jason Statham. You're looking good, man. Yeah. Thank you. You know, that's the look I'm sort of going for. I can tell. Like that British gangster kind of look. I'm a fucking Jason Statham. You look just like him. You look just like him. Yeah. There's some similarities. We're going to call you the beekeeper from now on. Yeah. Isn't it the construction worker? Yeah. He's everything. He's every profession. He's everything. Yeah. He's an assassin undercover in a profession. He's a transport. He's a driver. He's a beekeeper. He's a construction worker. He's everything. Oh, can I tell you something fucking hilarious? This is how old I got. Holy fuck. I got old in a heartbeat. I went and test drove an F-250 today because I'm like, you know what? Kind of sick. Can't get blue. Can't get blue cruise. No blue cruise on the F-250s. Well, that was something I thought. So I thought to myself, I'm kind of bored of my Cadillac. You know what? I kind of want a truck. Maybe I want to lift it again. You know, I just want something cooler. So I go fucking test drive this F-250. I tell the guy when I get there, I'm like, look, I need to spend some time with it. I don't want to just take it around the block. I'm probably going to have it all day. I'll bring it back to you later. Like I was there at like 10 a.m. I'm like, I'll bring it back at like six. He goes, okay. He goes, no problem. Fuck off. Do whatever you want. Go to work. Run errands. It's all yours. I go, okay. I get in the fucking car. I drive to Starbucks. Halfway to Starbucks. I'm like, fuck, this thing's bumpy. Because for those people who don't know, the F-250s are not like the 150s. They have leaf springs in the back because it's meant to tow and not tow, but. Which package were you driving? The tremor package. It's meant. That'll be even more stiff too. It's meant to haul all the shit. So they put leaf springs in the back to make it stronger. So the back basically just bounces on every bump you fucking go over. So I'm all the way to Starbucks. I'm like, I'm trying to convince myself that I love it. I'm like, the inside's nice. I'm like, it's so beautiful. I'm riding up higher than everybody. This is great. I miss this. I leave Starbucks. I'm halfway to work. This is now I've been in the car a total of 12 minutes. I turn back and I go back to the dealership. I give them the keys. I'm like, I can't do it, dude. It was so fucking bumpy, especially after driving your Escalade. Fuck. Yeah, it was so bumpy and so loud and so far. I'm like, this is fucking horrible. And the seats are uncomfortable. I'm like, I mean, Chris, Chris bought a F-250 platinum, had it for like a fucking week and got rid of it and got an F-150. My first, my first one was a platinum because I got the platinum and then I lifted it and all the stuff and I'm like, I put like 15 grand or 20 grand to that truck. It was beautiful. And I got rid of it. I couldn't do it. So I'm like, I forgot. I got back in this fucking thing. I'm like, I must've been in it for 15 minutes, max 10 minutes. Yeah. And I'm like, I'm going back. So that was the end of that. That was the end of that. No, I mean, I can't handle like at this point in my life, like even when I drive like that Bronco, I bought Melissa. Yeah. Like fuck man. I drive that for two minutes. I'm like, I fucking hate this thing. She loves it. But like, it's fucking bumpy. There's more road noise. Like it's fucking, you know, and then I get in my F-150 and it's like quiet. It's fucking nice on the bumps. I'm like, oh, this is, this is the way, you know, an AT4X, man. You'll love it. Yeah. Mike's truck's fucking super nice. I would get one of those. Yeah. But Mike's got a 1500 series, like a 15. Yeah. What is it? A quarter ton. What do they call those? A quarter ton. Quarter ton. Quarter ton. Yeah. No, those are fucking beautiful trucks. I actually looked at one, Mike. The, um, I'll get the AT4, AT4, and you can do more stuff with it. Cause the AT4X comes already lifted. I know. But I wanted to get the, I want to get the Denali ultimate was all the fucking, cause that has all the same shit. My Cadillac has, it has like the fucking, where it drives itself and the whole fucking bit. It's like all cushy as fuck inside. Yeah. Yeah. Those, those trucks are fucking nice. And the interior, the interior is nice here in the fucking GMC. Yeah. They're really nice. I'm glad you didn't get the truck. Yeah. He didn't want to, he didn't want to get in and out of it every day. No. I like a nice smooth ride. I don't like that bumpy ride either. Escalades are chauffeur cars. They are. I love that. I love that. Mike hates Escalades. That's why. Really? Yeah. You should get it. I hate them. Cause I, I spent so much time in them when I was doing security. It was fucking, I hate them. They're comfortable as fuck though, dude. Come on. You got it. You got to admit that. Yeah. They're comfortable and the ride quality is nice. And what is this? This cigar is awesome. H Upman Hibana Cuba. I'm probably pronouncing all that wrong, but whatever. It's fucking delicious. Uh, okay. Let's do some questions. Unless Paul, are you giving, you've given up on the whole thing, right? Yeah. You're not good. I'm good. Yeah. I'm good. Thanks for that opportunity. I get tired as, as the podcast goes on, you know, it gets, this is near my bedtime. Is that why? You were, you were fresh earlier. What happened? If we did this at 4 PM, you could leave this thing. No problem. Yeah. During the day, I'm much, much more, um, spry. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Next week. Mike's got to work. Fuck. You can't do it. Well, I got to work too. You get off work at four o'clock or three o'clock. Two 30 ish. Um, even earlier, it's actually two 30. I got to wind down. I got to calm down. Decompress, you know? Yeah. If you buy an RV, would you put a hostile wrap on it? Uh, yes. I actually thought of that. And yes, I would. Um, you can wrap a whole RV. You can wrap whatever the fuck you want. I guess so. Yeah. If you want. Nice. Uh, not a question, but an awesome, an awesome guys trip you should make, especially for Fuad and Ian is go check out the Isle of Man TT motorcycle race. I actually do want to do that. I'd love to do that. It's on my bucket list. We should go next year. Sure. What is it? The Isle of Man TT motorcycle race. It's in the UK. They, there's a special motor. What is it? There's no laws on that Island or something like that. Is that the, is that why it's there? I don't know why it's there specifically. It might be there because of the, that course specifically. I'm not sure what the history of it is to be a hundred percent, but it's just like the craziest fucking motorcycle race in the world. Yeah. I could be wrong, but I thought it was because on that Island, there is no laws. So they started the race there way back in the day. And then it's just continued on to now. Like no laws period. Like you can kill people. No, no. I meant, I meant. It's the purge out there. Yeah. Just Google wise. Do you want me to Google it? I'm doing it right now. Uh, the Isle of Man TT originated in 1907 as a motorcycle race on the Isle of Man chosen because the public road racing was banned in mainland Britain and the Island's authorities were more permissive. Initially held on a shorter St. John's short course. It tested touring motorcycles and quickly evolved moving to the famous 37.73 mile mountain course in 1911, becoming a legendary and demanding event known for its high speed, challenging roads and rich history. Not to mention like fucking four people die every year or something there. Yeah. This, this past, this past year was like the first year someone hadn't died in like a hot minute, you know? Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, yeah. So I think it started because for that reason. So yeah, it's fucking insane. I'd love to watch that. Um, the only tough thing with watching those things in person is you don't see anything, you know? Yeah. You see him fly by. Yeah. It's like you're on one stretch of road and they're just like, and you're like, oh, okay, cool. And then you wait like 16 minutes and then, and that's it. It's like, I went and saw formula one of fucking in Miami and it was like, it's fucking cool. But like, you see nothing, you know? Like, yeah, they're so fast. You just fucking see them come and they're like gone. Then you're like, oh, okay. You know, spent five grand for these tickets. Yeah. I think it's more just like the event overall. It's just to be there for the culture and just to fucking see it. And yeah. Is there like tailgating and stuff at those races? Like there is like the football. Fuck that. That guy's moving. Oh, dude. Just wait. Oh, fuck. Look how close they are to the rock. I know. Jeez. Watch how close they get to the edges. They come off the. Oh, we got a speed wobble there. Look at that. Can you imagine doing that? No. You say every year, like four or five people die? No, it's not that much, but. It's like one or two. Like. Yeah. Yeah. This is crazy. This one will fly by so fast. I've never seen this clip. Jesus Christ. Holy fuck. That's so awesome. Going 250 kilometers now. Oh, fuck. I would have my head all like that. Dude. That's so fucking crazy. Okay. Whoa. Whoa. Into that corner too. Boom. That's so fucking awesome. Fuck. Fuck, man. Fuck, you sit there and you're on the wrist, man. Yeah. And this is just like city roads, man. It's crazy. That's fucking wild shit, man. That's fucking crazy. That got me fucking excited just watching that shit. That's fucking awesome. Those guys are absolute fucking madmen. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. With Dubai Pro being pushed to October post Olympia 2026, what European or Asia show will Baroos qualify in? I'm not sure. The schedule, there's a couple new shows on the docket this year. Oh, yeah? They were... You need to look at it. We had this conversation on the news channel and I said he'd probably qualify at like Italy and there's Italy and Europa are the last two shows. Mm-hmm. And Suki was saying that he thought he would still try and qualify at like the France Pro in June just to get it out of the way so they could apply for his visa. I would agree. Mm-hmm. Uh... How do you think social media has influenced or affected bodybuilders' physiques? That's a good question. I never thought of that. Hmm. Has it made physiques better or worse or same? In general? Yeah. In general, not specific. I would say it's made it better because there's more information out there for people to learn from. But are physiques actually better? No. No, I don't think so. So that kind of pokes a hole in what you just said. Well, there's more people training now than ever. That's for sure because I think there's so much information out there. It's helped bodybuilding in general for sure. Yeah. But I'm saying physiques on the pro stage. On the pro stage. Hmm. Hmm. Can I actually say something too about that? There was a whole conversation about too many pro cards being given out, blah, blah. I commented on this. I think Lee Labrada brought it up. And I don't disagree with him that there is. But I think people need to get past this whole thing because that's the last. I don't know what you commented, Ian. So I'm sorry if this is going against your comment. But I think people need to get past the whole like it's easy to get a pro card. But the entire point of the sport is to try and grow it because it was a cult following when I started. And it was really hard to get a pro card. Like in Canada, one card was given out, sometimes two. And that's it. That's the only chance you had. And now in every country, there's multiple opportunities to get a pro card. And that's why there's so many fucking people competing. And then people say things like, well, if there was no men's physique and there was no classic, there would be more bodybuilders. I'm like, are you sure about that? Because maybe those people wouldn't even be competing. Maybe they would have never got a pro card. Maybe they would have never just – because if you think about it, the whole sport, like the whole sport, I'm not just talking about open men's bodybuilding. The entire sport, whatever you want to call it, genre of bodybuilding is multiple times bigger than it was when I started. And look how many pro shows there are now compared to where it used to be. And in multiple divisions. If people think they have a better recipe or they should do it this way or they should do it that way, blah, blah. I'm not a fucking shill for the IFBB. But if you just look at what they're doing, it's so much fucking bigger than it ever was. They're obviously doing something right. Yeah. And I agree with you. And I think my whole thing with this is people put way too much fucking stock in a pro card being the reward. Yeah. You know? Of like, oh, the pro stash should be hard. It's like, no, winning a pro show should be hard. And that's not changed. If I go to a pro show and there's 10 guys that suck, I don't care. You know? It's just more guys to beat. It doesn't matter. I mean, and the example I used when I was talking about this is like pro golf. This has never been a conversation in pro golf. You know how many active pro golfers there are? 40,000 pro golfers. Yeah. Yeah. You know? Or tennis or any of these things. It's like there is tens of thousands of professionals. And lots of them don't make it on the tour. And they end up being, you know, club pros or fucking teaching pros, whatever they are. You know? They do things which is the same as a lot of bodybuilders. They don't make it successfully on the competitive stage. So they use that pro title to be coaches, to do other things like that. But they're not winning pro shows. It doesn't take away from the pro show. The cream still rises to the top. And I think people need to stop looking. And I say this trying not to be as disrespectful as it sounds. But it comes from a lot of people that the pro card was the end goal. Right. You know? Where the pro card is like that's the end of the line for you. So you want that pro card to mean a lot. Yes. But succeeding as a pro is your prowess as a bodybuilder. You know? Going and winning pro shows. Qualifying for the M. Being someone that is ranked in the world. You know? Like being, you know, in golf. One of the top 200. Or some of that. You know? Being someone in the money. Like that is your prowess as a bodybuilder. Turning pro is to me. Like yeah. It did used to be more difficult. I don't dispute that at all. There was less. But the sport has grown. And I think people need to stop putting so much stock in the pro card. The pro card is opening a doorway. That's all it is. It's giving you the ability to compete at professional events. To make money. To, you know, compete. And move up in the ranks of pro bodybuilders. To compete eventually at the Olympia. To be one of the best bodybuilders in the world. If you turn pro. Even when it was super difficult. Someone still came last at every single show. You know? Whether it's super hard to turn pro. There was still bodybuilders that came last in every single show. There was still guys. Someone has to lose. And whether it's someone shitty or good or whatever. It doesn't actually matter that much. I think because they're putting just all the stock in the pro card being this golden prize. When being a good bodybuilder is the golden prize. Yeah. That's a good point. Well, the other thing is to. I said the only reason we're having these conversations is because we're in a transition period. We're going from when it used to be hard to what it is now. Which is just let's get as many people into the system as possible so we can grow the sport. If in 50 years this conversation is not going to happen anymore. Because then it will be normal for people. Like it isn't golf or like it isn't boxing or like it is. We're only having this conversation because it's just a transition period from what it was. It's also like you still have the old guard of people like maybe our age. That's what I mean. Whatever. They're like. Yeah. Yeah. It was a lot harder back then. Sure. So when you did get your pro card it was a big deal. Because like there wasn't a lot of people to say they even got their pro card. Right. Like you're saying it's evolving. And like some guys would go their whole career and they'd finally get their pro card. And like I fucking. That's what I've been chasing. And they might up doing one pro show. Right. But it's like. Yeah. I think it's just the older crowd. Kind of. They have like kind of sour like milk taste in their mouth. We're like. Oh man. It's so much easier for these guys than it was for me. It's like you probably still wouldn't get a pro card now. Yeah. And even then. Like I said. It's you get the pro card. But then what? Yeah. You know. But like that. But like back in the day you being harder. It was like. That was a symbol of status to a lot of people. Sure. Like our age and our demographic. Because it was so hard to attain. Yeah. But nowadays it's like. Yeah. Yeah. To me I think there's too much stock put in that. That it's like. That it's. You know. The pro status. When I think across the board and all these other things. It's not looked at like that. And I think having more pros doesn't matter. Because it's still. The gauge of success as a bodybuilder is what you do as a pro. Not just being one. You know. Well correct me if I'm wrong. But maybe you know Mike. But in boxing. Don't you like self-declare that you're pro? Yes. Right. So how come no one. That's. That's about that. Because that's what I'm saying. We're in a transition period. Yeah. Yeah. In 50 years. No one will give a fuck. Yeah. Yeah. I mean same with like. I have buddies that I went to high school with that are pro golfers. You know. Yeah. It's like. It doesn't really mean anything. But it means something. You know. Yeah. So it's like. To the layman. It's when you tell them you're a pro golfer. It's impressive. Versus if you say you're a pro bodybuilder. Even if you're fucking. The shittiest pro bodybuilder. It still means something when you say it to a layman. But being in the scale of bodybuilding. Or in the scale of golf. Or whatever it is. There's still like echelons in that. And I think that's what we really need to be important. Of like. Okay. Who are the guys actually succeeding as professional bodybuilders. Not just who's able to turn pro. I think it doesn't really matter. You know. Just name it. Rename it. I'm a pro qualified individual. Yeah. Because like. I've always. I can do any pro show I want. I'm qualified to be a pro. Yeah. I've always looked at it as. As turning pro. Is not like the. The prize. It's just. Opening the door for you. To be able to have a career. As a bodybuilder. And make money. That's. That's. Graduating college. You know. Well that's what I said. Because Lee's. Just in Lee's defense. Lee said. Well these guys are turning pro. And it's going to take them three or four years. To ever be able to. To ever be competitive. And I'm like. That's fine. So. But his point is like. A lot of people will get out of the sport. Because they can't. Wait that long. Like they get discouraged. Because they're going to compete and get killed. Yeah. But I think. I think it's still the cream rises to the top. And the guys. Like look. We know a lot of guys that were good bodybuilders. That got killed. When they started competing. Yeah. And they stuck it out. They got better. And then they got good. And I think the guys that are good. Will do that. And I think that's the end of it. And they're aware that this is their starting point. Exactly. Your career begins when you become a pro. Unless you're like some phenom. Right. But like you're like. This is like. Now I really start to like understand where I'm going. It's like being a rookie. Being a rookie on like. You're like a backup quarterback. And you're a draft pick. Do you know what I mean? Like you're not going to play right away. Yeah. You might play seven seasons being backup. Before you get your fucking moment. You know. Or even boxers. It's like. You know. When you're zero and zero. You know. You fight some fucking shit balls. You know. Fucking journeymen. To get your status up. Yeah. To get a record. To get good fights. You know. Yeah. There's a lot of pro boxers. They're like. They're like. They're good boxers. And they're maybe like. Boxing for a decade or over. They're just waiting for one shot. Yeah. Literally. They're waiting for like. Someone. Someone needs a tune up fight. For a fucking whatever. Or like. You're the next tall. You're like the highest ball. Like rank guy. You're the next guy up. You got to go fight fucking. Whoever. Or Tia Fimo. Or fucking Shakur. And they're like. Like the guy. Like. I think like two months ago. Shakur Stevenson. Who's like a big. Up and coming boxer now. That he was supposed to fight a certain guy over in Abu Dhabi. But the guy dropped out. For some reason. And this fucking random dude from like New Jersey. Who like has a regular job. Was the next one they put in. The WC put in. And this guy showed up. And like. Actually did well. Like he didn't win. He got pieced up. But. Yeah. He lasted the whole fight. Like to like. To 10th round. Right. But like. That was his biggest payday. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He probably got like a million dollars. For that fucking fight. Yeah. I also. Sorry to interrupt. I also think people. I think a lot of the past of bodybuilding. Is forgotten. And I think people remember. The. The famous names. And the good. And all these things. But I think people forget a lot of like. Like. I did this when I was reading this thing. And I just started googling. Random pro shows. From the 90s and early 2000s. You know. 1996. Canada Cup. Go look at who came 16th place. Oh I know. Oh I know. Go Google that guy's physique. Right. You think that was a. That's a physique that could turn pro now. Yeah. These are physiques that are so. Not competitive. And people like. Oh they were all competitive then. They weren't. You know. These guys. There was guys that sucked. And won shitty shows. Or turn pro as a master. Or whatever it is. You know. That still had careers. Where they come in last every show. Just like there is today. And it's not like every lineup. Down to 20th place. Was so deep. Because it was so hard to turn pro. I did it. I looked at 10 different pro shows. In the early 90s. To early 2000s. And there is. 20 names in every show. I've never even heard of. And I know bodybuilding. Yeah. You know. So even a. Intimate fan of bodybuilding. I never even heard of these guys. And when I Googled their names. And looked at their physiques. These weren't good physiques. At a pro level. Yeah. They would still be placing the same place. They're placing today. You know. If anything. They'd be placing worse. Because the size. And the conditioning. And some degrees. Has changed. So yeah. I mean. I think people remember. The 90s. Or the 2000s. Or the 80s. Of being the physiques. That are the physiques. We remember. You know. Being the fucking. You know. Lee Priest. And Sean Ray's. And Kevin LaVron's. And this. But these were the guys. We remember for a reason. There's a reason. They're still famous. 20. 30 years later. Because they were that excellent. You know. But that wasn't the depths. Of every single show. And if you. I tell people to do this. Go. Go Google. Any random pro show. You know. Like I said. I looked at. One was the 1996 Canada Cup. Like Ronnie Coleman. Won the show. There was good guys. Ronnie. Milos. Like there's. Fucking crazy bodybuilders. You get to 7th. 8th place. You'll never have heard of any of these guys. You know. Yeah. Yeah. Just like today. You know. It's. And there's guys. And their physiques are mediocre. Just like they'll be mediocre pros now. And they didn't make much of a career. And they probably did a few shows. They placed low. And they retired. And that was just the reality of it. You know. Right. Yeah. When we talked. Sorry. When we talked earlier. About. Like how I said. Like. The odd version of me died. Like I don't train like that anymore. Because whatever. It's like. That's why. Like I have my pro card. But I don't. I would never. In a million years. Walk up to someone. Say. I'm a pro bodybuilder. It's like. Yeah. I got my pro card. Yeah. I did two shows. And then I didn't bodybuild anymore. Right. So. I'm not a. I got my pro card. Right. Over here. Right. I don't have it now. And I just. Like. I don't. So. So. I'm going to try to like. Put my name. Like. On if I do an interview. Or something. Or whatever. They try and put that. I'm like. Don't put that there. Like. I'm. Or I'm more. I'm way more proud. Of like. What I do. Helping people train. And that's what I. Right. I think I've shifted. To be annoying for. But it's like. I. I accomplished something. But it's not like. It didn't paint the picture. For the rest of my. But hold on. Can I say. Can I say something about that? Sorry Paul. I just want to get this in. So Ian said something earlier. About people getting in. And. And making it a career. That's actually what I think. Is the most valuable thing. A lot of these. 100%. A lot of these people get in. And Mike. This is to your point. You are a pro bodybuilder. And that. Does lend. Whether you believe it or not. Especially at the beginning. It does lend. I'm not. I'm not saying that's. Yeah. I'm not saying like now. Obviously it's different. Because Mike's been around. For so long. But. It still does lend itself to. When you're out there. Talking about training. If you have your pro card. Then people believe. That you have some semblance. Definitely. I've earned this. I've earned the status. I took. I did the road. I took the road to get there. I got my pro card. And that does give you credibility. Whether you're. Well it also gives you. Like a little bit of like. Perspective. You can pass on to people. Right. I have. I have done. Right. What you're attempting to do. I. Depending on who the person. I'm talking to. I'm nowhere near as good as you. And I never was. But like. I understand mentally. What you're doing. And what you're trying to accomplish. Right. And I understand. How much it sucks to diet. And I understand. Gear. And how it feels. And like. Like everything. So I can. I can put my. Yeah. I can put myself in your shoes. And be like. Right. Okay. I know you're feeling this way. But like. Trust me. Like. Yeah. A long time since I was where you are. But I've been there. And I've learned from then. So. And even then. The guys like. We were talking about. You know. Oh. Now certain shows. They give out two in every class. It's like. Yeah. But coming second at a national level show. Is still a good bodybuilder. Yeah. You know. This is still like a top. In the country. At the time. At that show. A bodybuilder. Like. It is easier than it was. But like. These aren't just like. Guys getting off the couch. These are still good bodybuilders. That have still trained. And worked very hard. To get to that point. So like. You know. If you're using that. As the accolade. As you know. Like. You know. In the sense. We were talking about there. As an opening door. To do other avenues. I think it's still valid. You know. I just think people need to stop gatekeeping. Yeah. It's like. Look. Let's let people. Into the sport. Let's let them put it on their fucking resume. Let's let them. And then what they do with it. After that. Yeah. Most importantly. Put it on your Instagram bio. Most importantly. Or make sure you get. Fucking. Right when you get it too. You go to the hotel room. And you fucking put it in. I would have done that shit. Fuck you. Mike. I did too. I did. No. I did it when I won. I don't do it now. Because it's like ridiculous. But like. When I won. I was like. I still think it's an accolade. You should be proud of. Of course. A hundred percent. I mean. You still won something. That's good. But I think. When. What I'm saying. Is that we need to stop looking at that. As like. The end goal. Of bodybuilding. You know. And for some people. It might be. For some people. It is. For some. For some people. It is. And that's fine. But then. I don't think it. It doesn't matter. If your career. You're like. If you're wanting to be a best bodybuilder. Right. You know. If your goal is to be one of the best bodybuilders in the world. It doesn't matter. If there's 20 guys that suck in a show. I don't care. I never cared. You know. Paul. You were going to say something earlier. I cut you off. I apologize. I think we're in a bit of a bubble. Because I think. You know. To us. Being a pro in bodybuilding. Sounds like. Nothing. But to the average person. Who works a nine to five job. And doesn't really. Yeah. Yeah. Involve in sports. Being a pro in anything. Is super impressive. That's what I said before. As far as like to a layman. Even when I said. Buddies I went to high school with. Are pro golfer. They might not even be. Great golfers in a process. Like they're a fucking. A plus two. You know. Like shooting fucking whatever. But. But to the average person. That's still impressive. And that gives them. The credentials. To be able to teach. And do other things. With that golf title. Right. Yeah. It's an achievement. It's an achievement. Yeah. Be honest. Do you train for the stage. Or because the bedroom reactions. Hit harder than the trophy. The bedroom reactions. Yeah. Like when you take your shirt off. Your wife just faints. And I just. And a long-term relationship before. And I tell you. One of the most. Irritating things. They don't care. Yeah. No. Why don't you take my shirt off. And you know. And the only things. That bothered me. More than anything. When I was competing. When I was fat. In the offseason. I didn't. You know. I expected my wife. To be like. He's fat. Whatever. She. I don't want to fuck that much. I'm like. Okay. I'm fat. That's fine. but when i was fucking peeled i'm like we should be having sex every you should be look at me look at me you know how lucky you are to be with me you should be wet right now just looking at this look at this perfect physique yeah the only ones wet are other dudes you know yeah like what the fuck once i care about it you know how hard i worked for this you should be on your knees fuck that never happened yeah it doesn't work that way it doesn't work that way yeah she loves me whether i'm fat or not fat unfortunately i wish she loved me more getting jacked i find a lot of the time if you if you're with a woman who's not like super into working like another competitor or something if you're if you're in too good a shape it's almost like an insecurity thing huge i agree i agree because they're like man like you're fucking you look like that and like i'm just like a person you're like yeah but i'm cool worry about me yeah this isn't for you this is for me i'm getting myself hard over here right yeah getting bodybuilder jack to get pussy is like the biggest pitfall like a guy oh no yeah no no percent yeah just grow your just grow your wallet make your wallet bigger even you'll see like the videos even you'll see the videos of like where people on the street are doing the things they'll show like a picture of c-bum yeah who's like not open bodybuilder disgustingness like tall handsome aesthetic you know they'll show that versus like regular guy that's like lean you know good whatever and they'll nine times out of ten the girls will pick the normal guy yeah i've seen i've seen those i'm like that's like that's chris yeah i'm like i don't know who that is it's ronnie coleman because you don't want that uh will paul fulfill any of his bet lost bets including racing ian filming himself jumping to touch the net eating this eating this or strumming if not should paul have to grow his hair out from now until detroit that's not long enough no it's not long enough but also you should you know what you should maybe from now until march 14th no i got an appointment with my stylist book for thursday honestly my stylist i know right you know what paul you're a man we call it a barber i think you should a stylist as a guy paul i think that's a good idea i'm an appointment with my stylist is that in your phone on your calendar hair stylist you're not getting your hair styled you're gonna get a fucking cut there's no hair to style paul this guy would trick paul into the geese styling his hair yeah i am you feel that hair you feel it i'm brushing but i am proud of paul he's started shaving his own head and trimming his own beard yeah he's not so he's not going as often i'm not going every 10 days anymore seven to ten days yeah you know you shouldn't be going to a barber at all can you imagine this guy was paying 60 bucks every 10 days for that what yeah me for that 60 bucks yeah for that you're bald dude lines up my beard he trims up everything yeah but i'll line your beard up for 30 bucks i don't do it i do my beard myself exclusively i don't my barber doesn't touch my beard only my hair oh really yeah it's so easy man like i'm like i'm so glad you said that because now he's going to be like well ian does it i can do it i should i can trim my beard in five minutes to make it look good you know it's funny if i say something it doesn't if you say it's like it's like the husband it's like the husband wife thing yeah like you know if you tell your wife something she won't listen but like if another dude says it like she's like oh oh you know so and so said that's what paul does to me i'm like using this for years i'm like shave your own beard he's like religiously every 10 days 60 bucks ian's like i shaved my beard he's saving so much money really you don't need to be spending just shave your head just you know number two or number one the whole thing and then just trim your beard takes five that's what i started doing but uh but like i like i still like to go like once a month or so though just to get a sure go once a month level i want to give him some money just for nothing yeah does he do a hot towel on you yeah yeah there you go that's worth it it is yeah does my eyebrows yeah i mean it's a little rr in there i mean then you could justify that sure yeah i fall asleep in my barber's chair every week really out cold out cold like waking me up i want to go to my barber more if i'm being honest just for my beard yeah i don't i don't do my beard my barber anymore no i know but i want to grow mine out and i'd like to have it shaped properly yeah yeah no like if i'm keeping it like this i can do it myself but i want to like i want to make yeah if you're gonna have a big like you need someone that knows how to shape unless you learn it's i don't think it's that tough to learn but um but yeah if you don't want to do it then yeah it depends what kind of beard you got like paul's beard so short like that's so easy to keep yeah yeah yeah you know well it's tapered yeah that's easy it's not well that's so easy paul mine's tapered too like this is shorter than here i did that myself i taper 30 seconds but when it's this short the taper is easy it's easy when it gets mics long that's more difficult like difficult because you might need to use scissors and stuff but uh but yeah i mean it's short length dude you could do that in five minutes not even three minutes you know maybe this weekend you could show me what you're doing yeah i'll show you it's easy ian please even though even though fued who you're with every day already knows how to do it i'll show you now he won't listen to me i can tell him the sky is blue and ian says green he'd be like i think he doesn't have purpose at this point sometimes i do just right it's a bit off a little bit uh favorite animal dog all eagles dogs bear so you wild wild animal or domestic you rather have a bear in your house than a dog yes 10 times out of 10 coolest animal and favorite animal i would have a different okay well let's coolest animal um like a fucking like leopard or black panther why do you do that with your head i'm thinking you know like partially indian like i don't know what my favorite animal is yes the bengali tiger what did you say your answer was my me yeah yeah i don't know some kind of cool big cat for sure yeah okay monkey i want a monkey so bad monkey monkeys are cool yeah those little tiny ones oh you said bald eagle that's right they just steal your shit yeah paul's got a thing for birds if anybody get a monkey and it could cut it pull the bugs out of your hair paul yeah we could do we could teach a monkey how to cut paul's how to shape all that that'll tear my face all the dead skin it'll just start completely scalp me yeah uh as strong and big as you guys were were i am were i had 12 plates the other day are you crazy yeah but you used like four reverse bands on it i used one light skinny purple one fat reverse man like go look at it go look at it okay okay why do you do that this is a safety thing to take a little bit of stress on my knees hurt for 20 years because yeah i mean they i can barely walk for like three days after i did that literally i get off off the couch right now and i'm like bent over like halfway for like five minutes before i can stand up all the way straight my like back and knees and you know yeah can you just go to diamond gym and house those guys for me yeah sometimes i watch that and like my ego i'm like this i could fucking bury these but then i'm like they they would just make it they make it so hard for the sake of making it you would you would bury them no but they would bury them they wouldn't be able to keep up yeah i mean i don't think that they could bury me but i think that they just make hard for the sake of making it hard yeah let's see look at this how many plates you got on there 12. no it's not it is exactly two three four is it 12. yep how many bands five no look you'll see it click watch it's one skinny the skinny not even a big size one skinny purple band so that's about 1100 pounds look the skinny one there's two there's no that's one it's just one over there it's one band yeah but you wrapped it around twice no i just went from the top under the handle and then to the other handle yeah so you got double the reverse band out of it yeah but there's oh that's the only way you can wrap it around it has to go under something just don't use how about just don't use one well i could yeah oh yeah that though okay so so i mean i'll just do 10 plates without the band i mean it's all right do that that's what i want to see okay okay yeah i mean it's it's it's fine i'll do that i'm gonna wrap a brand like that on my hack squat yeah you'll do four plates i bet you i do i bet you with almost being dead five months ago i'm gonna do and i'm gonna do 10 plates i bet you one thousand dollars you cannot one thousand yes how long do i have to do this you said you're gonna do it like now like now yeah okay maybe maybe eight yeah let's see it what did i do primary reason okay i hacked i hacked five plates like two weeks ago i'd have to double that not i can i could train for it i couldn't do it now that's a lot of resistance dude that takes a lot off that that you know that by the arnold by the arnold could you do it it's yes yes look at look it's definitely taking some off at the bottom i don't dispute that but that was it one thousand percent i could do it by there that band's less than you think that's just a thin purple that's not a wide purple dude i used to use the smallest monster mini they call them from elite ftz they're the red ones but when you double wrap them like that that takes a fucking shitload of weight it's just looped on one around and looped to the other yeah yeah okay i want to see you do it without any bands yeah i look i don't think i could do 12 with no bands but do i think i could do 10 for reps no bands for sure i mean the next video there i did 10 reps with 11 plates with that same band but you think you can do 10 plates on a hack squat with no bands i've done i've done nine plates on the cybex with no bands no way yes okay that's shocking that's a lot of fucking weight the cybex one is the most ignorant hack squat yeah actually i've done i've done that full with no bands before i don't think five six reps i don't think it's the most ignorant but it's fucking one of the because it's so vertical yeah yes yeah it's one of the worst ones remember that we used to use it at uh chases james james and i honestly don't think my leg strength is that much below what it was at my strongest dude nine plates on that hack squat's crazy yeah do you remember what's the most what's the most you've ever squatted barbell squatted yeah were you not a good barbell squatter no i was a good barbell squatter but i didn't i never went like that low of rep ranges like i've never done sets of like five six of barbell squats but i have squatted over 700 pounds for sure have you really yeah i didn't know that i didn't know you're a good like i knew your legs were big but yeah not as big as mine but like i didn't know i didn't know you squatted that much it's crazy man yeah well listen nine plates on a fucking cybex is wild that well that's way more impressive than 12 on that because i know the the resistance resistance on a cybex is fucking yeah they're heavy crazy yeah good for you man um as strong and as big as you guys are in ian's case do you all think you could have played in the nfl no no mike doesn't count being that he actually played football i couldn't have played in the nfl no i'm short and slow me too i think people don't have any any comprehension of what that is how good those guys are just because you're sure but also it also looks so slow on tv because because it's so fast it's so fast and they hit so hard like yeah but if you're at field level watching them go like not on tv watching from a bird's eye it's so much more violent than you think yeah yeah the collisions way more violent than you think yeah like even the line play like those guys smashing each other like that's the violent collision it's not like pitter patter like yeah yeah yeah no nowhere near nowhere near that and the game's not as violent as it used to be remember back when they could headhunt like safety's not hitting receivers going over the middle they could go from the head yeah so they could kill people uh i'm not sure this was a question before but what's everyone's goals for 2026 well quits weed for a little well huh you know hopefully quit weed for a little while forever there's no such thing as quitting weed for a little while that's taking a break quitting quitting means stopping i don't know i don't like the sound of paul being a quitter i don't like that yeah thanks mike i'm a happier person on it anyways i didn't notice his name on the screen until just now what is it second of second of your heart i was wondering how long did you guys notice that it's very small two hours in obviously uh funniest thing you've ever seen in the gym is bikini competitors attractive to you yeah yeah you know the crazy thing though this is like the hot ones yeah i mean are the hot girls attractive to us yes this is the weird weird thing about bikini and wellness and all i don't think i've ever gone to a fucking a show and seen them come out and been aroused yeah and thought of that like i don't think oh yeah turn around show us your butthole you guys see that ass crack but no obviously there's bikini competitors that are extremely attractive yeah there's a pervert just standing up near the back with a fucking pair of inoculars like yeah we're gonna we're gonna start having like in bodybuilding shows like what the extra clothes like perverts row yeah yeah front row with with binoculars front row just there fucking like a five dollar builder could you turn them again could you walk into the back again uh when are you guys doing your fantasy league for this year and when will the point system for this year be public the fantasy league is getting revamped oh man there's a lot of cool shit i'm doing a side-by-side comparison page so you can take any bodybuilder from any era any show take their picture and put it side by side with any other bodybuilder you can even upload your own photos so we can finally put to rest that i'm better than paul we could finally put no we're gonna put me and you side by side we already know how that's gonna go but we do we we don't people are gonna be shocked at how i skated by in my fucking career being such a bad bodybuilder can you just do two people for what i'm c bum's brother-in-law guys that carries a lot of weight you know sorry paul go ahead ask you just do two people all the time or could you like a whole like mock lineup like five or five guy lineup with different eras i think i can make that happen i didn't think of that that's a good that's a good good thing to add like just do just do a call out yeah right well right now it's a versus this guy versus this guy you can do whoever you want you do samson from 2024 and dorian yates from 1994 and like see who's better whatever so it's a cool feature we're adding that but we're also adding it's going to be an app too now so you don't have to go to a website you just download the fucking app and you can have it all like in your hands and we're also adding a history page so every bodybuilding competition every bodybuilder all their fucking histories every competition all their placings will all be in the app so so when you click me you'll see second at the arnold you'll see yeah but you also see when i beat you a couple times yeah i mean those are early in my career you know i'm going to make sure the pro the programmer personally puts like bold bold you know was beat by fouad here ian valier orlando pro seventh place fouad won this show you should make it to it no listen it's going to be really i'm really excited this year and we're changing the points also so that it's more easier to understand for everybody i learned a lot from the first year uh i also think i'm going to get rid of rate your physiques because there's just too many yeah it's too hard to fucking keep track of it's too hard to like kind of do it all so i don't know i think we might either be getting rid of it or it might be like just make it like a thousand dollars and if you want to pay it then we'll do it no it's not that it's i i'd realize this after we did it people wanted to upload their photos every week and i'm yeah and get it like yeah i'm like i'm ready i can't like your physique looks the same as it looked last week yeah so your rating is going to be the same like physiques don't change that you know what i mean so i think it's going to be if it if we do keep it it's going to be more like two times a year yeah you can upload your photos and get yeah and get rated or something like that so anyways a whole bunch of changes come it's gonna be fucking awesome that should be ready for like mid-february so we can all do our fantasy picks before the arnold before the first show of the year uh okay i didn't realize how late it was we'll do a few more paul's paul cast took a little while so yeah we'll get started might have to cut a whole bunch of that out um when is stan efforting going to be on bro chat he would fit right in i just did a one-on-one with stan i don't think he's gonna be on bro chat though uh what else do we got here how many people will use this paul's code every month like three you guys don't know if it's even ever been active has it it is active is it yeah more people use my code on your site or paul's your code people more people put e and cody in i don't push my code i don't push fucking cody in on the hostile either uh what do you guys think of that jack 22 year old joining the men's physique this year oh fuck off who that mike hunt my cunt kid my cunt yeah yeah mike hawks what are your what's your guys take on diamond gym what do you guys actually think about that because i'm like i think it's a fun internet gimmick i think from a workout perspective it's not valuable like it is valuable because it's hard i think there's like good mental lessons and that do i think it's like the ideal way to train doing 6 000 push-ups or fucking 4 000 wrist curls and doing these things like before like no not necessarily but do i think it's cool and a good test of mental tenacity and it's fun to watch it's interesting it's cool to see influencers and people that are bodybuilders that train hard put in this situation um so i i like it i mean i i don't think it's like i wouldn't want to train that way but do i like seeing people put in that scenario and how they survive in it uh i definitely think it's interesting to watch out all right new gym opened up near me with 21 different equipment brands do you think that sometimes too many options can hurt your workouts hmm i don't yeah if you go to pure if you walk into pure they literally have fucking 10 hacks watts 10 leg presses try them all out and see what you like it's like it can't be bad you're either just you're just going to use the one you like yeah i mean i think it's good because you have options to find what you know biomechanically feels nicest for you you know you might use this hack squat and it doesn't feel right on your knees or whatever and this one might feel good or whatever i think it's it's good it's a fun exercise to use multiple pieces of machinery and kind of find what feels best for you and kind of build around that you know i think it's it's good it's always a positive to have more equipment in your arsenal you know would keon pearson be able to beat flex lewis if they were both at their best it's one of those things for you to website that's tough for the new real bodybuilding podcast that would be a cool comparison yeah obviously the conditioning and the hardness and the crispness of some of the peaks that flex has are extremely hard to beat and very impressive he had this like clarity and quality to his muscle and his skin texture and his conditioning was so plasticky rock hard um do i think that keon is maybe bigger in certain aspects and has some more impressive shots like in the front double do i think keon is extremely impressive and can beat someone like flex yes um it's it's a good comparison for sure i mean they definitely have different aspects to their physique that would make it difficult for one another but yeah you have to stay tuned for the new app and we'll do a side-by-side comparison you can decide for yourselves you know for me i think a little plug for you there thank you ian for me i think keon's shape is going to be like a versus flexes conditioning exactly because those are their strong suits right kind of what i just said but if you want to reiterate it well i wanted to say it not so many words yeah i wanted to break it down sometimes i'm a very eloquent i'm a very eloquent man i like to like let people know how smart i am you know sometimes you ramble a little bit i thought i would just summarize it so people can get a hold of what you're saying okay that would be a great comparison though what time is ian guest posing at the detroit pro uh in between open and classic ian's coming up yep that's a good idea ian you're getting ready you look great you should guess pose i think i could be doing okay i'm going to advertise it please don't do that uh favorite favorite sport in the upcoming winter olympics bobsled women's bobsled i was there would say that too and winter olympics what do you think good sports are the winter olympics what's the sport called with the cross-country skiing and the shooting oh biathlon that's pretty funny that is cool yeah some of the jumps too and skiing are pretty cool dude i saw some of these jumps in person once and it's the craziest thing you've ever seen up close yeah like you have no idea the concept of how big and how steep these jumps are until you stand in one i went to lake placid like one of my buddy's mom's did a uh fucking iron man there and we like snuck into the lake placid facility from when the olympics were there dude the jumps are like the height of your house and completely vertical it's like what the fuck is this like people go off this going 80 kilometers an hour it's actually insane yeah i get on tv you have no concept of it yeah i like the fucking isn't there like speed skiing where they go down a course yeah slalom oh yeah slow slow crazy that's cool i do like like the the short track speed skating too anything fast racing oh you mean yeah yeah those things are fucking great yeah legs are fucking nuts yeah yeah i like that shit um um top three exercises to build chest i knew it's gonna get mike riled up press and fly top three exercise mike there's only three no i fucking hate i fucking hate those questions mike come on man there's three you can do more than three no there's only there's three of the best ones what are the i want the best ones i want to go my barbell bench press i want to grow my chest faster than everybody else for who what for my wife take my shirt off and then you start dripping you can start fucking wet yeah no more cheeseburger titties yeah so bad after the accident dude fuck uh okay last question that's a weird question what do you guys think of boston lloyd boston i'm gonna tell you this boston lloyd is the reason i started my podcast really yes in my head because at the time i was a pro and boston lloyd was on youtube and he was doing so many videos about this guy's stack and that guy's stack and all these things and i thought a lot of it was bullshit i'm like man he's giving people a lot of bad information now whether it was true or not i don't know but i felt like it was a lot of bad information so i'm like you know what i'm gonna start a fucking podcast and i'm gonna get these guys on the podcast because they're half of my my fucking friends and i'm gonna ask them what they're taking so that people can have first-hand knowledge instead of this just somebody saying random stuff yeah and i did if you go back and watch like the first i don't know 15 20 episodes of rbp the one-on-ones somewhere near the middle or end of the fucking podcast i would always say what's your test level i would literally say like how much tests are you taking i think i did with ian the first time he was on and inevitably everybody would say 500 so i knew they're all lying but at least i asked i said 700 but it was kind of the boston lloyd thing that made me think of the idea because i'm like it would be better to hear right from the guys instead of fucking somebody just saying something so anyway i don't know what everybody else thinks of boston lloyd but i thought he was i thought he was good at what he did but it wasn't great information i have to say that the internet boston lloyd and the boston lloyd in person like the real speaking to him off the internet were two completely different people yeah i spoke to him semi-regularly and honestly he was a pretty fucking cool dude he was like very down to earth you could have really good respectful conversations to him but he knew how to get the views and rile people up and what content was working at the time and uh and i think he he definitely dove into that um but no i always had good interactions with him on a personal level um so you know i i think it's uh yeah yeah um okay two two questions to end it largest animal by weight and stature you think you can take in a fight i'm gonna i'm gonna answer this i still as if i still have both my arms by the way okay because right now with one arm probably no no animal at all like a cat have you ever seen a cat fucking really go at you yeah but like if it's life or death you could fucking kill the cat come on probably i could probably kill a cat how would you kill the cat you just grab it by the head and fucking shit break it's head against the wall or something yeah okay paul you go first largest largest animal by stature that you think you kill yes but i could kill her that i could beat in a fight either or bro well it's gonna try and kill you and you're fighting so yeah well i'm hoping i could tire it out and then no you're gonna you guys will shake hands we'll just agree to disagree um i don't i don't think you have a bigger gas tank than a wild animal paul yeah not at this age at least um no never paul never i've known you for a long time never hey that was a pretty decent tank um i would say an old dog oh i'm not going that there's no way an old golden retriever yeah because i would just because i would just probably just pull its arms apart it would bite your face you would hold its face away from me as i know no because you so you'd spread its ass no no it's for it's for its arms oh you just put it on the head wait wait so your technique would be to get behind it yep crawl over top of it yep reach down and pull its arms apart yeah you think you're gonna do all that before it reaches back and bites you well i would probably keep my head tucked in tight so that he couldn't bite me just like you know just like an mma fluid i keep your head tucked in tight so that i can't get punched so this is the same thing with a dog such an asshole give me those legs give me those legs you piece of or i could just choke it out from that position too oh that's true you could do definitely do that okay ian i don't know i feel like the the most obvious answer is like an animal that doesn't fight like yeah an animal that's that that eats that eats plantation you know like plants not playing like a goat a ruminid you know like a goat or a deer i was gonna say a deer but a deer would you up man it would yeah i mean i think if it was like a like a like a one-year-old doe you know one-year-old it's like 40 pounds 60 pounds you know just kicks its legs out because the equivalent of a dog like an 80 pound dog i ain't i ain't trying to with an 80 pound dog no man my dog would kill me if you wanted yeah but like but like a but like a 80 pounds i'm scared of him a 60 to 80 pound deer i think or like a goat i think i'd have a chance a goat i think i don't know if it's like because you can get a hold of it's like horns or sheep like a like a sheep you know yeah more sheep yeah yeah yeah donkey like a really dwarf donkey i just don't know the the only part part would be how you kill the only hard part would be how do you actually kill that animal like strangling a deer to death with your bare hands would be hard or like you're just punching its head until it dies like i mean i guess you could but yeah or smash its head against something you gotta break its neck somehow yeah but they're gonna be strong and struggling and wiggling around trying to kick you and it's gonna be hard yeah i've ever reading about this guy who got chased by police dogs he ended up choking one out bullshit i read about it didn't that was a lot too long i've been killing my part no i swear to god google it google it i think i think it was life or death there would be a chance you could beat a strong dog in a fight but it would be fun you'd get fucked up for sure yeah for sure you're getting bit hard oh yeah you're you're walking out of that in rough shape but i think you could technically it's not impossible man accused of choking florida sheriff's canine during arrest who had why why jesus christ but why i don't know after all these years i don't know i swear you're autistic on the ground don't fight my dog don't fight the dog let go the dog bro he's choking the dog bro i'm gonna save him save him kill headquarters one fight and what he tried choking the dog out he did choke the dog out what the fuck that motherfucker fucking paul why are you already you're right about everything always just about just about and you're very humble about it as well yeah well yeah i'm used to it i'm used to the end of the doubt uh okay last question why does paul hate missionary so bad at some point he had had to have bad had a bad experience no no let's really dig in here i don't think it's something you know childhood trauma time let's do it no i don't know it's just um it's just not my go-to that's all it's not that i uh have an aversion to it um but with that being said let me ask you this ball first date but not first date first sexual experience with a girl are you doing missionary if i have a choice not to if you met a girl if you met a girl and if you met a girl she's like a 10 she's a 10 in every way but she's like i only like missionary it's the only way i can get off i don't like doing anything doggy makes me feel disgusting like i'm an animal i only want to get fucked missionary and you look in my eyes and other than that i'm perfect are you in are you out and i got to look at her eyes the whole time you got to make fucking nice eye contact yeah you have to tell her that you love her and how beautiful she is no i could do that for a little while she likes words of affirmation you have to mouth kiss the whole time affirmation and you have to mouth kiss it's a mouth kiss the whole time yeah not like not just you can't kiss her on the cheek you got just like suck not just sucking on her titties and you know like yeah you're gonna try and suck her tongue out of her mouth yeah so you think if she's a paul she's a 10 like she cooks she cleans your she's like traditional old-school italian wife okay still no then then could i uh well and you don't get to change it it's only missionary forever if everything else is perfect i guess i can make an exception with that that's fair yeah okay i'm like i may you know it might not be i might not rock her world every time because i think i perform better with i have a variety of tools at my disposal how does that make sense her performance your performance is based on her not you you idiot if you if your your performance is based on her getting off that's one measure that's not the whole measure what's the other measure how how how do you measure how rigid i am how uh how rigid no no no no wait what is what is rigidity this is important rigidity of the boner because we're talking about your penis yeah because if i gotta like you know like every time hold on a minute this is important there is no other metric about your performance other than how her satisfaction pleased she is okay but i'm not gonna please her probably no no it's not up to you she said as long as you're on top and you're doing missionary i don't care if you're a little you know a little softy that's what i love that's the best i'm gonna get off every time after several attempts to talk her out of it i would probably accept it and probably learn to like but honey i'll be way harder if you just bend over i can look at your butthole i'll be hard as a rock if i could come on your back i could bury your face in a pillow it's like well uh yeah i don't know i i you know it's different of course it's different when you know when you first fall in love with someone and stuff like that and you're enjoying all that stuff um but i think you know as the grind wears on you're gonna have a hard time maintaining that kind of um passion yeah yeah really yeah i think you're gonna start to need some different variety you know i think if it's after your chest it's interesting it's interesting because melissa and i you probably use way less sexual positions now than when we started dating yeah i agree with that because like we know what we like and it's less than multiple you know right right yeah yeah you guys don't like yeah once in a while like just try something different yeah but yeah i mean sure maybe once in a while but like we know what is good for us you know like we've communicated that so it's like it's not well but that's the thing though i know missionary doesn't do well for me yeah that's good for her i'm gonna sweat on her probably if i start you know she doesn't care she doesn't care but i care i i can't um he doesn't care but she doesn't care i'd probably have to i'd probably have to have uh some long talks to myself to get over that because i would if i start sweating and dripping on her um well you know even though what if what if you need to work on your cardiovascular well yeah are you thinking that you're like your hands over her like this like looking down at her the whole time yeah well you guys said that the monster up you can posture up oh okay we said i had a mouth kiss and everything the whole time yeah well you do you reach down you kiss you look her in the eyes then you get back up and then i can post up okay well yeah if you could throw that kind of uh rhythm in there yeah you're not on all fours man you're not on yeah i just i need a bit of a visual yeah you're getting the whole thing you post up and the face the face doesn't do it for you but from the front you're getting more visual than from the back you're getting like movement and like you're getting face and you can look you can look down and see vagina too yeah if i'm posted up but if i'm you know like face to face and i'm not seeing nothing yeah of course yeah oh you're not body to body yeah you know just what's wrong with body to body well you can be for a time i think that can be worked in there yeah we're telling you that you gotta come up for some air it doesn't have to be exclusively that if i can post up once in a while i'll be good but missionary is not posting up missionary is hovering hovering yeah yeah if it's always you should be able to post up a little bit give the triceps what if what if she doesn't want you to post up you have to hover the whole time you're planking you're planking what if you can you put her legs over can you put her legs up yeah you can like yeah you can you can bend her and you can pretzel her yeah okay but but she likes it when you sweat and it she makes her come if you sweat on her yeah she likes it when you sneeze in her face too he's just god damn it god damn it that's how i know we've been on too long yeah the battery dies so yeah if you knew the self-conscious aspect of sweating on them that they're like i love your masculine sweat sweat sweat my mouth i love it are you is that behind you then that would help because that because that kind of passion would help me yeah but then but then you're going to get anxiety about trying to sweat now you're like fuck i gotta pump what if she wipes the sweat for you now i gotta take some now you're like i gotta fucking pump real hard to like sweat on her yeah turn the temperature up in the house take some pre-workout get yourself fucking fired up take some b12 or some uh niacin get a nice flush going all right over here paul lead us off of the prayer okay okay um what are you drinking food sugar-free kool-aid my favorite yeah i don't buy that do the squirt w do the old school with the powder no the squirt yeah i've been on a on a diet uh nest tea kick or brisk brisk like those little ones right no just like in a can oh i know what you're talking about those are good they don't even taste diet yeah they're great you know the best iced tea pure leaf i don't like this oh dude the pure leaf bottles i like stronger flavors than that what do you mean it tastes like pure iced tea it's awesome oh i thought it was like a weaker flavor though no dude if you drink that and then drink a brisk the brisk tastes like a like a kid's fucking iced tea because it's sorry i like that i like that sweetness i like the sweetness it's too sugary for me i like i like a tea flavor iced tea is different in us as in canada like yeah you want to call it sweet tea yeah but that's iced tea they just have sweet tea like right but then if but if you ask for an iced tea it's unsweetened usually yes yes it tastes like but in canada you gotta ask for an iced tea it's always sweetened yes nest tea zero sugar delicious yeah i think that's might be what i have at home yeah and you guys and you guys have tried the pure leaf i think so i just remember it taking like you said like less strong and more like tea if you like if you like actual tea flavor the pure leaf isn't better yeah i just want to taste like you want sugar lemon-y sweet deliciousness yeah you're like i want sugar water yeah i just want tasty yeah paul can you say a prayer for us i can but i don't have anything planned so i'll have to just do you ever yeah because when you have something planned it goes so well yeah this one this one yeah yeah i'm gonna keep it short though all right go ahead i am uh getting a little tired let us pray dear leader we um we march with courage towards this new year oh come on just fucking talk normal with poise with uh respect for one another i say with toys uh pride and humbleness um humility humility too we've uh not humbleness humility humility and humbleness we've um we have many sins to ask forgiveness for i'm sure i'm sure you guys do um maybe some perverted thoughts maybe it's um you've done something wrong maybe you've done someone wrong um regardless um nobody's perfect um but it was in that spirit that we uh we um we move forward and um in your name we uh we go in peace amen amen that's getting hurt man every week you know i tried chat gbt and it gave me shit they always had such a good dark undertone you know that one was a little bit more positive yeah but even then it's still dark like it's you know like very i got a deep voice i don't know about that no it ain't the voice i think my voice lends to the darkness so many sins to atone for i don't know about you guys but speaking for myself darkness is upon us good night everybody good night