 What's going on, Seth Ferrosi? Nothing, I was eating some food. Everybody eats around this time, it's about time. Well, I actually wolfed down a meal just before I was eating. What are you eating? That looks like a meal. What is it? What is it? Cream of rice? And protein? Yep. Is that the, uh, ISOH1 from Hostile that I sent you? It's, uh, Elevate Code-ian. You can eat butter cups. Who owns Elevate? I see them everywhere now. Julian, my buddy Julian and Blake Kors. Do they really? Yeah. I didn't know that. How come Julian doesn't give me a fucking code? Well, I'm. Well, I don't. Well, I'm. Well, I'm.! I'm.!. I'm. I'm.!. I'm. I'm.! I'm. I'm.! I'm just making flavored creamer rice, like the orange box. But do you mix protein in it? Yeah. Well, that didn't sound like you, it didn't sound like you do. No, I'm just making flavored creamer rice. No, I said it that way because I knew what he was, his next assumption was going to be. Like, it's flavored anyway. Why don't you just buy the flavored stuff? Because if I buy the flavored stuff and then I add protein, now it's way too flavored. No. No? No. No. You say no, like your taste buds are going to be the same as my taste buds. Yes. Yes. I mean, the flavored stuff is pretty fucking good. I've had the flavors. I got a, I got bowl gains. Uh, what is that? Ross? Ross's stuff. Ross, yeah. Flavor gang. But I honestly, I can't. Yeah, I, I honestly, I put the protein in there more out of necessity than want. I'll send you some. Okay. I'm, I'm, I'm, okay. I want some too. You can send me some. Yeah. Cream rice for everybody. Then you're going to send him. Yeah. Cream rice for everybody. Um, Mike, have you been crying? Yeah. Hysteric, hysterically actually. And we all. What have you been crying about? Your eyes are all red. I know I got in the sauna tonight. My eyes just got fucked. There's too much eucalyptus in there. I had a guy. I had a guy reach out to me from a sauna company after listening to the last podcast. And he said, he wants to sell me a sauna. So. Well, that's what I was thinking. I'm like, well, you can give it to me and I'll promote it on the podcast. Yeah. No, but he said it's a, it's an infrared one, but he promised me it's just as good as the rock saunas. So I don't know if I should, I don't know if I should believe him because I'm not going to be a sauna. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know if I should, I don't know if I should believe him because everybody tells me the rocks on is better. Yeah. Those are cooler for sure. And he said the electric one gets up to like 200 in like 20 minutes. Mm hmm. That's kind of convenient. Yeah. You need to plug it in. I like saunas period. I just like the sweat. I love it. Yeah. I just like the smell of like the rocks on us, you know? Yeah. Clear the, clear the nostrils. Do you think it's like that? Yeah. It's cedar-y woods, like fucking rock, hot rock smell is just like nostalgia, you know? Okay. But can we be honest for a minute? Is it more like the guy thing? Like we just like pouring like water on the hot rocks and listening to it? Or pissing on it. I used to do that. I used to do that. I used to do that. I love the smell of urine just piercing my nostrils. Steamy urine. I used to do that at the YMCA sauna when I would go there. No, you're such a, you're the guy that would do that. I knew it. It wasn't even a rock sauna. It was an electric sauna too. I'd piss on the electric thing, you know? Just fucking sizzling. You know? This is why, this is why I don't want to own a fucking public gym. I know, right? This is why. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Because there's still assholes out there. You were 16 years old standing on the second fucking tier of the bench just pissing down on the sauna, you know? Yeah. You know what's funny? Nobody I think would ever guess that you were a piece of shit kid. I wasn't a piece of shit kid. You were a piece of shit kid. You've totally... I think that's a little question. I think Henri. We can call him Henri. No, no. He's not just Henri. I still had good morals. There's some stories. There's some stories. You don't have good morals. Of course I do. Dude, if we told half the stories you told me, people would be like, what the fuck is wrong with that kid? Like what? You've grown into... Yeah, name one. Name one. Name one. Name one, motherfucker. I dare you. You've grown into... Aside from that time that I did that one thing, but other than that... I would have killed that hooker other than that one, you know? That was her fault. That was her fault. Okay, you're eating cream of rice and protein. Elevate codeium. Oh my God. All right. Manscaped. Manscaped code RBP. Lincoln biome. Seth, what were you eating? I had rice and elk meatballs. Oh. Elk meatballs. Yeah. How long have you had those in the freezer? I'm down to like my last five pounds of elk. I had like a hundred and elk. Is it an elk you harvested? Mm-hmm. Yeah. I'm going moose hunting in two weeks. No shit. Where are you going? Oh, you're up in Canada. You're right there. Yeah. My dad and one of his best friends have owned a property like in Northern Ontario. Like one private chunk in like a huge section of crown land in Northern Ontario that they've had for a long time. Yeah. Yes. That is awesome. So I literally fly back from the Olympia on Sunday, get in at 7 PM and then leave 5 AM Monday to drive up to the camp to go moose hunting for the week. Oh, you're going to be, you're going to be fucked, dude. You're going to be so tired. It's going to be great. It's going to be. I guess, I guess moose hunting is not, is it, is it hard? Like, don't you just sit there for like hours on end waiting for a moose? Yeah. There's a lot of walking and there's a lot of sitting. There's a lot of walking and a lot of sitting. Yeah. Being quiet. You probably walk like 10 K a day, five to 10 K a day. And you'll probably sit for like seven to nine hours a day. You know? So let me get this straight. By yourself. You walk for five to 10 K. Then you sit quietly and do nothing. By yourself. By yourself. And then you walk another five to 10 K. Then you sit quietly and do nothing again. Correct. This sounds like the worst hobby on earth. Five, five to seven days in a row. Maybe more. That sounds like a nightmare. It's a nightmare until you shoot something. And then you're like, every minute of that was worth it. You know? Yeah. I just, I don't like walking and I don't like being quiet. So I'm out. Oh, I, I don't mind the being quiet, but I don't mind the sitting for sure. You don't like being quiet, dude. You can't stop talking. How are you quiet? Well, when I'm alone, but when I got people to talk to, you know, I talk to myself in my head. Oh, you got to sit by yourself. That's right. Yeah. I'm by myself. There's no one to talk to you anyways. It only sucks. I like sitting out there and I enjoy it. And like, it's, it's peaceful. You're away from your cell phone for a week. That's nice. The property we have is like really nice. Um, you know, like scenic wise. Um, the only times it sucks is when you have a week where it's like fucking raining all week. And it's like minus five, you know, let me, let me ask you this. So at the end of the day, like you guys all leave, I'm assuming you guys all leave in the morning. So yeah, basically we'll go your separate ways. We'll leave like, we'll get up and leave and start walking out maybe an hour before first light. So that we're like sitting and like ready, like in our spots quiet, like maybe 30 to 45 minutes before first light. Yeah. And we're like, get side quiet and settle. Cause you can't shoot things until a certain time. Like in the morning, you can't shoot things when it's dark out. Wait, are you talking about legally or just like, because you're like, Oh, okay. I didn't know that. Yeah. So it's like, it's, there's times at the end of the day, in the beginning of the day. Sorry. One second, Seth, is that the same thing in America? Or is that a Canadian thing? No, no. Okay. Okay. Go on. There's rules. Yeah. So we go out, we're sitting, we all go to our different spots. Um, the property we have has like a big slew, like a big, uh, big beaver pond, a really big, like shitty, mucky pond thing. Um, there's like beavers and fucking all that kind of stuff in it. Um, and that's probably your best spot to see the moose, especially like morning and night. So we'll kind of sit in a couple of different spots around that big thing. It's a couple of hundred acres and we'll sit kind of around it from different paths where they might come into it. Um, and then you just, yeah, walk in the morning, sit there in the dark, you know, sit there till lunch, walk in back at lunch, have some lunch, walk back out. So wait, let me get this straight. Walk back in when it's dark. Let me get this straight. You're sitting around a pond. Well, the pond is like racing your guns at each other. No, no, like see the pond. Yeah. The pond is big. Like it's, I pond is the wrong word. It's, it's a, it's pretty big. It's a lake. I wouldn't say it's a lake, but it's like, you could put a boat in it. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So, um, and we see, you know, it's a lake, but it's like, you could put a boat in it. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So, um, and we sit at like, we're, we can't see each other. We're all very far apart. Like we're 15, 20 minute walks away from each other, you know, different spots. So like, no, there's no crossfire going on here. So, so y'all walk back in for lunch. Yeah. Have lunch together and then you walk back out and then come back in for dinner. Correct. Yeah. Or sometimes we'll go in for lunch, have a quick lunch. Then maybe we'll go out and do some like bird hunting for a couple hours, then go back out for the night hunt. They're really the most important times to really, and depends on the weather. If it's really hot out, you really only need to be out there first thing in the morning and at dusk. Cause like, if it's fucking, you know, 20 degrees outside, ain't no moose like running around the fucking bush. And when it's that hot out, you're like, you just need the cool times when they're going to go into graze and stuff like that. So we might just go out for a couple hours in the afternoon and just shoot fucking rough grouse or something, you know? And then, yeah, kind of do that, you know, maybe take three, four hours in the afternoon, then just go back out at like maybe two to 3 PM and sit till like five, six, you know? You know what I just thought to myself? Hunting is like a real white guy thing. Oh my God. You've never seen a black guy hunting ever. I've never seen a black guy hunting. You guys don't got too many black guys up in Canada though, huh? Yeah, we do. Yeah, we do. We've got a lot of Arabs and Asians and Indians. We have a lot of Arabs and Asians. Yes. Down south, down south bird hunting is huge. Yeah. Huge down south. But that's like waterfowl hunting, right? Waterfowl and yeah, I mean, dove hunting is really big. Yeah. So I didn't know about this because once I started looking into like work dogs, like hunting dogs. Yeah. That's whenever I realized that there is, there is a large black community that hunts a ton of, that does a ton of bird hunting because there's big, like I follow a ton of dogs. Because they get the dogs. Yeah. Okay. But wait a minute. So, so I'm, I'm not saying obviously there's, there's black people that hunt. Yeah. But if you were to take like a scale, it would be like 90% white people. Yes. Strong white people. Yeah. What the fuck is that? Why? Honestly, I have no idea. I've zero. Mike, what's your, Mike, what's your guess? You won't catch me out there either. So I'm with the black people. Word to fucking death. What's your, what's your guess though? What, Mike, why, why, why do black people not engage in a lot of the stupid, not, I shouldn't say stupid. But a lot of the recreational activities that white people engage in like sport. And why don't black people stick? When was the last time, when was the last time you saw a black guy sport fishing? I'm the expert on black people on the podcast. Yeah. Yeah. Going back in history. They've been. I'm asking you cause I want to get your input. Cause you're on your phone. We need to get a black guy on here to answer that. I have no idea. Well, you're the closest thing we got right now. So you go ahead. I go my story. Like we need a Nazi looking guy. Anyway, I'm just curious. Seriously. If you look at any time you've ever seen a sport fishing video, it's always a white guy. Right. In, in, in hunting. It's a ton. There's a lot of traditions in hunting. Yeah. You know what I mean? I think that my, like, it's just, I don't know if I want to call it like a cultural thing. Oh, so you're saying like. A lot of, a lot of tradition in hunting. So I don't know if it's, you know, if that happens, cause that's where a lot of the, like the bird hunting, like the bird hunting down south came from. Yeah. A lot of heritage things that down south. So. Right. Right. I mean, that's. I guess that makes sense. Cause like, how would you get into hunting? Like your dad would take, bring you and then. There's also no, no spear hunting gazelles in Canada, you know? I was waiting for, I was waiting for like, yeah. I had to get one. I know. I know you had to drop one. I figured. They don't use firearms. They're using spears. Yeah. Yeah. But they have more talent. That's why they're more athletic. I don't disagree. Um, okay. Anyway, so you're. We're leaving. We're doing our motorcycle trip in like two days. I know. Fuck. It's crazy. When I went and bought pants today. What pants did you get? Some Griffin, you know? No, I don't know. Are they like canvassing material or? Yeah. They're like, like, like a mesh breathable canvas material. Okay. Okay. And I bought a, a camel back. What's a camel back? Like a water. Hydration bladder. No, you didn't. Yeah. We're going to stop. Like, I think it's Thursday. Like, we're going to stop like every half hour. We're going to stop like every half hour. You think this is an endurance ride? I know. This is endurance ride. We can't get off eight hours, right? You got to piss your pants. You got to fucking ride and drink. What? You know, I made fun of my brother for buying one of those. My brother got one of mine. It's just going to be full of booze. Full of booze. I'm going to bet you, you'd ever use it. You got to stay hydrated, bro. You crazy? You're never going to use that. Ever. How far is it? Every day. Uh, we're probably doing 500 kilometers one day and then like, I don't know. We're doing more than that, man. No, I think it's 500 one day and like three or 400 the next, something like that. Let me see. I have the exact measurements here. Yeah. It's a, it's a. We're starting Sacramento. We're going down the Pacific coast highway. I don't know. We're going through the Redwood forest. I got the whole fucking map. I just go and I'm like, I'll follow you. Let's go wherever the fuck you want. On the first day we're doing 436 miles. Yeah. So that's like 700 kilometers. And then the second day we're doing 240 miles. Yeah. That's a little easier. It's like four or 500 kilometers. Yeah. So that's like 400 kilometers. And the other day we're doing like 700 kilometers. Yeah. But the thing is like, so I was really nervous the first time I went out with these guys to ride. Cause I'm like, I had never done like a 500 kilometer or 600 kilometer ride. They stop every half hour, 45 minutes. Yeah. We got to fucking smoke darts. I got to smoke. I need to smoke and I can't smoke while I'm riding. We got to stop. Yeah. Actually. Hot box. This hot box, your helmet. Yeah. No, but to be honest, it's so nice out there. Like a lot of times they would just pull over so I could look at the fucking like the scenery, Cause they're from there. So it's not a big deal to them. But to me, like they were pulling over to like, you know, I take pictures of the mountains or whatever. Like the, it's, it's, it's, it's fucking beautiful out there. I also got two guys competing at nationals that day. So I definitely have to be stopping play. Yeah. Yeah. No, we'll be fine. I was actually really nervous about it. I hope I'm like, I don't get tired and I have to stop and they don't want to. And then I was like, everybody's the same man. Everybody wants to take a break every fucking half hour to an hour. Anyway, I got to pack so much shit. Cause after that, I got to pack so much shit. Cause after that, I got to pack so much shit. I got to pack so much shit. I got to pack so much shit. Cause after that. I got to pack so much shit. Yeah. No, we'll be fine. I was actually really nervous about it. Cause I'm like, fuck, I hope I don't slow these guys down. I hope I'm like, I don't get tired and I have to stop and they don't want to. And then I was like, everybody's the same, everybody's the same man. Everybody wants to take, take a break every fucking half hour to an hour. Anyway, I got to pack so much shit. Cause after that, after our trip this weekend, we're in Vegas for the week. Yeah. I got to pack like motorcycle clothes, gym clothes, fucking meeting clothes. Yeah. And then we got to go to the Olympia. Yeah. So I had to pack all that. Plus then I have to have all my hunting stuff ready because I get back and leave the next day. Oh man. I have like a big box here with like all my hunting gear. I got my guns out here on the table and like fucking everything ready to go. I bought a vlogging camera today. Seth, did you ever, ever do any vlogging? Like yourself? Like doing the self? A little bit, little bit. Yeah. Yeah. Not your thing. What camera did you want to do? Yeah. I don't know. I just never got, I never got good at it, I guess. Yeah. It doesn't have to be good at it. Just got to talk to it, I guess. Yeah. I did a little. It's, it takes some, uh, getting used to, cause it can be embarrassing. Like when you're at there, when you're at the grocery store and you're like, this is what I'm buying for groceries. And you're holding a camera and like, you look like a dork to like everybody else. So you kind of have to get past that part of it. Yeah. I think nowadays it's pretty common though. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's a douche bag or a big deal. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Another one of these fucking bags, you know, that's what this is. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I want to show something today that is catching on like wire, wildfire. Oh, wait, let me, uh, sorry. Fucking apple core. Don't ruin the surprise, Mike. All right. You're catching on like wildfire. Why can't I hear you? Oh, there you go. I'm here. When I was competing. Look at this. Bobby. That half an apple. I like the core. I like the core. He says. I like the core. He says. I'm not going to be a big deal. I'm not going to be a big deal. He says. There it goes. Down the hatch. Dude. When you said it on the core, you're like, join the club, huh? All I can think of is horses eating like, like whole apples, you know? Yeah. Seth did it earlier in the week and now Bob did it. Every, well, the thing is everybody's like, dude, what the fuck are you doing? And I was like, it's on road chat. If who eats the whole apple and they're like, why the fuck does he eat the whole apple? And I'm like, I don't know. So why not? Why not? He's like, so what's the deal? And I told him, he's like, he's eating an apple. I'm like, you're going to do it. And he's like, yeah, fuck it. So he eats it. See? But then I have gotten, I probably have a dozen people being like, Hey, I know you probably know this, but there's arsenic. Oh God. It's cyanide. It's not arsenic. It's cyanide. It's cyanide. And I'm like, which is deadly. But at like, you have to eat like a 10 pounds of those seeds to die. But my thing is I'm just like, you know, it's like, I know, I, I, I know that, but I don't give a fuck. Like, like for God's sakes, I just took fucking two CCs of testosterone in the past fucking seven days. Seven days and I'm still here. You know, I've done enough cocaine to kill a fucking horse and I'm not worried about our. Okay. But not, not to go off on a tangent, but isn't that fucking hilarious? That's how like our whole society is like you could, especially it's, it's very strange in body, bodybuilding, especially just because the sport itself is inherently risky. Yeah. And then you're like, you use some Splenda and people are like, Oh, you're going to get cancer. 10 units of GH. What the fuck are you talking about? It is. I've just bought generic growth literally from China. It's unlabeled. Yeah. I don't know what it is, but I'm going to take it. It just came in a white box with a vial with no label on it. And I bought the cheapest fucking shit I could find. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's crazy. It is. It is. It is. It is. Wow. Because I'm like, man, like we did come pretty far as a society to be like, Hey, no, I don't want you to do this. Completely like five minutes later, they're eating something that is absolute trash or I'm like, where, where are we at? Like, I don't know. You know what I realized about everybody online lives in a glass house. Yeah. I don't know what I mean. They just, they're all on a high horse of some sort. And they're just like, if you actually turn the fucking mirror, the camera around and go, let's see what you're doing. Everybody would. I've done some questionable fucked up shit in my life. You know? And it's like every, you know, I'm not perfect, but I mean, I, I do my best, but I'm not, I'm, I'm definitely a little bit of a fuck up. You know, in my head, I do some dumb shit. Let me ask you this, Seth. I signed an 18 year old kid. What do you think about that? I saw that. Yeah. How old is Anton? He was 19. I mean, he's 20 now. Oh, you're just as bad as I am then. What happened? Well, apparently like, I don't know. I don't know. I just got some messages from people and they're like, Hey, it's not good to promote steroids to 18 year olds by signing this kid. And I'm like, I said to one, one girl was actually pretty polite about it. And she goes, do you think this perpetuates steroid use to like the next generation? And I was like, listen, the people I sign are actual competitors. They're not just like doing steroids for social media clout or whatever. So I'm like, I feel I sleep well at night knowing this person's going down an actual road that I went down, which I support. If someone's doing gear just to like, I don't know, for whatever mockery to do something to, for, to be a social media personality, whatever, maybe that's different. But I feel like for a competitor, I mean, look, this person's competing. He's trying to, he's doing the Polish. Polish Albertus is doing the Polish nationals next year. He's trying to get his pro card. And I support that. Why wouldn't I? Why do I, why do I have to be responsible for like your life? Like, why, what, what is like, do you not understand? Like the disclaimer that comes along with anything you do. Like if you buy a fast car, like you like motorcycles, I am not riding a motorcycle because it's only a matter of me doing dumb shit. So I don't do it. Whenever you go to buy a motorcycle, they're like, dude, you're gonna have a fucking ton of fun. Right. You know what I mean? It's like, they're like, oh, do you wear a helmet? That's up to you. Like, okay, well, it's the same thing within anything that we're doing. Like, am I going to go and fucking like, look at, you know, football and CTE. Yeah. Like they're like, oh, this is the safest helmet you can wear. And it's like, well, yeah. And this dude's getting $50 million a year, but he just got fucking knocked out and is going to have CTE as a young man and probably fucking want to kill his family. Let me play. Let me play devil's advocate, Seth. You signed Anton. He's 19 years old. Is that perpetuating? You're perpetuating it for the next generation. I mean, my thing is, is I perpetuate, you know, any who I am. I'm going to live who I am. The problem is the reason I got famous on the internet was because I told the fucking truth about things. Right. You know what I mean? So it's like, yeah, like I'm going to tell you the good, the bad and the ugly. You get into bodybuilding. You can't be a fucking cunt. You can't be a pussy. You can't pretend that like you don't know what you have to do to get to the top. And if you do, you're going to find later on in life that fucking life is not fair sometimes. And it's going to kick your fucking ass even when you don't want it to. So why am I going to sugarcoat the fucking realities that we live in? We shouldn't bodybuilding. You want to do natural bodybuilding. Go ahead. Go do natural bodybuilding. I commend your fucking your, your, what you want to do. But remember this ain't nobody going to give a fuck about a natural bodybuilder. Cause you're not putting the asses in the seats and you're not excited. You want to, you want to, you want the fucking clout. You want to fucking be somebody you want to go on stage. You want to be noticed. You want to be the monster. You want to be fucking nasty, dice shredded. Get ready to fucking live in the crazy bitch. But you didn't answer my question. What's the question? Are you, are you, no, I'm just going to, I'm going to push you. Cause I'm going to pretend I'm, I'm going to pretend I'm one of these people online. Yeah. Do you feel any responsibility for telling kids that it's a good route to go, to go that way? I'm not telling. He's not telling them that though. Yeah. You are by signing them. No, no, he's not a kid. He's 18 years old. We call him kids because we're fucking old. When I was 18, I, all I want to do is get my dick sucked and get huge. That's right. That's right. Okay. You can vote. You can go to war. You can fucking do any of that stuff. So I'm not selling shit to kids. Like, no, but you got to remember, like whenever you're 16 years old and your dick's hard and you go fuck abroad and get her pregnant, am I going to be like child? I'm so sorry for you. I don't know what could have perpetuated you to want to have sex with a woman and leave your dick inside while you came. Hmm. Like, is that my fault that you didn't know that you're what your dick could do? No, you're not even an owner. You're a child, but that you can get a girl pregnant. This is just societal standards. And I'm like, yeah, it's fine. But like, dude, if you're 18 years old, you can do all these different things in the world. I'm not responsible for your life. You can't, you can't do wild shit and cry about it when it doesn't work out for you. I like that. I like that answer. I think better than anything. It's up to me with my company who I want to support and I'm not responsible for your life. That to me, you're also not perpetual. You're also not telling people to directly do things that put them in harm's way or use chemicals or drugs. You're saying this guy's an athlete in the sport that I'm a part of. Yeah. And I'm, I'm sponsoring him to compete and be do well in that sport. You're not saying, Hey, I sponsored this kid. Cause he takes two grams of test and does this and that's like, right. Right. Right. Right. He just like, I, he takes my supplements, which aid in his use of other things, maybe, and maybe not. But I don't know what he does. Cause it's his life. Right. Well, I don't actually know what he does. I mean, we can all sit and speculate and that's fine. And whether he does or doesn't, doesn't change my mind. If he came to me tomorrow and said, I'm doing X, Y, Z cycle. I would be like, it's your life. It's your choice. I just want to see you do. If anything, you'd, and if anything, you'd probably direct them somewhere. Or you, you, Seth too, would direct that individual, the young kid to get with people who know what they're doing and start them off on their path on the right foot. Like, like none of us probably had the opportunity to do so. Like, we were just like, what we're doing, let's just do a bunch of shit. Whereas you guys have that access to be like, I know you're going to do what you want to do, but if you want help doing what you're doing, I have great resources for you to do that. I mean, to speak on that, I connected Samson with Merrick and I really, and I, I connected Samson with Merrick cause I really believe in them. And I tried to connect Sam with Merrick and Sam already had a doctor that he was working with, but that's exactly. And you know, I've Ian's working with Merrick now and I'm like, I've talked to Seth about working with Merrick. Like, I think Mike's right. Actually, if somebody, and that's, that's is what happens is somebody does tell me what they're doing. I'm like, Hey, maybe you should just like run it by these people. Cause they know what the fuck is going on. So maybe it's actually the opposite of what people think is like, instead of thinking like, Oh, we're pushing him to do more shit. We're actually like, Hey, we have a little bit of experience in this. This is probably a good way to go about it. Yeah. I mean, at the end of the day, I'm huge in the camp of like personal fucking responsibility and like, no one is responsible for you and your actions other than you. Like, well, yeah, when you're a minor. Yeah. But that's also not our prerogative. That's your parents. That's your parents to teach you right from wrong and to make, you know, critical thinking and proper decisions. And, you know, to, to keep you, you know, to make decisions and that there's a lot of crazy shit going on on social media and to, you know, have open discussions and make informed decisions as you get older. You know, us, we're putting out what like Seth said is what is true to us and what we do. And just being honest with the reality of who we are as bodybuilders. We're not trying to promote anything, but at the end of the day, we're not responsible for anybody's actions. For anybody's actions. No one's I'm not responsible. If I say that I use six grams of test and someone goes and do it, does it, that is not my problem. It's not my responsibility, but hold on a minute. I can tell you what I'm doing and I'm not going to not say something because I'm worried someone might do it. I understand at a certain place that that could be an issue, but I also understand that people need to take ownership for their actions and that they can't blame it on somebody else. You're the one that decides to do this at the end of the day, not me. Just like I look when I grew up, I followed guys and I might have replicated what they did, but it's not there. That's the responsibility was on me. It was my decisions and my things that I'm going to deal with the consequences of not them. Okay, so hold on. So I want to ask you this because this kind of is going down the question of role model versus not a role model, right? I mean, people who become popular or are influential or whatever, like we have 70, 80, 90,000 people that watch this podcast. So obviously there's some influence there on some people. Sure. So I'm in no way saying we should lie, which we don't. We're always very honest about what we did and how we did it, whatever. This is probably one of the most honest podcasts on the internet. Right. But as long as I feel like we're being honest about the bad that comes with it, then I'm okay with it. Yeah, we're being honest with the good and the bad. We're not saying anybody should do what we do. And in many cases, we're saying don't and to learn, you know, we can teach you what better way. Yeah. Yeah. You know, and at the end of the day, these are people that have their own brains that can make their own decisions for themselves. And just because I say something and you go do it, that's not my responsibility. It's your responsibility as a human with a brain to say, okay, I've taken this information. What am I going to do with this? You know, am I going to do my own research? Am I going to think more about this? Am I going to talk to somebody else? Or am I just going to copy this because this is somebody I like? And I think that is now the ownership on someone's parents and how they bring them up in terms of, you know, teaching them these, these things and, you know, to decipher reality from, you know, social media and all these things like that. Right. So I think this is the ownership on the parents to a certain age. And then after that, I think it's, you have to take ownership of your actions as an adult and it's not anybody else's making you do anything. You know, I think people really like just pointing blame at anyone but themselves. Because like, dude, how many times did your parents say not to do drugs? All the time. My parents, my parents just assumed I wasn't gonna, but. But what I'm saying is like, I mean, I tell my kids not to do drugs. My parents told me not to do drugs. I did drugs. Why? Because I wanted to and I was intrigued by them. You know what I mean? Like, you know, within our industry, I think it's tough. It's, you know, we talk about these things publicly so people can reach us and they, they, we hear them when they say these things and we have this conversation. But I mean, there, these are personal decisions or just, we've all been saying, like, we're all responsible for what we do. Like, dude, drugs are gonna fuck you up. But we like them. That's what makes it sick. That's what makes us all like, I don't know what it does to me. I just like it. Like, I don't know. I wouldn't go that far. You can't stop anyone from doing anything. All we can do. Like I said, as a parent, it's your job to teach your child what, how to make good decisions and you know, how to weed out the bullshit and teach them the things like, yeah, these are what drugs can do. These are the bad things they can do. And then after that, you have to just trust what you taught your children is going to lead them to make better decisions or good decisions as an adult. We're not always going to, and we're going to fuck stuff up and we're going to learn for ourselves. But at the end of the day, there's personal responsibility at play here. We can't be no one is responsible for your action. If I go shoot a gram of heroin today because my favorite actor did it. That's not his fault. That's my risk. I chose to go buy the drugs and shoot the drugs. You know, that's not I understand influence, but at the end of the day, you need to take personal responsibility for your actions. And I think this extrapolates to everything, you know, whether it's bodybuilding or fucking business or, you know, doing drugs or anything. I think people are so low on, you know, personal responsibility these days. It's crazy to me, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I think it's crazy too, that there has to be an expert. Like it's kind of an implied thing that if you're going to be a top level pro bodybuilder, you're, you're going to be using steroids. It goes without saying. Yeah. Like, let's just be honest. There could be that percentile, that half a fraction of a percentile that doesn't. But it's like for people to still be arguing this point, like, I don't understand where it's getting people. I don't understand why it's still a thing. I don't understand why people act like there's a, there's some benefit or like some debate or sides of Natty and enhanced. It's like, guys, like, are you fucking like, you have the mind of a child? Do you not comprehend? Do you not comprehend what it takes to do something like that? Like, are you a five foot six white kid who can't jump that thinks he can play in the NBA if you tried hard enough? No, you can't just like you can't put that much muscle on without drugs to do so and having natural propensity to hold that kind of muscle and have a physique already to speak of. So it's like, what do you care? That's implied that this kid is going to do what he's going to do to be at the top. And in this sport, it's drugs and training hard. It's like, just like in racing cars, it's racing, it's driving really fast and you could fucking die. Yeah. But you got to drive fast, right? Yeah. So it's like, just the fucking whole argument is just like, it's so juvenile. It's so fucking weird. Like, when at the end of the day, it's adults and it's adults having these discussions. It's adults saying this like grown men. You're enhanced. I'd be that big. I'd be as big as you if I took drugs. It's like, are you fucking stupid? Are you like the dumbest guy on the planet that you you're still like a 15 year old in your mind and being like, Oh, I could achieve it if I wanted it. But the funny, you know, but the funny thing about that, Mike, is even if they're right, that doesn't mean anything to me. It means that you're, you're riding, you're trying to ride this moral high ground, but it doesn't, you don't get an award guys. Yeah. No one gives a fuck. And why are they following the sport? Why are they even asking these saying? Why are you following a sport with drugs if you're going to judge people for using drugs? But, and this, like I was saying before, it's like Mike saying you, we, you know that this is part of bodybuilding and then you sit there and you judge it from, you know, from your glass house, like you were saying from the beginning, it just doesn't make sense to me. And like, you know, whether we sit here and say what we did, you know, I watched lots of bodybuilders and saw what they did when I grew up and, you know, Googled all their cycles and did all these kinds of things. But the end of the day, I still didn't just copy everything verbatim. Like I, you know, tried to do my research. I talked to other people. I hired coaches, you know, it's just like, Oh yeah. Ronnie Coleman, the Google says Ronnie Coleman did six grams of trend. I should do that too. It's like, Oh, this is where there's, yeah. Those chat. I was going to say the Nasser cycle, or 4,000 grams of test. I tried that. I saw that when I was 19 and I'm not like, Oh, I'm going to go copy that. So there's personal responsibility there. I was raised well enough that I was able to have the critical thinking skills to see that and not just be like, this is what I need to do. I said, okay, maybe that's a lot of drugs, even if I, you know, and then maybe talk to other people, talk to, you know, hire a coach, do more research, and then, you know, kind of learn things as I go. Like, I think people put this onus on figureheads in the sport that they can't say anything about, or be honest with drug usage. I mean, and word being the good and the bad, because it's going to influence other people. But where do you put the, where does the buck stop with them being responsible for their own actions? Yeah. Well, the other, the last thing on this, before we move on to something else, I just want to, I think all of us, I know I did for sure. I think all of us knew that no matter what amount of drugs it was, whether it was a little bit or a lot, was going to have a price to be paid at some point. And I know what people are going to say, well, you were young, and you can't make a proper decision. So you probably did it without really knowing. I'm like, yeah, maybe. Part of living. Part of enjoying life. Part of enjoying life. They're partly right. When you're young, you feel invincible. You're like, I don't care. I'm going to be fine. But the point is, it's not that we didn't know. So like, I knew I'm like, okay, if I do steroids, if I get to 300 pounds, if I'm competing, and I'm, you know, if I do everything that's required of me to be at the top of the bodybuilding sport, there could be a lot of negatives that I run into later on. That was, that wasn't just told to me. That was something I already knew before starting. So it was like, at that point, it's nobody else's fault. No, and there's also the difference like, look, say like dumb decisions when you're young, but at some point, you are an adult that can make these decisions. Like I did a shit ton of fucking blow and bad drugs when I was young. And then I grew up and realized, hey, I probably shouldn't be doing these. And I stopped doing them. If you make dumb decisions as a kid, okay, you can do that. You can do some steroids, make some bad decisions. But at some point, you are an adult with a brain that works and you can stop doing steroids. You don't, it's not like, oh, I started these. I have to do them forever. It's like, no, that's a decision. Now there's personal responsibility to come in and play. Just like I started doing coke as a kid. I really like, I'm like, well, I have to do it forever. It's like, no, you can have the critical thinking to be like, hey, this is probably bad. I probably shouldn't be doing this. Look, I understand people have addiction issues and whatever, but at the end of the day, you're still making the decision of like, hey, I know I probably shouldn't be doing this. And then you decide to stop, even if you've already made the bad decision. If you start steroids at 18, you're like, hey, you know, at 25, you're like, probably shouldn't be doing this. You know, my health is being affected. You know, this isn't good. I've learned. I've grown up. If you're not, if you're averse to the danger, then stop. No one is making, is going to stop you except for you. And that responsibility is yours and yours alone. You know, just to go full circle, no matter what people say about me signing Albertus, I'm actually proud of it. Like people may think like, oh, you're supporting this. You're supporting that. I don't give a fuck in my mind. I remember what I was supporting a kid who's driven and wants to do well the sport. It's not. I'm a little confused on this whole thing. So you signed a natural kid. No, no, no. Well, I don't know if he's natural or not. We haven't discussed it. It's like, okay, so sorry. You just said the young kid, whether he's using steroids or not is like, he's an athlete. It's like you get these people like Nike will sign whoever say it's a football player who's juiced out of the skull. Yeah. And everyone knows he is. But like, does everyone turn around like you're like, are you sending us? Are you sending the message that you think drugs are okay? Yeah. It's like, no, I'm signing a fucking kick ass athlete who dominates on the football field. Right, right, right. Or I'm signing a prospect in your case, a prospect who could end up having a very bright future. And I want to go along that ride with him. What he's doing to get that is his decision. Like he's developing and I'm supporting him when in his journey. That's it. Right. And I'm pretty sure. This might sound bad. Sorry to interrupt. This might sound bad too. So I'll be careful with how I say this, but I'm also always in the camp. And I'm never going to shit on someone that is driven enough and wants to do something that they're willing to do whatever it takes. And I'm not saying that you should go blast 10 grams of gear because of it. But if you have like, have made the decision that I want to be the best at something and you're willing to pay that cost and you are aware of the cost, then that is your decision as an adult. And I'm never going to hate on someone for wanting to be the best at something and doing whatever it takes. And that doesn't mean I'm not talking exclusively about steroids. I'm talking about anything, you know? Well, so people need to realize, like, if you want to be the best at something there, there is things that have to be done that are above and beyond what a lot of other people are willing to do. And that's not, I'm not just talking about doing drugs. I'm talking about anything with the work with the, you know, maybe being more aggressive in how you handle business or whatever it is. You know, there's ways that you have to conduct yourself that you're going to have to go above and beyond, you know? But Ian, that's kind of what I, I meant at the very beginning of this conversation between signing somebody who does steroids just for social media influence or just to be popular or just to have a physique versus signing somebody who's all in. Yeah. Like this kid is like, I want to compete. I want to get my pro card. I want to fucking win the Olympia one day. Like, I'm like, okay, that level of commitment is inspiring to me. And I'm like, I want to be there. I want to support that. Want to nurture that. Right. So you're not sitting there telling them to take more drugs. You're saying, I support you wanting to be the best. And your decisions as an adult dictate what that may be, you know? Right. Um, so. Go ahead. Sorry. Yeah, go ahead. I just sent you, I just sent you, uh, this, uh, this Instagram, uh, real that I saw. Uh, it's, I mean, we're talking about the things that we're willing to do to be the best or to win or anything like that. Go to your, go to your, uh, go into DMS and play this thing. It's fucking it. I'm like, man, that lit me up. Yeah. Yeah. That's fucking nasty. Fucking awesome. Like I knew he'd hit the brakes. He's got a wife and kids at home. Yeah. That's fucking nasty. That's fucking nasty. Yeah. Like I knew he'd hit the brakes. He's got a wife and kids at home. Yeah. That's the stuff I think of when I'm racing on the street with my car. This is like, this is like, this is like the whole point and that articulates it well, but I'm trying to say it's like, he was an adult and made that decision and took that inherent risk of hitting those brakes later than that other guy. The other guy is an adult made the decision for himself, whether it's because he has a wife and kids at home or not, that he isn't willing to take that same risk. And I'm never going to, if he ends up fucking Alonzo hits the wall going 300 miles an hour. Yeah. I mean, you fucked up, but you were an adult that made that decision because you were in the pursuit of greatness and wanting to win. And I'm never going to hate on someone for that. You know, even if it's like Lance Armstrong cranking shit to win the fucking, it's like, yo, homie wanted it that bad. Like you can take away his titles and you can shit on them all you want for people, you know, from their glass houses, like we said. But at the end of the day, I admire anyone that is that dedicated that they're willing to try and bend the rules and do whatever. Everyone else was doing it too. Yeah. And I admire anyone. Like I'm not saying, like I said before, it's not just about the drugs. It's just anyone that is that dedicated to their craft. And is that driven to want to be the absolute best at someone that they're willing to hit the brakes later that they're willing to do this, train this dude, you know, whatever it may entail, you know? All right, let's move on. Let's do a couple of questions before we, we, we kind of beat this to death a little bit. All right. Let's, um, longest prep, longest prep. You guys stayed on clean eating. Mine was 22 weeks. I've done long. Like a prep, not just, yeah. I mean, you eat clean all the time anyway, but just like a prep. Yeah. But I've bridged a few preps. Like I did. Oh, that's right. Yeah. I did prep for Tampa and Texas in 21. So say I started in like February to do a June show, like all February, all March, all April, all May. Yeah. To do a beginning of June and then into Texas. And then I kept going all the way to the Arnold and then to the Olympia. So I had one year where I did like, yeah, probably nine months straight. And like in that time, maybe had, you know, one or two meals after the first show or two. And that's about it. Fuck that. And that was what Patrick do where we didn't do like cheat meals. It was just like high days, you know? Well, not for me, Seth. What's the longest prep? 20 weeks. Mike? 16. Hmm. But that's, that's it right there. You weren't willing to do what it takes. You know, I was not willing to do that. No. No, I was not willing to do that. No. Uh, last 10 Arnold Arnold classic Ohio winners who places where in a 10 man lineup. I remember the last 10 fucking Arnold classic winners. I mean, we have Sam. I mean, I mean, I mean, fucking the last 10 you're talking about Dexter Jackson. Yeah. I was going to say he's in there. Yeah. Dexter branch. Like Dexter is at the top of that Dexter is at the top of that list. If not second or third. Yeah. Dexter at his best is probably going to win that. Oh, you got. Oh, where the fuck did it do you think? Do you think Dexter at his best is better than hottie? Ooh, I'm going to say yes, but I'm sure I'm going to get a lot of flack for that. It's I'm saying at his best, like when he was big and shredded. Okay. So we're going to 2014. We have Dennis Wolf, Dexter Jackson, Kai green, Cedric, Bonac, Curry, Nick Walker, Samson, and hottie. That's a good lineup. That's going to be. Uh, Kai. Dexter. Yeah. Dennis hottie. Yeah. Or Dennis. Dennis hottie. Cedric. Yeah. Samson, Nick. I mean, Bonac was pretty good when he won the Arnold back then to Bonac, Samson, Nick. Yeah. Brandon. It's I mean, it's yeah, that's tough. I think Dexter. I think Kai's at the top of that list. And then Dexter's right after. Yeah. 2009 and 10. Kai won both. And he's pretty tough to beat there. I think he was pretty good at those. I mean, look, you know how I feel about Kai. I think Kai is a top 10 of all time. Yeah. He's really good. I don't think I honestly I challenge anybody to name. 10 bodybuilders better than Kai green. Cause I mean, even you look at these photos, like he looks fucking nuts, you know, like he was wild. You can't. I mean, if you, if you do it by memory, you're like, you can probably pick out a bunch, but when you actually go look at his photos, you're like, wait a minute. This guy's fucking phenomenal. Yeah. That's 2009, 2010. Kai green. Like, look at that. Yeah. Here. I'll bring up some photos. I green. Is that from 2009, 2010? Yeah. This is 2010. Yeah, dude, that was nasty. I mean, Phil was pretty fucking nasty. That Arnold too. He lost the guy in 2000. He lost the guy. And that's what this is the photo you're showing. Yeah. Like, can you, could you do that? Like, can you, can you, you know, it's funny. It's like, I know winning an Olympia is amazing. Obviously it's probably the big, obviously the highest honor in bodybuilding, but to be able to say that you're one of the top 10 best bodybuilders of all time. Is gotta be a close fucking second. Yeah. Yeah. Kai at his best can really push almost anyone, you know? Yeah. Look at, look at the fucking, like the amount of muscle is just. I remember he guest posed at Toronto pro one year. And when I was still an amateur, I was there. I think I was there. I think I was there. Yeah. Yeah. I was there. Like the other thing is I don't think pictures really tell the story. No, don't tell the story. Look at Brandon here. Brandon is a young man. There's this guy. And that's not even kayak at his biggest. I mean, go down on that. No on that right panel. Look at this. There. there and then on the right panel down bottom left bottom left oh shit no go back one second yeah this one yeah like wasn't that at new york and brandon curry and brandon's defense this is before he went to kuwait this is before brandon was good but yeah i mean like still you can see kai is fucking mutant level man his legs and ass were out of control and look at that front double blow it with phil his hamstrings dude i remember like that front double even he would do this kneeling shot where he would he would be on one knee with the other leg bent and his hamstring looked like another glute yeah i i really would have liked to i mean that's like i wish you could see this from the other angle it's fucking it's stupid how fucking that is because he had some alien-esque shit very similar to to ronnie yeah like i saw ron like what got me into bodybuilding was the jay and ronnie rivalry and then i was you know you know turning pro whenever phil and kai were going at it look at this just seeing it up close and being around them in their off seasons in pre-contest it was nuts it was fucking insane yeah click that one right side top right look at this look at his leg i don't know how photoshop this is but fuck like like this is not photoshop this is a stage yeah look at that man that's like it's fucking wild yeah some of the best like back like and this is and this is what mike's talking about no amount of steroids is going to give you this physique unless you have the genetics for it yeah like i'm sorry man but look at this this is this isn't this isn't chopped his conditioning of that one was crazy yeah he's he's got some really really impressive looks it just so happened that the guy who was the second best bodybuilder some people think the first best bodybuilder of all time phil heath was his competition yeah yeah you know and the same thing happened to jay jay and kai are in the same boat yeah they're both in the top 10 of all time they ran into arguably the best bodybuilders ever yeah so anyway um what's going on guys this episode is brought to you by manscaped.com and i want to show you the smooth package that they have this has the exfoliating gel the shaving gel and it has the razor you open it up looks like that listen it's for the guys that want to use the trimmer to get close and then the razor to get even closer so you can get smooth as possible now they also have body spray and body wash which are two things i use all the time they're my favorites they smell great feel clean i don't feel oily and all that after i use the body wash it's got a nice clean feel to it if you go to the website check it out they got all their other products go to manscaped.com forward slash rbp check out all the different stuff they have for men's hygiene they have cologne obviously the lawnmower 4.0 trimmer they have boxers now they have all these different deodorants and lip balms everything you could possibly need so get to manscaped.com forward slash rbp or use code rbp at checkout for 20 off plus free shipping we had a couple shows i think we had we had bets on these shows right not bets but we had we did our predictions right we got one we got california so goddamn wrong we couldn't have done worse one second we're just second right and we got everybody else wrong okay wait let's let's do this one first because i have it on the board this is the one this is the france show yeah okay let's see here we have one sec let me move this out of the way ian had a edward once again zero zero zero was nusura fourth yeah hoffman was what let me get the score scorecard here one sec uh mo enrico was fifth enrico is fifth fuck you got an em you got perfect perfect five mike zero one no that's a zero that's a one that's a one that's a zero so you got two oh let me just change this to zero paul paul had a zero one one zero what were we just gonna move up hoffman for him yeah so give him zero okay so he had two uh i had a zero zero zero zero ah fuck are we gonna i get to move this up or what yeah i guess technically that i beat you no fuck you well because i actually got five right you only got it by a osterisk win okay we'll put a a 0.5 okay uh seth had a zero zero zero one one had a two all two all twos and zeros here i got i'm second place again fuck it's another one another w for me wait till you see our california picks though do you have those written down wait before we go to the california picks what did we think of samson seth you go first me and ian have done a lot of talking nice uh i think i i think it was i think it was uh his best overall physique today i really liked it i thought he was super complete and i think that he's going to go into the olympia and he's going to get better um mike any comments on samson's physique i feel like you can can't find much wrong with samson well anything to pick about i think i think time is the only thing that i would say yeah like especially considering he's this is like leading into something else yeah i gotta show you guys something that's really fucking wild uh i don't know if you guys have seen this look at this yeah isn't that fucking a crazy like similarity from the front it is i mean i think i think lee haney obviously has a thicker back but from the front they're almost fucking identical i think that that shot whenever you posted i looked at it i'm like this is this is why seeing someone like samson is just like yeah it's awesome to be able to witness this type of physique hitting the stage and for those of you for those of you watching march 29th 2025 is a detroit pro uh sign up now use code mike sign up now use code mike it won't get you anything off but your first place first place all right i'll give you guys uh my thoughts he looks two weeks out to me but this is the beauty of it this two weeks out from the olympia is as good as he was at the arnold uk yes so i agree with seth in that this is the equal or best condition we've seen him in on stage but he was bigger in the arms bigger in the legs a little bit more developed in the back and a smaller tighter waist so with the two weeks left is what i'm excited about because if he can get five percent sharper over the course of the next two weeks like i've said before he doesn't have to be as shredded as derrick and haughty he just has to be close to make to be able to compete with them ian what do you think i think that i think sorry i think it's a package things with with samson we know he's not going to be as dug out as derrick or haughty right but i think that the the one critique with samson is just time i think another year from now he's going to be even better than he is now i don't think that uh all of a sudden he's going to get that much more dug out in the glutes and hams but i mean that's where he's he's going to make that mark that he was better than last year of just that overall presentation of his physique he's going to get better than that you don't think seth you don't think in two weeks this will be sharper oh no i think it'll be sharper but i don't think it's going to be uh like i just because we don't see samson get that crazy deep shredded glutes yeah like i think that he's going to be sharper but uh whenever he stands next to derrick i think that's where that conditioning factor and dug out however if derrick is a little off perhaps like that's whenever you might that that the shape could come into question or the stature i should say you know what i wonder and i've said this before you guys can agree or disagree whatever but i've always said that if if derrick and haughty are a 10 out of 10 conditioning samson's got to be a nine he doesn't have to be a 10 to be able to beat them i don't know if you guys agree with that because i feel like i feel like he's beating them on shape and potentially muscularity in some shots i think that if he gets a little bit bigger in the back a little denser and thicker yeah there yeah i think that i don't think he has to be the 10 i mean look how fucking just round he is man it's like stupid he just got a dry you know what do you think you're being pretty quiet i think you look great i mean i was really impressed with his look um you know the fact that he was getting like some negative critique online to me was actually fucking mind-blowing to me i thought he looked really good i thought he looked better than he's looked from a flow standpoint i think his midsection looked better i think that he is posing look better and his how he was hitting his front lat looked better i think his conditioning was really good um for him i think it can still improve and it will improve in the next two weeks yeah um i thought he looked really fucking good i was i was definitely very pleasantly surprised with his his package and you can see in this light like people will sit there and be like he's out of shape it's like this is out of shape to you like what the fuck are you looking at you know what i mean do i think yeah he could be more dug out in the glutes and hands but if you go back to that first video you're playing of the back double like when he first hits this like look at his glutes there when he first stands there there's some lines you know and like let it play for a second you know like there yeah like his glutes and hams are hard man like that's like you know yeah yeah i think when he keeps going and he switches legs i think they don't look as good like when you go here i think they look worse with his right leg back um i think he should stick with his left leg being the the leg back um and is the hamstring and glute is presented way better when the left leg is the one back like that yeah i agree let's stick with that because like there you lost hamstrings and glutes you know yeah but i think wait till he pulls it out still yeah yeah yeah yeah right it's like look at the difference yeah so i think he should stick with that leg because i think a lot of it is just a presentation thing um i think he can be a little tighter but i think he's a massive improvement i think it's uh he's definitely headed in the right direction for anyone that was saying that this was a dumb decision to do this without like a top olympia coach and that him and marlena couldn't do it has obviously been proved horribly wrong you know yeah yeah yeah i mean congratulations to mel too because if this is like this was there not to be disrespectful to the other competitors but it was almost a test run for them so if they can bring this in sharper i don't know man it's gonna be fucking interesting i don't think it's AI don't think it's a cut and dry like when you see this you see this silhouette yeah you know like i really didn't like how his some of his his presentation was in some shots before but like his waist looks the smallest i've ever seen it in some of these shots when he's pulling up in that vacuum yeah and it's from at lat sometimes his midsection got a little blurred uh and a little distended looking because he almost pulled it back too far i think it looked a lot better in the depth to the abs and in how he was hitting the pose um so i mean i think he's going to be really dangerous in that top group for sure do i think he still needs to be harder to beat derrick and hottie yes um do i think that the potential is there that in two weeks that he could get it close enough to really make it difficult um you know if hottie is like he was last year at the olympia then maybe you know um there could be a closer comparison um but i think he still needs to be a touch harder but i think he's definitely stepping in the right direction where that's a legion uh i think we're i just want to show some of the other guys oh these rest look good yeah i know i'm just this uh there you go oh that's just the that's not the front double man like how he hits that now is so nice yeah like with the leg the waist like everything about what i don't know if he changed how he's posing but it looks so much better to me there's a loser in the corner of that picture all right i can't find any good shots of presti let me go to buys and tries see what he's got i just don't want to i want to give him some props because he did look really good there's samson there's samson again there's no fucking what if uh isulios got some just go to his page to presti's page i know but i wanted to see oh yeah he looks good hey man this is the this is the third bodybuilder third best bodybuilder in the world so he's like he's holding his own there yep he's had a rough go man like he's been close at well i don't i wouldn't say this is close shows now yeah yeah i mean he's nailed three three shows like he's still on in this in this he's still on yeah yeah he looks good yeah you see the differences though like you start to see the the difference between like even then like presti is known for conditioning and like if you really look at like the texture of the skin on the quads the separation through like you know the medial quad like it's not in the front shots it's not that dramatic of a difference man like in there like you're looking at that if i'm looking at the legs and the texture of the skin i'm looking at the midsection arms that's the definition in the arms i don't think samson's any less lean than presti from the front you know yeah i don't think so either let me go back to this yeah when you look at when you look at that there they look pretty close yeah and then there side leg split you know i think yeah you see the difference in the glute but i mean look at the side leg split that samson has you look at the you know definition through the delt and the arm and the chest it's all very similar you know yeah yeah and even here it's like through the hamstring you know the the texture of the skin even you can see it's thin and dry on samson his glutes aren't as dug out i i definitely agree there but i think they look good i think his back is is still really comparable and conditioning you know i think it's not far off you know i think it obviously just presents different but i mean here too you know everything there is very comparable to me um did we have any other who's this this is brett okay so the legion so let's go to the legion now um ian you messaged me you said brett's got it in the bag you were right you had straight firsts um i thought it was i didn't let me put it this way how can i put it i thought brett was the clear winner but i didn't think bruno was far behind no and the more i looked at shots i think obviously brett has very clean lines and very great conditioning and like clarity to the muscle um which i think is what really separated him here he's very complete he's got good clean lines um but obviously bruno was a little bigger bigger in stature and his his conditioning was good so i think it wasn't a blowout um you know as much more i watched it i think bruno definitely made it a two-man show it wasn't like a one-man show here um i think brett looked really good i think he you know to be cracking at the top spots of the olympic still definitely need some more size on his frame yeah and you can see even next to bruno which is like bruno's a big guy but he's not like the biggest guy in the world and you know he's definitely big compared to brett still you know yeah it's like to me it looked like bruno had a little bit more muscle but brett was just more polished much more polished yeah i mean you can see it there you know right through the back and the detail in the back of the glutes of the skin texture and the hamstring the quad definition the abs there you know strations in the chest like it's definitely a difference seth or mike any thoughts on this i i completely agree i think brett had a great showing super clean physique i'm a massive brett fan massive but i think that uh i think that this was a great move for him because now he can literally focus for a year on on bringing up all of those points that he wants to to be able to go into the 2025 olympia and you know see what he can do uh but i think bruno has that dude got a bright future because if he puts on a little more size in the right places um i mean he's pretty complete already but if he just keeps doing his thing bruno is going to be a serious fucking wrecking you know what i thought would have made this show even better is if they had more colors in the background i would really distract the eye yeah i didn't even know if paul was here hey paul this guy here hey hi paul yeah thanks for coming i'm serious and i will ask him when i see him what what brett's weight was here compared to the last time he competed if there was a tangible difference in weight there for it's still pretty comparable i i hope this doesn't i hope this doesn't sound rude he doesn't look massively bigger no i i agree and i'm not i'm not i love brett and i think he's an amazing competitor and he looked awesome at the show um but i did personally expect to see more change in size because leading up he did look really big to me you know yeah when we were looking sorry go ahead seth no i was gonna say do you think that uh he came in a little flat i do i yeah i was gonna think he was peaked properly on stage but there was obviously probably a time that they pushed down a little hard and not all the volume came back even if he was full ish on stage you know i didn't think the legs were as full as they were in the photos like a week out yeah i thought yeah i think that i mean he's obviously he looks phenomenal it's exciting but i think that he i think that he looked a little flat like in the back and then i think his legs looked a little flat as well but i wonder if i wonder sorry you know i wonder if that was a calculated thing though to say like look i i know we're not going to be bigger than bruno let's make sure we're sharper even if we're a tad flat yeah that's one thing bruno maybe lacks a little bit it's also tough with some guys like i know certain guys and i've worked with guys like this and i've talked to matt about guys like this that he's worked with that you get them to a point and where you're filling them up and then the more you put in they just look worse you know you're getting fuller but you're losing so much definition or water that's ensuing with it that it gets tough and then when you need to introduce enough diuretic to get it out it's like not necessarily worth the risk of just you know bring them in just a hair flatter but really crisp and detailed you know it's sometimes you got to make that call unless you really really know or have found the way to get absolutely most out of both you know paul it's nice of you to uh show up you're an hour and 45 minutes late i don't forget i'm sorry it's been a busy few days i just i just got in like late last night you uh you missed it mike and seth had a massive fucking blow up oh man they are they argued bro they argued for they argued for 40 40 minutes they argued for i can't leave you guys for an hour i can't leave you guys with an hour for an hour without you guys fighting i needed you to come in and say let's agree to disagree i could have needed that you guys should have called you a text you could have solved the whole thing right there uh paul you paul you also lost the uh france predictions i was last you were last yeah well you guys i had bruno first so yeah yeah you got you got you got spanked no that was the france that was the france one not the legion the legion we're gonna shave your beard you gotta shave your beard i want to decide we didn't go over the league i decided i decided i want to give it a fresh look again the legion uh pick let's pick up the scores what's the scorecards look like oh because i also had uh theo in second i think i was the only person that had him in second wasn't it the scorecards okay i got it i got it brett wilkin bruno martin oh yeah martin hernandez who none of us picked because none of us knew who he is and uh ken woo park one of that one asian that you guys were talking about that one asian that he didn't like you guys are so fucking racist it's unbelievable i mean patrick moore ended up seventh justin rodriguez ended up 10th rashid ended up 11th justin rodriguez was 10th jason lowe ended up 14th and win 13th this is gonna be like holy shit we were so goddamn okay let's let's do some way off let's do some math let's do some math okay wait you know what we should do we should look at these guys just because if they place where you know we should let people know who the fuck they are this is who's this guy that's the classic guy who where are these guys uh ifbb pro martin zote is this the guy that was is this the guy that was third or fourth martin hernandez nailed the pronunciation there for it i thought he looked really good shut up i was impressed i would have thought it was zote zote yeah martin zote um okay you know what i can't i can't be bothered i can't find these guys right now okay you were just looking at the right back can't be bothered okay that was the right that was the third place it's not that i can't be bothered i just don't like to hold up the show hold up the show i'm trying to look for fucking bodybuilders here hey you see that guy doing the handstands what this guy the guy and i'll go up a little bit right there guy was doing uh handstands uh push-ups on the stage yeah gimmick no no just pull up a picture of the top six or top five and we can right here okay they're martin martinez zote zote martin zote martin zote that's him this isn't is that the show that's not it though is it all right no it's this guy here yeah i don't know i i i don't know that's it that's it yeah yeah there's more picks there go through he's definitely in shape yeah that's not a bad shot his front shots are good yeah okay and then we had ken ken woo park ken woo ken woo ken woo park right here he's this guy he looks good really nice shape see his back i was just enough to say his arm and belt on his side chest looks fucking huge you're such an asshole i'm just curious could be worse what are you laughing about oh you're such a fuck his back actually isn't bad it's not terrible obviously this was just the guys that were in the best condition ended up higher here and i was gonna say what what how did patrick look like what happened yeah i mean justin rodriguez obviously is just you know wasn't in the best condition his waistline starting to get a little funky so he ended up low this guy i've seen looks really really good yeah and he has a back ball look at that look at this fucking back let's see the full pose okay i'm gonna i'm gonna shut you up right now all skeptical you're such a fucking racist i want to be proven wrong look how good this guy looks he looks great look at that's a back dude what is that sinks all the way in here that's good oh wow that's a good shot that guy would kill you on stage me for sure oh you're the one being racist that's what uh let's show everybody your uh modeling today paul oh yeah my old man arms oh wait oh my god paul you're looking so fucking watch out watch out watch out jack watch out fucking jack paul looks here why do you look so fucking jack because he trains with me that's why it's all old school training probably a couple workouts he did oh how long is this pump well this is a bloodshot pump it might last a day bloodshot pump i got some uh cdx to it afterwards hopefully i'll keep the other people for an extra minute look at this huh how come your forearms are bigger than your biceps you mean the length no i mean like the thickness of your forearm oh more than the thickness of your bicep my forearms get a little extra work what do you wear it paul you got the tan pants on today our summer collection you know how many fucking you know how many messages i got after i posted that why is paul so jacked just like you know it's funny because i'm naturally vascular so it throws people off it makes me look like i'm more muscular than i actually am listen don't start bragging i'm naturally vascular i'm just joking no you're somebody messaged me they're like it was fucking mike mike messaged me he's like what did you say to me i forget what he said i'm like fucking guy looks good for 53 i don't know how he does it 52 you guys had a year every time you guys bring up my name you bring a year every time i'm a young 52 uh okay so every bit of 52 i'll take the comment on my thank you paul you picked bruno to win so that's one brett second one patrick was where was patrick seventh seven so you put him in third so that's four justin was tenth and you put him in fourth so that's six and then jason low where was jason low 14 i said 14 14 i definitely won this and you put him in fifth so paul you have one two six plus six is 12 plus nine is uh 21 okay uh mike had brett so zero bruno zero patrick moore so four he had rashid oldecker where did rashid oldecker play 11th 11th god damn it god damn it and then reinhold where'd reinhold play god damn it reinhold reinhold was fifth yeah oh you got that one right hey reinhold i love you buddy i do think that's 11 okay i had i had brett bruno uh rashid where was rashid again 11th fuck so that's uh 8 8 i had patrick in fourth he was what seventh that's three uh justin rodriguez fucking fuck so five so i got uh 16th uh ian had brett ian had brett bruno rashid oldecker third he was what again oh he was 11 so that's 8 justin was 10 so that's 6 patrick was 7 so that's 2 so you had uh 14 16 so i tied with you i tied with you again fucking ian i can't beat him the best i can do is tie with him i can't beat him fucking cocksucker uh seth zero for brett zero for bruno uh four for patrick uh 7 for rashid and what was justin 10th 10th 10th so 5 for justin so you had 11 you also had 16 had a three-way tie for second and paul decimated here paul how come you're the only pro judge in your last all the time it's not gloss over the fact that i won i mean we're moving yeah let's let's celebrate let's celebrate mike's victory congratulations congratulations mike i'll do it again mike you've won you've won two this year or three i think two i'm gonna get carried away i've never i've never won one i have a tie for first that's it motherfucker we were thinking that next year when we do this we should make bets and the bet should be the win should be the biggest for the guy who locks in his bet the earliest so like if you said at 12 weeks out this is my this is my fucking picks and you don't change them you should get more than everybody else if they keep changing but it's hard because like what if he doesn't get he doesn't come first but he's second but the guy that gets it first but he makes his bets at two weeks out how do we win you gotta win you gotta win no no no i don't think we change the win i think if we bet something right like the punishment for the guy who if we're doing it punishment wise the guy who changes his picks the most gets the biggest punishment okay i can see that and if we're doing the guy that changes the most still ends up winning though it doesn't matter oh wait it doesn't matter yeah see that stuff i think how we could do it is what if you did it what if you did it different increments what if you did it yeah or what if you did it in prize packs like or you can handicap it like you give them a deduction for the amount of times they change yeah i like that that's a good idea like you like negative two for every time you change you get like a you get a negative every time so you get a point i actually went golfing on sunday why yeah how'd you like it i hate it i actually had a good time yeah did you i did pretty decent yeah i think i could have a good time at the driving range i don't know if i could have fun actually trying to like i played the nine holes red to the cart me and melissa and two of our friends went how far over did you did you what was your score i don't know exactly what my score was i think my best i shot on two holes i only shot a single bogey so one over yeah and then the rest of the holes i was between like two and four over man that's still good yeah that's still good if i went golf i probably would have been like a 110 to 115 maybe i don't know anything about the scores yeah that's not bad that's not bad i had a couple i had a couple good shots with like my three wood i was hitting good other than that i was not great i don't know how you guys golf i got no flexibility for that at all yeah you're talking about you're like dumby i could definitely feel my my swing other than using my driver or like my three wood felt very rigid like using irons and stuff i felt very weird and i couldn't putt to save my life like if i if we took out the putting i probably could have shot like close to par but then with the putting it was like i was like four putting every hole you know paul did you smoke a big fat joint before you came on here yeah yeah that way one eye one eye is bigger than the other i'm tired too that's what i was thinking that's what i was thinking i'm a justin pirate what i what i close right now yeah one eye is just like he's trying to focus with one that couple with of the i'm adjusting to the time change too hey mike um can only pick one album to listen to on a road trip what would it be i got a few no you get one lincoln park hybrid theory uh what's the tragically hip with nautical disaster on it it's a good one i just say tragically hip like essentials yeah top hits um van helen one oh man that's a great album we're we're fucking partying on that road trip for sure uh when ian when ian tried trend did it make him want to beat his wife what the fuck no hey that's a topic right now huh about the roid rage thing i was looking on youtube yeah people are just fucking and have no self-control stop using trend as an excuse for you being a fucking faggot i don't know if that's totally i don't know if that's totally true guys i'm sorry there's such a thing as like you get more aggressive it's testosterone yeah but at the end of the day you can still control your actions you know yeah yeah i know but it's not but you're not yourself i mean come on either you beat woman or you don't beat woman i'm not saying it's okay wait a minute wait a minute wait a minute i didn't say anything about beating women i'm not making i'm not making excuses for beating women i'm just saying you can't where are we gonna do it now let's do it you guys want to do it i'll do it i'll do it whose car are we taking i'm just saying that you can't you can't deny the fact that you your personality becomes a little bit more aggressive when you're on steroids no yeah i think you tend to overreact a bit yeah that's a nice point get emotional i overreacted i don't disagree but i think at the end of the day you're still in control of it so like i had times where you're different trend and i things would enrage me but that doesn't mean i acted differently upon them you know i'll tell you where i noticed it the most stuff that i used to get angry about i'm able to get over much much quicker when i'm not on like my anger would last longer when i was on versus off you might be a little more irritable too yeah paul is very irritable when he's on the only time i really noticed it was like in traffic you know me wasn't referring to me wasn't referring to me it's a real real piece of work if a door is open would you consider it in the on or off position what pardon like a sliding door it says if a door this is all it's what all it says i don't understand that if a door is open would you consider it in the on or off position yeah i would consider it on yes on yeah i think so too off would be close yes i agree because all too high to process it's like a sliding door you're talking about with an automatic door irrelevant it could be any of the above if it's open if it's a revolving door yeah right exactly thank you mike yeah yeah that's a tough one to answer uh if aliens visited earth and abducted a member of bro chat to study humans who would be the best representative of the human experience they're not gonna find much if you had to get detached with one of the members of bro chat if you had to get attached with one of the members of bro chat for a whole week straight like birth attached twins who would it be and who would it not be want to hear both reasonings of why and why not also would your percentage go up now that you are both one like controlling twins i'd probably do it with paul because we're together all time anyway so we'd be fine yeah it wouldn't really change my life that much yeah who would i not you should try that for a day for a video uh who would you who would you go pick ian yeah i mean paul paul is like the obvious answer but i mean i i could why am i the obvious answer because you're easy to get along with you're like easy to go along oh chilled out oh okay i love i feel like i could choose seth but then i also feel like seth does way too much in a day for me you know like it's like i feel like i would it would be fun but then i'd be like after by like noon i'd be like all right i'm done yeah we got to get out i could pick ian i could pick ian but if i pick ian would just be arguing for like the whole fucking day long the thing is in person you and i never argue we don't actually argue when we're together ever really mike's too big you know what even when we argue on the podcast it's usually just a misunderstanding because we kind of think the same shit yeah like anyway um i'm just i'm just right and you're wrong that's all you like you like to be right yes um i am right not i like to be right uh do you think there's value in tracking general movement through a fitness tracker during prep a lot of guy a lot of pro guys seem to sleep a lot between meals uh but is there something to be said for calories burned through neat that becomes less less slightly less less tangible during prep when there are a lot more sleep relaxation when there is a lot more sleep and relaxation occurring doesn't matter i'm too old school for this yeah at the end of the day it's calories and calories up and if you're not if you're sitting on your ass all day like look when i didn't move at all later in my career i had to do more cardio i had to eat less food when i was younger and i moved around more i worked a job yeah i could get away doing less cardio and eating more food so at the end of the day pick one it doesn't really matter you know i think it depends on your job if you like move a lot yes you're gonna pay okay but hold on a minute let's take i don't want to i don't want to spend an hour on this just literally want to spend two seconds any questions yeah let's just move on no i'm all in the fire on this one man i'm not saying i'm not saying ian is wrong in any way shape or form all i'm saying is take take two guys that both don't have a job they're both pros and one walks around a lot during the day and like is does vacuuming and he's fucking walking his dog and he's like whatever fucking washing his car so he's moving around a lot the other guy's just laying there watching tv all day i smoke one of these in my house what is it yeah those cigars these are the ones me and paul were had in that show yeah those are cool what is it the cigars oh there's many cigars oh i have those you gave me is it the same ones you gave me or no the pearl ones me no those different ones oh okay um anyways i guess what i'm saying is the cardio is still valuable like it's not like you can't just i don't know you can't just walk around all day do nothing like you have to do cardio no i don't think it counts i never counted it i mean it counts but it doesn't yeah well it counts because it's movement and it is burning calories so you if you do more movement you will technically need less cardio i guess if you do enough of it yeah yeah okay um so what's what's the answer do we think it's valuable or not we're tracking it yeah i think you should track your stuff i i think that it is it is it does hold weight for sure you know i mean it's if you can track it but then the question is that you're going to have to answer and be honest with yourself is did it work did you get the result that you thought you did from it yeah and if you did good job if you didn't fuck you throw it out and get back to the old school shit i love that bingo back to the old school shit hardcore just fucking to the point whatever they did if it works whatever they did in 1985 that's what you should that's what i'm doing if you had to pick a physique of any professional athlete not including bodybuilders whose physique would you want um a vander holyfield oh good that's a good pick um what's that really jacked football player that's also really fast he came back he came back i take dk mccall oh you know a lot about sports oh oh oh jackson oh yeah um herschel walker oh he's a good pick oh you're not gonna pick someone that can dunk he doesn't want to be he doesn't want to be lanky he still wants to be strong and thick i'm assuming herschel walker could dunk yeah but like why don't like why do you assume that he's a great athlete oh i thought it was because he's black uh mike anybody come to mind like javon curse back in the day oh isn't he a big wasn't he a middle linebacker the end he's like the first like speed rush dude yeah monster right uh seth anybody man i don't know my head's going a million do you follow a lot of do you follow a lot of sports or no oh yeah oh i got one vidor belfort in his prime oh yeah when he was all gassed up yeah alistair ovary overreed yeah those traps yeah yeah that was a good one goldberg would be good too goldberg oh yeah goldberg was a good one big papa pump oh scott steiner hey speaking of wrestling did you guys watch the mcmahon documentary no i haven't seen it yet oh it's great really i gotta watch it fucking awesome it's before all the fucking the new allegations have come out okay but it's really allegations what's that i think they actually might be true well whatever don't say anything bad about vince mcmahon no i'm just joking i love it no it's a great documentary though you know it's like i was fucking really blown away it's like really inspiring the way he's a little bit fucked up in the way he thinks but it's really inspiring at the same time he's a workaholic too it seems like three hours a night or something like that yeah are you guys all watching i'm assuming you're all watching the penguin show no not yet i'm gonna wait till it's fucking awesome it is so goddamn good man it is good it's probably the best show i've seen years probably the best tv show i've seen the first two episodes i'm like holy fuck this show is good i didn't know the second episode was out yet i just saw the first one it came out on sunday okay i was gonna wait till it's done then watch it i've been watching tulsa really good i've been watching tulsa king and i'm not as excited about the second season sorry seth have you watched uh penguin no not yet i'm i saw it i was like i need a new show to watch did anybody did anybody watch rebel ridge yet yeah it's good yeah i like that movie it's good yeah um okay opinions on nicotine to help mitigate hunger during large deficit as he has he is puffing up don't smoke it's bad for you there's your answer look at this you have neck cancer oh that's gross like a zombie bite hey did you see that did you see that one did you see that one meme where they made a body out of all the cigarette boxes i did oh my god it's so brutal um we still don't do that here in the states i know that when i went to see it when i went to see the guys when i went to see the guys in california i pulled out a carton a pack of smokes and it had like a fucking diseased tongue on it or something and the guy was like the guy was like what the fuck is on your cigarette pack i'm like this is how they deter us from smoking they started to scare us so uh bob just went to france because his wife competed in worlds for iron man and uh he's over in nice and he said fucking everybody in france smoked cigarettes oh europeans for sure he said everybody was and they had the and they looked just like that and he was like i could not believe it it was just he's like it was it blew his mind yeah it's disgusting i just i don't i don't even see it anymore i'm like the other day i got one with like a toe falling off or something like that it's like my toes are gonna fall off too lose that foot i got no foot problems does paul still throw away his underwear after the first use when did that what did you say that for me no no i never said that no uh i threw away all my white ones a long time ago i don't wear white anymore obvious reasons does anybody for obvious reasons why you shit your pants or something yeah fuck that doesn't come out how how they how they started white and stayed white for so long is is pretty amazing i think back in the day like when your mom did your laundry now she used like bleach and starch and shit like that like i just used the you know why ever use white though you know what's going on down here yeah yeah i don't know just traditional i guess you know tidy waities uh yeah thoughts nope oh thoughts on one of the trend twins pectare and how us as as the viewers can prevent this from happening what happened i didn't know flat bench he was doing like a flat bench with five plates i think i think it was six plates was it five eighty five yeah and he tore his left the left pec went out full terror i don't know look like it yeah i guess yeah i think it is but i don't know i'm so torn on this fucking shit because look i'll agree with ian you know we were talking earlier strength isn't the only component of muscle growth so if you want bodybuilding to be a career this is kind of why i don't like the whole like progressive overload in terms of strength only because you get to a point where you're like now you're bench pressing six fucking plates it's like there's a risk reward aspect to it so it's like you start having to weigh out like am i doing this for fun or am i doing this for a career and what's more important to me because if you're just doing it for fun then fucking go nuts 585 all day long whatever but if you're trying to if you make money off your physique and you want to compete now you have to start thinking like do i come back and live to fight another day and how important is it for me to do 585 and can i still grow my chest by doing 495 instead of 585 that's a tough injury to come back from even with surgery well i mean it depends like some people get surgery dude some people get surgery like look at seth seth and ken jackson both had the same tear i had they had great surgeons and their arm came back to almost the same size as they were yeah but you think your chances with a chest um tear like a full pec tear coming back because i mean besides a tricep tear if you look at kevin lavroni his chest came back just fine yeah that's on my back my titties look great i mean i think a lot of i think a lot of things when it comes to surgery paul depends on the surgeon yeah maybe yeah right like it's i'm sure um yeah probably the degree of tear and there's a whole bunch of other factors that i don't know anything about but anyway uh seth what do you think you're you're like to go crazy and train hard what do you think about somebody doing six plates yeah of course of course yeah yeah yeah but i mean at the same time like dude we're it's it's the fuck around and find out thing like them dudes are crazy that's their that's their mo um it's not like a show they actually are that way yeah i mean i i love it but uh in the same thing it's like you know that's you've got to be mindful like you said like if this is your career like you you just got to be mindful of it you got to be able to play that game you got to be able to push that line you you know ever so slightly or however you go but you know eventually if you're like let's be honest watching them flat bench regularly 500 pounds we all know it was just a matter of time can i just interject this one thing i don't know what he benches six plates for like if it's six reps eight reps or just two reps i don't know but like just to further my point that i made if it's your career doing sets of like two or three or four is not really helpful anymore yeah yeah and again that's just like i said like their their mo that was kind of their thing like you know they're they're hitting 495 benches regularly yeah i mean they're going crazy they're getting big and strong and dude they're still super young what 22 23 years old yeah yeah they're still relatively stupid in the fact that they're just young dudes fucking around like we all were and you know i think that i i just think that i'm like fuck like you guys you you push the limits you found it you found your fucking limit can i can i can i say this i don't fault him at all i'm not saying i whenever whatever whatever i'm saying i'm not saying in terms of fault because i've been there like we all know what it's like to be like i don't see just how far i can go yeah and i've torn shit doing that fucking ian bench press five plates when he was six like we're we've all like that was a cool video too by the way yeah we've all got up and looked like a child we've all done like crazy shit so i'm by in no means faulting him for trying it i'm kind of just trying to give some advice for people watching or for them if they watch it just go look if it does how you make your butt like your bread and butter which they do you can still be you can still be crazy but there has to be a little bit of a cap on it i won't bench over 275 flat bench i won't do it why because i don't want to tear my pack never have i don't even you know what's the last years i don't even do flat bench anymore no yeah i rarely do it anyway i do majority incline yeah we did it we did it on a spit machine actually a couple of times forever yeah but we did them light like we didn't go crazy yeah oh god no why don't you do bench press anymore well ian i'm 46 years old but i will tell you that my best body part of my physique was my chest and it was because i did a lot of flat bench when i was in my 20s must be yeah so it is a very very effective exercise it just happens to be a little bit dangerous but all great things are a little bit dangerous like behind the neck behind the neck shoulder press incredible exercise also a little bit also a little dangerous squats shut up paul if you could build the worst bodybuilder no you can't do that oh let's do it if you could build the worst bodybuilder using only the guy's body parts example paul's tiles foot tile foot who's who's what would you use oh it's only us yeah oh a lot of us we're gonna use ian's calves yeah we're gonna use my waist okay we'll use use my tip paul's torn pec um use my torn bicep paul's mike's hips mike's hips i like seth doesn't really have anything bad now we're fucked yeah yeah my arms seth's rib cage he's got a big rib cage that's what gives him a wide weight yeah so we got a weird waist because we got his rib cage with your waist yeah that's big obliques and a big rib cage uh what else i got no triceps you have my triceps yeah you got no triceps who's got the worst quads here oh me for sure paul's are pretty straight up and down yeah you see my foot recently but we're not talking about you now we're talking about you and your prime oh there's still the worst here yeah look at the company i'm in uh what else do we have who's got james has got pretty good everything uh ben's does ben have hamstrings we can use ben's hamstrings sure i think that's pretty much it right who's chest who's got a shit chest me ian's chest me if we're not taking paul's torn one yeah yeah that's right you do take a ball we'll take ian's ian's left pec and my right pec oh yeah then they're both torn perfect yeah i don't have a pec there whatever um is ian valier still sprinting if not why seems like something he was loving at the time i was loving at the time why did you stop because i missed bodybuilding training and i just am in a part part of my life where i'm doing what i enjoy right just like you know seth had a month where he did fucking you know crossfit workouts for a month and then he went back to bodybuilding workouts yeah why does everybody make it like you can't like just enjoy something for what it is and then be like yeah i think i was at a point after bodybuilding what i needed something to mentally distract me from retirement body building and i think track was something i had passion for and that gave me that distraction for the time and then it came to a time where i'm like okay i've reinvigorated my love for training and miss bodybuilding training a bit so i'm gonna do what i miss and what i love and maybe if in six months from now i'm like you know what i'm not enjoying this as much anymore i want to try something different i want to do crossfit workouts or i want to do fucking marathon training or i want to do power lifting or i want to do whatever then i'll do it i mean i'm not competing anymore i can do what i enjoy and that's kind of the end of it we were fighting last year for a while what yeah you and i well i was i was kicking your ass semantics a little bit more you made it to a few more classes than i did um i gotta ask you something those of you with dogs should i i'm considering sending my frenchie to boarding school for four weeks to be trained to be trained with my with the girl i told you about i don't know i think summer told me about i think maybe cat's my client yeah that's my client i don't know if i can give up i don't know if i can give up my dog for four weeks though but i'm like it's he's starting to get like he's a handful man he's like he's just fucking out of control and i'm like i gotta get control of this fucking dog it's four weeks though man i'm like i can give my dog for four weeks you know come back train she's good yeah it's good for lots of other dogs there too he's not like he's alone he's got yeah bob bob does uh bob's big dog guy they don't have any kids and they do they have uh their two um australian shepherds and they did the same thing they gave me they did the boarding thing yeah bro he was like i will never not do this i will never not do it it fixed their dog that well that that well eh oh he he said he'll never not do this for his animals because being professionally trained yes he said it was amazing and he's like i will never not do this because i mean you got to vet them and find a good you know find a good one and obviously well i trust him yeah because they're coming from mike yeah yeah but he said he's like i never will not do it he's like even though because they're dog people they miss their dogs they were you know there was a lot on them but then when they came back they were just like amazed mike what do you think is it just frenchies or they do all dogs she does all dogs share dog is like her name is renee called live unleashed is there so can i could i give her kade and arnold and be like train them together since they live together i don't know i can't answer that for you but i'm sure she would all right i'm gonna get your contact her contact from you because i i think i need help i mean i'm trying to train them but i'm just not i'm not a fucking dog trainer man i don't know what the fuck i'm doing these two are running these two are running my fucking house right now they run you most of your dogs run you i love it paul paul called me fatima the other day he's like an old arabic lady with her two boys that drive her nuts should see him it's great i was i was screaming at him because they weren't listening to me and then one of them and then one of them had like eye snot in his fucking eye so i was cleaning the eye snot out of his eyes as he's yelling at him i love it it's great but he's like come here uh okay we'll do a couple more then we'll go uh where would prime seth place in this year's 212 olympia come on seth i don't think i ever hit my prime where do you think you would place at the olympia at your absolute best do you think you beat kiosk i don't know man i don't know it's pretty incredible yeah that dude's pretty fucking wild i think i'd be i think i'd be in the i'd be in the the top conversation you know first call out i think it's a battle just because of conditioning and peaking but yeah i mean that's why i'm that's why that's why what what i enjoy watching it what the fuck paul are you okay i'm good what's wrong i don't know what what i was looking at i did uh yeah i could curl up next to him and spoon him right now or something what oh it just looks like he's so comfortable big spoon or little spoon i'm laying down with my dog here paul we had this actually it's funny you said that about uh big spoon little spoon i mean paul had this conversation the other day on the way home from the jail yeah paul was wondering what it's like for gay guys when they spoon and i was like it's like what do you mean and he's like he goes he goes well what are you like the big spoon or the little spoon i'm like well i'm sure i'm sure there's a a guy that likes a big spoon the guy that likes the little spoon like i'm sure there's both i don't mean to make fun of it i just i just had a hard time picturing that i don't think they alternate never big spooned you paul pardon has your wife never big spooned you ever no that's what i said it's not the who's bigger little it's just it's just i don't know i'm sorry it's probably immature i find it a little bit funny to just picture two guys winning like that i'm so mature i know i'm sorry i'm a child i just find that funny that's all i'm sorry it's not immature it's fine it's AI think it's a completely rational question there's two dudes and they're the same size right how do they decide who's the big or small spoon yeah there's there's two gay guys that go to my gym that are both like could you ask them six one they're both like six one three hundred pounds really yeah and they're like you get a big coach guys you know must have a huge coach huge couch they're gonna spoon they're gonna need a huge coach for two guys that size i don't think they spoon on a towel why do they watch movies then but imagine but wait a minute paul there's two guys the way you were thinking about it is like you said to me like gay guys probably never fight because they get along right right well they probably don't spoon either because both of them are hot so they're like you sleep on them that's true right they probably don't because nobody says cuddle me because they're like they're dudes they probably both got lazy boys separate lazy boys with couple yeah that's definitely how it's going man doesn't sound so bad just holding hands with their lazy boys and then your hands get too sweaty so you stop that after a little while too if there's a gay guy in the chat which i know there is in the comment section if you don't mind can you let us know how you guys decide who the big spoon little spoon is or if you do it at all if you do it at all maybe they don't do it i'm assuming it's the same order of who is like the top and the bottom though you know and is that interchangeable too or is that like a set thing no relationships it's always the same like they don't it is top and bottom like there's a guy that's a top you know what do you mean every time there's tops and bottoms dumb tops dumb bottoms yeah you don't you don't flip those roles wait wait wait wait stop how do you guys know this yeah common knowledge gay dude that works for us no just stop for a second he's more fucked up than us that's like saying that's like saying i never changed positions with my wife right yeah no i'm saying they changed positions but one guy is always the bottom like what does it mean the guy taking it he's taking it so i understand what we're talking about givers and receivers right okay let's use that instead they both don't always get fucked the same yet so the bottom wait a minute is the bottom always the bottom yes the bottom they never they never switch gay relationships it's a big issue sometimes if you get two guys that are like both tops or both bottoms it can like ruin their relationship yeah why don't they share because that's not how they work it's just not how it works really eh wow didn't know that yeah like if you run into a person that's like a dom top there's no way he's he's ever what's a dom top a dominant top dominant top yes jesus why do you know a power bottom what's a power bottom yeah we use that term before now i don't understand that what that means still quite what's a power bottom i'm learning so much right now so you take it but you but you're aggressive about it yeah you do more of the work angry about it yeah is that what it is yeah in a way i guess you could say that you know what hey nothing against you you know whatever you want to do with you you know what next we're gonna have a gig on because we're gonna ask him i want to get somebody cool who can just like actually have this conversation so that we can all get educated yeah hey if you don't you don't know you don't ask i'm back fuck you fuck you that's a weird angle it's a great angle what do you mean it looks like i'm i'm like on a radio show host it looks like you're looking peering through a window hockey yeah they're like a pervert they're like watching porn yeah like peeping on us look over your corner i got caught i got caught today by the way it was fucking it was glorious yeah okay how did you no no no how would you train if you were required to have elite strength and elite cardio for strength and elite cardio what i would probably make all my training focused on like the most compound movements possible and then but it's gonna be tough you're gonna get weaker doing all that cardio that's like hybrid training is what we're talking about right now all the hybrid athletes on the internet yeah you want to hit movements that hit as many muscle groups as possible in one the biggest compounds and then get as much cardio towards what you want to do hey i got two good questions here first what are paul's thoughts on tomato soup in conjunction with a grilled cheese sandwich does the sandwich wait this is actually a really good question soup and sandwich is a major combo does the sandwich make the soup better or is it just a waste of your time if i sat down in a restaurant and i had to eat soup if they brought me a sandwich with it i'd be happier not just but would you be happy or would you be like all right i'll eat it i would eat it like i guess what he's asking is is there a scenario in which soup is a good thing if it's more like a stew where it's got a lot of chunky potatoes i'm not saying we change it to a meal no no there's no scenario where it's better no you're just gonna hit the sandwich in the whole time yeah i'm gonna probably dunk the sandwich in the soup you're so fucking weird okay dude soup and sandwich is the classic combination if you're 90 years old sure yeah but i don't i don't i have teeth i don't need to eat stuff like that okay last question you can only body build with one type of food would you choose breakfast lunch or dinner breakfast lunch dinner lunch because you can still have brunch dinner because i'm just gonna eat pasta and meat sauce every day oh i thought we're eating healthy i can bodybuild pasta and meat sauce drugs yeah the drug meal how you do it they help breakfast lunch or dinner come on paul yeah breakfast yeah i still go breakfast breakfast mike lunch set dinner brunch brunch brunch ian i didn't hear you dinner dinner all right paul say a prayer for us okay let us bow our heads dear leader it's been a busy time of late but um you know we're heading into the fall mr olympia soon um so you know good luck to all the competitors uh safe travels to food and in and your journeys your passages through uh the u.s um seth it's always great seeing you mike i was hoping maybe we'd have dinner friday i'm gonna be in toronto i was gonna send you a message this isn't a prayer anymore now it's just your calendar go in peace go in peace go in peace amen there's a new shirt right there may you all go in peace all right guys we'll see you next week okay bye that was