ologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologistologist or you can do your own. You can check out any type, anything you want. You can check your testosterone, your HbA1c. You can check anything, progesterone. Any of these that you see here, you can add to like an ala carte and do your self-lab, self-checkout. You get the requisition. You take it to the place and get your lab work done on your own. That way, if you don't need any medical oversight, you don't need anybody to read your blood work to you, and you want a cheaper option, and you can check out Merrick Diagnostics and you make your lab work as expensive or inexpensive as you want. This is kind of the best way to check if you want to check your testosterone levels, check if your gear is working, check if you're running too low. This is kind of the best way to do it if you want to save some money. So MerrickDiagnostics.com. Check it out now, guys. Thanks for watching. Hello, gentlemen. We meet again for a wonderful evening of laughs and debauchery. Yes. Commodery. Commodery or commodery? Commodery. Depending on where you're from. No, no, no, no. We're going back. We're going back. What did you say exactly? I said commodery. Are you holding to that or are you going to change it? No, I'm going to change that. It's commardery. Commodery. No, it's not. That's worse. That's worse than the first time you said it. What is it then? Commodery. Okay, I put the R in the wrong place. Yeah. Commodery. Commodery. I said comm. I said comm. Artery. Yeah. Hard arteries. Yeah. Gentlemen, we're lost. We've lost the Mr. Ian this week. Brother Ian's getting some cosmetic. Brother Ian is getting. Breast augmentation. Maybe a butt tuck. Brother Ian. Butt implants. I wonder if he really, really likes. He's the last guy who needs butt implants. Oh my God. I know his ass is humongous. Yeah. I wonder if he really likes those guys or it's just like a really convenient friendship because he gets like all his cosmetic shit for free. I got to admit, if I got free cosmetic stuff, I'd be there. Probably not convenient if you got a flat or turkey every time. But turkey's supposed to be nice. I'm just joking. I know he likes those guys. I'm playing around. It's fucking far though. Yeah. It's far. It'd be a shitty plane ride. Why? What do you mean? How far is the flight? It can't be that much further. What's the UK? The UK is eight hours, six hours or eight hours? I think it's eight. Yeah. France. Paris is. Paris is eight hours. So Turkey can't be. What? It's got to be three hours more. Maybe. It's a long time in an airplane. Yeah. Eleven hours would suck if it was. Fuck yeah. Let's just, let's figure this out. If you're flying first class, which I'm sure Ian does, then it wouldn't be so bad. But if you're a flying coach, fuck that. Ottawa to Turkey flight time. I'm getting better. He's got to fly Toronto first. No? Yeah. I'm getting better at 20 plus hours. Between 13 and 20 plus hours. Oh, I don't want care about layovers. Fuck. Fuck. Okay. Let's. Fuck off. Don't ever tell us I'll lay over ever again. Switch over. Directly. Switch over to Toronto. Well, you probably have to take a. No, no. I'm switching to Toronto to Turkey. It's sustainable. It says 10 to 12 hours. Okay. That's reasonable. That's a long time still. Yeah. So I wasn't wrong. I said 11 hours. So right in the middle. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Eight hours. I felt like when I used to travel a lot to Europe, eight hours was like the kind of the max. And I'm like, I gotta get off this fucking plane. I'm going to lose my. Right. Try flying in Zealand. Zealand. Yeah. I can imagine. Dude. That's the night. I remember I got asked to go to Australia and I said, no, cause I was like, I can't do 25 hours on a plane. Like, but like you said, Paul, when I used to travel to, uh, with sci tech, I didn't fly first class. You didn't, you're flying coach. No. So if I'm flying on a fucking, I'm laying down in a bed, I could do fucking 11 hours, man. Oh yeah. Yeah. If I, if I have first class, even business class, I could do it. But if I got a flying coach, fuck. Well, cause me and summer went to Dubai and we had to stop in Egypt and that was, I can't remember now, man. I'm sure I'm going to butcher this. I feel like it was 17 hours. I don't remember though, but it can't be further than Turkey. So I don't know, but it was a long fucking flight, but I didn't care. Cause I was laying down the whole time. Just sleeping. I was like, whatever. Watch movies and go back to sleep. I could have stayed on that plane all late for another 10 hours. I would have been fine for a week. I could move in. I might just sell my house. I got to tell you, I've been watching this couple on YouTube that own a class. A motor home. Mike, a class A motor home is like the big, like, if you don't know this, a big bus one, like with the windshield in the front and they live in it. They don't have a house. They live in this fucking thing. They work out of it. They obviously do YouTube videos and make money with YouTube, but the, like the wife actually has a job. And I'm like, I think I could do that. So they both have like remote jobs that they do from the, from the motor home too. They both have remote jobs. They travel around this class A motor home. They, they trailer a couple of Harleys with them and they just travel around the fucking U S and they just go wherever the fuck they want. That sounds great. But what? You think he gets, you think he gets five person after a while. It's a long time to be that close workers. You got no free, you got no meat time at all there. That's not at all what I thought you were going to say. What'd you think I was going to say? I don't know. I thought you were going to be like, don't you want a home? Are you, you're like, I don't know if I want to be with that guy. That's a lot of time together. There's no, there's no man cave. This is a person that's in an unhappy marriage. Oh no. I'm just, I'm just someone who likes their alone time at times. I don't blame you. You know what? Me and me and summer, like I go to work for five or six hours every day. So I'm away. I get, I get out of the house. I go to work. Yeah. I'm there all day. Me and you train after that. So I'm usually gone for like, I don't know, six to eight hours a day. And then you go to work. Yeah. So I, I miss her. When I come home, we sit down, we talk, we hang out, we have dinner together. Right. I said, yeah, I wouldn't want to be sitting in the same room with somebody all day, every day for, you're right. I guess that would be. Yeah. No. That's a recipe for disaster. That's not going to go well after a while. But how do you know? But how do you know when they're driving and they park somewhere, the guy doesn't pull his Harley out of the trailer and go for a fucking ride. Fuck off. And just, you know what I mean? I don't think that would be, I don't think that would be enough though. I just don't think that would be enough. Well, I think that depends on the person. I think it'd be like, for sure. It might be enough for me. If I could fuck off for a couple hours, go for a ride and come back, I'd probably get recharged. I'd be like, all right. I'd like to put that to a study. I'd love to see you try this for a couple of months and then I want to talk to you. I don't want to tell, I want you to be honest and tell me if you need a break or not. You just test it now. You can just hang out with Summer all day for the next week. Yeah. Don't go to work for that. You're not allowed to leave home. No, that's not fair. But it's not the same. He's got a gigantic house. If he's got to get stuck in a mortar home, no way. You're not allowed to be more than a room away from her at home. I have to sit in the living room with her all the time. I guarantee you try that for two months, there's no way you're continuing. I love my wife, dude. I think I could do it. I'm sure you do love your wife. He's like, I got my wife. And I'm sure she loves you. But human beings need some space once in a while. I don't disagree. I don't. I think, I think, I think alone time, personal time, I think is very important. So I don't disagree with you. Yeah. But, I don't know. There's something about going on an adventure together. You know, getting a fucking motor home, fucking traveling across the country. Yeah. I could do an adventure, like you said. But you're talking this couple lives together every day like this. Yeah. I don't know if I want it to be my home. Like, it would be cool. I feel like it'd be cool to have and, like, go on an adventure and then come back home and then have a... Yeah. Does this couple, like... Wait, wait, wait. Mike, can you hear us anymore? I can hear you. I just can't see you. What'd you do? You look good, Mike. You can just stay there like that. You can see me? Yeah, I can see you. You look great. Skin looks nice. Beard looks nice and trimmed. Yeah, you look younger. I think I connected my headphones. But now I just got to get my way back to you guys. Hold on. Hey, Fuad, that show that you're watching, it's a YouTube couple? Yes. So they're, like, blogging all this, like, every day? It's called vlogging, but yes. Okay. I feel normal again. I can hear it here. I didn't like that. I didn't like that at all. I was about to quit on you guys. Don't you think it'd be hilarious, though, like, as you just see the marriage deteriorate as their daily vlogs continue? Eventually, they're just done. One of them is driving. The other one's in the back, like, yeah, yeah. Yes. Then there's just, all of a sudden, there's no more videos. They're done. If they're forced, eh? They're forced to do it no matter how good or bad it is. Right. They got a contract or something. They can't edit anything. They got to fucking do all of it. Guy's just rolling his eyes all the time. Oh, Paul, you're so jaded, dude. You just fucking... No, no. Where do you want to stop to get something to eat? I don't care. I just hate your voice. Stop talking to me. Don't ruin my fucking dreams. I'm actually, like... I really think... Just pretend to go deaf. Just pretend to go deaf. Yeah. Yeah. You know what? Work told me I got to go in the office for the next couple of weeks. I can't do this anymore. We got to go back. Yeah. We got to go back home. Yeah. Don't ruin my fucking... Don't ruin my fantasy, Paul. I feel like it's... I feel like it's... I think you should try it for, like, a... Try it for, like, a month in the summer. Go somewhere. Try it for a week. Well, that's what... Or two weeks, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's what somebody... I forget who I was talking to. I have, like, three or four destinations you want to hit up, and then the two weeks will just fly. Oh, I feel like I was talking to my brother. My brother was like, you should rent one first. Yeah. He was like... Cat wants to do that. Does she really? Rent the motorhome? She wants to do it in Vancouver. She wants to rent a motorhome and go to Vancouver? Or fly there. Yeah, like... Go camping and shit. I was like... Have you ever... Have you ever done anything like that, Mike? Like, have you ever emptied the tanks in a motorhome and, like... Never thought... Ever... You got to empty the shit tank and stuff, right? Like, when you... What do you do with it? Is there a place where you go to dump it? Yeah. So, like, when you... It's far right in the sewer. I was going to say. You just find, like, a secluded area to park it on. You just hook up the hose and just put it on the sidewalk and just let it... Just stand there, like... And then you just actually... You drive away. Shitter's full. You hang the tube out the window and you just drive away. As you're driving. The trailer ship behind you. No. When you go... When you have one of those motorhomes, you got to, like... There's a thing called boondocking. That means you can stop anywhere. But most people stop at, like, a trailer park. When you stop at a trailer park, they have, like, hookups for, like, water. And you have hookups for your sewage. And you have hookups for... So, when you go to one of these places, you hook up your water. You refill your fresh water tanks. You hook up your sewer fucking hose. You empty your shit tank. You do all that stuff while you're at, like, the campground. Okay. Then when you empty it all out, you refill your tanks. And you're ready to leave. You start with a fresh set again. Right. But then every time you get somewhere, you kind of got to, like, refill your tanks. Empty your shit tank. Like, that... You know, you got to do that every once in a while. What's the average time... What's the average amount of shit a shit tank holds? A week? Two weeks? It depends on... A week? They're bigger... Yeah. It depends on the size. But, like, the ones I'm looking at... I think they're, like, five to seven days. Okay. When I used to be on... When I used to be on tour buses, when I was on tour, we, like... In Europe, we'd go across Europe. In different places, the States, they'd always be, like, oh, don't shit on the tour bus. Yeah. And I'd always... When everyone was sleeping, I'd always wake up and take a shit and then sneak back into my bed. Was it me? Was it me? It's like... They're, like, you can't take a shit in here. If you need a shit, wait till we get there. Oh, of course. Yeah. We had a rule like that at work. There was this... Back, like, years ago at my job, we used to have this one little... Like, just small little office. We used to, like, hang out and when cars would come down to get searched. And it was a small little office. And there was always an unwritten rule. You don't shit in there. You can piss all you want, but don't shit in there. We got to sit in there. And every once in a while, someone didn't know the rule and they go in there. And everyone would be in there with their flashlights. Yep. There's streaks here. I know what you say shit in here. That looks like bullshit. Bullshit's like that. That's protein shit. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. My brother doesn't think I can do it. My brother's like... My brother's like, you're not really, like, the camping kind of guy. You're not going to empty shit tanks and shit, man. And I'm like... Yo, Pace, I'm going to do it for you. Whoa! Yeah, Pace, I'm a trailer park kid. Take my shit out of here. Why do you empty this thing? Like getting a kid to... You act like I'm fucking, like, Scrooge McDuck. Like, I have that much money. Just, like, fucking... I'm not... No, but I know you'll spend money to do the things that you don't like to do. I can empty a shit tank. It's like one pipe. Oh, no, you can, but you don't want to. So, like, so I think of, like, you know, you can cut your own grass if you want to, too, but you don't. That's not fair. When I moved in here, there was a landscape guy that was already doing, like, the neighborhood. Yeah, you don't want to take his job away, you know? Yeah, he came, he knocked on the door. He's like, I already kind of cut the neighborhood. I was like, yeah, okay, go ahead. Keep doing it. Yeah. Oh, okay. I thought you went and it's like... I didn't seek him out. He came to my house, and I was like... Oh, okay. I don't want to take his job away from him. Yeah. Don's a good guy. Yeah, and you can't say anything anyway. He cuts your fucking grass. I got a job, though. I go to 40 hours a week. So do I, motherfucker. What are you talking about? I'm working 40 hours a week over here. Your fucking backyard's not that big. You cut it on the weekend. I could. I used to, and I hated it. This asshole's sitting... You can just do it. See that shit, Mike? This asshole's sitting over here going, well, you'll pay somebody to do it. Meanwhile, I'm paying somebody to do his lawn. It's an agreement we had a long time ago. How much grass do you have, Paul? How much what? How much grass do you have? My backyard's a decent size. However, I put a pool in a few years ago. He's got an average house, like a nice house. Yeah. Yeah. It's a raised ranch, you know? Oh, of course. The front yard's small. The front yard... It's bigger than... A raised ranch. It's bigger than Toronto lots. Yeah. Yeah, it's winter. But I'm saying most of it's pool, no? The backyard? Yeah. A deck and a pool takes up a lot of the backyard now. Yeah. Anyway, what's going on, boys? How are you this week? What's going on, Mike? How you been? Good, man. Same old stuff. Do you have any... Did you do any tour dates this week or no? No, we were going to do one on Saturday, but we kind of... We're going to postpone that one. We're just going to gear up for the one in March. Because it just felt like a little rushed. Where's March? It's kind of weird. Like, Freebird in Toronto. Oh, yeah. I'd like to go to that gym still. Where was this one supposed to be at? It's out of Culture and Barrie. But we're going to do it. We're just going to move it to, like, probably the summertime. Okay. So how many... You want to... How many... Sorry, Paul. I just want to ask. How many of these do you want to do? Like, are you planning on doing, like, one a month? One every other week? Or what? Yeah, we're trying to... Right now, we're trying to do one a month. So the March will be in Freebird. April will be at Muscle Club in Sherbrooke with JD, who owns that. And then we'll be in Regina for that show in Regina. Yeah. They're the same weekend as that show they do. Oh, you're going to be there for that? I was supposed to judge that show. Yeah, they told me you backed out, you big pussy. Yeah, well, New York. New York Pro, yeah. Yeah, so we're going to go to there, and we're going to go to the show, and we're going to do a seminar the day after on the Sunday. And then we're going to be in... Where the fuck else was it? Somewhere else after that, and then we're going to be maybe at Torque in Toronto, and we're going to go to Realm in June. I like Torque. Nice, too. Are you planning in the U.S. or still not planning those yet? No, not right. I mean, technically I can go, but it's like, if I get turned away, I'm fucked type thing. So, like, odds are there's not going to be an issue, but if I get one border guy who's having a bad day, I can be like, no. And then... Yeah. So, we've got to kind of make it worth it. So... I was going to say, are you connecting it to Wicked Supplements at all, or no? Yeah, but we have sponsors as well for the last one we had. Nutri-Bollocks gave some samples, and we did some stuff with them, and... But we're always open to having people on. Well, I was going to say, I'd love to do something together, because we're doing the RTD tour for Hostile. Like, we're doing... We're going to three gyms. Me and Paul are going to three gyms this weekend. We've got one in Kalamazoo, one in Tip City, Ohio, and one in Huntley, Illinois. I thought we were going to the end. You're driving to all the same weekend? Yeah, baby. Me and Paul are going to see, he's going to find out what it's like to hate me. He's going to be in a car with me for three days. Oh, we've done this before. We're wearing old hats at this. We spend a lot of time on cars. Are you guys just, like, appearing and just hanging out, or what are you doing? No, we're going... So, I wanted to promote the RTD. So, I said, let's do a tour. We're not going to charge appearance fees. The gyms are buying the RTD. So, they buy 80 cases. I think it worked out, too. They buy, like, 80 cases of the RTD. We show up for a couple hours. We shake a bunch of hands. Take some pictures. Kiss some babies. Kiss some babies. Do some taste testing. And then maybe catch a workout and then get out of there. So, it'd be cool if we connected them. We did, like, a RTD taste testing with Mike's fucking training. For sure. It'd be fun. It'd be great. Let me get a party after. I just can't do it in Canada, and you can't do it in the U.S., so we're kind of fucked. Yeah. We'll go to Europe. We'll go to Mexico or Europe. Meet in the middle ground somewhere. Well, because my RTD... We'll go to Aruba. Aruba. Some neutral country. The RTD is not legal here. No. Because it's too much caffeine? There's a fucking rule in Canada. Canada's so fucking... Is that 130 milligrams or something? Yeah. I think. You can only have X amount of caffeine. I can't remember the exact number. You can only have X amount of caffeine in a drink. Yeah. Yeah. So, you can't even sell it here. It's like... So, it's unfortunate. Because there's a lot of gyms here I'd like to go to. Yeah. Yeah. There's more and more hardcore gyms in Canada. Yeah. Anyway, what's going on with you, Paul? What's new? With me? Well, like you just said, we're going away this weekend. Next week is Arnold's, and the week after is Detroit. Right? So, it's going to get busy. So, I've just been, you know, just doing the day-to-day stuff up until this time. You know? Working and training. Yeah. March is going to be busy, man. We got fucking... Holy shit. Yeah. We're gone this weekend. We come back. And then we got... We leave on Wednesday, isn't it? Wednesday. I got to be there for registration. Yeah. We leave on Wednesday. Are you the amateur or the pro? Just amateur. Yeah. What's it going to be like? Sit there at the Arnold Amateur for 10 hours? Is it a bitch? I like judging that show. It's always a really good judging panel. So, I always look forward to getting the experience of working with some of the more experienced American judges like Bill, and I think Tyler's on the panel, too. Yeah. Well, that's a good politically correct answer. But it's true, though. I'm trying to get better. I already love that show. It's great. I'm trying to become a more well-rounded judge because I know I'm stronger in some areas than others. So, this gives me an opportunity to hopefully get better in those areas. Brush up on your bikini skills, will you? That's it, Mike. For sure. You don't know what you're doing when it comes to that. I know. I know. I know. That's right. That's where I need it to come up the most, and I've been working hard. You should request that specifically, that you can be on that panel. For the pro-chairs, just bikini class? He has to be. He has to be. They're making... I really want to hone my skills. I want to hone my skills. That's it. It's funny. It's a different animal, you know? I mean, like, because bodybuilding is very cut and dry for us, you know? Like, we do this every day. Bikini is not something that's, you know, it's never been like my expertise per se. So, I've been working hard to bring it up. Well, it's funny you said that, Paul, because since I started doing RBP News, which is the bodybuilding news channel I do, I've had to cover some fit model stuff and bikini stuff and men's physique, especially, I'm getting more. Yeah. And I'm like, I'm actually starting to learn more. And Mike, you know what? God damn it. What? I think you'll like men's physique if you get a chance. There's some great physiques. I love, I think men's physique guys have like some of the best builds. I, my only gripe with them is that like, I just want you to be a bodybuilder. I want you like, if you have, no, but if you have such a good, you have such a good frame, you have such a good physique, you have such like great symmetry. Like let's hit some poses because like, let's see what it looks like. Cause like, if you look good standing still, dude, like, yeah, let's see, like, just throw your arms up on one shot. Even if they're like one, one shot around, like their best shot. That's a good point because some of these guys have, like you said, like fucking crazy physiques, but you only get to see them in a relaxed. You know what? But then, but the problem is I agree with you guys. That'd be pretty cool if they could do a couple more poses. But the problem is if they start getting too close, like if then, if you say, well, what if we shorten the shorts? Well, now it's like too close to classic. I know. It's too much. So it's like, but I do agree. It'd be cool if they did like at least one or two poses. Like maybe they had like a, they had three or four poses you can pick from and you can, that can be your like signature. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe like just a front and a back double. You know, it's funny though. And you know, when they, you say, I, I want them to be bodybuilders. They can't. I was talking to, I had a conversation with Ryan Terry about this exact thing because he took a clip from a podcast that it was Samson, where we were talking about men's physique guys and how they don't push as much as bodybuilders. And I think he got offended, not like seriously offended, like jokey offended. And he sent me a message. He's like, Hey man, you know, we try hard and we do this and I eat just like they do. And so we kind of had a conversation back and forth about it. And he was telling me like he eats six meals a day and his meals were bigger than William Bonac's when they were traveling together. And like he trades been training his ass off for 20 years. I wonder if they just can't get big. Like some people just can't get big. Some of those guys are like, I understand Ryan. Cause Ryan seems like kind of an undersized guy compared to some of those guys, but some of those guys are massive, bro. Some of those guys are fucking huge. Right. Right. You're more than capable of being a fucking body, like classic bodybuilder, at least like you're more than capable. I agree with that. Some guys, some of them do look like they're, but I think that's why they put a weight limit on it. Yes. Doesn't men's physique have a weight limit now? Yes. Pros. Yeah. So is it by your height or yeah, it's height. It's a height weight. Yeah. Cause I, I think they saw that the guys were getting fucking super jacked and they were like, this isn't what we want. So yeah, it's not even a matter of like, everyone makes that stigma. Like they don't have legs. Like half of those guys are fucking, their legs are huge as fuck. Yeah. Yeah. They're big as fuck their legs. Like they're literally like, they're like, they're wearing bike shorts when they're on their shorts. Yeah. I mean like, yeah, I think more and more of the, what I'm starting to see more and more in bodybuilding is, um, a lot of guys starting as men's physique and then quickly going to classic. Yeah. In a couple of years because they're out, you're getting too big and they want to train to get bigger. They don't want to just train to maintain their mass. I think with oars doing what he did, I think it's becoming more accepted now. Yeah. I think we're going to start seeing a lot more guys use it as a farm system. Maybe not. Yeah. Maybe not men's physique guys, but I think we're going to see a lot more classic guys go to open. I agree with you for that, but I think what you'll see like is a lot of men's physique guys going to classic as well. And that's going to be their sort. I'm seeing it. Really? Yeah. I'm starting to see it a lot. A lot of these guys, who are we seeing it in the pros with though? Other than like Jeremy B. Bill and D I tried it. Like who did we see? Not yet. Yeah. Yeah. I think there's, there's, there's probably some lesser known pros. Wait a minute. I know when the amateurs, it happens all the time. I know that. I just think I'm saying on the pro level, I don't know if we've seen that many men's physique guys, at least like notable ones. Right. Notable ones. I agree. I think there's more and more though going that route. And I also think that a lot of them are getting their pro cards as men's physique and then maybe spending a year or two competing in men's physique or even trying a couple of shows as classic. And then as like, as you know, deciding where they fit at that moment more, but then as they, these are young guys, most of the time, as their training progresses, they're eventually going to become classic guys. Dude. I got to tell you, putting six plates on my fucking neck, I think is a bad idea. If my hand is killing me right now, it literally, it literally feels like, like if you had a bucket full of lava and you just like had to put your fucking hand in it, that's what my fucking hand feels like right now. It's just literally like, like there's, it's just in a bucket of fucking flames. I can't. What you did on a machine squat? Like the paper doing this? We did hacks today. And I think because like when you put pressure on my neck, I noticed on leg days that the pain is like way worse. And today we went like, I think a little heavier than we should have. Well, and look at like last week and the week before we were focusing more on like keeping our core tight while we're training, you know, reducing the weight. Yeah. I still want to do that. Just like, I know. Yeah. But just, you know, the bodybuilder in us, you know, today was like leg day. We started getting a little amped up and it's like, oh, it seems to be six. Yeah. You can do six. You don't have to get a belt squat, man. Yeah. You just load that, load those hips up. Yeah. That would be a good idea. Yeah. Yeah. Belt squat's a good idea. Then I can take all the pressure off my neck. The belt squats though. Like, are they going to put more of the, more of the load on your glutes and hamstrings because of where the, because of your hips holding up. It depends how you drop. It depends how you position yourself. Okay. I've only used, I've had limited experience on a belt squat. A lot of guys like range their, like they kind of rock back in their hip and sit into the belt squat, but the belt can like pull you down as well. Right. So it can be more of like kick your knee forward and fall as opposed to like inch your hip back and kind of sit back. So foot positioning. But like when you do the straight up and down, like belt squat with your knee traveling over your toe, it's like your weight's going to go way down. Okay. It's fucking heavy as shit. Right. When you hit, when you hit back and you hinge forward, it's, you can do whatever you want. I'm seeing this new, that's a straight down squat. That's not him. Okay. That look. Yeah. She's knees over toes. Have you guys seen this new one? People are doing where they put a barbell over their laps and just squat down and like halfway up again, like 90 degrees and stay in that squat position. They're doing like a frog squat. Yeah. What do you think of this, Mike? I think they're better when they have the bar in front that you can hold, like where you can unclip in the front. Yeah. Well, that one has it too, but I think the bar just kind of clicks back and forth. Yeah. You can unlock there, but that looks like a good squat. That's a rogue belt squat. I never even seen that before. Yeah. Yeah. I've only used a belt squat like a handful of times. Me too. I only use it. I've never been a huge fan, but if it takes all the pressure off my neck, then maybe that's the way I got to go. You know, that looks pretty good. Well, it looks like a lot of low back though. No, you'd be surprised because it's on the, you put it in like the nook of your, like right at the top of your hip. And it's kind of like, it's literally like a straight line driving your hips straight down. There is more obviously straight up. But if you just, if you ease into it, it literally pulls your hips down. You don't feel anything in your back. And holding onto the bars like that, Mike, like I know he's not gripping them hard by any means, but like, doesn't that give you some leverage, a little bit of like help? Yeah. But it's more for like, it's more like a posture thing than it really is a help. Like if you're pulling yourself out of the hole, you're probably pretty fucked up. Right. It's just like, it's like doing anything as long as you're like balanced and you're holding on, you're fine. Okay. So when guys lean back and they use the bar to pull themselves forward, like these guys are doing genuine squats. So they're letting their hips fall, like their stomach fall between their quads and their hips drop down. Uh, I don't know if it looks like a lot of glutes though. It looks like a lot of glutes. Yeah. Cause like his back is more. No, it is. It is for sure. Like it's more of like a powerlifting assisting type movement, like kind of a deloading movement for guys who squat heavy. Cause the impact, take that pressure on the spine and all that pressure on your neck. So it's like kind of a way to compensate for not having to do as much. You can just load the hips, but I mean, it's a good alternative. Plus you guys can fuck with it. So you can put plates under your feet. You can do all kinds of stuff where you're driving more off the balls of your feet and you're going for more depth and you're rising up. So you're staying more like a straight plane than like going back like this. Gotcha. Okay. Right. And like dropping in and driving up through your hip. So with like the way you guys are able to move and understand squatting, you're just, it's imagining a bar on your back, but it's not being there. Right. Take the same path. I've tried it before. I did like the way it felt. I just never, I don't know. I never bought one for my gym. I think I'll, I think I'll get it. Cause I need something. I need something that's going to take the pressure off of my neck. The Atlantis makes a good one too. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I've tried the Atlantis one. All right. Um, you know what? I thought we'd do. I thought we'd jump into some questions a little earlier this week. Switch the format. Oh, there is the person. There's the gentleman with the last name Feroci. What's going on guys. I just want to break away to show you one of our sponsors, David Protein. The sponsor I came across by accident. I was eating their bars, actually enjoying them. They contacted me because they saw me enjoying their bars. And so we are now partners. If you go to their page, David Protein, you see here, if you buy four boxes, you get the fifth one free chocolate chip cookie dough is probably my favorite. Guys, if you want a good snack, they're taste really good. 20 grams of protein, just about 30 grams, 150 calories, zero fat. It's like it fits into your macro count almost perfectly to help you top up that protein count by the end of the day. Davidprotein.com. Buy four boxes. Get the fifth one free. Ferocious. Ferocious Feroci. He has a boxing name. Hey guys. No. What's going on? That would be a good boxing name. Ferocious Feroci. Yeah. We're giving you a new nickname. Ferocious Feroci. That's your boxing name. That was my name in high school. Whenever I played football and wrestled, I got that nickname. Were you a good wrestler, Seth? So, yeah. Yeah, I was. I thought that was going to go the other way. Yeah, me too. No. I mean, listen, listen. Now that my, now that SJ's playing, playing all these sports, I went to a Catholic school from kindergarten all the way up to eighth grade. And it was a small Catholic school. So, like, you didn't play sports or anything. And then in eighth grade, I was like, I want to fucking play football because that's whenever I started getting in shape and lifting weights and stuff. And I went and played football. And it was the first time I stepped on a football field. And I did pretty good. I started inside linebacker. I was fucking, and I was second string fullback. So, I was just fucking. Nice. Fucking little monsters running around hitting people. That's what I played. Yeah. So, then after the season was over, the coaches were like, hey, Seth, we need a 165-er. And I'm like, nice, for what? And they're like, wrestling. And I'm like, I don't know nothing about wrestling. Never done it in my life. And here in Western Pennsylvania, wrestling is fucking massive. Yeah. So, they needed a 165-er. So, I went and I was like, cool. And I weighed like 180-some pounds, like 183 pounds at the time. So, I had to lose a lot of weight. And they're like, you'll lose it in practice. And I'm like, what the fuck goes on at practice for me to lose 20 pounds? Sweat your nuts off. Yeah. So, then I ended up wrestling and I was pretty good at it. How did you make weight? Did you have to do anything or did you just like? Yeah. I had to like stop eating like a bunch of food and just like, that's whenever I really started like watching like, oh, you just can't eat junk and then nothing. Like, you should probably eat chicken and really simple foods. But I went 16. I think I went 16 and 10 in wrestling. Okay. And I took third place at like a big tournament. And I was like, and the coaches were like, hey, dude, like fucking you're killing it. And I'm like, nice. I got my ass kicked like a week ago and it fucking sucked. But they're like, you're doing great. Yeah. Wrestling is massive in Western PA. So, what happened after high school? No more wrestling? No. One year after wrestling was over, I was like, I want to go to the gym. And that's when my dad took me to York's gym, which was like the bodybuilders gym in my area. I think I've been there. No, York's gym. York's. There's four brothers. This is a small gym. You probably went to York's in York, PA. Okay. So, York's was four brothers. They're all like five foot two to five foot five. You're like, this is my kind of gym. Yeah. I was in it. And whenever he took me in there, it was after wrestling practice. And I was like, man, look, they have a cable crossover. Like, I saw these in the magazines. And then my dad was like, once he went in there, he's like, you were fucking gone, dude. You were lost you. And that's whenever I was like, I just wanted to be a bodybuilder. Fell in love with it. Yeah. But imagine having too much muscle for wrestling wouldn't be good. I just, I didn't go back. They were like, dude, why are you not coming back to wrestling? I'm like, oh, you're bodybuilding. And they're like, what the fuck are you going to do with bodybuilding? Like, I'm going to create a whole fucking empire. That's what. But yeah, it was. Yeah. Yeah. Good times. What are you guys up to? I had a hater. I had a hater today. Say to me. Look, you took so much testosterone. Look at you. Now you don't have any kids. And I was like, I was like, yeah. I'm like, yeah. But I'm like, I have a really good life, man. I'm like, I'm like. Super specific. Are you sure you're not talking about yourself? I'm like, I'm like, I have. I don't know. I got two dogs. I have a beautiful wife. I have fucking. I own three businesses. I'm like, I've traveled the world. I'm like, I think it was worth it. I'm like, I'm like, if I had to do it all over again, I'd do it all over again. So isn't it crazy? It was a really straight. It was just a really strange, like, way to try and get at me. I'm like. That's stupid. I would have responded way different to that. What would you hurt? I would have said, yeah, you have kids and they fucking hate you. They got a dad like you. Yeah. Yeah. For a dad. Yeah, that's true. Dude, people. I mean, the haters are they're out there. Those say the most random shit. And you're like, man, like you really having a fucking rough day. Like you hate your fucking life a lot. You know, you know why, Seth? You know where it comes from? I think I've probably said somewhere on some podcast that I would have liked to have kids. Oh, so they. So that's what haters do. They take those things and they hold them and they wait. And then they throw them back at you when they think they can get you with it. And I'm like, I didn't mean like I would trade my whole life. I just meant like it would have been cool. Yeah. So anyway. Yeah, no. I mean, dude, there's so even just shit in general. Like, I mean, you've caught it. You've caught it probably the most out of anybody. Yeah, I got a lot of shit. Yeah, you catch a lot of shit. I catch a lot of shit. Because you're just like, this is how things go, even in business. Yeah. Like, brothers, there's things that happen at my company now. There's 42 fucking people that work here. 42 fucking people that work at Axe and Sledge. Yeah. And I'm like. That's good, man. Good for you. Yeah. There are things that happen at my company that I don't even fucking know occur. Like, otherwise, I can't micromanage everything. Like, you don't fucking do that. There's things that occur. You're like, yeah, Seth did this. And I'm like. What the fuck is that? What the fuck do you mean? Like, and then it's like. I can't. But that's what. Yeah. But that's what happens. Yeah. Because it's like, even at your job, do you ever want to be micromanaged? Well, the thing is, Seth, when you're the front-facing owner. Yeah. That's what happens, right? So you catch all the shit. Anyway. That happened to me. Do you want to hear the most backhanded compliment I got on the other day on a hater? Yeah, tell me. It was like kind of a compliment and a hater message. It started off the same way. It says, hey, brother, you may not read this, but I just want to say when I first saw you, I thought you were a prick. I was wrong. I was wrong. Oh, my God. I was wrong. The more I see your videos, the more I can relate and agree with you. You're a bad dude. I said, I appreciate it, Juan. I still think you're a prick, though. Thanks. That's hilarious. He loves it. He was like, he's like, yeah, dude, this is awesome. Mike, you know how many of fucking those I've gotten, Mike? It's insane. It's awesome. I've gotten so many. Like, I thought you were an asshole. Like, I'm so validated by it. Like, oh, yay. Juan likes me. You know what I had someone say to me last week? I don't know. They meant it as a joke, but it was a joke, but it was. Anyway, it hurt. It hurt. It said something like, hey, Paul, from a fellow 50-year-old Jack dude, you know, whatever. Just want to tell you, keep pushing. He's like, by the way, I'm 55. I hope you make it to this age. I'm 53, man. What are you saying? What are you trying to say there? I think. Yeah, I think. I don't really know what that was. I don't know if you're going to have a heart attack or something. Do I think I'm going to die? I know I got red skid, but I don't think I'm going to die any minute. You know what I think we should do? I think every week on the podcast, we should have a segment where we read our best compliment of the week and our shittiest compliment of the week. Okay. I'd love to. I don't want this to invite people to start sending us good. You just did. I know. You just did. We're all going to get it. You're an asshole, Tex. No. But I think it'll be fun to be like, let's just see what happens. The nicest one of the week and the worst one of the week. Because I've got some really nice ones, too, that I can share. You know, I always equate this. Like, dude, no matter before the internet, before all this, there were still fucking haters, dude. Yeah. You know what I mean? They still exist. They'll always exist. And, you know, all of us have had like rough days and rough times where we're like, man, fuck everything. And you're just like, and then whenever you like get out of that hole, you're like, man, I was, I was, I was in one. I think I was kind of, my head was telling me things that I'm not really that person. And I said some really fucked up shit. Maybe I thought them and didn't say them, or I actually did say them. Because the internet's wild. Like, I mean, shit on there sometimes that my algorithm. I know, dude. I'll be like, hmm, I don't know how this popped up, but I'm going straight to the comments and they are super fucked. You know what? I want to show you. I think I, I think I showed you guys all this already. Maybe Seth hasn't seen it. I don't know. I've been working on the new Real Bodybuilding Podcast site. That's also going to be an app soon. Nice. This is the dashboard. We get into predictions. This will be live soon. It should be live. Like, I don't know, any day now. But I think we can get into predictions while we're here. Seth. What? Can we see pictures? Because I haven't looked at anybody. I purposely don't look at anybody until I come on here. So I can give an honest opinion. I don't look at any, I don't like any updates. Do you have links to everyone's Instagram accounts in that void? Yes, sir. We go to make, go to predictions. Let's see. Who do you want? Well, I can't look at Martin Fitzwater because he's blocked me. Get out of here. That one we can't look at, but we can look at. He blocked you? Yeah. He doesn't like me because I said he was childish. But anyway, it doesn't matter. This is Andrew's latest updates. Not really an update, but it is. This is a massive, massive. Big Andrew. Back. That looks pretty, pretty conditioned. I thought people were criticizing him for this conditioning. I saw online. Well, I mean, you can't tell anything. He's not posing. No. So people are going to. He's a thicker skin, black guy. Yes. Not got the same, you know. Yeah. We're not going to see Phil Heath skin. I just think it's funny that people like see this. They're like, oh, they can judge his conditioning off this. Hey, dude, he's in way better shape than I thought he was going to be at this point. Yeah. Yeah. It was great. Fucking big that guy. Well, the thing that Andrew has, too, that people forget is he does not have to be as conditioned as everybody else because of how he looks. He can get away with being, unfortunately, people are going to like hearing me say this, but he doesn't have to be as peeled as somebody else because he has other strengths that other guys don't have. So you play to your strengths. That's part of bodybuilding. That's part of this whole thing. I try and we try and, okay. Part of my objective of the podcast is educate people on things. And one of the things, the nice thing about having Paul here and you guys, we're all, I would say we're all experts. We've been around long enough. When you're judging, it's you are, everybody's not on an equal plane. Everybody has different strengths and different weaknesses. And if Andrew's shape is a strength that's way above everybody else's, he can get away with a little less condition because he's making up for it in other areas, muscularity, shape, whatever structure. So yeah. So whether he's conditioned or not, or as conditioned is not, I don't think matters as much, but he, you can't tell from that, that single video anyway. Do you think that people get this misconception that everybody's supposed to look like a, like the classic level of conditioning? Yes. Yes. I think people get caught up with shredded glutes and things like that. Yes, I agree. But even so, like, I mean, even like Derek, you know, with the shredded glutes, but it's like there's, you know, cause at the top level, it's, you know, you're, you're splitting hairs, right? But, but, you know, fucking. I got it out of control right now. Can I give you my thoughts on it? Just briefly, briefly. I don't think the average viewer, like obviously the insiders that have been around a while can tell. I don't think the average viewer can distinguish the level of shape, muscularity, condition, but they can see. It's very easy to see shredded glutes, shredded back. So it's an automatic. I can pick that out, right? It's harder to kind of distinguish the rest of the things, I think. Like, so when you see a guy, when you see a guy that's peeled, like hottie is, you're like, Oh, like if, if nobody, if everybody else doesn't have that detail, they must, that must mean that they're behind, but it doesn't, it doesn't. Cause they might be making up for it in muscularity or shape or somewhere else. And that's the different looks that you like, I think it just takes time. Like if you watch a gymnastics meet, like you're like, I don't know, they're all fucking cool flipping around, but even like the different, the different physiques for each individual, like, like Derek, I was looking at the, there's a, I think he posted it, but Derek at the Arnold, Derek at the Arnold smoked Derek at the Olympia. I agree. I agree. Smoked him. Yeah. He was fucking close. He was bigger at the Olympia, right? He had to be bigger. No, no, no. He was unbelievable at the Arnold at the Arnold. He was bigger at the Olympia. Yeah. He was more crisp at the Arnold. He had to beat Samson. So you got to think this is a thing. This is what, this is perfect example of what I'm talking about when we're talking about playing to your strengths. And it also is lineup dependent. So Derek, so Derek is going into the Arnold. Derek knows my main competition is Samson. I got to be, I'm going to not going to beat him on muscularity and I'm not going to beat him on shape. I'm going to fucking make sure I'm peeled out of my mind. So he goes in, peels out of his mind, beat Samson. Then at the Olympia, he's like, I'm going against hottie. I'm not going to out detail fucking hottie because hottie's got detail head to toe, front to back. So what does he do? Comes in a little bit bigger. Now he's got enough condition to beat Samson, but more muscle than hottie lands them in fucking first. And you could argue, sorry, let's say you could argue that the bigger version of Derek is a little bit more shapely than the more conditioned version of Derek. I don't know. No, I think the shape changed a little bit with that size because you didn't see the gaps as much where like maybe hamstrings, you know, are missing a little bit from the back, things like that. Cause I think that bigger look sort of took the focus away from that. I still think that the, the Arnold Derek would have beat hottie. I agree. I agree. But I think Seth, I think they weren't taking any chances. I don't, I don't know. I mean, did they come out and say that that was the reason that he came in bigger? Well, do you think, well, let me ask you this. Do you think he missed the peak or do you think they purposely came in big? I don't know. I don't know if it was one of those things that like, he's also dude, that's a third big show of the year. That's what I'm saying. Do you think he was just tired and they came in a little bit off or do you think they purposely came in bigger? I don't know. It felt like it was strategic. Maybe I'm just, I think it was strategic. I think they knew they couldn't beat hottie at his game. There's nobody more detailed than hottie and like condition and detail and peak like that way hottie's got more lines. I guess you could say that they sacrificed the front because of how much bigger he was from behind. Cause that back was fucking out of control. I think they sacrificed a little bit of condition to be bigger than hottie. So they were beating him at that game, but they were still going to be more conditioned than Samson and Andrew. Yeah. I mean, I could, I could see that. I just, I just think that he, uh, I think he was way better at the Arnold. I agree. The Arnold, uh, Derek was fucking on a hundred percent agree with you. He was awesome. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, Raphael, this was Raphael's latest update. I believe that we see these ones last week. Yeah. This is all I got five days ago. Okay. Okay. This is a, and the back is what kind of scares me a little bit. Yeah. Even the front doesn't look shredded. Yeah. I mean, it looks hard for two weeks out. I mean, like that meat, that's a little thick still in there. It's thick. So I don't know. I don't know what two weeks out, if it's where it needs to be. Cause he's kind of got a, he's kind of known for not being as hard from the back. Yeah. This is Akeem's kind of latest. Still lifting heavy. This is Akeem's latest. Also. Akeem's looking bigger than ever though. Also not sure at two weeks out, if that's kind of where he needs to be, but it's not enough to tell maybe from one picture. Uh, I'm going to have to, I think I'm going to have to manually put in some of these. So Mo has a couple of good updates. I'm hoping he comes in. I'm hoping he, all his, his, I'm just, I like his physique. Love it. Love it. That's Mo's most recent update. Two weeks out. He's got some back shots somewhere. Does he have any from the behind? This is, I think the, this is three weeks. No, this is five weeks out, right? Five weeks before Ohio. This is five weeks out. That back looks better. He's posing. It does. Posing much better. Yeah. Yeah. Hamstrings are a little thicker. Quad. He's showing more quad here. See the difference in the quad. So we've got a little bit more X frame. Him and Patrick have done some good work together. I think. Hey, he's doing a good job. That posing. It looks like it improved. Yeah. That's eight weeks out. I love his physique. I love his physique. He just needs to get a little bit harder from the back. I think. And then we'll see something. Nick has got. Nick has got some updates too. I think this might've been the last one. This was a week out. I think he sent me a photo of a side tricep. I don't know. A week ago, two weeks ago. Maybe he looks like he's going to be an awesome fucking shape, man. Yeah. Yeah. I don't. I don't know if we're going to see the biggest Nick we've ever seen. I don't want to see the biggest. Yeah. But this is to me, this doesn't look like the biggest Nick we've ever seen, but it looks like the conditioning and the separation is wild. I mean, we've been saying it on here for a while. Like Nick just needs to stop. He doesn't. He should not be 275 fucking pounds on stage. Should not. Shouldn't. He's big enough. Yeah. Great. Agree. He'll be bigger. He can sacrifice a little bit of size to get ultra fucking. Peeled. Cause that will also make the waist smaller. This was, I think the last. His arms are so big that his, his waist, you know, that, that'll just enhance his, his, his taper. So he's not losing the size on those arms. Motherfucker is enormous. Yeah. I know, dude. I know. It's crazy. Quad shot. He's going to be good. I think Nick's going to be good. Yeah. He needs to show up here. You guys. I think Nick wants to tell, wants to prove to everybody that he can fucking do it by himself. Yeah. I think he's done with coaches and he wants to fucking, this is the last update from Anthony Williams. Absolutely shredded. Obviously John, John Jewett coaching him, got him peeled. Right. Still. He's cool too. Yeah. I was going to say still looks full. He's in shape. Yeah. Really? I think he's going to make an impact. I have him. I have him like, I think I have him like seventh, seven, eight. I could, you could, if a Raph comes in off, like you could see him taking out Raph. I don't think, I don't know, man. I mean, until you see him standing next to you. I'm just going by individual videos, but I was impressed with those, those updates of Raph. Yeah. Raph does need to be a little bit harder. I just wonder if Anthony's big enough. Cause he's got a big, big frame. Yeah. How tall is he? I was going to say, yeah. I think he's like six foot ish. Yeah. I think he's like six, six one. I don't remember exactly what Ben is. I was going to say he looks like a big motherfucker. He's a big man. Yeah. Yeah. He reminds me of Tony Freeman. Yeah. He's got that same kind of muscle belly. You know, it's not like super, super round, but it's really, it's, but it's still nice. And like, it fits all together really well. Yeah. I was going to say, there's a good, there's a nice flow. Like overall, you can see, like you're saying, like you want them to be bigger. Yeah. Man, that back's pretty good, dude. Yeah. I just like to see more. Yeah. I just like to see more overall size on the back. Need more density. Yeah. Just need more. Yeah. A little bit more. Just because he's such a big guy. Mm-hmm. He's also probably pretty flat in that picture too. Listen, I think this is his pro debut. So, I mean, we're being really harsh for somebody who's like just starting. Oh, man. Just starting. You know what I mean? Making a pro debut at the Arnold. Yeah. That's a. Fucking right. That's no easy task. That's a Sam Sulik also making his pro debut at the Arnold. Yeah. Right. And Sam's looking good too. Okay. That's Anthony. Who else do we have to look at? Andrew. Hassan Mustafa posted something. He's looking a little bit off. I saw a recent update where he said this is his first time dieting through Ramadan. And it was. And it was. He liked the way he looked. Yeah. I mean, look. It's great. Nobody cares on stage. Why? You know, right? Yeah. You got to be in shape. Nobody gives a shit if it's Ramadan or not. But to me, this isn't a two weeks out needs more, you know? Yeah. And. Yeah. Separations are quite deep. It's going to be a tough show. You can't show up. Not on, man. I didn't put anything to it. Brandon. I don't believe so. This is the last video he posted. Doing some rear delt or lat work. I don't have any real updates from Brandon. How about Brandon's son? Just got to comment on that. That kid's going to fuck him. That's great for him. Is he going to scholarship at Miami? Yeah. He's going D1. It's like an NFL fucking superstar or what? Yeah. He's going. No, he's he's in high school. He's going. No, no. I know. But he's going to be an NFL. I think so. Well, now these kids can make money in college, too. You know, with these image contracts. Brandon's going to retire. His fucking kid's going to take care of him. He goes to a big school like Miami. Make some money. Fuck yeah. Good for him, man. His kids are nice. I've met them all. They're all very good kids, man. Very well behaved kids. Like, he should be really proud, man. He's raised. Yeah. I think he's got four kids. I think I met three of them. They're all very, very nice kids. Really? Brandon's a family, man. Yeah. What was that, Seth? All army. Yeah. Okay. So that's everybody. Let's go back here. What was the Williams fella's first name? Was it Anthony Williams? Yeah, Anthony. Oh, look at that. I went to my RVP news channel on YouTube by accident. Make sure you subscribe. Okay. Now we get back to that. Okay. Let me add. I got to see if I can figure out how to do this here. Manage. Let me add Seth. Add Seth Feroci. Put me in, coach. Save host selection. Okay. Let's go back now. It should be back to predictions. No. Did everybody pick Hottie to win? I didn't. Is that the consensus? I might change it, though. I did. Ian did. Mike and Paul picked Andrew. Hmm. Yeah. I like it. It's 50-50. Okay, Seth. We're going to. I'm not going to go to us changing picks until you pick yours. So this is all you. Do we pick again next week to change anything? Or is this the final week? No, we can change stuff next week. Okay, cool. I want to do Hottie, Andrew. Hottie. Uh, Andrew. We got Hottie. There's Hottie, Andrew. Hmm. Martin. Ooh, Martin over Nick. I know. That's where I'm at. Nick. Nick. I honestly think that that right there, uh, the Martin and Nick is going to be both based on their conditioning. That's it. I, I think that if one shows up off, uh. Okay, but. Okay. Those are both on. Yeah. That's what I'm just putting on the spot. Yeah. If they're both. If, if. Martin shows up. So. Martin shows up. The Italian. Yeah. If Martin shows up like he did in Prague, I think Martin's causing a very big problem for Nick. If he does. If he does not show up like he did in Prague, um, then I think Nick, uh, uh, like a version of 2021 Arnold Nick will sneak in front of him. But as of right now, I'm taking Martin over Nick. I don't know if we're ever going to see a 2021 Nick again, but what if we saw a Pittsburgh Nick? Uh, me personally, Pittsburgh Nick versus the Prague Martin? I'll take Prague Martin. Okay. That's fair. They're very close to each other. Like, that's what I mean. Like, I really, really like that fucking nasty conditioned version of Martin. Loved it. But if he shows up cause Martin, Martin showed up at the, uh, at the Olympia, you know, and he still could have been better. And then he showed up at Prague and fucking blue socks off. But if he shows up like he did in Pittsburgh, like that was a very off Martin in Pittsburgh. Yeah. So it's like, he's, he's getting better. But if there, if there is an inconsistent show for him, like Martin moves back places. I, I said this in a live, I did you've categories of guys. So when people say like, oh, so-and-so is going to smoke so-and-so and so-and-so is going to smoke. You can't fucking tell you have groupings, right? Because I think the conversation came up about Hunter and somebody said, Nick will smoke Hunter. And I was like, okay, maybe, but maybe not because Hunter is in the category with Nick Martin. It may be even higher. Like Hunter is in that category. Yeah. You know? So like when you're talking about groupings of guys, you can put groupings of guys. Like I said, like if you take a guy that's 20th in the world and you take a guy that's top six in the world, it's very easy to say that guy's going to smoke that guy 10 out of 10 times or nine or nine out of 10 times. But you can't say that when you have two guys that are in the same grouping, two guys in the top six, 10 out of 10 times. You don't know which way it's going to go. Well, and I think that this, the conditioning of everybody is going to show whether this is going to be a four person first call out or a three person first call out. Because now Martin, Martin is moving up into those top spots. Nick is in there as well. Well, Seth. But Andrew has established himself as I belong in the fucking top spots. I'm top three. I should be top three at the Olympia. But Seth, I think the first call out is going to be four or five even. Yeah. What I do think is at the end, we're going to end up with a two man or a three man or a four man. Yeah. I most likely think it's going to be Hottie and Andrew standing next to each other at the very end. That's going to be the final call out. I don't think it's going to be three. I agree. I mean, I could, I could see that. I think that that falls into that grouping concept that you have because it's like you saw it at the Arnold whenever it was last year's Arnold with Samson and Derek. It was just like those two just pulled away and you're like they're in their own category. And that's why they do that. But I, I, I think that Andrew has established himself into that grouping now. I agree. But also remember, remember that's why that top six, they all kind of are in one group because if they fuck up like Samson missed the mark really badly. So you think he's in the top three grouping, but he ended up getting pushed out because he wasn't where they wanted him to be. So Andrew is in the group with Hottie, but could slip. Yeah. Could. Right. So you never know. Yeah. Okay. All right. Going back. I think next is Brandon on there. Brandon. I think I want Brandon in fifth. Yeah. It is. Yeah. Um, I'm torn here between, I don't know if Brando's going to bring it, dude. I'm kind of. Yeah. Those two weeks out pictures aren't, aren't. Yeah. They didn't make me feel good. So I think I'm going to go with, uh, Mo Fuda. Man, I'm really fucking pisses me off that, that Raphael's not in. Like, he's trying to think he's in, like, from those, from that video, I don't think he's in, like, good enough shape to kind of be next. Yeah. Well, you got to remember, even if he's a little off, like he was last year at the Arnold, his shape does carry him. Yeah, I know. Yeah. Put him there next. Then Anthony Williams, then Akeem, then, uh, awesome. All right. Wait, what happened here? Anthony Williams. Akeem. Akeem. There we go. All right. That's your top 10. Paul, do you want to change anything? Uh, I'm, I think I'm going to leave it for this week. Um, but I, it's a hottie Martin thing that I'm struggling with. I might put hottie. You put hottie. You put hottie in third. You're going to get fucking changed. I just think that all the stuff that's going on in his life, but he did arrive to the U.S. early, you know? So, and he just, you know, I guess he just, you know, he, uh, cut off his social media. So maybe he's bearing down now the last few weeks here, and maybe we'll see a great hottie. But I just thought with all the stuff going on in his life right now, we're not going to see the best version of him. I think Martin's been on an upswing. I think you should leave hottie in third. I think it's a good decision. I think, I think you're smarter than the rest of us. I'm going to sit on that till next week. He's definitely going to be third. You are the Oracle. I'm going to just save that one till next week. I'm going to leave it. I want to see if we see any hottie updates this week. Dude, this fucking platform is so much better. It's going to be fucking awesome. It's going to be easier to use, eh? Uh, consensus rankings. Look, we have average of the consensus of who thinks what. Hmm. Uh, we have, this thing has everything, dude. Um, okay. And then we got. Where's yours at? Let me go back to yours. I want to see yours. I want to change some of mine. My hottie, Andrew, Nick, Martin, Brandon, Moe, Raphael, Anthony. Oh, no. Well, you had Moe in front of Raphael. Yeah. You finished their song the same. Me and you have Martin and Nick mixed. That's it. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, uh, Ian has. The same thing. Same thing. You have. And food mixed for me. Yeah. Ian loves Raph. Ian loves Raph. You can't say anything bad about Raph. I remember. I remember. And he hates Moe. I think he's got a crush on him a little bit. Nick loves. Ian loves his Brazilians. I think he hates, hates Arabs secretly. Fuck those guys. Uh, okay. Let's do classic. You know, I'm really excited. I'm really excited. Detroit pro to come and eat fucking Mediterranean food again. Yeah. We're trying to switch my picks. Do you remember the name of the place we went last year? Cause we're trying to look it up. There's no way I'm remembering that fucking name. He's like some Arab shit. Whatever. They were nice. And they brought me the food. I like. That's all. Yeah. I'll find the name. Um, yeah, man. We'll get another Arab platter. You can fucking eat. Yeah. With your hands. Like we do. I haven't fucking. I think I was at one other Mediterranean spot since then. That's actually one of my favorite parts of that whole show. Because after the show, there's like all the volunteers and everybody goes to drostanolone. And the nice thing is that restaurant closes at that time. So they kind of shut everything down. They set up a fucking 20 foot table for us and they just serve us. They just serve our table. Yeah. We've had a couple of feasts there, right? The last couple of years. Yeah. Excuse me, sir. I'd like to change my picks. I'm sorry, Mike. Sorry, Mike. You're locked in. Excuse me, sir. Uh, open bodybuilding. Oh, yeah. We got, by the way, the RBPC site is also classic friendly now. We have all the classic. The Fantasy League is going to be classic too. And so is the predictions. Are you eventually going to add all the categories for it? And just so, listen, just so everybody knows, we're not fucking around here. This is the dashboard. If you go to the front page, these are the prizes we gave away this year. First place was $2,000. Ooh. $1,000 of it was cash. $1,000 of it was a hostile gift card. Fucking right. Second place was $1,000. Third was $500. And that was for Fantasy League. And then for prediction, we could do the same thing. $2,000 for first. $1,000 for second. $500 for third. We're not fucking around. We'll probably add more money this time and give away some good shit. So anyway, this guy. Yeah, like $20,000. Give away $20,000. This guy. I'll sign up. This guy who took fifth, his name is Boss of In-Law. I thought that was cool. Anyway. Okay. Mike, you want to change your shit? What do you want to change? Martin and Nick. Martin and Nick. You're going to regret that. Oh, look at that. See that? See that? Seth, you just. I got fucking. I moved. I changed it. You don't have to like delete everything now. And like. Yeah. It's like automatic. I want Fuda where Raphael is. Raphael and Akeem. Raphael and Akeem can switch. Look at that. Look how easy that is. Seamless. Seamless, baby. Seamless. Fucking. This is how I do shit. You start off. You find. Work out all the bugs. Keep on getting better. Every time we. Every time we do shit. You fucking level up. Okay. Classic physique. I got Wesley. Mike. I'm going to remove Managate. Because I think Mamoli. He looks good. He's Italian. Holy fuck, dude. I hate that he's Italian. But man, he looks good. Well, that's why he looks so good. This is Mamoli. Check this shit out. I posted that video. That's crazy. I just saw this earlier this week, I think. I mean, he might be Wesley. Dude, this kid is nuts. Look at this shit. Oh. Yeah. He's got crazy shape. Watch. He's got a very unique shape. Watch some. Watch some of these poses, man. It's like. Look at the fucking hardness here. It's like. Yeah. That dude's in shape. Nasty shit, man. Yeah. He's going to make a name for himself on this show. I mean, not that he already has one. But I mean. I think he's going to be. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't think he has one yet, Paul. I don't think people really. I agree. I don't think he has one. What was he at the Olympia? I think he was. Was he top 10 at the Olympia? I believe. I believe he was eighth. I mean, we can check the. We can check the. Competition history right here. We go. Mamoli. He was. 16th at the Olympia. OK. So. He kind of missed it a bit. But I think that's why. Oh, it got lost in the field. I mean, was there 60 guys? Last year's classic. But I think that's why people don't know who he is yet, man. It's going to be interesting. Anyway, we're looking at Mamoli here. Yeah. Mamoli. Look at that shit. Oh, oh, oh, oh. I want to show you guys. I've never seen anybody hit a front lath spread like this. So he pulls a vacuum. But also flexes his abs. Look. Watch. See that shit? Oh, yeah. It's like he's flexing his abs while doing a vacuum in the lat spread. That looks great. I'm like, that's a beautiful. He has a lot of control of his. Oh, my God. Does he ever. It's easy control. Look at that shot. Oh, I fucking missed it. It's funny. I was watching some videos from him of last year. And I think his posing has gotten much better. How tall is he? Doesn't look tall, man. I don't know. Let's take a look at Manigate. Because that was the other guy that I thought was going to be third. Sorry. I don't think I have. Yeah. I don't have an Instagram thing of him yet in there. Let's go to Manigate. I think Manigate was like eighth at the Olympia. Yeah, he's made a name for himself. I think he's. How do you spell his name? Is it M-A-N? I think it's M-E-N. Oh, no. There he is. Matthias. M-E-N-E. Okay. This is his latest update. Okay. Sit on it. Come on, man. Let's see. Shitty fighting. It's good. The condition's not as good as M-E-N-E. But M-O-L-E had like awesome lighting too. So I want to show you. I don't know if you guys know who this guy is. I want to show you kind of his physique. That's a nice physique. The skin texture on M-O-L-E is almost perfect, which is going to make a difference. Yes. But like that physique is really nicely put together. Yeah, he's very balanced. There's a side shot. And I think he's structurally a bigger guy than M-O-L-E also. So here he is moving. You guys can see a little bit better. Thickness in the quads. Great shoulders. Could be a little thicker in the chest. Really, really good like rib cage, small waist. Good arms. Yeah. Lats frame the body really well from the front. It's like he's very good. Like he's complete. Not a lot of gaps. Mm-hmm. Posing is good. Presentation is good. It's just the conditioning on M-O-L-E is so drastic. But it's also, I wonder if it's the lighting where he's standing. Like those, like those. No, that dude was fucking peeled. Yeah. Not like that. Like he looks a lot more peeled than this, right? Hell yeah. Drastically. Drastically. In that video at least, yeah. Yeah. So I think, is it going to be the conditioning that makes the difference or the structural size? Oh, this is three weeks ago. Oh, this was five weeks out. Yeah, you're right. Yeah. So we don't know what he's at like now. I was just trying to find a video to show you guys what he looked like. Like he's got a really, really nice structure. Yeah. So I don't know. I don't know what you guys think. And then who was I going to say fifth? Gabriel. He's good too, yeah. Gabriel to me looks like he's probably going to be five spot. There is another guy named Canu something. Yeah. He's got a nice shape too. This is Gabriel. No, that's not Gabriel. That's the wrong Gabriel. I apologize. He's a bodybuilder. Yeah. Did our Detroit show the first year. Detroit, yeah. This is Gabriel. Zen Cannelli. Another Brazilian? Another Brazilian. He's the Brazilian Chris Bumstead. Got similar structure, similar face. Just the Brazilian version. He really does have a similar structure to Chris. Just not, I don't think it's as pretty, but. Hey, this dude's pretty big. He is. He's a big guy. Yeah. Yeah. He's won a couple shows. I don't know why I have him in fifth. Like, he's very good. I just. Manigate and Mamoli just seem like. Oh, no. Yeah. He's good, right? Like, he's. There you go. He's really fucking good. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I think it's maybe from the. Is it from the back? He's got a good back, too, from what I've ever seen. I was going to say, I don't know. I don't see where you're saying he's. I don't know. I don't know. Honestly, Seth, I don't know. I just feel like. Yeah. We're learning. We're learning together. He's complete. He's got nice shape. His conditioning is good. He's a. When you look at the rest of the lineup. These are the guys that have the. I don't. I don't think the muscle bellies are as nice as momolis or menegates. And I think that matters. I think the shape of everything matters. I don't think it fucking matters. This dude's really good. You think so? Yeah. Dude. All right. Well, we're going to. We're going to put our money where our mouth is. Let's see here. Do we have something on stage we can look at? It's last. What are you laughing at? He's making AI videos. This is his last showing. I think this is menegate beat him here. I think him and my. Sorry. Let me rephrase that. I believe him and menegate traded places. I forget which shows they did. But he beat menegate once. And then I think they traded places at the next show. I don't know if I remember for sure. But. Yeah. That looks really good on stage. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty impressive. Yeah. Them legs, man. Yeah. I wonder where. If we go to. Yeah. Vissers beating Summerfield. You got Vissers winning? I have Vissers winning, yeah. 16th at the Olympia. 2024. Man, classic so competitive. That wasn't showing. Doesn't look his best look there. Yeah. Yeah. It's not that. Yeah. Let's go back and see. This was a first place. 2023. I mean, I don't. I think the most recent one was. I think he won something in 25. Yeah. I think he did. We don't have the. The. We're still working on the. Competition history portion of this. We're going to scrub all the fucking shows. It just takes. A lot of time. So. Okay. All 195 of the motherfuckers. Um. Okay. Yeah. I might. I might move this around. Let's get started. Who wants to go? Anybody want to go? Sure. I'll go. Oh, let's take a look at Canoe first. Why are you laughing? Mike's like, yeah, sure. I'll go. Hey, let's look at this guy now. Sorry. I just want to look at Canoe because he's really good. Yeah. He's got nice shape. This is Canoe. Hello. This is Canoe. This is Canoe. Really clean. Lines. Maybe not big enough yet. Yeah. That's what I think. But. Really pretty. Shape. Yeah. He still looks a little undersized in some areas compared to the other guys. Yeah. Yeah. But look at that. Very young. But look at that shape. That's like. This is like Terrence Ruffin-esque. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know why Terrence isn't doing any Arnold. Yeah. I thought Logan too. I thought it'd be a good show for Logan. I think they're focused on. I don't know about Logan. I think Terrence is focused on the Olympia only. Big Chester. Okay. That was Canoe. I don't know if you guys want to see anybody else. Sam's looking good. Sam's shredded. Okay. Paul, go ahead. Okay. Mike winning. Summerfeld. Wesley in second. Probably going to go Zacanelli in third. Zanichelli. Zanichelli. Or Metagotti actually. Zanichelli. Okay. Is that a Canelli? Zanichelli. I'm going to put him fourth. Zanichelli. That's it. Zimbabwe. The other Brazilian guy. Libra. Zanichelli. Okay. Who's fourth? Zanichelli. Zucchini. Who's third then? Third is going to be Metagotti. Metagotti. Yep. Who's the guy with the big legs? Which guy is that guy? That was Zacanelli. Zanichelli. Zanichelli. Zanichelli. And that's four. So five. I'm going to go with Mamoli. Mamoli. Yeah. Although I would. He might even sneak up into the top four there. Yeah. But you don't have five. You have mid five. So it's fine. Yeah. Come on. We got to do all that. And then I'm going to go Canoe. Canoe. And then I'm going to go Sam. Sam Sulik. Yep. And then after that, I'll go. You don't know anybody else. I do. I looked at them all. Jorge. Jorge. Jorge. And then Angel. Angel. Joaquin Angel. Joaquin. Yeah. And what's that? That ten? Is Joaquin Angel the guy from England? The UK? No. I'm thinking of a different Angel. Angel. Angel Calderon. Kim Angel. That's what I'm thinking of. That's in there, yeah. Oh, this is the guy? Yeah. Oh, he's going to be higher than that, Paul. So he's just narrow on the back. No, you fuck that up. He's going to be higher than that. He's going to be higher. He's good. He does look really good. Look how fucking peeled he is, dude. Yeah. Oh, this guy's going to be fifth. See if he's got a back shot. Remember his back is being a little narrow. Look at that, dude. What the fuck? Yeah, you fucked up, Paul. You shouldn't have put him in the box. Oh, my. All right, Paul. Paul's got him in ninth. That's a debauch. Put him ahead of Jorge. Not too late. Ten, I'll go. What's left here? Ethan, Gahari, Hang Nguyen. Hang Nguyen. I think he's making his debut. He's got Vahid Badpai. Yeah, I'll put Ethan in tenth. Hang Nguyen and Ethan Gahari. I'll put Ethan in tenth. Okay. I don't know what Ethan looks like. Ethan Gahari. Let's take a look. Who is this guy? That's Kim Angel. Ethan Gahari, the Persian lion. That's Ethan Gahari. That's good. Thirteen days out. Look at that shape, eh? I mean, he's in shape. Yeah. That's not bad. Okay. Hang Nguyen. What about Hang Nguyen? Okay, let's take a look at Hang Nguyen. I couldn't find any pictures of him. Seth wants to look at everybody. I don't remember anybody from three people ago. Hang Nguyen doesn't have Instagram. All right. Fuck him. I think it's his first pro show. Vahid. Vahid. Vahid Badpai. Oh, this guy's good, Paul. You fucked that up, too. This guy's better than fucking Jorge. Or the last guy. Who's the last guy you picked? Oh, yeah. Look at that. Ethan. Oh, yeah. This guy beats Ethan. A hundred percent. I'll make a side bet there. Look at that. He looks like fucking Bob Paris. Neck up. Yeah. He's a Persian Bob Paris. He just gave that nickname. That's who he is. He's the Persian Bob Paris. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Look at this. Holy shit. Are you crazy? Good shot. See, that's... These guys are getting in fucking wild condition. They are. Holy fuck. Look at that. Wow. That's really good. Fucking Arabs, dude. Persians. They're all the same. Not the same. They're crazy physiques. And they got... Look at the artistry. Look at this. Oh. Oh, we. You fucked up, Paul. Yeah, apparently I did. I want to put him in fifth no matter what's going on. Because I'm going to forget him. So just put him in fifth right now for me, please. But he is in fifth. Look how pretty that is, dude. If he was bigger, fuck. Yeah. I'd find his back is lacking a little bit, though. I don't know how his glutes are shredded in the middle. How are you going to say his back is lag? He's totally... It fits his physique, man. Look at the lats on him. From the front. Yeah, but look at the back. From his lats from the back. He sucks from the back. No way. No. He's a bean fucking... This dude's really good. Yeah, that back sucks balls. What? I didn't say it sucks balls. I said it was narrow. Look at that. Got 17 glute muscles. Split three times. No, Paul. That's a good back. Yeah, you're out of your mind, Paul. Look at this shot. Was he at the last part here? Yeah. That's a great back. It fits his physique. What the fuck? You just said it's... That's a great back. No, no. I said you think that's a great back. I think it is. I mean, I think it's... It's a ball of proportion back. Yeah, I mean, like, when I look at this, like, when I look at this back, it fits that physique perfectly. You know, if it's narrow to you? I mean... I mean, it looks like he can open it up more. Yeah, but, Paul, everything is narrow. Like, he's got skinny arms. He's got skinny legs. But it fits. Like, it fits the shape. Symmetrical? Yeah. I think it's got nice detail. I think it's a little bit trap heavy. I think it's a little bit lacking in the lat development. Yeah, maybe. Okay. That was Vahid. Paul wants... Or Mike wants... Put him in six. Put him in six. Just be careful. Because I don't have any idea who anyone is. So... I just want to keep... Vahid. Vahid. Okay. I want to put Sommerfeld in first. If I'm cheating my picks. Mike is going to put Sommerfeld. Then who? Then that big-legged fucking dude. What were we talking... What was his name? The Brazilian guy? The Zanecki? Oh, Zan Cannelli. Zan Cannelli. Is he the one with the big legs? Zan Cannelli. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. And then I want the... I want Wesley. Wesley Vissers. Where did he go? I don't know what. I want the Italian guy. Mamouli. Mamouli. Actually, you know what? Put him ahead of Wesley. Ooh. Hmm? Not a lot of love for Wesley. Who do you want in fifth? Andre. I mean... Oh, fuck is that guy's name? Manigate. Came Angel. Manigate. Manigate. Then Bad Pie. Then Angel. Then Bed Pie. Bed Pie. Bed Pie? Bad Pie. Bagpipes. That's the Persian Bob Paris. Okay. Yes. I just coined him that. And then we had... Sam. Sam in eighth. Sure. Okay. And we got... Who did we see that was really awesome? Came Angel a good... He's already got Came Angel. Oh. His name's Yoakam. Yoakam, but he calls himself Kim. Canoe was the... Canoe was the black guy. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. I think I put him in last. Or no. Jorge and then him. Or George. Whatever it is. Is it Jorge or George? Georgie. Georgie? No. It's Jorge, I think. Okay. Shit. Yeah. I'll probably switch this. I think I'll probably... Zacharelli? Zancanelli. I might actually go... Kim Angel. And then... Oof. I really like Bad Pie. Oh, fuck yeah, dude. Is it Bad Pie or Bed Pie? Bed Pie. Bed Pie. The Heat. Either way, I like it. Shit, you're having me say it regardless. I'm super rich. Bed Pie. Bed Pie. Shit. Who is this? Okay. This guy. I'll put this guy in. Last. Am I the only one that hates the vacuum? I fucking hate it. I think it looks good on certain physiques. I think it looks terrible on everybody. Yeah. How about that guy? I hate it. I hate it. I think I'll see you again when he did that half vacuum, half flex. Did you like that? Yeah, that looks great. That looked good, yeah. But that's like, that's elongating, like, understanding how to control your transverse abdominal or whatever. But it's like, fuck, man. Just hollow at your stomach and put your arms up. I think more and more guys are realizing that it's not something you need to do if you're just classic. It's not like a point of pride, too. Like, wow, you can do that. What do you do? For a while, though, I think people were treating it that way. Good, okay. Say hi. Hi. He's never got a shirt on. I love it. Hello. Shirts off all the time. Mandatory. All the time. Stay like that, buddy. Show him the guns. Let's see him. Oh, my God. Put those wings. That actually looks better than my arms right now, so we're good. Good night. Good night. Night. Bye. Okay. I'm really unsure about my picks, man. I'm really unsure about my picks. Because Mamoli's got crazy condition. Menegate's a little bit bigger structurally. Kim Angel looks like a fucking freak. And Zen Cannelly looks like a different version of fucking Bumpstead. I'm like, I'm torn on all four of these guys. Yeah. These four are the ones that are confusing me the most. It's a huge opportunity for all of them. Yeah. Because if Wesley is not on, when Wesley's off, he's not good. Yeah, but Wesley, if Wesley doesn't fuck anything up leading in, he looks crazy right now. Oh, yeah. No, I'm just saying in general of like, there's some inconsistencies in his history. Like, look at this. Right now, he looks out of control. Like, the skin, it looks like it's not there. Yeah. You know? That's clean, eh? I love seeing detail like that. I've never seen this guy before, and I can't change my pixie again. I didn't know he looked that good. Look at this shit, dude. These are odd angles, though. Yeah, they are. Well, he poses at odd angles, but he makes... See, like, look, Mike, when you look at his physique, you see like, you know, kind of boxed off waist, doesn't look crazy, whatever. But when he poses, he accentuates everything in a way that he hides every single flaw. Yeah. Like, even like his legs don't flare really well, right? The knock on Wesley is that he's five feet across, and his sweep isn't huge. But somehow, when he's on stage, he's able to manipulate things and hide his weaknesses and really fucking shine, man. Yeah. He's getting better and better at his presentation. Like, he beat... Well, his presentation has been like that. He beat Dino in 2024 because of the way he presents his physique. Dino was a little bit off, and Wesley was able to pose his way to fucking victory. And it's like, it's just really, really impressive, man. I love watching him on stage because of the way he hits his shots. He's really good. And it doesn't really, for anybody who's never been to a show, it doesn't translate on video because the guy is fucking 6'2 or 6'3 on stage, and he just takes up a lot of area. He takes up a lot of fucking real estate on stage. He makes the other guys look, like, insignificant. Small. Yeah. Yeah. So that's why I had Wesley first, and I might still put him back there. I love Wesley's physique. I love his presentation. I'm a huge fucking fan. But Mike is also very, very complete, so it's tough. It's tough to vote against Mike as the winner. But I don't know, man. Wesley, like, when I think of classic, like, this is what I think of. Yes. Yeah. For sure. Yeah. Like, I know it's not bodybuilding-esque perfect. But when you think of classic, like... Yeah, dude. It's a cool physique. It is. He's really good. Okay. We'll go back. Very good. Seth. Mike. Wesley. Wesley. Where did Wesley go? There he is. I'm going to go with Mamoli. Mamoli. Then I'm going to go with... Zen Canelli. Zen... Canelli. Menigate. Menigate. Menigate. Kim Angel. Joaquin Angel. Zahid. Who? Batfire. Oh, Bob Paris. Um... I'm going to put Sam... Um... I'm going to put Sam... Uh... Do we look at Jorge? I was going to say... I don't think we did. But I was going to need to put Jorge and then... And then... Uh... Jorge and then Canu. Jorge... What's his last name? Gahari? I thought we did look at... Horari. I thought we did look at him. No, that's... That's the different guy. That's not the same guy. This guy. Jorge... Oh, Herrera. Sorry. Jorge Herrera Pro. Oh, we didn't look at this guy. Okay. He's a little thin. Good legs. He's a shorter guy, too. Yeah. A little smaller guy. The shorter guys always take the fucking hit in... I mean, that looks good. Deesh. Good shape. He's classic guys, eh? The conditioning. So, the reason I want to bring him up is because... We all have Sam in seven or eight. And I'm like, is he going to be seven or eight? Because really, Sam's only strong point... And I'm not saying this to be rude at all, but we have to treat him like a real... Like every other competitor, right? Yeah. It's his pro debut. So, we'll give him a break. But we all have him in seven, eight. His strong point, and the only thing putting him there, in my opinion, is his conditioning. I think he's gotten a lot better since his pro card. Oh, no. For sure. He's built muscle. But what I think is he's still torso dominant. I still don't know if the limbs match the torso as much as some of these other guys. That's where I saw, at least in some videos, I thought he improved the most and was in the quads. Yeah. I agree with you. But I still don't know if it's like these guys. Yeah. Like when you look at that, when you look at Herrera here, for example, where this is who we're comparing them with, right? Like eight, nine, ten? Seven, eight, nine, ten? Yeah. I wonder, like the quads here look really good, and the conditioning is going to match Sam's. So, if you're going to... If conditioning is a wash, are we saying Sam's physique is better than George's? Yeah. Until we see him standing next to each other, it's hard to say. Well, I know that, Paul, but that's why we're doing predictions, right? It's fun. Yeah. Pull Sam's picks up. That back's narrow. Yeah, I agree with you. Clavicle width is a problem for George. Yeah, but in this space, you know, you expect them to... They're going to get better. So, Sam, in my opinion, is a very, very torso-dominant physique. Sure. And this was him, you know, turning pro. Obviously, he's put on a lot of sides since then. Go to... Go back. Go to one of those there, like far left. Yeah. Very nice. There's the legs. I still don't know if they're up to par with the upper body. I think the posing's going to be a fucking issue, too. Yeah. I think presentation's going to be. His posing's pretty damn bad. I also... Yeah, I've watched some posing videos of Sam. He definitely needs more time presenting. Like, even if you look at this... Yeah. ...single arm up, he's kind of crunching his body together. Instead of opening it up, when you see the ab and thigh here, you see he's kind of pulling his head down. Where you see the other guys will have their elbows pointed up and out to kind of create a more flare. Like, there's little, little things that he still has to work on to get that posing right. But you see the conditioning is bang on. Like... His legs look good there from the side. From the side, they look very good. Yeah. But... I'm just saying, if we're going to... If we're going to... If we're going to predict these things, then we're going to... You know... We have to take the fact that we all like Sam and, you know, he's popular out of the... Out of the equation. There's a green... Yeah, that one. There's one with him flexing. They look great, like, detail-wise. That's about a month ago? Yeah. I mean, for sure, for sure, he's going to be shredded. That goes without saying. I mean, look at this. Yeah. But size-wise. But that's the thing I was thinking. Like, when I look at Herrera, they all look like they're going to be shredded. Yeah. So I'm like... These guys are going to have the... They're going to have the advantage of maturity and density over Sam. You know, Sam might be a bigger guy than some of these guys, but it might not translate on stage. Their physique flow a lot better, too. Yeah. There's a lot more flow to the physique. Like, even... Like, Canu. Like, Sam will beat him in conditioning, and I think that's why, if he beats Canu, that would... It'll be conditioning. But if we're talking about shape... And balance. Sorry. If we're talking about shape and balance, like, this is a little bit better for a classic. So I don't know, you know? Yeah. And like Mike said, presentation. You know, Sam is... He's not a great poser yet. So if we go back, and we're saying that Sam is going to beat Canu and George Herrera, and you're saying, like... Yeah. Who is this? Paul, you have Angel behind Sam. I do. Yeah. Might change that. There's... Let me put Sam in last. Move to George. Canu and George? Well, I didn't mean to do that. Well, you did it. No, you didn't. It's your fault. You talked me right out of it. Seth, you have still two guys to place ahead of him, or behind him. Who do you think? Yeah. I'll put Canu and George. Canu and... Or Herrera. Herrera. Who do I have behind him? I have Canu and Gahari. Okay. I like that. Okay. Paul, you have... Yeah. This is crazy, dude. Well, I'm only one spot away for you guys. I got him a set with you guys. No, no, no, no. It's not the spot. It's the person. Dude, I would bet... I'll bet you my fucking left nut that Angel beats him. Going out of those pictures, I'd, you know... I'd have a hard time arguing that with you. I'll bet you... Let's bet on it. Come on. No, because I might switch mine still. After next week, I'll make you a bet. Because I haven't... Those aren't my final picks yet. Side bet. Side... I just... You know what? I really like Kim Angel's physique. Yeah. I think he's got a really, really good physique. I think... He's... I think he's capable of moving up, man. He's really... He gets super fucking peeled. Yeah. And he's got a lot of muscle. Yeah. He... He's... He's... My only issue with Angel was with his back. What's wrong with him? I don't think the back... I don't think the back matches the front. I want to see what you're talking about. Uh... Angel. Angel. I don't think the back matches the front. Let's see. I don't know if that's enough to tell. No, not those pictures for sure. Man, he's a good looking dude. He is. Even from the front, it looks like he has high lats. Okay. There you go. That's from the back. Yeah. I think it's comparable. Yeah. Yeah. You think it's... You're right. You're right. The lats... The lats do fade off a bit compared to the traps. Yeah. I think he knows it too because the way he's presenting it is to push out the... Rounding it a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. He's pushing out the center of his back a bit. Yeah. Yeah, I can see that. Because I did go through the pictures pretty thoroughly last night and I thought that's where I had him. His weak area. I agree with you. But I think he's more complete than Sam. Yeah. You know what? After seeing Sam's pics there, maybe I would reconsider that one. He's just more mature. I think Sam... It's being Sam's pro debut. I think he needs more time still. Yeah. And I think he'll present his physique better than Sam. Yeah. I mean, look. The way he poses is like... Yeah. He looks like a seasoned veteran. Yeah. He looks good, dude. Yeah. Quads are great, man. Where is he from? England. I think he's from the UK. Is he? I think so, yeah. Here's a back shot. I think that's him on the left there. I mean... Yeah. That's him. Is that Niall? No. Yeah. That's Niall. Yeah. I mean, that's pretty good. Stand next to Niall. There's another shot, too. I think the next picture, maybe, by himself. Doing that same pose. I don't know. I thought I saw the same picture. But by himself. I can see what you're saying. There's definitely a little bit less than the lats than you'd like to see. Mm-hmm. That's great from the front, though. Hamstrings are good. Calves are good. Gloots are peeled. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The lats are a little bit weak. I think that's going to be his Achilles heel. Okay. But where we have him, where he's being placed here, that's kind of like you know there's something that's missing that he's working on. Yeah. I have him in fifth. I think I could probably. I think. Yeah, I'm happy. I have him in sixth. I'm happy with him there. Or no, I have him in fifth. You got him meeting Zachary. Yeah. It's not Zachary. Zachary. Dude, you've changed his name eight times. It's Zank and Ellie. Sorry. Okay. Zarnett. I just called him Z. Yeah, this one. Hey, put Zamboni in fifth for me. Okay. Any changes before we move on? I'm good for this week. Next week, I'm going to flip a few. Okay. We still got to do our fucking fantasy picks, dude. At some point. Oh, for the season. Fantasy league starts, dude. We got to start. This is. You get 250 credits. Can I just see a brief point breakdown per athlete? Like maybe just a top five or ten to see what they're. How many points are worth? How do I do that again? If it's too much, it's okay. No, no. I just. How the fuck do I. Athletes. I think I just got to start picking. Oh, they're there. If you click it, then they'll come up. Okay. So he's worth 81. 81, 80. Samson 64. Andrew. Yeah. This was all. This was all AI generated. And it was based on a bunch of different factors. So don't. Nobody fuck with me or anybody who built the system. It's. This was like a formula that the. The robots spit out. I don't think they should put big Ramy so much. It doesn't matter what you think. This is what it is. Too bad, Paul. It was the fucking easiest way that it could. Shut down. I'd like to appeal that one. And then we can take. We can take a look at why. Here's some. Here's some. Fourth at the Arnold. Fifth at the Olympia. These are. These are. This is only a year ago or two years ago now. So that's why we. We leave him there. He's not retired yet. So he still gets some. Some love. Um. But it goes down from there. And you know. And then you can. Oh. Ian's in there. Yeah. Ian's. He's gonna take himself. Ian's not retired. He's not. So. Yeah. We gotta go through and pick. All of these. And you. Like I said. You get 250 credits. Mm. And you get. You get fill in 10. You get 10 people. Okay. All right. Okay. Yep. Let's do it next week. Yeah. For now. Let's do some questions before we go. Okay. It's nice of you to join us, Seth. Yeah. I'm seeing a couple of weeks. I had a conflict of a call. You've been away for a couple weeks. I know. Last week. Fucking. We got a lot of questions, guys. Nice. Okay. Okay. Let's. Not long-winded answers. I should probably say that to myself. Because I talk the most. That's 100% you. Why do you think Ronnie, Jay, and Phil don't promote an open pro show? I know they've been involved in amateur show promotion. But why do you think they wouldn't want to give back to the sport and have an open show that gave them a career? They're similar to what you do with Detroit. Should I answer that? They're just awful people and you're a better person than them. You love bodybuilding more. Moving on. Pretty basic. Pretty basic. Well, I think I love bodybuilding more than they do. And that's really the end of that. Better fucking person. Like we said, it's short answers this week. Better person, better looking, everything. I think I'll get my short answer on this. It's really fucking hard to promote a show. Can I give you guys an answer? You make way more money with amateur shows. So Jay's got like four, I think, or five amateur shows. Yeah. He's got a couple big ones. And he's been promoting for a long time. And they're very big. And I believe that that's a really, the best way to give back to the sport. You're giving back to amateurs. You're giving people a platform to compete, blah, blah, blah. You don't have to do a pro show to give back to the sport. I think what Jay is doing is crazy. I think Ronnie has a show. I don't know if they do. He does or doesn't. I know Phil has a show. So I think they're all giving back to the sport in their way. I mean, you don't have to have a pro show. Having a pro show, having a pro show automatically. Listen, if you have, especially because they are Mr. Olympia. So you got to imagine they're not going to be able to just have bodybuilding and classic the way me and Paul do. They're going to have to have all the classes. And when you have all the classes and you got to think if it's Ronnie J. Phil, they're not going to be able to give away $10,000. They're going to have to give away good prize money. So having a pro show comes with the added expense of sanction fees, prize money. It takes a huge chunk out of your profit. So I think they're giving back in their way. I think it's great. And we just give back a little more. That's all. That's all. Choose one movie to be the main character in real life. Can I just tell you guys Lee Priest's answer? Yeah. The Purge. I never saw it. He wants to run around. He wants to run around and kill people. That's what he wants to do. I still live. You know what it's about, Paul? I know it's a horror movie, but no, I don't know what it's about. So you get one day a year. There's one like lawless day a year. You can do whatever you want. Kill anybody for 24 hours. Really? You can do anything you want for 24 hours. There's no law. Literally anything. So just like in chaos one day a year? Yeah. You can pick the day too? No. No, no, no. Same day every year. Same day. Same day. Okay. And everyone gets the same? Everyone gets to do whatever they want for one day. Oh, so it's just lawlessness for one full day. Yeah. Yeah. Lawlessness and perversions. Okay. Choose one. One full day. Choose one movie. Well, the perversions you can do anytime. I guess. But you could do it like Scott Free. You're not going to get arrested for it or nothing. What are you trying to do, Paul? What do you want to do? I don't know. Yeah. I don't know what I'm going to go through there. Holy shit. I don't want to. Other people might want to. Tell us what you're up to. Epstein. Jesus Christ. You got an island we don't know about? Okay. Pick a movie. That you want to be the main character in. Oh, okay. I want to be Wolverine. Oh, that's a good one. Yeah. Man, that's a good one. Okay. I'm not going to pick a. I'm not going to pick a comic book character. I'm going to say. Like Brad Pitt in like. Ocean's 11. I eat in every scene and I'm just smooth talk. It's awesome. You're just always eating in that movie. He's just eating. He's just rich and awesome. I would pick Rocky Balboa. Probably Rocky four or five when he had had a lot of money now. Is that when he fought Drago? I think four was Drago. Four was Drago. What was five then? Five is when he retired. Okay. I would take five then. You ought to be retired and just have like coach Tommy Gunn and have a restaurant. No, I would take seven. That's a really shit. Would have made the comeback. This whole thing is just shit. Just pick a different character. I'll be Rocky though. Just which Rocky would I be? That's the only. That's the only. But they all end up shit. Like suck. Sucking. No, they don't. What about when he made his comeback and find Antonio Tarver? Think about all the fucking movies you could pick from. What else would I want to be? You could do the one where he trains with Apollo. You guys are around the beach together. That Apollo dies. Sad. That's four. And three. He's alive. He's training him. Three is alive. He's training with him. Oh, four is when he dies? Yeah. Four is when Drago kills him. Oh, that's right. In the ring. Yeah. Yeah. If he dies, he dies. Those Drago one miners are the best. All right. Seth. While Paul thinks of a better one. I'm born. I'm all over the place. I got. I ran through. Pick one. Just say one. Just say one. I can't. I can't just say anything. William Wallace. I got a non-superhero. Wait, wait. What were you going to say? Say it again. I was. William Wallace. William Wallace. Awesome. Perfect. You can die. You'll die at the end. Yeah. You can die at the end. You get your nutsack ripped off. It's a horrible death too. Yeah. I'm thinking Rocky Balboa. That'd be John Wick. John Wick. Oh, that's a good one. Good one. Mike. Mike's a movie buff. That's why. Yeah. I'm not a big movie buff. I watch a lot of movies, but I forget all of them. Jesus Christ. You guys ever watch it and forget it the week after you watched it? Yeah. No. What's that? You ever watch it and forget everything the week after? Oh, I've watched movies before. Yeah. As soon as they're done, you kind of forget what happened. You're like, yeah. Or I'm like, I did watch that before. Right at the end. I've seen this. The guy dies. Oh, fuck. I've watched episodes of shows. I watched F1 for the first time. Oh, my God. It's so good. It's an unbelievable movie. So good. I'm Brad Pitt in F1. That's my pick. Yeah. That's a good one, actually. I'm Brad Pitt in any movie. That's what I'm going to say. Okay. Does Ian have a future dad mobile already picked out? Oh, dad mobile. I don't think so. They probably got another Kia. What's an exercise that everyone used to do, but no one does now? T-bar rows don't count fouet. Fuck. That's what I was going to say. I was going to say that. I got one for you. I can't say that, though. What? The dumbbell pullover over a bench. Yeah, I don't see that anymore. No. Remember back in the day they finally expanded your ribcage? It did. I used to expand my ribcage for hours. I would sit there. It's good for intercostals. More guys should do it, honestly. I think it does. Yeah. I think it does. It's okay for lots, too, if you do it a certain way. Listen, I don't know if it expands your ribcage, but I love that exercise. And I did used to do it with a band. I would throw a band around it and hook the band up to the weight stack, and I would get extra tension out of it. I used to love that fucking movement. It was a John Meadows favorite, wasn't it? It was a John Meadows favorite, wasn't it? Yeah. That was a John Meadows favorite. What else? It's one of my favorites. It's in almost every single one of my chest workouts. If I'm training chest, I'm going to do two of them. Really? Two sets, for sure. Anybody? Okay, anything else? Mine's T-bars. The guy already knew it. Yeah. Body drag curls. Although, I did see Guy Sister Dino doing my video the other day. That's because he's old, doesn't count. I know. I also don't see a lot of barbell rows. I can say that, too. I don't see a lot of real sissy squats like people holding onto a machine. You know who does those? I've seen Eric do those. Eric. Janicki. Oh, yeah. He's like a... I mean, he's just a fucking massive fan of any type of training, though. He's a history of training. I like Eric. He's a good dude. Yeah. He's a good dude. He doesn't take himself too seriously. He's always willing to listen. And that I like a lot. Because, you know... He likes training. He loves training. Yeah, I know. When you see somebody get some progress and some success, sometimes they're kind of shut down. They have their way of how they got big. And that's kind of like they don't really step outside that. Eric seems to want to listen to everybody. You know what? I love Eric. I'm excited. I need to buy one of his... I don't use them. But it'd be nice to have at the gym the torque pad that he made. I told him that. I want to buy one. I need to get one for the gym. Just support him. But like... So Adeline and all her friends, like they all have the fucking poofy hair and everything. You know? Like they're all 18 years old. 19. I look at him and I'm like, you look like them, but you're just a fucking monster. Monster. Like a young... The broccoli hair. It's funny. I love it. Did he get his pro card last year? Did he get him getting it? Yeah. He did get it. He did a pro show. Which show did he do? I don't remember which pro show. I think he took fourth or third in his pro show. Yeah. Yeah. It was three or four. Yeah. It was a conditioning thing. You just... He needs conditioning presentation. A little bit more legs. Massive guy, dude. Yeah. Like if he can fill out those legs a bit more to match the torso and get a little bit more conditioned, a little bit better presentation. He's like there. Like a couple more things leveling up and he's got like, you know, a really good physique. Like... Yeah. Do you turn the hot dog or does the hot dog turn you? Hot dog turns me. Gay? Yeah. We're supposed to be mean by that. I don't know what that means. Gay or... I eat a hot dog. My stomach gets all fucked up. Favorite birthday cake... Favorite birthday cake as a kid and then now as an adult. Chocolate as a kid, chocolate as an adult. You know what I used to love when I was younger? Those deep and delicious cakes. Oh, yeah. The McCain's ones. I used to eat the whole thing. I don't think they have any... They're like frozen. They're in the frozen section, but it's like a thin cake like this. Oh, dude. Like chocolate icing. McCain's makes them. They're fucking... They're still good. They're like pure chemicals. Yeah, but like one of those... Even the icing doesn't taste like icing. It tastes like just nothing and the chocolate flavors everywhere. Yeah, but one of those is like one meal. Like one sitting. Like that's your whole thing. Yeah. I baked a cake last weekend. I baked a cake last weekend. Vanilla. I baked a canola. I was just going to say it was vanilla. A vanilla cake with vanilla icing to it. Oh. It was delicious. I like it. I like it. It was so good. It was so good. It tastes like nothing. It didn't. It tastes like air. Wonderful. Calories didn't even count. It tasted like I was just eating... I was eating table sugar. It was awesome. It's like swallowing spit. You guys don't know the pleasures of vanilla. You don't appreciate it. Dude, vanilla is bland. It's made to be the base for other flavors. That's what they made vanilla for. You know part of what vanilla gets me is the smell. You know what vanilla is vanilla? I do like French vanilla. I don't like vanilla. Vanilla is like an egg white. It's shit. You just have to add stuff to it to make it taste good. It's so good that whatever you add to it makes it even better. It's a booster. It's actually a booster. It is a booster. It's a booster. But on its own is amazing too. No, it's not a booster. It's a base. You add stuff to make it boost. Only for people who are too much. It's nothing. It's nothing. Like if you had a vanilla cake, you would add strawberry to it. Like, ooh, the strawberries taste better. It just makes it fluffier. You're eating strawberries. What about a vanilla glazed donut? How do you feel about that? I've never had one. It's just sugar. It's just table sugar. It's not just sugar. Vanilla is a flavorful add. They just wet the donut and throw sugar on it. Here, take this. Wet it and put sugar on it. Vanilla. Two-inch peener or 15-inch peener? 15-inch. 15. Well, because two, you're just embarrassed. Give me both. I want 17. At least if I have 15, I can fuck a girl with half of it. Yeah. Yeah. And plus everyone just knows they have a huge dick. Yeah. You get that repeat. You're just wearing spandex everywhere. Yeah. Like, who's that bodybuilder? He couldn't help it, but every time he got on stage, I told people to talk about what his dick. Bo. Bo. Bo. Right? Poor guy. Bovine. Bovine. You know what? He could have missed your Olympia. All I would talk about was his dick still. You know what? He has got a really nice physique, too. That's the important part. Yeah. I know. But all I was talking about is his dick. He's like this damn dick. No one's looking at my biceps. That's fucking cursing me, man. It's all right. If you start to use an attachment and it's really squeaky, do you not care or grab a different one? Turn your headphones up and just keep torturing everyone else. I never gave a shit. Yeah. Do you think when bodybuilders choose to leave or join new sponsors while on prep, sometimes it's impacted due to emotions or stress for being on prep for a show? I guess it's business. I don't really think most of the time those things don't happen during a prep. Like this thing with hottie is a little bit different because most of the time when an athlete leaves, it usually happens before they start a prep or after they've done a show. So I don't really remember the last time an open bodybuilding had happened during a prep other than hottie that just passed. But that's a special circumstance. Was that even confirmed or was that just rumor though? Oh, no. He's not with hottie. He's not with Evagen anymore. I have less than two months to get ready for a lad's holiday. Build me a stack to look sharp on the beach. Stop eating. Don't be a fat fuck, Joseba. Just have a fat fuck, Joseba. Did some retatratide. Retatratide. That's the right way to say it. I didn't even know. I know. Retatratide. Retatratide. Oh, that's the proper way to say it? Apparently. The guy who designed it, apparently, that's how you say it. Oh. It's not retatrutide. Retatrutide sounds way cooler. Yeah. Everyone just calls it retta anyway. Yeah. Knowing what you know now, what would you know, what would you take gear-wise from the start, and what to avoid? I would do everything exactly the same. I took a lot of anadrol. I took a lot of trend. I got huge. I became a pro bodybuilder. I got on the Olympia stage. I would not change a thing. Is that really what you started with? My second stack had anadrol in it. But it wasn't like just anadrol trend. Back in those days, it was really anadrol. No, my second stack was sestanon and anadrol. Oh, good. Sestanon and anadrol. That's a solid fucking... For a second time around. That's great. You're starting on the road to madness right away with... That's great! Zero to 100. Zero to 100, baby. It's like, so Fuad, he's not the same person as he was. He's not. It's not the steroids. Fuck you. Fuck you, man. Fuck you. I wonder if anybody has any of those original anadrols lying around still. You know? Like some people still find real anadrols? Yeah. Way bombs. You know what? I'll let somebody else answer. Seth, knowing what you know now, what would you take gear-wise from the start, and what would you avoid? I'd do the similar thing that I did, because I just loved... I did a lot of experimentation. Like, I kept notes on everything, just because I felt it was important to know what it would do here versus here versus here. The one thing I would probably do is what I'm... You know, I work with Ty. He's the young kid that... I'm not doing his contest prep, but I helped him his whole off-season. The one thing we stayed away from was taking orals regularly. You can use them as a tool rather than just be like... So I take 100 mgs every training day, 50 mgs on my off days. Like, that's what fucked me up. Yeah. That's the one thing I would change is the amount of orals that I took. Okay. Can I give a real answer? I'll give a real answer. If I could do it all over again... I'm going to give you guys an honest-to-God answer. I used a lot of drugs. If I could do it all over again, I know I could probably get the same result if I didn't use as much. That's what my experimentation taught me. So that's something you can't really learn unless you experiment. Like, that's why this question is so fucked up. Because you don't really know where your limits are, where your, like, best dose is until you kind of experiment. You have to. But if I could go back now, I know I could have gotten to the same place in my career using less drugs. If I could go back, I would eliminate all my growth hormone. The majority of it. Yeah, maybe me too, unless I was in prep. Really? You guys don't think it made much of a difference? Not for the money I spent on it. I agree. I agree with that. Yeah. I never used growth while I was competing. I didn't do it until later in life for anti-aging. You know what? I found the best result from growth. And maybe, Mike, you find the same thing. I don't know. I found the best result from growth hormone when I was deep into a cut. I felt like I... Like, in prep, I agree with it. But, like, guys who are pumping you around and spending all this money, not... Obviously, nowadays, it's not like it was for us. Like, there's a shit ton of underground and way more accessible. But back in the day, getting ready for a contest, I spent, like, thousands of dollars on the shit. And it's like, what am I getting? Like, if I just died a little harder. Yeah. And I fucking cranked this a little higher and maybe put the T3 up a bit. Like, am I going to get the same fat burning? Like, because this is fucking crazy. Because with Ty, like, just all the combinations. Like, if you're going to get big as fuck, you have to push the drugs. But like you said, there's a threshold for everybody. And you have to find those thresholds. Like, whenever I started... Whenever I popped up to 1,500 mgs of test a week for, like, maybe a month. And I just noticed a ton of sides coming into play. And I'm like, this is pointless. I'm not any better. I'm just starting to get fucking oily. I'm starting to stink a little bit of a different way. Like, my workouts aren't increasing. Nothing's benefiting. So I back down to 1,000. And I'm like, this is the sweet spot. Yeah, no. There's a few things that I've done differently. And it's not just the orals. Like I said, you can drag things out a little longer. Like, I probably could have hung around 500 mg for quite a while. Before going up to 750 or 1,000 or whatever. Like, and not to be fucking... Just the last point before we move on. I would have been getting blood work the whole time. And I'm not saying that because I'm with Merrick. You should go to Merrick because they're the fucking best. I'm saying that because had I gone to get my blood work done all through my career, I would have been more cognizant of the dip in my kidney levels. I would have been more cognizant of my blood pressure levels. And I would have been on a blood pressure med as a preventative drug earlier on. It would have saved my kidneys. So just to put a fucking really important point on it, that's one of the things I would have done differently. Okay. Oh, where the fuck am I here? Do... If you... Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Okay. That's where we are. Okay. Fouad, who would survive in a last team standing fight on an island? Each member must try and eliminate each member of the other team. You put on an island, you have nothing with you, but three days to win. Teams are Fouad, Ian, and James versus Mike, Paul, and Seth. Who's winning? Fouad, you... Paul and Seth and Mike are killing you guys. And then it says, Fouad, you have both arms, by the way. Okay. Well, that changes everything. If I have both arms, it's going to be me, Ian, and James. No. Okay. I don't know what Mike knows about living outdoors. Paul's useless. Me and James are going to be useless. So it's really going to be down to Ian and Seth. Yeah. Well, I took that as we were going to fight each other. Oh, we're just out there to survive? Oh, we wouldn't that for sure, Mike. Yeah. To survive, or you just like... Survive. It's to survive. Is that the... Well, we got Seth. Seth can do the hunting for us. Mike and I will just entertain Seth. Good job, Seth. I don't know. That's a tough one. I don't know what Mike can do, but I don't think Mike's an outdoors guy. I think me, James... I can do outdoor stuff. Can you? Can you? Yeah. Yeah. When I was younger, I camped like... I went on like two-week-long canoe trips and shit. I don't know. Fuck! I just don't want to. That's the deciding factor. That just gave you the deciding factor. Fuck. Yep. That's it right there. If you had to be a roadie for any band or act in history, who would it be? Pearl Jam. Motley Crue. Pearl Jam, Nirvana, Soundgarden, someone of those. Metallica would be fun. Metallica would be fun. Yeah. I read the... Limp Bizkit. I think Limp Bizkit would be a good time. Yeah. Hanging out with Fred Derns would be cool. I read the Motley Crue book, The Dirt. Those guys were fucking nuts. I would have liked to have been there, roadie. I'm not saying... You'd have a vicious heroin addict. Yeah, I would have a couple problems today, but it would have been worth it, probably, the life those guys lived. I wasn't saying it for like... Yeah. I wasn't saying it for party. I was saying like just the bands I love. Oh. Like who I would like to have the best time with. I'd love to go with Metallica. That would be great. I still regret not going to that concert. The company in Detroit? The one that... They played Charm. Oh. Then you bailed. Fuckers. Oh, like a year or two ago. That was fucking last year. Last year. What do you mean? A year. A year. Oh, that thing? Like years ago. A lot of stuff goes on. Would you rather be perceived as gay, but actually be straight, or gay, but everyone thinks you're straight? This comes up all the time. Gay, but straight. You want to be gay, but perceived as straight? No, I was repeating the thing in my head. Oh. I don't want to be gay. I don't want to be perceived as gay if I'm straight. That would suck. I'd rather be the other way around. Wouldn't you rather be straight, but thought of as gay? I don't want to be straight, and everybody think I'm gay. That's horrible. Yeah, but I'd rather that than be gay. People don't know. Yeah, but if you're gay, and everyone thinks you're straight, then at least you're gay. I don't care. Yeah, I don't want to be gay. I'm not saying I want to be gay. I was just thinking of being a second. Exactly. It's all about being gay, though. You're a gay guy. But not if I'm straight. Yeah, but if I'm gay, I like being gay, so I don't care. Well, what if you're right now speaking as you? Yeah, but I'm saying if I'm gay, I don't care. I'm like, okay, I'm gay. I guess you got a point there, but I don't want to be gay. I'm not saying I want to be gay. If you're innately gay, I get it. I'm saying if I'm gay, if I'm already gay, and people think I'm straight, that's not as offensive as if I'm straight and everyone thinks you're gay. You can be gay for it and choose not to practice. Right. See, there you go. I can do the shock therapy. You can abstain from the gayness. Every time I wear a shock collar and every time I think of something gay, press a button, press a button. Don't reach for that dick. Don't reach for that dick. I'll have the remote for that. I'll stop you every time I see you do anything gay. Well, think about it. You're going to be straight, but everyone's going to think you're gay anyway. Yeah, but they can think what they want. I know I'm not. Yeah, but everyone's going to think you're gay. People are going to come meet you at expos and they're going to try and grab your ass and stuff. Hey, Paul. Okay, but that might be a problem. Hey, Paul. I don't think gay people do that, though, Fuad. I don't think they grab each other just because they see that. No, they do. They greet each other by shaking penises. If a guy walks up to you to meet you in an expo and he thinks you're gay and he's gay, he's going in. Well, he's probably going to give me a hug at least, which I'm not comfortable with either. Yeah, but he might lick your earlobe while he's at it. That might be a problem. Get real close and whisper. That might start to be a problem. If the guys are grabbing my asses all the time, that's going to be an issue after a while. I'm not a piece of meat, guys. Respect me. Where would the best version of Arnold place in today's classic Olympia lineup? Would he crack the top 10? Conditioning-wise, no, but physique-wise, yes. What if he had access to all the same gear and everything guys are doing now? He's on a level playing field gear-wise. He's up there with Bumpstead, in my opinion. Yeah. I think he'd be up there. If he had all that. If he has access to all the shit, he beats Bumpstead. Be cool to see if they could do an AI version of like... Because think about how awesome he is. Extrapolating an Arnold that would exist nowadays with the drugs they have. Think about how awesome they were, he was, without really a lot of dieting knowledge. Yeah. And not really a lot of drugs. Yeah. Limited druggies. You know, what if Sergio Olivia... Oh my God. ...sane scenario? That guy would be a fucking freak. That's Ronnie Coleman. That's Ronnie Coleman. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What would your ideal first-time cycle consist of for a 22-year-old advanced experience lifter going to PEDs for the first time in 2026 trying to compete? 36 years old, 22 years training. I should have told him what to take for the first time. He's got... Did you say he's 22 years old? He's got 22 years of training. Oh. God, dude. He's 36 years old. He wants... Yeah. Don't start now. Don't start now. What have you been doing in the gym? Yeah. Why start now if you've gone 22 years without it? Don't start taking big fucking cycles now. If you're 36 years old... Yeah, that's a bad idea. If you're 36 years old, take a little bit of test and just be done with it because that's all you need to keep your test levels at a normal level. Just take... Do what Paul does. Like TRT Plus. Wow. Yeah. Right now it's... Plus, plus, plus. Yeah. The plus is only using the summertime when pool season comes. In the wintertime... It's called TRT Pool. I like to coin that. This is my TRT Pool protocol. Okay. We'll do a couple more, then we'll go. Biggest challenge each of you have faced in your lives and how did you overcome it? I'm dealing with it now. Fucking crazy. Do your Arnold Classic predictions. We did. What's worse than a breakup? Losing your arm. Would you rather... Gotcha. Would you rather age 10 years from the neck up or the neck down only? That's a good question, actually. Neck up 100%. Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty much what's happened to me anyway. I look old as fuck and my body works great. Yeah, that's true. Kind of like right now. Yeah. That's me right now, actually. Without the body working great. Yeah. Look old as fuck, but my physique looks okay. Hey, I don't think people have an understanding of how rough it gets when you get older. Like, if your body starts breaking down, dude, it ain't fucking fun. Like, all these young kids, like even us, back in there being like, fuck you, old man. Hey, bro. When your shit starts working the same way it used to, you're like, fuck me. Yeah. Like anything. And then you throw life on top of that. You know, you work busy work schedule, kids, family, house, whatever, you know. Yeah. I would love to take a full blast piss. That just goes full blast and then it ends. It doesn't like have to like trail off. And then like. Hold on. Just like an intense four seconds. Oh, there's still some there. Oh, God. It's like 60% and then it goes to like 30 for a while. And then it goes to 10. It doesn't just like. It used to go like 90% and then just stop. Things like a fire hose that's blocked. It's a kinked garden hose. Bullshit. Okay. Steak or sushi? Steak. Depends how I feel with steak probably more often. Okay. Let's do one more. Oh, God. That's fucking disgusting. Read it for sure then. Would you rather blow a load in your mom's mouth or your dad blow a load in your mouth? Oh, God. There's no right answer to these things. Can we just skip this one? How good looking is my dad? Is it Brad Pitt? Is Brad Pitt my dad? Yeah. Brad Pitt my dad? Maybe. A rocky balboa? I don't have to swallow it, do I? No. Okay. Okay. We'll finish there. That's it. Paul? That was so disgusting. I want to go. I want to go. I'll try to cleanse our souls with a prayer for that. Well, now that Seth is here. Seth is, you know, Seth being the deacon that he is. The deacon of prayer. You know, maybe Seth wants to take the honors tonight. Seth is pretty good. Seth, why don't you say something for us? Oh, we can share if you like Seth. We can share. You go and I go. You just go and I won't ever go. I'll just log off. Okay, Seth, say something nice for us. Oh, you want me to go? Yeah, dude, you can do it. We'd be honored, Seth, if you would bless us tonight. I would be at least. I feel like I need something nice. It's been a minute. Yeah, I tend to ramble a little bit. Rain it down on us, Seth. I mean, I feel the pressure right now. That's what I feel every week. I feel like I'm going to pull Paul right now. It's been a minute since I led a prayer. Welcome to my life, Seth, for three years now. Four years. Yeah, you do a good job, though. No, I don't. No, he doesn't do a good job. No, I don't. Every once in a while, sure. But it puts a smile on our face, and we all feel good when it leaves. Okay, you know what, Paul? Why don't you say it? It keeps me panic-stricken all night. Paul, go ahead. Oh, you want me to do it now? I did say it. Come on. Fuck, I just kind of resolved myself to not be able to do it tonight. No, you got it. Come on. All right, I'll lift something up for you. Fire it back up. You got it. Okay, okay. Let us bow our heads. Let us pray, dear leader. Father, we ask that you bless us and lead us down the path of prosperity and shield us from evil and unholy thoughts. Amen. That wasn't bad, eh? That one kind of went. Unholy thoughts? Yeah. Oh, it's gone. Okay, everybody, good night. Good night. Well...