 3d tercerd例例, If you go to Hostile.com, you can check out our coolest drop in a while is the L-Carnitine. If you're looking to burn fat, L-Carnitine has been shown to help. And if you move on through that, through the gears, you can go to the Glycerol. So our two new liquid products are L-Carnitine and Glycerol. You can add Glycerol to any pre-workout to make your pumps even more insane than they already are when you use Hostile pre-workouts. Guys, now's the time. Go to Hostile.com. Check out all the cool Black Friday. They deals. And also get the Carnitine and Glycerol. Help yourself burn some fat. Get the Glycerol. Increase your pumps. It's going to be crazy. They come in some really good flavors and they taste great. Hostile.com. Now is the time. Hello, Ian. Hello, Fuad. How are you? Good, you? You don't have a mustache. I do. Oh, yeah, you do. It kind of just blends in with your whiteness. Yeah. See? Yeah, it's good. This is a little too much. This is. This I usually shave to a 1.5. And then this I keep it like a 7. 6-7. So it's just. This needs to be trimmed. 6-7. Yeah. 6-7. That's what the kids are saying now. 6-7. That's what you do. Oh, is that what you're supposed to do? 6-7? Yeah. I knew what you were doing. That's why I did this. I'm with it. Okay. Dude, I just learned about this shit like two weeks ago. I learned it from that fucking Sarah Safari girl at the Olympia. She was saying it to me and Chris and we're like, what the fuck is this girl talking about? What is 6-7? What the fuck is going on? It's nothing. It's just like. I know. It means nothing. It's just, you know? I know, dude. Fuck. Yeah. I don't know what the fucking age I live in. I feel so fucking old now. Yeah. Tell me about it. Anyways. So. I'm getting Botox tomorrow. Yeah. You got to fix that. I know. I got Mediterranean skin. You know what I realized? It's old, man. I got the old white guy skin, you know? You know, I always thought Lebanon was close to Italy. Not really. No. It's not close at all. No. It's fucking really far away. It's closer than we are, but it's still far. Yeah. It's really far away, actually. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't realize that. I mean, how far? Let's see. I actually did this already with Italy to. How far is it? I did. It's like, if you drive it, it's further than driving to Mexico from here. It is? Yes. Italy to Lebanon distance is 3,700 kilometers. Yeah. It's like 34 hours driving. Yeah. Sorry. That's driving, but that's not as the crow flies. I know that because that's like, you're talking about straight shot across the Mediterranean. Yeah. So it's by plane. It's 1,000 miles. Yeah. It's closer if you can go straight shot, but it's further if you have to drive it. Yeah. 1,300 miles or 2,200 kilometers as the crow flies from Beirut to Italy. So yeah. I mean, that's, but that's like half the distance driving Canada. Listen, the reason is I've always said things like, I'm Lebanese. We might as well be Italian. We're like right next door. Yeah. I think we're not close at all. Well, I mean, like that's the distance of like Winnipeg, you know? Yeah, I guess. But there's like, but there's like Winnipeg, it must be like that far, but I'm saying there's like three countries in between. Oh, at least. Yeah. There's Turkey. There's Greece. I think, I don't know if there's anything else. Anyways. Ottawa to Winnipeg is 2,140 kilometers. It's the exact same distance. I guess that pretty close. Yeah. And that's like one province over from us. I know. It's crazy. It's crazy how big Canada is, you know? So I think you need to get rid of more beard though. Yeah, no, I definitely do. Oh, that's a bit much. Yeah. I usually keep it a little trimmed down, but it's, it's when you keep it so short on the beard, it's just like, you got to do it so often, you know? Yeah, I know. I'm lazy. I do have to tell people though, this is this, for those who don't know, I think we talked about this last week. And for those people following me on Instagram, you probably saw this already, but the mustache is to support mental men's mental health month. Movember started with, with testicular cancer, but it kind of morphed into just men's mental health in general. Yeah. And so I'm doing it to support, to signal. It's kind of like a bat signal to other men. It's a bat signal to other men that it's okay to talk about your fucking problems. So yeah, we, we did last night. It's Ian called Ian messaged me last night to see how I was doing. Um, and normally it's funny. Normally, you know, your bro messages, you're like, Hey, how you doing? Even if you feel like shit, you're like, Hey, I'm doing okay. Yeah. Cause you don't want to like burden another man with your fucking problems. Right. So you're like, yeah, I'm doing all right. Yeah. I'm all right, man. How are you? Yeah. But I think in the month of Movember, we should dig a little deeper. So like Ian kept bugging me. I was like, he messaged me. He said, are you okay? I said, yeah, I'm doing all right. He's like, no, really though. And I was like, all right, fuck it. Let's get into it. So I started fucking. So we went into it. I started whining about my problems. No, you weren't whining. You weren't whining at all. I mean, it was. We had a, we had a good discussion though. But anyway, listen, if you got a brother, uncle, dad, fucking friend, whatever, just check on people and see how they're doing, man. I think it's important. Anyway, I just want to kind of like get that out there. How are you doing otherwise? What's going on? What'd you do today? Uh, had to shoot some stuff with Mark, you know, fucking Black Friday month. It's fucking. Oh, it's crazy. God, man. It's like, I feel like I'm a full fledged fucking influencer this month. Yeah. Dude, you are a full fledged content creator now. Yeah. Like you and Mark are constantly like just banging out new shit every day. Yeah. I got him, man. Yeah. Is that like boring as fuck or what? Uh, no, I mean, some stuff, some of it I enjoy, especially like I like Mark does good work. So even if I don't like doing it at the time when I see what it creates after, I'm like, yeah, that's cool. You know? Yeah. Like some of it, I like seeing the finished product. Um, can we, can we pause, can we pause to say hi to guy? Hi guy. Fellas. I just want to say you look very bad-ass in this get up today. Yeah. It's the beanie goes with the salt and pepper beard. You look like you should have a Harley. Yeah. Yeah. Listen, I tried to tell myself I wasn't going to laugh when I saw your mustache and I just can't. It looks great. Look how good it looks. Look how good it looks. A little bit of five o'clock shadow. Yeah. He just, I think it's such a good reason, but it's still funny. You look like you own a fucking pizzeria or something. Yeah. I, so you know what? I shaved it. I fucking looked at my wife. I'm like, I look, I look fucking Mexican. That's the first thing I thought. I was like, I look Mexican. In my head. I hear. I know, right? Yeah. You look like a Mexican dad, you know, support men's health, mental health. I will look like Mario for the month. No, it's good. I like it. I think it's good. Got to change it up. I'd be sacrificing a lot of facial hair for that one. You know, you know, with facial hair, it's like, and even head hair. It's like, it grows fucking. And be careful what you say about head hair. Yeah. Head hair is tricky. We've both been somewhere. No, no. I'm just saying it's like, it grows so fast. It's like, even if you fucking shave your face and something that looks fucking retarded, it's like in a week, it's like back to normal. That's why. You cut your hair. Like I shaved my head like a couple months back. It looked dumb as shit. I let it grow in like a month later. I look back to how it was. It's like, who cares? That's not like a girl, you know? That's why when I see guys who have like this beard, like, you know, Mike, I'm like, Mike, shave your beard. Oh, there's no way. I'm like, it'll grow back in like two weeks. Well, Mike's will probably take six months. Yeah, Mike's will probably take a lot longer. I shave. This is like a month. This is. Yeah. Yeah. I could be. I could be there. Like, this will all grow back in like six weeks. And you know what it is? It's not like, I don't grow it for a specific reason. Once it starts getting cold, like October, I just don't want to shave. I want my, I like having a beard through like March, April because it's cold, fucking cold out. I think I enjoy having different looks. Me too. Sometimes I have a nice long beard. Sometimes it's like trim. Sometimes I have a mustache. So you never know what you're going to get. You wouldn't be able to say that until yesterday. First of all, I haven't done the law. I haven't done the law. I used to always have kind of like a longer beard, like not longer, but like mid range, like a little shorter than guys, but kind of in that mid range size. I haven't done. I've kept it shorter for a while now. Like I just, I find because I have so much, I have so much gray in it now. Yeah. And it's not like a nice uniform gray yet. It's like, I'm not uniform. I'm still, I got like a lot. Yeah. But like my whole chin is like fully gray, but then I have like dark here and then gray here. It's like, it's not enough. And it just makes me look so much older. So I'm like, you know, what's sad is that every time I shave it, like around May, it grows back again in October and it's way more fucking gray than it was a year prior. You know, I did realize though, when you have gray, like that guy, cause I have gray, like you now. I shave, when I shave, when I, when I, when I, when I shave, when I, I know what I have gray. Okay. But it's only, it only recently like turned more gray. Um, when I shaved it off and had just, I know I have just, I'm like, I fucking lost, like gained 10 years on my life. A hundred percent. So that's the wow factor. Every, do you, do you like that? Wow. Every time you shave, I feel like you look 10 years younger. Yeah. I like it now. Cause I don't want to look 50. Why the fuck do I want to look 50? That's why I've been keeping this part of my beard so short and keeping them. My mustache has no gray. You and Ian had the same facial haircut, right? I think that's it. That's what I'm doing to Ian from now on. Yeah. A long, long mustache and the five o'clock share. That's a, I let mine, I let two hours. I let mine come just over the corner of my mouth. I think I'm going to extend this a little bit. Cause I don't, I don't want to look like a, like a dad stash. I want to be like, you know, like it's just, it's, it's, it's I think I'm going to, I'm going to trim mine. So it's just over my upper lip. Like it's real thin. You should just go full Hitler. You know, I was going to say it, but I didn't have it. Hitler's popular again right now. You know, don't say that man. Don't say it. Don't fucking say it. I mean, on social media, he's, he's the man right now. So if you're going to do it, I mean, you might get, a lot of people might join the podcast just because of that. I don't want to get into politics, but isn't it crazy how. Yeah. You just, I must've missed something. I don't know. I'll just, I'll just say this. We have to get into politics. All I want to say is it's funny how on Instagram, not just Instagram, but social media in general, you can literally rewrite history. You can, you can rewrite who you were. Like, like I could pretend I was great. And if I got enough people to go along with it, then that would be the case. Do you see Kevin James that the, the comedian actor, he has like a Instagram page called Mr. Robert Taylor and he's like an artist now. Yeah. I saw something about that. It's crazy. I did see something about that. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I'm talking about. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Great artists. Just, I know about that, but no, nothing about this new redefined Hitler thing that Ian's talking about. Oh yeah. Hitler's the man these days, dude. Why can't I think it's, I think it's Mr. Robert Taylor. If you're looking it up, I am looking for it. Mr. Robert Taylor, Robert Taylor. I got a bunch of Robert Taylor. I don't have like, Oh, Hey, by the way, Starbucks girl can no be called, no longer be called Starbucks girl any longer. Well, she left. Well, we knew both. I kind of thought that I'm not going to call your fucking three year girlfriend. Fucking. Does she have a new job that we can refer to? Well, that, that was why Ian, I'm glad you picked up on it. What's the new job? I thought it, I thought it was just out of respect. Who I took it somewhere? I'm like, I thought it was just out of respect. We couldn't know. Fuck that. We don't care about that. That's not what I said. You were. What's her new job? Wait, she said she's at Tim Wharton's. Second cup. She moved up. That's like saying, Oh, I left G and C. Where'd you go? Vitamin shop. Yeah. Yeah. Lateral move. No, she's a director over at Chevy now. Okay. So we call her Chevy girl now. Chevy girl. Director over at Chevy. That's big. Yeah. They actually, she got a car and we went there together and the owner was there and the owner knew her from the previous one she worked in two weeks later, literally called her and was like, we're making a position. I want you to work for me. Like called her out of the blue one day. Hmm. That's awesome. Yeah. One second. I just want to say hello to Joe. What's up guys. I got a big camera. I figured we had, we have like, we have the old guys, the medium guy, and now the young guy. We have to have a little bit of everything. Yeah. On the show. We've got to appeal to all audiences, you know, it's fucked up. Good. You're one of those. Like you get to that age where you start to be the older guy. Why do you, why do you big fucks always have you and Nick? Why do you guys always got this angle? Because it makes them look bigger. It makes you look bigger. Why do you always got to do this? Can't you just put the fucking damn thing straight? No, no, no. It's my, it's my tip. Sorry. Yeah. Guy, don't you remember when you were big and you were just big, no matter what angle you had it at? You know what I mean? It's like, no matter what angle he puts his phone, he's going to look big as fuck. It doesn't really matter. No, no. I just, it's not about looking big. It's this angle. Yeah. So I'll join in. I'm going to go like this. Joe, how are you, man? This is like a Paul angle, you know? I'm good. I'm very good. This is a Paul angle. Yeah. Hey, for what? Hey. Why can't I find you? Who? Joe. Because he's got like, Joe, remember I couldn't find you my phone? Yeah. It's simple though. My name's Joe without a name. All right. For those people who don't know Joe, this is Joe. Joe, the machine Palacios on Instagram. What I'm following. Fuck. These are your late, because this isn't my account. This is your latest, this is your latest update, dude. What the fuck? Yeah, man. I'm really proud of this look because, you know, usually when I go on TRT, I look like shit. So right now, I feel pretty damn good. That's a good 281 too. That's nice. This is crazy. I think the last time I told you guys on the podcast, I had like this plan of action and I just, I was really confident to work on my legs and bring them up and stuff. And it's cool to see it like kind of play out the way I imagined it. Are you annoyed yet about being called the next Nick Walker? No, just because it's one of those things like there's a buildup for even myself. Like I just want to go against Nick. I want to stand next to him. Yeah, I really do. Yeah. I love Nick. You know, it's one of those things like someone just asked me on the last podcast I was on, who's that like milestone bodybuilder I feel I need to beat to really just take me to that next level. And I was like, you know, people compare me to Nick all the time. So I really want to beat Nick. Like he's that guy that from the beginning, because I've heard this for a long time before anybody really knew who I was, but they would meet me in person and tell me that like, oh, you resemble Nick, resemble Nick. Well, yeah. So I'd like to beat someone like Nick and feel like that newer era, Nick, I guess, if you want to call it like that torch. I'll tell you this from my perspective. I don't think you're going to, I don't think you're going to take his place. I think it's going to be interesting if you catch up to him. If you can, okay, first of all, if you catch up to him, that puts you in the top tier of bodybuilding. So that, that doesn't put you, that doesn't, doesn't just put you in the race with Nick. It puts you in a race with a lot of people. With everyone. Yeah. And then, yeah, then, then you just, you're mixing it up. But I think you still have a few places to jump before you jump to there, right? Like, what do you think? Oh, 100%. So just like, I haven't even won a show yet, you know? So when he, when they asked me, that was like a, a big goal of mine. I have so many other ones. You know, I've talked to you last time I was on a podcast, how there's this big one, right? But there's these little ones I got to attack first. So I just want to win a damn show first. Well, listen, I think we always tell everybody, like, you got to have, like, the big, huge goal to keep aspiring to, but you got to have a whole bunch of small ones along the way to keep you going. 100%. So that makes sense. Go ahead. Sorry, I cut you off. No, I saw my, you know, my. No, what time is it by you? I'll cut you off. What time is it by you? It's like 6.20 now, I think. Yeah. You drink at 6.30 at night? Dude, I've been up since 4 a.m. And I saw you sneak that in. I was like, I drank that and I went like this. Yeah, but I'm drinking a coffee at 9.30. That's just hard and it was cool. Yeah. I just, I've been on the go. I literally, I was late because we were coming from a gym that was very far traffic-wise from me. I was like, shit. So I was like, well, if I'm going to be on this shit. Joe, I want to ask you, since we're, Guy, I'm going to come back to you, I promise. I just want to ask Joe this. I'll wait. Okay. Okay. So you have the Nick goal, right? Yes. I'm only asking this because as an athlete myself, and Ian, I don't know if you're, Ian, a guy, I don't know if you guys ever did this, but I always had like those small milestones came with a guy I wanted to beat, right? Yes. Is there like guys along the way that you're like, I got to take that guy out first and that guy out and that guy out? Like, is there a number of guys that you have listed? Not like that, but right off the bat, Jordan's like number one. Because you were there? Because you were close. Yeah. That was close. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it's one of those things like, damn, like I really thought I was going to win in front of my wife and son that day. Right. It was so easy. When you beat me, I was like, fuck. I love him, but fuck. Yeah. Well, Jordan placed, what did Jordan place at the Olympia? 13th or 13th? Yeah. It was 12th, I believe. I think. Yeah. I mean, that puts you in, that puts you in important, like important category, right? Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, I was actually really, I was really glad that I didn't win for that reason. You know, so I saw like Jordan did that. That's really fucking good. Your first Olympia, you know, especially in that lineup. Of course. And I was like, yeah, man. Like, I think obviously most of us are aspiring to not just go to the Olympia, but to at least get in the top 10. I think that's everybody's goal, you know? So to see Jordan place 12th or 13th, whatever, it's like, okay, damn. Like if I would have beaten Jordan in Texas, it would have been by barely. So I wasn't ready to be in the top 10 either. So I'm kind of glad I, I was put on the wait list for that. If, cause now I know I'll be more ready for a better placing, you know, as I've had more time under my belt. Joe. So that was kind of, you know what? Ian's got two, seven places at the Olympia. Did he tell you that? I know this. Second place at the Arnold too, by the way. He's the, he's the best, he's the best Canadian bodybuilder to do it. Remember? I have a, I have a six. I'm here. Like, and then it's like, I think like fifth or sixth Canadian all the time. Just, just rounded out the top. Okay. But, but, but, but, but there's an asterisk. No, I will say I led the charge. Amongst Canadian, Canadian bodybuilders that wanted to actually make it a career. Well, I don't know. Ben Bukulski. No, Ben was after me, bitch. Ben was, Ben was after me. No, actually the only person that was. Frank McGrath. No, Frank, Frank, Frank. Frank was the first guy, even though he wasn't as the high level of bodybuilder. He was a guy like making a career and, you know, with the animal and the universal shit, like whatever. He was like doing fucking ads that were iconic, you know? Frank had extreme popularity because he had the physique that everybody, even though it wasn't a Olympia, like top five Olympia level physique. It was the physique that every guy wanted. Yeah. He was like a handsome dude. Had a massive chest, massive arms, massive, all the, all the show me body parts. Yeah. And he was really good looking. So he fucking had like, you know, that was Frank, right? Yeah. Frank was first, then I was behind him. And then Ben was right behind me. So the three of us led the charge for Ian to. Yeah. Set me up to be the best Canadian. Yeah. We set you up to believe it was possible. Of all time. Yeah. And why do, why do I have the urge to put like an astronaut helmet on that hoodie? Yeah. I'm like. I can see that too. That's a perfect circle. Yeah. Look, it looks like this is where we just sit on to here, you know? And then I've got the headphones with it. It's perfect. Guy, what would be your, what would be your like asterisk? What would be like the, the guy? What did he got for himself? What would you do to pump, fluff yourself up a little bit? And bodybuilding. I wish. I always, I always was. I, bodybuilding was probably the only thing I wasn't confident when I was walking on stage because I, and I'm not, I don't want to listen to it, but I just never felt genetically there with those guys. Yeah. But that's. No, we're saying now, like looking at your career and describe your career. Like when I talk to someone, they go to the gym, like, oh, are you, you know, you, were you a bodybuilder? I'm like, yeah, it was fucking. That's Canadian. Best Canadian of all time. Six pro wins. You know who I am? They say me. I say, I led the charge for Canadians to make it a career. Yeah, exactly. So what's your like fluff piece, you know? Two New York pro wins. Six. I don't know. I. I, what's your, what's your highest Olympia place? Six. That's not, that's good. That's good. Seven pro wins. Oh, I, so, okay. That. So that's it. That's it. Seven pro wins. Yeah. Seven pro wins. Because nobody, because nobody knows they're 212. So you can say seven pro wins and it's a big deal. No, you just say I was like one of the top. That's all you need to say. If you win the New York. You're going to catch me. You're going to catch me. Go ahead. If you win, if you win the New York is a 212. Did that make you like the Prince of New York? Yes. Hey Joe, why don't we win a show and come back to this show? Oh no. I'll be the fucking Bishop of Texas or something. Who, who was your, who had, who had in Paul, who were, who were your guys? Like the milestones that you had kind of along the way. Cause I know mine, we talked about mine, but I, are you asking me or go ahead? I mean, both of you, but go ahead. Oh, mine was, mine was Jose and David. Yeah. Yeah. Mine was, um, I always want to be Juan Morrell. You never did. Cause you know, Juan Morrell was always like that six, seven, eight place at the Olympia nine. Yeah. And I always felt like if I could just get that fucking jump that hurdle. Yeah. That would be, and I don't know if I was ever like, he was a fourth at the Arnold. I think I was sixth. I would think it was him and then Lionel, then me or something like that. Like, I don't even know if I was ever close to beating Juan, but I felt like I was in that cat. Like I could, I could be in that category if I ever like could just be more consistent and I, and I never, uh, I never beat one, but that was like one of the guys I thought of. Cause he was like, kind of like, he was almost like a Steve Kuklo where it was like a barrier to entry. That was my guy. Yeah. To like the top cat to the, to the top levels was like this guy. Yeah. Cause the year before I beat Steve, I think he was like seventh or sixth or something at the Olympia a year before two years before I beat him. So that was like the guy going into Texas and like going into that year. I was like, all right, this is the guy that if I, if I can beat him or even get close to beating him, you know, like make it so that at least people have the conversation like fuck the, you know, that could have gone either way. Then I'm like, okay, then I'm, I'm at least getting close because when I, when I went against Steve, I was already qualified for the Olympia. Yeah. Like I'd won Tampa the week before. So when I went there, I was like, Hey, even if I lose to Steve, if I'm really fucking close, you know, then at least I'm in that kind of top 10 range at the Olympia. Then maybe I can beat him by the time the Olympia comes. Right. I knew I had to be close, but yeah, beating all obviously his home turf is fucking sick. You know? Yeah. I think that that goes to the conversation of tears and people, some people don't believe tears exist, but they do. And they're obviously fluid things. Like they change from year to year and they're, they're not carved in stone, but like we all know the top tier of bodybuilding is the top sit there right now. It's six guys, right? Maybe top seven, but I mean, who's counting, you know, it's usually six and down. Seven, seven, six and up. Seven's pretty top tier. It's usually six, sometimes five. Yeah. I made the cutoff. I've never seen it. You know, it's funny. I've honest, this is not to fucking shit on you. I've never seen the top tier be seven. I mean, you know, some years at the Olympia, they might do a seven man first call out. Never. One. Never, ever. Yeah. Probably like 1999 or something. I'm sure they did. You know, get out of here. Somebody, somebody is watching. Somebody find us. Someone knows. There's always a seven man. We're going to see the most AI generated. It's going to be like 1984. And there's seven guys in the whole show. I'm going to put you on the end. Yeah. No. Wait, so the tears go by top like six in the light or like just cause that call or by talent? Joe, I'll explain the way I think of tears. And the way I think of tears is like there's a chunk of guys at the very top that nobody can touch. And right now you could say it's four guys or potentially six, right? Like you'd say, like you could say it's a Derek, Hottie, Samson, Andrew. And then you could also add in obviously Nick, which I would. Martin. And Martin. So that gives you the top six. To me, that is tier one of bodybuilding. Then you have tier two of bodybuilding. That's like the Brandon Currys, the Tonios, the William Bonacks, like all the guys who placed like. Yeah. Beruz, those guys. Seven to 12, right? Like in there. And then you have tier three and then you have tier four. To me, tier three is like the guy who walks into any small show and can win. That's a tier three guy. Or at least be in the conversation for a win always. Like when pages are doing predictions, they're always in the talks to be someone that can win that show. Tier four guys to me are guys who will always be in the talks for top placings. But will never be considered the favorite to win because somebody else might show up. Right? So you have these guys that are always close to winning. Then you guys have the guys who can win small shows. Then you have the second tier guys who can walk into any small show and almost are guaranteed to win. And then you have the top level guys who can win the big ones. Yeah. Those are the top tiers. Obviously, there's a lot of tiers below that. Yeah. There's a lot of pros. Well, that'll never get a top five in a fucking program. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But we're talking about like the elite tiers. I'm just saying like four and up. Yeah. The elite tiers. I consider it. Like if I was going to count four tiers, I would say it's probably 25 guys. Yeah. Third, 25, 30 guys. Yeah. Yeah. I would say there's like 25 or 30 guys in that. Yeah. Like the 20 guys at the Olympia plus then another 10 that are like right close on that cusp there. You know? Yeah. Yeah. I think that's what. And I think that's kind of always been like, because somebody called me out on it. I said, I said this in a different podcast I was doing, somebody called me out and like, Oh, I just made up some tiers. And I'm like, no, no, this is like, this is every year we do this every year. People talk. Yeah. And look, everyone can have what they perceive as different tiers. This is just what we have discussed and what we somewhat agree upon. We all have differences. See, I think it's seven. You might think it's six, but I mean, tomato, tomato, I mean, it's, you know, but we're all kind of on the same page here, you know? Hey, Paul. Hey, Paul. How are you? Hey guys. I want to ask you one, one quick question without any interrupting. Okay. If you were asked, what is the, how many guys are in the top tier of bodybuilding? What is the big, the most number of guys are the most number, number, most number of guys in that top tier and the smallest number of guys that you would consider top tier. Smallest. I would go with like three, maybe four. Okay. What's the most, most, I would go like six, maybe seven. No, no. Right in the middle. I did that for you. My man. See, he fucking lied. He lied. He said he did it for you. He's an IPB pro judge. I am. I am. All right, Paul. I fucking, I insist that you find me a first call out at the Olympia. A seven man first call out at the Olympia. Yeah. They never go that way. Doesn't exist. No, it's definitely happened. I'm sure it's on point. Definitely has happened. Yeah. Yeah. So Joe, you're, what are you, what are you planning this year? Like, what are you waiting for the later shows you put on some size? Oh, well, I, I just talked to my coach and I honestly thought we were going to repeat last year and just go into Tampa again. Yeah. To Texas right after. And then see where we go from there. But he told me he wants to look at his schedule. He hasn't got back to me yet. So he's just waiting for the schedule to come out. But I may do something earlier. Maybe. Maybe. Your coach. Your coach. Sorry. Just one question. Your coach is Compton, right? Yeah. Yeah. Justin Compton. Okay. Sorry. Go ahead. Yeah. Go ahead, guys. All right. I'll just say, I think I'm really thinking about doing New York. I think it'd be cool to do New York if we do an earlier show. You know what a really good show, you know what I heard a really good show is? Detroit. Yeah. Detroit. It's a fucking, it's got the best lighting of the entire IPB. And I heard, and I also heard Chris Bumstead's coming back to do that show. Yeah. Possibly. Oh, okay. And Guy, Guy might be doing it. Yeah. I'm thinking about doing it actually. I might, I might do it with one arm. Yeah. I'm over 260. I'm ramping it up. I'm ready for Detroit. You know? Are you? I'm over 260. Yeah. But I'm not. I'm not, I'm not actually trying to compete. Compete. He's a spat. He's a spat. That doesn't count. What? I'm fucking peeled right now, bro. Striking. No, it's just. No, Joe, Joe, we'd love to have you at Detroit, but I can obviously tell if you're still in TRT mode, then you probably got to put on some weight still, and it's probably too early. So I know that's not going to happen. But I think New York's a big show to do. I mean, fuck, if you can win New York, man, that's a big one. Yeah. You're going to be, you're going to be, you're going to be obviously, listen, that's going to be heavy competition because whoever does Pittsburgh is obviously going into Detroit, into New York. You know what I mean? So, yeah. No, I, my original plan was to repeat Tampa, Texas. I think that gives me the perfect time. And honestly, a big part of the time off that I want is just to like chill with my son for a bit. Like, honestly, I'm starting to, I feel like myself again, you know, I'm like taking them out and all that stuff. Like actually being in the moment. So it's been pretty damn cool. So I don't want to like put that short just to, hey, we should just do the show now. Like when it's really not necessary. Don't rush it. Right. Right. Yeah. I know I fall as far as like what tier I'm in right now until I prove to be in another tier. So, yeah. I do believe I can win a Tampa or a Texas right now. I think you can too. Yeah. With a little bit more time. And honestly, I'm so like excited with the progress already made with that rebound phase. So this, this offseason is really just me kind of solidifying that new size that I got and trying to bring the conditioning that I did with the pierlings. Is Justin super strict with his rebound? Like, is it like, is it a slow reverse or are you guys going like hard on the food? Pretty much. I felt like crap up until like nine or 10 weeks, like the last weeks of the rebound. Like, so I was really lean. So the body fat stays so low, even though the weight was climbing. So I remember the highest I saw was like 290 in the morning. Yeah. And I saw veins everywhere. Like, but I mean, I guess, sorry, sorry, Joe. I guess I'm trying to be a little more specific for people watching. What I mean is, was he slow feeding you to make sure you stayed lean or did he push the food hard, like your calories? No, man. My food was like, stayed low. It was very moderate, like increases over time. And my, my body just kept growing. So like, he was like, okay, we're going to just ride this out another week. And it was, even though I'm starving going to bed still, like it didn't matter. Like, and I, and I, uh, he allows me, um, one to two cheat meals a week. Yeah. I, I didn't really have, I think I had two cheat meals in that 10 weeks span. And the last week is when I went to the Olympia and I, I had, uh, one a day out there, but that was it. So I, I stayed tight. I stayed on plan. It was like, I was on prep, just a very slow reverse into being a bigger guy. You're reminding me of Nick. I hate to say this to you. I apologize, but you're right. You're, you're, you're approach is reminding me of Nick, like the mentality that I'm like, I'm really excited for you, man. Cause it sounds like you're just like locked in. You're fucking on your way, man. I love you. How old are you? 27? No, I wear shit. I'm 31. Oh, you're 31. 31. That's okay. You're entering your best years, man. Same, same years, same, uh, age as Nick too. Dude. Well, listen, I think it's fucking awesome, but see. Paul, now I know what we've been doing wrong all this time. What? We just fucking stuff the food in. We don't fucking. We were talking about this last podcast. We're supposed to go slow. We're supposed to be increased. I told you, I told you, but I mean, it's the reason I'm the best Canadian bodybuilder all the time. We're from a different era. It's fucking hard. Cause when you get off the show, like you're starving, you're tired of starving, but like seeing how close I got, like every year I became a better bodybuilder. Yeah. I've, I've, I've been fat Joe for a reason, you know? So it's like, um, just seeing how much better I've gotten as I've like made little adjustments to be a better bodybuilder as these years have gone on. Um, it got me to this point. So it wasn't like it happened overnight. Like I've done the fun bodybuilding, but it's like, okay, shit. Like if I want to be next to the best in the world, I have to act like I am one of the best in the world. And that means I have to do the things that they do. So there is no fucking around at a certain point once you get to a certain point. Yeah. And so that's how I got here. So see guy, that's what you did wrong too. Guy. Fuck it up. I got guy. Let's, I want to go back. We, we cut you short because we were saying hi to Joe and then we got carried away. Starbucks girl is now a Chevy girl. Yes. Oh, yeah. Oh shit. I thought she just, Paul, I thought she just went to Tim Hortons, but she actually got like a different job. Oh, right. And different industry altogether. Yeah. I thought she stayed in the coffee industry. She's still a coffee girl. Out of the barista hood. She'll always be your coffee girl. You know, she's always going to be Starbucks girl. Yeah. Like if you guys get married, I'm going to be there and be like, Hey, Starbucks girl. Like she's going to. If we get married, I'll have her dress up as a barista. Okay. You need to write a country song about Starbucks girl. Yeah. So she's at, she's associate Chevy. Okay. That's good. Is she happy? How long has it been together? Three years. Three and a half. Three and a half. No, it was three years in September. When are you going to propose? Yeah. Easy there. Fucking big daddy. Don't do it. What do you mean? Easy. You're 40. You're fucking 40. your experience is not everybody's experience uh aren't you like 45. problem what are you 40 how how off am i what do you get off the pot okay you're 43 what are you getting married when you're 50. you're 50 years old to get married milestone here yeah things are cebu play i see you've been active socially guys lately yeah yeah but this is what i see i'm glad you brought that up paul because i uh i saw that guy was also very active socially and uh i was very i already know i all you know exactly you know exactly right at the shoes i already know what the fuck is on your feet those are dope look at this awesome guy is dressed that's all i got a pair of red gucci ones that are pretty out there too what okay when did you buy these and who made you buy them i never bought them and x bought them and it's the only gift i kept from her is this the good from starbucks girl or a different girl who x he said an x well did starbucks girl know that you have these from an ex uh she does now my wife would be like you're not wearing that for sure bro i think i got those i think the receipt says 2015 i have the receipt it doesn't matter if it was 2005 if my wife if i put a pair of shoes on come on and my wife no listen if i put if i put a pair of shoes on and my wife's like where'd you get those and i'm like an ex bought them for me they're in the garbage dude that's it they were really they were brand the receipt said like almost 1400 i ain't throwing them out ian literally she would take them off my feet and throw them in the garbage really it probably slashing up a little bit too so you can get them in the garbage wherever we go yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah i probably do the same thing if she was wearing like if she did that's true either way around i agree with you if she put a pair of shoes on and i'm like where'd you get those five thousand dollar fucking east saint laurent she'd be like oh my ex my ex bought them yeah guy bought something on and i was like where'd you get that she was like my ex-husband i'd be like all right garbage no i don't give a fuck i'm territorial as yeah bothers you that was he like that that doesn't bother me it's not about bothering me it's about respect it's a principle yeah it's respect i got that i met her almost 10 years later that doesn't matter i had those shoes for many other exits guy i think it's time you let those shoes go out of respect especially three years oh god all right the highest highest bidder worn three times you can sell them i don't care but yeah get rid of them yeah but then you got to buy her something with the money you get for it right yeah exactly i bought it well not really i think my i think my wife listen my wife did this very in like a sneaky way over the course of our relationship she's literally somehow found everything i had from my previous life and got rid of it i'm talking everything couches anything that i had that another girl might have touched yeah i have no memories of my past some paul's mind is erased is this racing stuff no he's saying oh yeah no we're guy we're saying what i'm saying is like everything like if i had a t-shirt from a that another girl might have bought me it's out a set of like a set of a set of couches that might have been in my bachelor pad that we like moved into a new house and we're buying new she's like those are going in the garbage i'm such a cheap i have stuff from my ex-wife no dude everything somehow i've been with melissa so long like i don't think at this point i i was so young when we got together i don't have any assets from before wait who here has been divorced let me ask that anybody besides me i was engaged and then we call i have a question what do you do with your i i still have my like wedding ring my wedding band oh my god did you get did you get your ring throw it out like i i don't like i did not i like put it in my in my cello it's it's tungsten yeah why didn't get my rings back isn't tungsten like 20 grand sell that no no no it's just a it's just like a hard hard like metal yeah it doesn't scratch oh i thought that was a brand like it was a it's tungsten isn't there a brand that five diamond like a diamond um not a type of diamond but a br like a company tiffany no i know what you're talking about they're canadian they're a big one yeah i forget for that i know what you're talking about though oh you would just throw the like i felt bad like i know no i i wouldn't throw i wouldn't throw away a ring i wouldn't do it i wouldn't throw away a ring melt it down make something else into it melt it down it's a metal well that no that was if it was something that was worse i would make i would melt it down and make a bell for my harley yeah there you go but that would would that be scary that's almost like you're keeping that yeah no listen in all honesty this is what i do when i break up with a chip when i used to date chicks don't answer your phone and then yeah i was around for the paul years okay that was paul's number one move just don't answer the phone anymore i go to it worked until i worked up until once what i was gonna say is i would pack up all their whatever it was put it in a bag and take it to their house and that was it that was the end of it just done i don't leave anything in my house i don't want your clothes at my house your toothbrush you're nothing i just put all the bag drop it off and it's that's it cut it off yeah i never lived with a girl before melissa so this is i never had any i've only lived with one girl my ex-wife that's it i never lived with anybody i live with a few i had two i had two i had two occasions where i went nuts and ripped everything down and tossed it one i threw the same girl that bought me the shoes everything but the shoes went that night everything right you grab you grab the shoes you grab the shoes you're like oh they're too expensive you're like yeah i'm out of here i was like these are pretty you keep me the shoes did you wear them did you wear them yeah i've worn them that that that night i wore them on friday was the fourth time i've worn them well you know what they look good they look good guy and dude i'll show you the receipt look i don't want to see a receipt i believe i want to show you just to prove my point you're so fucking you're so fucking italian guy i know it what kind of shoes so what you got you met up with uh flex in new york yeah his birthday was on the 15th oh that's just just like our annual like new york city and we only died in a car accident he was admiring your shoes there were you driving or was yes i was driving and you almost got on a car accident yeah bad bad are you well obviously you're okay but and you didn't get in a car accident but you almost did almost did well it can't be that bad if you didn't actually get an accident oh no guy likes to make it so dramatic it's like but it almost hit it could have been horrible yeah i got a motorcycle accident i was in the hospital for fucking two months you're like yeah but you don't have these this guy's like right in front of me oh i see these for you yeah they're sharp i guess i mean i wouldn't wear them but oh you're arab you could pull that off i could probably pull it off but i don't want to don't show the fucking receipt what's the date what's the date i just want to take your soul they're like last week 12 2014. there you go well it's time so she bought them as a christmas present for 2014. that's yeah anybody watching the podcast they're on sale for 800 bucks and they were 13 13 32 15. i'll take dm bids you know that's from a girl when she bought those a full like two weeks before christmas we're shopping that like three days the receipts are like 24 12 23 you know like 100 i've done that oh i want to die and feel as a black friday i don't believe that you're a black friday 50 off there's no way i believe that everybody on the podcast has nothing from an ex i don't believe it at all i swear to god i don't know but i was i was too young yeah i was too young like i mean guy you got to think i've been married for fucking i've been with my wife for 19 years yeah i don't have anything man it's all gone i had an ex i had an ex who smashed all my bodybuilding trophies yeah back in the old days when you get those tall ones you know i got a few of them yeah i had like three of them smashed all three of them to bits yeah but the nice thing is what you do to keep nobody keeps those anyway what did i do i kept them i was gonna get them really you guys keep those things well they're in boxes in my basement but i have i mean i like i like the metals i keep the metals and stuff but you don't keep that you have no trophies i only have that big goofy trophy from the orlando europa i don't have any other like a monkey or something right and it's like a dude like a with a big bodybuilder yeah like a big bodybuilder with a big head yeah really yeah i don't have any trophies i just have all the medals i have every single one i've ever won the one i'm sad about though is the two coolest ones one i lost my new york pro ring that's devastating you lost it dude i lost it at the 2021 olympia i left it in an airbnb uh and i know where i fucking left it i swear the cleaner stole it i'm trying to not take responsibility so uh you might have been not at the airbnb but didn't we hang out at that olympia i think so because i remember you saying you lost it yeah and then my when i won indie pro uh won uh texas pro i won like a big glass fucking cool but you don't have any of your like bodybuilder trophies i have every single one other than those oh i have my vase i won a vase at the canadian nationals but you never you never kept the trophy for like at all i don't have it i got rid of all of them like what about these ones in pro shows most of the time you're getting medals yeah it is yeah yeah yeah yeah like most of mine i have like a bunch of medals but i like medals better anyway i don't really you don't have any like these i can't turn the camera around i have my usa's trophy the big one of the youth i have AI have a vase i have a vase from the nationals uh canadian nationals guy that's it but not even like the like these guys like these are amateur ones but no man i don't have a shrine to myself i got rid of guys got like a whole room to himself like look it's all pictures of him okay what the is this room guys like it's kind of sad i don't have a single guy do you go in that room and like just admire yourself i'm never going to he stands right in that corner and masturbates i think it's awesome he's in the corner i'm never i'm never i'm never trying guy you should have a shrine be proud of him guy i tell you this i'm jealous of you because honestly like i never go in there swear to god no no no guy guy listen i'm just i'm just busting your balls listen guy uh jay cutler has like the best office ever it's got all these trophies mounted and stuff and like all his covers and i'm a little jealous i i have like i think i have five covers okay yeah i don't have any of my magazines did you throw them on the walls i don't care or you just always no no i have the magazines i so i had two i had three of those wait for my first show ever and one was six feet tall i threw it out oh i got all of them look at that dinosaurian this is uh 2013 ottawa's jesus look at those trophies yeah that's the old school ones that's 2014 provincials paul you judged me there we should bring that back for detroit paul yeah yeah you should make all the trophies like that we do get big guys what's that guy you should make old school trophies like that this is the one where i turned pro that's a good one that's cool yeah i like that one that's a sick one yeah uh i have a whole box them here somewhere yeah i don't know i i got a couple swords and stuff i think it'd be cool to maybe i should do stuff like guy you know what maybe you inspire me to do that maybe i'm going to start taking my stuff out and like maybe mounting my magazine covers and stuff and like you still got that big full-size cutter to yourself no where was that anymore remember you had it at your old house no i don't remember that well what's in the basement you had that big life-size cutter to yourself for i don't know it was an ad for muscle tech or something oh i would love to have that no i can't i have a big picture like that in my garage dude i would put that i'd put that in the gym that's hilarious no i don't even remember that no you don't remember you had your basement honestly man when when me and ian i think ian's probably feels the same way when i say my bodybuilding career was a fucking blur see i just got a ton of these those are nice i like those metals what like tampa yeah all the metals yeah thanks bird you don't have those anywhere on display what you should have those on display somewhere like like you're literally in like this and do and if you take all that to michael's that's what i did they make a big glass case like look oh that's what i want yeah that'd be cool yeah look and you would take them as is in the box look in yeah you just give it to them and they do it look they did this look at look yeah that's really yeah i like that wow that's awesome it's all glass they do you know what's really funny about that those are probably all like third and fourth place but they look really good but when you put them in a case like that it looks like they're really important his ability to say that with a serious face we're perfect that was impressive you'll learn that the two 12 guys get no love i love you good that's true guy i miss you so much man um what was i gonna say it's the end of the year you know what the end of the year is the rbp the rbp awards oh hold on i just wanted to show you look at this my first trophy ever look at the size of it oh my god it's bigger than you dude how did you get that home how did you get that home we could fit that your car it was sticking out of my bronco too from west virginia you remember if we had our first couple years putting shows on we had uh we're giving away like stair climbers and like bigger pieces of equipment and then we're like people can't take it home yeah we didn't think about that so we got stuck with this for like a couple weeks yeah we can ship it you cheap yeah no because that dude it costs enough to buy it trying to make some money on this show um okay rbp awards what are we starting with did you add the one that i suggested what'd you suggest paul remember like like biggest like biggest impact show of the year like impact impact show or impact bodybuilding impact performance if that sounds right biggest impact performance doesn't make any sense i know it doesn't make sense but i remember i explained it to you like you know um most important most impactful important yeah like martin at prog i would say i would say andrew i think andrew too uh but there's a lot of candidates you know urs is open debut like joe's this year is coming out of you know it's a good one too nick at pittsburgh sir that too okay wait a minute wait a minute how would you word that award it's biggest impact yeah biggest impact makes sense biggest impact okay and then we have so under biggest impact we have martin we have andrew what else nick can you guys can hear me right nick from i now i can yeah nick nick i think nick that pittsburgh show he fucking he he changed the wave of the crowd big time man nick a lot of anti nick guys that that joined his little ship after that andrew olympia martin prog is there any more oh i would say i would say um urs urs is open debut you don't agree with nick at pittsburgh yeah put him in there oh okay we have four what else best biggest best coach of the year well i mean you you have to you have to put in uh derek at the arnold because he did just beat the rainy mr olympia you know yeah i guess yeah yeah derek jordan won two shows yeah jordan two shows that's big i don't know if that's big you don't think so yes one second i lost my arm that's what she said okay um no i don't think it belongs up with the other the other four or five yeah jordan i mean it could be there's a category for that there but i don't think that's it listen yeah jordan winning two shows is a big deal yeah but i don't think it's on the same level as andrew potentially having people say he could win should have won the mr olympia i think jordan would be more the category like breakout you know yeah like a break a breakout year yeah that's where i see i see okay breakout year we'll start with that one next well let's just get the categories defined here yeah okay okay well i'm good doing them as we go breakout year is jordan joe jordan joe joe joe palacios oh yeah yeah i mean i think martin had a breakout year last year but he kind of also did this year last where he was last year i think martin was already arrived you know he came fourth at the olympia last year so he was on that we were all yeah and then he turned around and then he also beat samson at that other show which is big too that could be biggest upset of the year yeah yeah we can have an upset but then we got to do the typical like most muscular most shredded one second one second yeah biggest upset of the year i'm just gonna put martin derrick derrick upset who samson at the arnold you mean yeah um okay so it's a big upset so biggest breakout year jordan joe who else anybody else for breakout year worse we thought we'd say scores fall in that category yeah okay there's three there uh biggest upset martin derrick any other upsets this year i mean what was it i feel like at the end of the year here there's been some like some shows like what was what was happened recently that i feel like there was one recently where there was a poland show but that wasn't an upset because andrea andrea beat joe on would you consider jordan being beaten quentin an upset no no no no no no no we'll come back to it okay uh biggest upset we'll come back to how about coach of the year well see you know boss i think you gotta see yeah i kind of gotta go yeah cito's definitely in there boss the coach of the year is go boss aceto patrick all right we'll throw pat yeah patrick i mean you won the olympia with key on but yeah okay ended shortly after the year uh what about bodybuilder of the year how about that you gotta go derrick yeah i mean won everything yeah he won literally everything yeah he triple crowned that triple yes the triple crown whatever the that means um that was bodybuilder of the year uh what about most shredded you want to do those really yeah you got to do a couple of those at least like a couple okay i love how your name is like your aol screen name for a instant messenger who oh joe's yeah oh well it's because he's on his phone oh it is yeah i'm on my phone i don't see what mine says says your name plus your what is it running back number 22. yeah i was what does mine say my wife's name i'm assuming it does yeah yeah yeah it does yeah okay who's most shredded oh joe was pretty peeled man i mean martin at prog was pretty far with an edge at that show pretty outrageous he was he was but there are some guys that are inside out i wouldn't or was good you're talking glutes and hams but his back i know so it's gonna go whole body then for like yeah i think i think martin is definitely in that martin at prog yeah no no no you don't think so look martin's martin's peak was maybe like oh i think who who you who would you put ahead of martin at prog in in the field do you say that we amir the way amir looked some of those european shows yeah i mean amir is definitely in the conversation there's nobody more shorter than amir just like the guy's made of his own skin ah roman you know i mean roman's been peeled out of his mind before too yeah let's take a look at him you know what this is you know let's just add people in there here amir we'll put roman well roman didn't do enough like did was roman peeled in the show he did this year yeah but it doesn't matter how many shows you do if you just do one no no i'm i'm just saying like the show he did was he in particularly excellent condition i don't know he's always in good shape but i mean the last one i don't think he's quite as sharp as i don't think it stood out as i don't i don't actually remember anyone's anyone that stands out to you joe no i was trying to think because amir was the first one i thought about yeah but he was he wasn't peeled at first like when he did the first two shows with me he was as pure as he got to later on but that's the one that stood out to me and then like like fulad said martin wasn't peeled he was just perfectly peaked so it had a certain look but i i even hottie wasn't his traditional like crazy peeled it was no can we do that one that first video you click so that was it wait can you include classic guys this is him right there yeah this is him with the europe i'll have to wait 10 minutes for him to do a back shot here well you can kind of you can tell already from the field from the front christ but it's not it's not like stand out it's not normal roman like yeah like i'm trying to think of someone that's like like jose like jose that's what i was gonna say jose maya i'll be honest if it wasn't me i do think i was one of the more peeled guys myself yeah you were for sure someone said someone said your name right off the top you can let me joe i can blow your head look at this look at this yeah i mean that's obviously like this is retarded man yeah yeah that's ridiculous guys this this guy you know i don't know if he's going to be the greatest bodybuilder ever one day i don't know but as far as conditioning goes this is like the winner man yeah it's hard to beat that this is jose my level yeah yeah andre munzer that's what i was gonna say looks like munzer you're looking for jose my level that's it okay we'll put a mirror in there who else put joe in there okay we'll leave that for now most shredded um what bodybuilder how about best ambassador okay i still like samson for an ambassador of the sport because i think i think he does a lot he travels a lot i think he's got a good attitude whether he won the olympia or lost the olympia i think he's just i think he's a true true ambassador yeah yep always professional okay we'll put samson there anybody else want to add to that i was gonna see samson yeah who else is like someone that stands out for that i'm trying to get the best jay cutler still killing it 15 years retired and still not stuff what's going on guys i want to pull you away from the podcast for one minute a lot of you have been waiting to get on board with merrick health now is the time to do it if you go to their page merrick health.com and you scroll back here to the landing page it's black friday if you put in black 25 at checkout you can get 25 off joining their team and then another 10 off your first treatment plan now is the time to do it guys don't think they've had this big a deal in a while black 25 at checkout go to merrick health.com don't use my code don't use the code use black 25 you'll get more you get 25 off joining and another 10 off your guided optimization check it out guys merrick health.com thanks for watching uh best ambassador we'll put words in there it said don't worry about you okay uh what other categories is this just open guys or also 212 just wondering i mean we can add 212 if you think there's a 212 cat bodybuilder that belongs in there for something i'm just wondering he just wants to feel like his people are involved you know or represented yeah it represents it yeah okay uh anybody else any other categories there's got to be more categories yeah best retired bodybuilder guys just you know i clearly win that doesn't tell anybody who's uh who what categories do we have read them back to us we have biggest impact we have uh breakout year biggest upset coach of the year bodybuilder of the year most shredded best ambassador i got one uh because it's always a hot topic best back oh now we're going right to body parts come on well no because that's that's a hotly debated topic especially this year it is yeah who debated it well remember the nick walker derrick you know conversation oh that's right okay okay joe in there for sure for sure is in that conversation i think that'd be an interesting one one see joe i got your back son yeah this is where i stay quiet i didn't even realize joe uh fuck joe could be a joe's back is insane okay biggest back or just best one ever talks about my glutes though you know that hurts joe your ass is so hot yeah my girl talks about my ass uh shredded that's back nick derrick joe after bodybuilding bro i think we gotta i think we gotta throw reagan in there yeah reagan's definitely reagan in there all right those four are probably the top four um and that's it for people voting that's all like that's the whole back yeah like like head to toe not fucking just the back itself right um what did we say just before you said best back i said best posing routine best posing routine oh yeah that's a good one best poser yeah best poser uh in the open i'm gonna have to say samson samson actually bonak puts together pretty good routines samson bonak i thought what was it what were we watching brandon currs brandon did a really good routine yeah oh andrew did a good one too andrew yeah brandon brandon andrew who else the only thing with andrew is he's got to lose a couple points because of some of how he hit some of his mandatories you know so i know i wish he would change it's getting better though he was better yeah he's definitely getting way better samson bonak brandon is there anybody else yeah put andrew in there yeah you you gotta he's doing the splits on stage at 290 you got to give him something for that yeah okay that's funny coleman did it 320 so best poser oh it's interesting that you said ronnie coleman i want to see oh come at me i want to show you this andrew's slowly bringing back to raise the roof yeah yeah he's big on that oh that was my move when i would write to dance in the clubs that was my move you would do that in the club yeah that's the only thing i would know how to do we used to fucking laugh at him it was his main move he's like he's a laugh that used to work for me it did work he picked up all the chicks yes all of them all the strippers yeah all the sluts okay listen to this okay wait i gotta generation like lee haney doing yates yeah yourself it's not like a progressive yeah bigger bigger bigger you think that's going to continue no i don't think it's going to continue you think it's going to if anything's stagnant or go less yeah yeah i'll go less yeah why do you think that is people are changing now they are not so driven you know it's straight across the board you know there's nobody that really like dominate now yeah yeah i agree domination is that not there anymore because uh the guys are less competitive and less driven not running i agree no not even close all right discuss i agree i don't know i mean i disagree you agree you agree people people are people are talking about how competitive is nowadays and how it's so hard to put together a lineup i don't think the guys are working any less hard i mean i'm gonna speak for myself i'm over here suffering i was gonna say you're sitting like a guy you're sitting hold on i'm not saying that there aren't guys like you like nick like um just guys that are all in train their balls off i think a lot of guys are worried about the wrong things rather than just training diet cardio i i and if you look yeah there's a there the lineup itself is competitive but you don't have standout guides like the ronnie's the dorian's the nassar's the like you had the list went on the paul de let's like whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa i disagree adamantly yeah guy you're so full of shit yeah go ahead okay listen to me first let's attack one thing at a time first of all you're saying less driven and then you're trying to pick up well some people are driven some people aren't first of all that's just completely it's just projection if anything there's no all the guys i know right and i sponsor athletes i don't even athletes i don't sponsor all the fucking guys i know that are trying to fucking win the olympia or do well at the olympia or get to the olympia are fucking busting their balls i think there's a lot of lazy like we just we just said i see i see kids we just said joe we just put joe in the fourth tier of bodybuilding yeah and he's fucking killing it i think there's a lot more lackadaisical bodybuilders now than there name one name one last name one name one guy name one i don't know the reason for a lot of your shit that one i'm not the reason i said name one the reason i said name one is because if you go systematically down the list derrick haughty andrew samson martin nick brandon tonio bonak veto if you go down the top 10 at the olympia name one of those top 10 that's not fucking killing it you can't i disagree because i think even if you look back at like the generation that he's talking about i think you get a lot of guys that they didn't take their off seasons as serious as like guys like joe and you know you'd see guys would fuck off half the obviously they didn't fat i mean it's bodybuilding's changed i think now for a lot of guys it is a lot more all year round um and even now man like i see kids at the gym that are like fucking 20 years old don't even compete and they're like so dialed in on their diet and training and they don't fucking eat off plan like they're i think a lot of people are fucking putting in a hard effort you know but i'm just i just want to like actually like we'll nail it down i gave you a list of the top 10 and i'm not i'm not asking you to bring you i'm gonna text you can i text you yeah but don't say anything i won't say i'll just say if i agree or not you have to say it right out loud the second he says it you know how often you get a guy to dominate like because you had a phil heath and a ronnie and like certain guys like that but these guys are like some of the best genetics you've ever seen with the great work ethic so we just don't have well we have an andrew right now who could probably do it and maybe i can't speak for andrew right so who knows what he can do but but i don't look at me okay okay guys guys got one that's a fact that's a fact yeah but okay the thing is to even no matter what year of bodybuilding you're talking about there's going to be guys that were lazy fucks every time if you if you it's just different now because it's so exposed with social media you see everything about these guys you know guy guy hold on you just went down a list of like guys from the 90s right if you ask some of the coaches about some of the guys from the 90s i'm not gonna i'm not gonna name any names but but guy i promise you i could give you three names in the top five i know what three you're thinking that they that they have said were lazy at times their coaches said that their coaches have said that that i so so what i'm saying to you is i can't pick out that many in this year's top 10. i sent you two and i just sent you another one yeah but i i also think saying like we don't have any dominant champions is a bad is a bad gauge of like of how good bodybuilding is because yeah you get one-off guys that are elite and do i think that ronnie or phil are better than anyone competing today 100 i do um but i think when you look at the depth of the lineup as a whole i think that we still are at a super super high level so you know guys like that are rarities and they don't come around every single generation that you get that's what i'm saying i think the field is much deeper now yeah you don't you don't get fucking michael jordans and lebrons and kobe's coming around every single fucking year like you know i think that those guys are are far and few between and that's what makes them so special and so elite is that they are so rare you know i think as a sport evolves usually there's less dominance like that because everyone else catches up kind of and there's more people in the sport it kind of grows but i'm all i'm kind of attacking one thing at a time so the i don't like the the the thing that bothers me is this commentary about well guys aren't driven guys aren't training as hard i'm like i kind of i fucking know a lot of these guys personally yeah no i disagree and i'm like i don't they as far as i know and they'll start fucking lying to me these guys like joe just said he's starving it's after his show it's after his show it's like weeks i'm not i like i said i know you're not saying i know you're not saying i didn't say there's no guys i said i just think there's more of the on the ladder than there are guys like joe do you think it's the training styles now that went to that that went to that belief at least because like like ronnie's day like you know i think it's just an overarching social media like thing that people think right now we're in like a less hard work era um as a whole but i think that doesn't extend to people at the top of of things like this you know i don't even know if it's a social media thing i think it's a generation thing every guy every guy says i didn't say no no hold on guy not you i'm talking about ronnie every and i love ronnie ronnie's a fucking king to me but every every fucking guy says about the generation after him that they don't train as hard yeah dorian said it about the generation after him ronnie said about the generation after him like it's just it's a fucking normal thing forever oh yeah you know we our era was different our area was different area was different and i'm like maybe i mean i don't know like and it is it was different like every era i don't know if you could say it gets easier but there's more information at least i guess i guess there's a lot of information that doesn't mean it's true paul like i was in the gym but but things evolve techniques get better yes i was in the gym that true story training back there was a kid in front of me also on a on a seated um hammer row yeah and he was like yeah i've been killing chest he's like i do three exercise two sets he goes i do three exercises twice a week two sets each and i'm like what that's killing it well that's that's that's the fucking chest that's what he looked like what he looked like though he looked like he did what he just what he does but my my point is i hear more about doing one set top sets feeder sets than guys just training i hear more about that but hold on a minute but guy but guy ronnie's not talking about your average gym goer when you hear dorian talk about dorian's got a clip that came out recently about him talking about what it feels like to go into a regular gym and how it feels stale and they're all the guys look the same like they don't even train about i agree with him that's like regular gym pup goer shit always been that way but ronnie's talking about something different ronnie's talking about olympians so we're not talking about oh i was talking about all bodybuilders as a whole i'm not talking about that i'm talking okay then i misspoke when ron when ronnie says i think the guys are less driven i don't want to put words in his mouth but i take it as he's talking about this generation's olympians okay i thought he was talking about all bodybuilders in general that's how no that's how that's how i was taking it no i think that's you said there's not a dominant champion he said there's not a dominant champion so he has to be referring to the best in the world right yeah yeah i think look i think ian's right that you're not always going to get one guy that stands above the rest and to be honest but we have like just recently chris and classic um key on and 212 yeah he's just open's been wide open for for a few years now but people can't have it but like the fucked up part is look man i lived through this for a long time a guy you have too and ian you've been around for a while paul you've been around the longest you guys have all seen this shit too it's you know what's hilarious when there's a champion that's fucking killing everybody the public is like ah bodybuilding is so boring one one guy just wins every fucking year sucks now it's competitive as fuck in any of the top five switches all the time or four could win the mr olympia and everyone's like ah there's nobody dominant everyone's still this sucks right yeah i wasn't this is literally i know i know guy but i'm saying all right this is this is literally the most fucking entertaining time and bodybuilding since i started watching because i know when i go to the olympia there's three or four guys that could fucking win the show yes you know what i mean like it's fucking crazy like in some of the think about some of the lineups we had during the year i remember me and ian yeah covered like texas or tampa we're like this is the deepest fucking lineup of the entire year like it was not deepest as far as competition but like it was the most competitive like all the guys were so like close close it was like five or six shows like that this year yeah what what mr olympias do you think would lose to the current mr olympia to derrick none i i'm not i think derrick but no i think that's what ronnie was referring to like dominating yeah but that is the sign that is the sign of the whole class i i misinterpreted it but i'm gonna i'll ask that question then what i'm saying what i'm saying is if ronnie is saying there's nobody like him i'm 100 on board with that agreed yeah we all agree there's no like dominant guys like a j a dorian a ronnie like that's what i thought or now after we talked about it is i i think he i think he is saying that that's not really the part i'm kind of trying to have a talk of trying to discuss because there's nothing to really discuss he's right there's all a bunch of guys that are all very competitive the part that bothered me about the clip or that that i thought was worth discussing was why is it always these guys don't train as hard and is he right and i just wanted to see your guys opinions because in the in the comment section of that post a lot of people are agreeing with him but you guys think like okay so like taking ronnie and dorian as as the ones who come to mind the most with their kind of balls out training style that they were known for a lot of guys now are seeing what's happened to them to their physiques like dorian didn't have longevity because of the way he trained dorian looks great looks great i'm talking about a bodybuilding standpoint though yeah he tore some muscles but i mean he's still in the end but didn't he don't have a ton of if he could if he could i know he had yeah i know that but he but he's even said himself before if he could have took his foot off the gas a little bit near the end he probably could have extended his career a bit longer but yeah i i don't think i can probably say that the same with me but i also out of the other side of my mouth also have a tendency to say if i didn't do what i did i might not have to look that way yeah i'm not arguing for that i'm just saying is that what some people might be seeing right now and that's why they're changing their styles now but hold on a minute people are changing their styles to dorian's style dorian was dorian was a low volume guy that's what the kids not the we're not talking about olympians now i'm a body bodybuilding in general right it's all going back to dorian style mike mentor style but those guys less is more what dorian meant when he said that is not should i have done less than my like training wise he meant i could have pulled back the last three or four weeks before competition because my body my body fat was so low it was not right for me to be lifting as heavy as i was okay that's that's what dorian meant he didn't mean three yards of his career he just spent those last few weeks before competing okay um so all i'm saying is when kids look to dorian they're actually looking to him for like oh that's look how great he was but when they when they look at ronnie they're like well i don't want to be like in a wheelchair maybe that's not what i should be doing blah blah blah right but even dorian style like i know they follow the same kind of approach uh progressive overload but but dorian did a lot of extenders on his sets to extend the set at the end like a lot of uh intensity techniques are a lot of guys he didn't really do a lot of he didn't really do a lot of different intensity techniques there's a lot not different he did a lot of force reps right like for his one all-out set that he would that he would uh that he would do like are guys doing that today are they just doing progress that was like considered dog crap training back then i don't i don't um no dog crap training is a little different it's one set to complete failure pretty much yeah but dog crap training is adding on to the set by yeah you almost like stop and then you go starting it's like a more of a resposs yeah um i think i i don't know what the general consensus is i don't see people doing a lot of force reps and things like that but yeah all i'm saying is they look they look to dorian they look to mike mencer theirs are like look these are the physiques that they built with low volume that's kind of how they're making their argument for yeah right but it's all it's all it's all bullshit right because when you look through the history of bodybuilding jay cutler is a super high volume guy right yeah dorian is a very low volume guy like there's an there's an example for every ronnie was super if you want to make an argument for anything you can make it for sure is what i'm saying yeah i just want no the only thing i'm like the same low volume that guys are doing today was that the same that low volume dorian was dorian was doing or was dorian's more intense because of these extensions he put on it like he do partials a lot of denim sets to extend a set yeah look i don't i don't think anybody's training exactly like dorian i'm just saying like people pick up people are picking a camp and they're either in a low volume camp or a high volume camp and that's like not professionals right professionals don't do that most professional athletes and like joe you can attest to this probably most professional bodybuilders have the full range they might i was just gonna say they might i go in every day you know what i feel if i i feel strong as fuck i'm gonna lift like i am if i don't feel that strong i'm gonna do a little more volume sometimes i'll take it to failure sometimes i'll wait for a top set i don't fucking know i just go have fun my training that's all i do yeah that's all i do yeah i don't i don't think any professionals and this is the thing i think people that are watching should should take from what the discussion is there's no not nobody's doing one thing right like people are kind of most professionals are mixing it's always been that way the whole thing right so anyway um i i just i brought that up because i was a little disappointed i wish i wish every i wish every retired bodybuilder was with like jay jay is like the most neutral guy not even neutral he's a cheerleader like he when he talks about this generation of bodybuilders like yeah they're fucking awesome they're doing this they're doing that like you don't generally hear him talk negative yeah badly about this generation's bodybuilder right all right let's do some questions and we'll get out of here don't we have japan pro this coming weekend yep is it this coming yes yeah i know it's soon let's take a look at the real bodybuildingpodcast.com will show us the truth prediction i like those training discussions though because you hear it all the time it's like what is intense just because you take a center feather does that make you more intense than doing 40 sets you know it's like yeah this is working hard in general i mean you if you're making progress you're doing some sort of work right so i don't i always say i always say to people like there are obviously genetic anomalies that maybe it comes easy to but like anybody you see weighing over 250 300 pounds of muscle that didn't come without some kind of effort like that's not that's not nobody's i don't know nobody on the olympia stage is around in my opinion except for the odd odd couple here and there that are incredible okay the japan pro predictions add player we have me guy ian joe and paul i don't know who's doing it huh all these guys oh and you gotta scroll down a little bit my god jesus christ we can't go through all these ian it's a ton of people man i don't even know half of these we're picking from the people we know that's it top but we're doing top five top ten okay i'll go first uh joan paralysis was he on there oh yeah yeah he is on there i didn't see that he picked him this is not permanent this is just uh is damien kuffel doing the show my god no okay i know there's a really crazy like asian what's his name hell sick i honestly don't know a lot of these guys yeah this is it this is this guy healthy holy that looks good eh oh it looks like AI i mean it's totally it's totally edited but like whatever it looks like he has a 16 year old face with a 30 year old body this is what he looks like for real which is still crazy what the why do asian people have such like it looks like they're lying they're drawn yeah clean lines yeah oh that's sushi for real that's hell sick where is he one sick wang what one sick wang you're sick one sick wang uh where's that let me see where's that one sick wang oh okay it is what it is uh i don't know dude i don't know any of these people yeah you're you're fucking shooting oh this guy looks good jesus lee jang min back though go down to those gym pictures the first set of gym pictures let's be hard to remember to remember each other's names where i'm gonna be honest i'm on the same boat as paul you know i've already forgot though what is it what is it one sick wing oh that's the problem that's stupid we're gonna play that game i suggested no we're not paul what just the tip i had a suggestion for for a new game we could play god fall you show a picture of a guy from the front a random bodybuilder and you guess whether he has a good back or not is that what you said i put it a little different but you mean you could present it that way uh what does matt o'reilly look like that's some legs damn that boy's got some legs yeah he does i thought he retired i could i compete against him i think he said it was supposed to be his last show he lied to you he lied to me he tried to get the upper hand yeah he's playing my game with you joe kill gun bong bill john baule this guy's good you just like saying these names i think you're nailing the the the pronunciation is too for it i bet you i am i'm impressed look at it i don't know they were stock like that this is the asian joe is there a back shot uh i need to see a back shot the front lat spread we got some lats here fuck he's pretty good mm-hmm is that from the side wait that's just waiting for it looks okay there well let's see it looks pretty good from the back turn around he's gonna it's like it legs look a little thinner yeah from the side there not there holy fuck he's got a back kind of yeah let's see what happens when he pulls up pulls up oh you didn't do it oh the rascal there it is there's it okay let's see it's good it's got a good structure yeah there it is oh such a bunch of assholes you know it's big as fuck man oh here we go here we go here we go okay okay oh there's not much there no i don't know these are fucking huge he's a little narrow yeah that's okay he's also overposing it yeah he's leaving what his name bojan no that was uh bong piljan singping i think is it uh pignett pignett whatever pills run bong okay go ahead guy i can't uh joan what yeah you you got you fuad you made one fatal error in your predictions i think i did i forget somebody you forgot florian oh oh yeah like him yeah i said i'm not but those aren't in the box anyway it's in the box it's in the box wait let me put it in before you guys do that way i didn't cheat uh one sick wang one sick wang i gotta move all you think of that think of that when you say that yeah which guy are you putting there one one sick wang here and then uh beyond here and then uh who did i have after that pill john bong and then uh florian here can you click florian wait i think i had matt here did you guys look at everybody yes i have no idea who most of these guys are me either okay guy who do you want can you click that guy that you just put in foreign florian porson yeah he's the french dude with the big guns big legs oh florian i know him you're a classic for a little bit right yeah he's lacking in the torso but he's good everywhere else got big erectors crazy small ways why wild squads damn yeah just need more torso chest and back yeah okay okay go ahead joan first name's not joan you italian fuck it's joan joan put you on me put a fucking uh a client in my voice when i say it's joan joan joan joan go to the movies okay who's next um let's go i'm starting a shot clock one second let's go james one james james yeah uh if i get one mark huh sean mark stew stew um can i see mazar mazar tabani that's uh tabani's cousin baruz what did he get last show was he like seventh or something like that this is him in romania i don't know where he placed looks good put him in tenth put him in tenth tenth yeah jesus christ yeah figured a little jealous put uh florin in sixth okay john turk yon turk yeah one sick one sick wang it's my favorite guy it's my favorite guy what do you think for nine for what jerseys made for it i think uh yacin kallir okay sounds good okay is that the whole list right there this is the list wow it's a huge list hey hey okay boom who's boom q where boomo boomo where up a little bit there right there right there that's an o boom boom boom boom boom boom boom yeah he looks like a boomo looks like an older gentleman you know he reminds me of um who was that uh who's that actor i knew you were gonna say that you know he doesn't look like him at all dude he does you're so fucking racist it's you know what i'm gonna say he's talking about the guy from blood sport man yes polo young polo young you're such an asshole joe pick your guys man paul's going to fucking hell paul's a racist he looks like somebody a racist i'm going with him because i'm confused as to who all these guys are who's shingo kamatsu i'm gonna go with uh uh johan johan uh james um i actually think sean clarita next okay then mark hector yeah and then i got i think stew okay and then let's see i honestly don't know most of the other guys devonnie i'm just gonna put yeah you got florian still you got jan turek uh go ahead i'll just put one the wang guy the wang guy one sick wang the sick wang yeah he deserves a top six for that yeah i'll do uh florian you have jan turek left you have to bonnie to bonnie we just looked at you have young yeah let's do to bonnie and then uh little turek guy and then we'll pick your favorite name for the last one boom wait let's see what yeah i was gonna say the boomo guy boom oh okay local favorite johan yeah james we're all fucked yeah sean i was gonna say honestly john just needs to come in fucking peeled he's gonna win mark like that's it florian james is looking good in his updates uh jan turek ooh john stew sutherland uh um uh uh tavani um one sick wang uh i'll never not and then matt o'reilly matt o'reilly after one sick wang okay paul you have a field day with this hey buddy me yeah you don't you don't get to see anyone paul what do you mean i don't get to see anyone you don't get to see anybody you just gotta pick ten everyone else get to see someone i don't get to see anybody no we all we all saw the same people yeah i didn't get to see anyone yeah i didn't get to see anyone shot clock shot clock okay okay okay all right um joan sean james stew mark wait wait i can't find stew where the fuck is stew there's okay mark uh yeah mark then florian yeah then jan jan and then uh minaj minaj who the fuck is minaj minaj no no no i'm sorry go up i got the name wrong oh minaj looks good okay minaj scroll up that's it that's the top there's someone i'm missing right now um oh i know it's sorry um it's um no take minaj out of there miser measure davani yeah um then i'm gonna go sick wang sick wang sick wang sick wang and then sick wang for the win how about how about every bust up or i was thinking pilgian bong but i already got pilgian bong okay pilgian bong is my number 10 song man kim song man kim yeah he's korean right yes yeah he's gonna have great legs let's put song let's put song man there song man he's gonna have some great legs song man's in okay we got we got the boy we got it all my wild card holy fuck we're gonna go to hell for sure i think once he wings the dark horse here for sure if he wins i want to see that headline i'd be happy as fuck he wins all right some questions here how does one be more present and enjoy little moments and step back not get caught up in the next show the next rebound etc very hard to do when our livelihood is improving for the next showing next season non-stop that's an amazing question but with an impossible answer i can take this one on go ahead i'm the baby i'll let paul answer this even though he's okay let's see how have you navigated your career tell us not so much my career i'm talking more the mindset of being more present as he mentioned um tell us how to do that just got to be in the moment you know you got to block out everything else and just be in the moment doesn't help paul he's asking how how do you do that though you just got to focus you know it's like somebody saying how do you tie your shoes and you're like just tie them how do you train hard just just do it i mean there's other things you can do to help you um you know you can read a book you can read an audio you can listen to an audio book how do i tie my shoes well read a book not asking you what the fucking what tools you can do to find out he's asking you your opinion on how to get there okay i'll let someone else answer this question you seem so confident going into that i want to be on your side i want to be on your side with this but it's you're making it hard because everyone's going to have their preference of what they like to read i want to ask joe because joe's in the midst of it right now so me and ian have both professed that we basically lived fucking show to show and most of our careers are a blur because you're always worried about getting better so i want to ask you since you're in the middle of it have you even considered that or are you just so fucking dialed in that you don't even realize that's a thing no honestly i was i was just like everybody else but literally this last year was the first time i actually kind of like soaked it in you guys can see it in the picture where i'm holding my boy jacks having i'm not telling people to have a baby but having my family starting in the middle of the bodybuilding thing has helped me truly be present i at one point you know i remember telling her like do you need me to take some time off and she's like no joe like follow your dream like we'll be here like i'll hold it down for you so it made me appreciate it a lot more because i could have had it over you know depending on you know who the person is right so it's like she let me have that and then i almost like did this one for them completely and it really made me appreciate it because it was for them not so much what are my goals so that that helped me be present that this whole that whole last prep um being on stage i remember when i was doing uh i was specifically about to do a front last spread in my uh individual and i started tearing up because i could hear my wife my mom and all that i know she's holding jacks like fuck man like i'm really living in this moment like i felt it you know it was it was the best moment of my life so so right away all i thought about was going to jacks and picking him up and all that stuff you know yeah so let me ask you this and you know kind of asking you at the same time do you think because i'll speak for myself do you think when you're more selfish and it's all about you and your goals it's harder to understand exactly what you're doing like what i'm saying is like because you're doing it for your son and you have an exterior goal it's it's it's more than just about you it's about something else that's bigger more purpose it's bigger it's bigger than just you yeah 100% yeah when it seems about you don't give a fuck it's like when i make when i make my bodybuilding well you give a fuck but you give a fuck no no you give a fuck but all you give a fuck is like how to about yourself and how to make you better yeah yeah like so i don't think about like that moment i'm like how is this gonna get me better that's all i cared about that's what i kind of mean but before that was how i was before just like you guys i'm guessing that's how you were it's like i just want to get better i just want to get to the next step yeah i felt like i lived in that moment because it was for someone else in a way so your advice is to bring people that are in your circle closer to bodybuilding yeah that's probably the best way to sum that up like the people that are in your circle yeah be there with them in a way you know perform not just for your placing but for them i guess i was gonna ask ian i was gonna ask ian um let's say you have to compete again next year right and now knowing what you know like i can't go back but you can if you wanted to not saying you're going to but if you want if you were gonna go back still a young man you know well you're a little bit gray in the beard but yes uh just superficial just completely superficial if you were gonna if you were gonna go back how would you implement joe's advice because i do think it's valid very valid how would you make it less about yourself yeah i mean it's different because like i've already done it about myself so it's like i don't i don't have the same kind of dynamic exactly as joe's like where i'm you know i think i am doing it for other people in a different sense but it's it's just it's a less it's still a selfish endeavor for me but it's it's selfish in a in a different sense in that it's like i already got what i wanted out of bodybuilding so if i was to do it again it's you'd be able to enjoy it more because it's different yeah it's it's different like i've had time to gain perspective on it and i've kind of washed away the pressure of like you know moving from one moment to the next of just like you know putting that pressure of the next show and the next placing and that kind of and i've kind of lived that you know so it's more just about the love of bodybuilding and being to like you know kind of like joe said like enjoy those moments with the people around me and one of the things where i do look back around bodybuilding like the things that i look so fondly about aren't like the wins or the placings it's like the moment i spent the moments i spent with those people like in that time you know like even just like the the simple things of like getting up in the morning and like doing cardio with melissa or like you know the times after the show i would get to spend with chris and melissa and my family and like you know stuff like that like those are the moments or even just like hanging out with the guys bucking backstage like you know like i have some great memories just like being at shows and like you know doing those kind of things and that's the things that i think i would like want to be there to be more present for those moments and i and i think now that i have that clarity to like actually be mindful of that it makes it easier versus in the time it's like you might think that but then when the push comes to shove you just think about what's directly in front of you which is like performing on stage and being the best you know like the next offseason the next prep that you know things like that but i think it's yeah i think i think i got it i think i kind of have a some a summary of it yeah go for it so a lot of times bodybuilders are very isolated like you start your prep whatever it is and you get very very isolated you're very like you do your cardio by yourself you get you train by yourself or with a training partner but like even if you're with somebody you're very isolated in your own brain right during your prep and then when you get to the show a lot of times like you know someone like cedric for example might sit off away from everybody else and not not kind of mingle with hang out with the guys before going on stage i guess the summary of it that i'm from what i'm hearing is try and bring people into let people yeah let people let people let people in instead of being so isolated that way you can actually create fucking memories that you can remember yeah because because ian's right because the memories i have that are good are the ones like training with paul they're they're with people yeah be they're with yeah they're not just me by myself they're not you sitting backstage fucking with your headphones in about to get on stage like it's none of that is the memories that you have when you leave bodybuilding you know they're all the the like experiences and like the personal relationships that are developed and the things like that and i think those are the things i would really want to like just be more mindful of experiencing and like doing it for those reasons why i'm doing it because of the the parts of prep that i enjoyed where like the you know where it's like you're starting prep again it's like be more mindful like hey going and training with different people and creating those relationships going out to flying out somewhere to film with somebody and like you know creating those memories or you know even around the show like those kind of things are the things i would want to like dive into more to create more like lasting experience and like you know moments in it you know sorry guy go ahead what do you think the reason is that i think most bodybuilders do isolate themselves and don't want to be around people and want to be by themselves because i was like that too especially close to a show very closed off very emotionless drugs i feel like that's something that like 99% of bodybuilders do okay the most obvious answer is the drugs and i'm sorry to say it i don't yeah some people take you you take drugs in the offseason too and we're not like it'd be not first of all you don't you take a lot more drugs and you take different drugs and you take it's drugs mixed with caloric deficit i think it's yeah it's not a lack of energy drugs no no it's not just the drugs i'm not saying it's just the drugs so your drugs is one being fucking hungry is fucking to pressure of of doing well get trying to get on stage and win and fucking not be a fucking loser is three like there's a lot of fucking reasons why and number four most bodybuilders are fucking introverts to begin with yeah so it's like you have all these things wrapped up in a ball it makes the perfect storm of like just a fucked up person i think a lot of bodybuilders also convince themselves that they need to be that yes you know the last couple of months for the last month you need to be that like you need to be like locked in and like fucking in your thing and like you don't need to be that to be a great bodybuilder i think there's a lot of power a lot of that's why i asked because i thought that was hold on i don't i don't think i don't think being the locked in hardcore bodybuilder is wrong i think no way i'm not saying that i didn't say that yeah okay well okay i'm sorry i might have took i'm saying i'm saying that i think people think you have to be i think that that if you can be and i think that that works great but i think if you also realize that you cannot be that person and still be a great bodybuilder yeah you can have those relationships and you know do go to the social events you think you have to miss and do these things differently than you might have done the first time you know yes in my experience when i used to compete sorry no no no the only difference in my experience i used to work a regular job when i competed so regular people don't know much about bodybuilding so you get to that last month or two before i show and everyone can see your face is getting caved in you know they can see you're getting ready for something and all the stupid questions start yeah the last month you don't want to be around that you know so i used to go but but i think bodybuilders in general and i'm not talking about that paul i think those people like i'm not talking about i think when i'm saying let people in i'm saying like your friends your family like like when i was bodybuilding i would stop answering the fucking phone because i just didn't i just want to be left alone i was like just leave me alone i'm hungry i'm tired i won't talk to nobody i just want to go do my fucking training session and go watch tv and eat those little fucking shitty meal i have to eat so it's like i just um i i'm not saying we should just let in everybody i'm saying if you make the prep or the show about more than yourself which is what joe was saying if you don't have kids the way to do that is to make relationships if you remember things from the shows you remember like the guys you talked to backstage like like ian was doing shots with me backstage i was i was literally waiting for you to give me i was gonna say like you know one of my best like like my last shows like we were just sitting backstage and a lot of shows i'd be sitting there you know want to go in the corner lay down put my feet up and just like think i had to be like that but we were chilling there joking around we're fucking taking shots of vodka backstage like we were just like having a good time you know yeah and then ian went out and he won yeah so i'm not but but also i'm not saying like being the hardcore bodybuilder is bad i like that i like being that guy but but know that you don't have to be that guy if you don't want to be that guy no one to turn it on and turn it off that's where i was going with yeah like like if you look at oors right oors is that guy when he's training he looks like fucking like an animal but then he'll go and he'll fucking do a training session with the trend twins yeah so it's like he's learned how to like turn it on and off turn it on and off yeah and i think that's i think if i was going to give anybody the advice or the people the person asking the question and dp bodybuilding if you're asking the question i would say let people in no one to turn on and off the hardcore fucking attitude so that you can enjoy the relationships of bodybuilding because that's the shit that you're going to remember fucking 10 years after you're done guy do you have anything else to add to that no i think we had a one-liner in college where our captain would always say time to flip the switch and i think there's a time to flip it on and there's a time to flip it off yeah agree um if you could eliminate one pose from the mandatory posing which would it be and why front double biceps i sucked at it i was gonna say i'm only answering this selfishly if i answer this i'm gonna say uh i'm gonna say that's i want to say the ab and thigh but i know it's important it's ab and thigh or side tricep i was gonna say i was gonna say side tricep what about most muscular don't you think but that's a that's the fun pose man it's a fun pose but it's not like one that okay i sways a panel i agree with you that it's not the technical one but if i'm talking about bodybuilding in the sport i want to keep the most muscular okay i'd rather i'd rather get rid of the side tricep or the ab and thigh i try yeah really yeah because the front and back double are the most critical you you expose the most weaknesses in a front and back double yeah that's why i hate it the side chest is side chest is the better of the two sides you could really get get rid of the front lat spread to be honest because like you have a back lat spread that's actually showing the back and you have a front double bicep showing the from the front with the like with the waist exposed so like i i think really a front lat is actually the most out of all the poses because even if you do side chest versus side tricep side chest you can hide your midsection you can do a bunch of things you know like you can pose to create things where you can't hide things quite as well in the side tricep so i think it shows a purpose ab and thigh definitely shows a purpose i think front lat actually has by far the least purpose of all the poses that's a good point i agree with that that's true yeah yeah go do you have a good front front lat spread i think i do have a really good front last wait a minute wait a minute do you think you have you have all good poses or do you know you have a bad pose no my my front doubles my worst pose is it really my front double well maybe not now but it was in uh texas no no more motherfucker so i think you just get too crunchy in that pose i think you're just too like this no he's not what are you talking about oh wait maybe maybe i don't think he does that who i do what just likes to argue with me before you know i think i think i think i think i could be right you know what yeah you know what joe you could you could um stand to open that up like one or two inches yeah like instead of this like just like bring down my oh it might bring them out yeah yeah you might look bigger it might give you more like listen don't do the hunter labrata hunter does like this yeah he's like yeah yeah but you're doing the opposite you're kind of like really close yeah you're making yourself too scrunch like crunchy and if anybody can stand to open it's you you got fucking massive arms right yeah i would open that shit up like one or two inches what do you think i agree you're white i'm glad i came i'm glad i came up with that guy no i think he's over to be brad double no wait ian what do you think uh i don't entirely agree i think it looks good but i i would like to say it look good i'd like to say it i didn't say it was good wait i need to see it the other way to compare because i i think there is a good chance that it won't take your shirt off let's see a front double come on there's a good chance that i don't think it looks better you know he's gonna show us that looks better you want you want to take my shirt off oh no no this is the way you guys want me to do it that looks that looks that looks better it could give you more tape that will close in like the way you had it no no no no that's perfect right there okay that that's two yeah right there right there yeah yeah i don't disagree i need to see it in a pose full shot but i yeah i think it could be beneficial it's a small change shut up shut up guy tell me that's not coolie why what the fuck why can't i drink sugar-free coolie it's even funny it'd be even funny if that was coolie powder yeah that's what i was thinking you got a picture of it why can't i drink it's not the powder it's the frozen brick that you just drop it all and you put the water that's what i used to drink as a kid my dad would just make frozen orange juice like that that's all i drank yeah um fued hear me out hostile foot slippers what what the fuck is that about dude we signed this kid i like how we had to say foot slippers as if there's hand slippers all right our head slippers there's only one kind of slipper you just need to say slippers i just want to show you guys what's with the there's a lot of fucking 19 year olds man that are like slippers and like that kind of shit now i don't walk around my house without something on my feet me too really nowadays i can't no i hate it are we done with the foot fucking my house i'm like you guys are so fucking old like oh look at those things again you gotta start wearing some who's old you don't wear slippers i mean bare feet not even socks yeah you're good guy i wear slippers like periodically really you don't wear them all the time for it no yeah you got a lot of carpet in your basement though in my basement yes yeah it's different it's different i have no carpet you have no carpet in your basement joe do you like carpet in the basement it depends it's like a freshly cleaned rug you know it's all right no no no i'm talking about a shaggy like one of those shaggy rugs oh no no like an 80s like an 80s area rug that shit gets stuck in who had loves that shit i like a big fucking rug really a really messy rug oh yeah yeah like they didn't cut the corners or anything just fucking all over you want it coming out the underwear huh i want it just a disaster like fucking like an old tennis ball kind of fuzzy looking it's been bald for so long i just want to fucking i just want to mess you want some seaweed down there i want to comb it i want to comb it but are you okay if that hair travels into the back yeah i'm fine you're fine no wait wait you gotta draw a line for that like the butt okay full asshole hair okay hold on hold on no that's that traps odors i'm just fucking talking shit so we can have a laugh in all honesty i like a good bush but clean on the edges that's gotta be manic like i want it to look like like my beard like guy it's like this not just like that guy guy guy guy it's like this you take the pants off there's no hair you can't tell but as soon as you peek it's just poof it's like the cartoon you pull the pants out at what age at what age did this develop in you was this something older in life i'm sure when you were younger you weren't as soon as i hit 40 i was like yeah yeah no i can't say it no just leave it oh my god listen i gotta give this kid a shout out we just we just signed this kid this kid's fucking 19 years old yeah it's crazy looking jacob i think oh oh shit 19 that's wild bro i look like this at 25 man what the fuck he looks like a ginger aquaman with that hair he's got some feet slippers on him i'm gonna make him change feet slippers i'm gonna make him ginger aquaman i'm gonna make him change his instagram to the fucking ginger aquaman that's a great guy um oh no don't do one of these what your dad is inside you and blah blah blah oh no i don't like those ones are you going backwards or forwards kind of thing yeah yeah uh i'm not going anywhere no question i'm going backwards are you i'm not going inside my mom i'm going backwards to my dad fuck it yeah yeah you're right yeah you're right yeah yeah fuck this guy says correct answers back and forth both no question just know we appreciate all the effort you've been putting out thank you very much um did paul did paul finally touch net no i sent you guys a video bullshit that's not a fucking regulation net no he touched he touched like a nine foot rim net so he touched like eight feet yeah well i put my basketball in my driveway the net as high as it can go i'm assuming that's why won't you just do it at the gymnasium i will i'd have an opportunity to okay me and you my daughter's basketball season ended her new one starts soon me and you're going to go this weekend okay well no she doesn't have a game this weekend well she's got a game i think at two weekends let's go to the college we're just two old guys are going to show up at the gym randomly there must be like a high school or something near you guys there is outdoor gym like an outdoor yeah there's there's there is one for it i know one is right on the corner paul you can't touch net i'll be embarrassed i can't touch net no i used to be able to touch the rim i can't even touch a bottom 35 years ago oh yes i can my god wait wait wait wait guys say you can touch mesh now too no i can absolutely touch net 100% both of you can't i absolutely can i could touch away i got a hundred bucks i got a hundred bucks as both of you can't i know paul can't i'll find a bat i'd be willing to say that guy guy can probably graze net no i dude i i had a 36 inch vertical in college i can touch net yeah but you're 44 now exactly 43 guys hey paul guys like 25 years ago i jumped three feet i used to be able to i used to be able to hit the bottom of the backboard no problem that's high that's higher than the net i believe you used to be able to i don't think you can anymore i definitely think i can your tendons and your achilles are shit now they probably beat the fuck up i mean here's a spot they're all windstrawled out they're dried out dried out tendons i'm hard basketball then i'm with you does paul have any picks of when he was his biggest in the offseason no just your old videos paul never got big in the offseason i did i got up to 248 wow thank you yes lean 248 he didn't catch the sarcasm there uh if you guys i thought you were actually impressed it was very lean it was like under 10% body fat no it wasn't if you guys i was waiting for that i was waiting if you guys ever no if you guys ever lost significant muscle from a diet or injury how long did it take for the same amount of muscle to come back depends on the drugs you take after you know true after shoulder surgery i went down to 193 from 234 really yeah but how fast did you get i had two i had back-to-back surgeries oh you had them both done at the same time yeah it depends on the surgery like yeah well like when you did that guy and you like to lose that much weight you obviously stopped eating the same for sure i was only eating two three times a day because i had no need to eat six times yeah see see because like i've had some times where i've been like you know got surgery or something i'm out of the gym and i never even if i didn't train for two months i didn't lose any weight because i just kept eating the same yeah i always thought it was pointless to eat all that food if i wasn't you i'm just trying to try to keep the weight up you know yeah but i didn't want to get fat so but i also knew once i incorporated six meals again my weight would sky we'll go back up pounds in two weeks once i started back up yeah dude i started eating i started eating more because chat gpt told me to yeah because i was feeling like shit because we were training me and paul like i'm still training like this side of my body i went home one day i was feeling horrible so i'm like just chat gpt and some shit back and forth and it's basically like you're not eating enough so i'm like okay so i put some more calories in it's been like fucking two weeks i gained 20 pounds no i'm 240 right now oh you gotta get that weight down i know yeah like what the fuck as soon as i started eating i got one of the are you board dashing i would no i swear to god i went up to four or five meals a day and like my body's just like get the reddit true tight end you know i got it yeah anyway okay do a couple more then we'll go uh hmm i mean i could start my food do you think it's a downfall to not have a lifting partner so you can do half reps after failure but can't do assisted reps i always loved having a partner i think certain bodies i just i just enjoy the the uh company yeah like especially when you're doing a prep together like i don't need anybody to push me i honestly don't i have that in myself to do and i don't do four strips you know so it's just like i just like knowing that we're in the trenches together and then just someone to talk to to like on those drives to the gym yeah yeah yeah it's just it's just way better than lottery i agree that's me and paul 100% i didn't five years i didn't need paul it was better i trained better without paul whatever but i had so much fun fucking hanging out with him that i was like i can get yeah yeah i never i never train a lot but i think certain body parts are more you know i hate i hate uh two questions and we'll finish one for everybody one for paul best thanksgiving side dish that you love that's good stuffing mashed potatoes and gravy i was gonna say mashed potatoes is my thing i like the sweet potato casserole with the fucking marshmallows melting on top oh that's such a fucking that's pretty fucking bomb we don't do that in canada fucking guy here you go you like them collard greens too what was that was that like two of a black answer oh yeah it's fucking deep south yeah i didn't say sweet potato pie actually that's my favorite i think the casserole is more black does your wife know about this i don't have a wife i don't need the girl you're dating does she know about this what this love you have for the deep south dish i love i love it deep south soul food collard greens are great love them does she know you love the soul food i think i think honestly black thanksgiving is better than white thanksgiving uh-huh you're italian so when i was in college after so while paul's so disappointed there's no italian thanksgiving i don't like i don't like what is it i don't like lasagna you got a lasagna to start lasagna is not a thanksgiving dish dude in italy italian families it is regular italian food yeah that's every dinner we get like monogol like as like our appetizer but like that's not a side dish it's our appetizer but like when i was right after i graduated college i lived with a bunch of my buddies we all went home for thanksgiving we all brought back a bunch of food and my buddies had like collard greens and sweet potato pie like their thanksgiving is way better sweet potato pie sounds absolutely way better i'm gonna go with mashed potatoes and gravy though i crush i can crush pounds of mashed potatoes it's gotta be fresh potatoes though not like that box yeah not at all no i'm good with the box shit too ah yeah giving me any mashed potatoes and gravy really um okay we're gonna finish with this trivia question for paul from joseba oh joseba name one authentic serbian dish we won't have this last time right no no we didn't yeah serbian we're doing serbian this time serbian okay they like to eat they like to eat goulash it's like a it's like a sloppy stew kind of paul if you're fucking right man a lot of goulashes i had no idea that was serbian i think it is it's russian i think it's from that region goulash is actually a hungarian dish not serbian yes hey i'm pretty close no alexa yeah he's always so close i'm always a little bit never right but close but very close not too close but you're kind of close you had the last aryan right part but it was okay i didn't have to think about it either i knew that right off the top of my head give me a serbian dish me yeah you i just gave you one no it was hungarian it was hungarian serbs what do the serbs eat um they eat a lot of pork they eat a lot of pork can i help you just because you said it last week the savapi savapi is serbian oh it's serbian yes it was a trick question well again it's the same area serbia you know hungaria they're all right in the same area there's no hungaria there's no such thing as hungaria hungry hungaria new country just like new jersey hungaria he said it was such fucking authority you did from hungaria it's funny because it sounds right it does i know it's a delivery fucking i swear to god the addition of you to this podcast has made it 50% more racist oh yeah is that right i'm not racist these are just facts these are just you're just kind of racist you just get a really big kick out of watching asian guys pose because you just wait for the back shot but my usual rate well nine times nine and a half times out of ten i'm right i will give you that it seems to be an epidemic okay there you go that's all i'm saying okay it's a trait that i've noticed among certain cultures that's all why do you think that is what do you think it is in their like in their dna of like how asians have been over history that created so that they have really good lower limbs like quads and calves but not great uh i wonder i wonder evolution why that is like is it like like how they would carry their rice or something like what's it why are they you know they like they did like lunges as they were carrying rice is that what you mean you know like what is it okay we gotta go before this gets anywhere there was no pulling movements then obviously you know what we might skip the prayer this week just leave it at that yeah i do love this come on paul say a prayer for us before we go come on okay that's a serbian prayer yeah okay come on uh i got nothing planned though at all so i'm gonna put that out there it's okay it's gonna be you did a great one last week with nothing two in a row two in a row two in a row why do you always fucking shit to bed when i'm here no you got it it's not just you guys don't let it get you you got it yeah don't let it get you you got it give me something good all right let us bow our heads dear leader well um should probably well i'm not racist i want to put that out there first i'm just you know i like people of all color all races all cultures i just uh there's certain things but you like some more than others sure no no you can't say that like in what way though it's okay like i like some of their customs define what racist is you don't have to like you don't have to like them all the same paul right certain customs i like better you know yeah and i've noticed some have better physiques in certain areas yeah i agree yeah you know you know ian's the most racist on the whole podcast i'm just trying i'm just trying to get paul to come over to the dark side so in that you know in that uh in that regard um um may you bless us with uh insight um um fairness um respect for one another um and yeah just uh good times all together and uh you shit the fucking bed this week you suck you suck so bad you got two in a row and then you fucking lost it you shanked it well thankfully guys here to save me like you did last time no yeah you know what guys say something nice for us we can add okay make it quick don't paul there's a lot of ums in your prayers man i i know i'm working on my speech show them how to do it guy go ahead all right you want to say bower heads because i find that hilarious every time i've never seen anybody pray i've never seen anybody pray with uncertainty before insane most uncertain prayers you'll ever imagine it was actually pretty impressive thank you thank you thank you someone here by the way for the record i'm not racist can you just keep that in there for purgatory he's still trying to get into heaven here you know i am roman catholic yeah i'm sure you gotta go to mass bro yeah you need a couple confessions paul i'm gonna admit it it's been a while yeah i probably should go in the hey come on lead us off let's get out of here it's late come on paul give me something good i thought you were gonna do something good yeah okay just a quick one give me something italian guy all right give us a quick italian amen amen all right see you guys next week all right see you boys