 quals, t& enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu enqu informed about peptides. So I wanted to have you on to talk about it a little bit. Can you tell me before we get into, I want to talk about Reditrutide today, but before we get into it, I want to kind of learn a little bit about you. So let's just start with like, where'd you go to school and how did you learn so much about peptides and all that? Yeah, man. So I did my undergrad at Utah State in exercise science and I went and got a master's degree in performance psychology at the University of Denver. Pretty science literature heavy. So that was kind of my introduction to being able to like read research and understand what people are talking about and kind of ask questions about it and dissect it. What got me into peptides was an injury, played football in college and my freshman year had a catastrophic knee injury. Like tore my ACL, PCL, MCL, and meniscus in my left leg got rolled up by a couple of linemen and it was nasty. So everyone gets off the pile. My legs point in the wrong direction. No way. Not a good, not a good thing. So I had, uh, my would be father-in-law at the time. Everyone loves him. Really, really kind dude. So he got me into an ortho right away. They checked me out and he was like, Hey, there's, we don't have a good surgery for the PCL, like the ACL and the PCL together. They're synergistically terrible. You're probably not going to play again. I don't even know that I want to operate on it. Cause I just don't think it's going to be worth the squeeze. We can rehab you. It'll probably be about 18 months and, um, but plan on your new 100% being about 60 to 70% of what you ever were. And I just was, I'm kind of a stubborn, stubborn guy. So I was like, all right, cool. Thanks. And went on my way to find solutions and just kind of went down the rabbit hole and found peptides. So that was, um, that was 2012. So hold on, let me back you up a bit just cause that's really interesting to me. So I don't know if you know any of my story, but I had a motorcycle accident about, I don't know, eight months ago or something now. And I've been using BPC and TB since. So for that same like kind of reason is to help propel me. Did you talk to any doctors or anything at the time that pointed you in the direction of peptides or how did you find, like, where did you all of a sudden come across peptides? Google. Cause I'm just thinking like 2012, 2012, that wasn't, nobody was talking about peptides in 2012. Yeah, no, I couldn't, I, it was hard to find info on them. That was the thing. So I did, I, I talked to a few doctors and they all, none of them had any idea what I was talking about. There's, I just couldn't find any help there. So did as much digging as I could and got into, you know, PubMed, Google scholar side of things and just started going down there. Cause I was skeptical. It's like, I was, all the, sounds like star Wars names. Like, I don't know what any of this is. I want to, I want to ruin myself. But, um, the more I started digging, the more positive everything looks. So that's exactly what I did. PPC and, and TB-500. Can I ask you something? You said it was 2012, right? Was I right about that or? Yeah. So where would, where were you, I don't know if this is an inappropriate question to ask, but where were you sourcing peptides at that time? Just gray market. There were, there were, there were web, there were websites online selling that stuff at the time, but I, you kind of had to dig. Yeah. It wasn't nearly as, as private. Like I don't even know if I think, I think Instagram was around back then. Yeah. There was just like, yeah, there were just no resources. Yeah. I had to dig a little bit, but I found I was able to find some sources. So we'll get into BPC. I don't want to cover too many peptides in one episode because it's just going to be, I know there's a lot of information and there's a lot of misinformation online and stuff like that. So I want to kind of go through one peptide per episode kind of, and really dig into it. So we'll save the recovery peptides for, uh, a different time, but fast forward a bit. I, what I noticed on your Instagram, you started bodybuilding. So take me through kind of how fast the injury healed and then when the bodybuilding started. Yeah. So, um, long story short, I was full contact, full speed six months later. So that happened in fall camp and I was full speed in, in spring ball. So you went back to playing football. Yeah. Yeah. I played three seasons after that. That's crazy. I had a full recovery. Yeah. So that kind of, that sold me and I just geeked out on him ever since it's been really fascinated by what exactly is going on here. Just wanting to understand like mechanistically what's happening when we take these things. So that's just kind of continued since, you know, last, what, 14 years now. Um, as far as bodybuilding, dude, football did it to me by the time I was done playing football. I would, I kind of got to the point where I was enjoying the gym more than the, more than the culture in the game. So when I finished playing football, it was just kind of a natural transition, um, competing and bodybuilding. My first show was in November. So it's kind of one of those things that, um, I worked in supplement stores, been a personal trainer and strength coach for, you know, years since college, um, been around the fitness space and new and kind, you know, as much as you can, you can't know until you go through it, but yeah, had a sense of how intense it was and, um, had kids, had a family. So it was always kind of one of those things like, ah, when the time's right, I'll get to it and made a public goal at the beginning of last year that I would, uh, I'd compete by the end of the year. And so, yeah. So you did the show. We jumped in November. Yeah. How did you do with the show? Did well, dude. Um, surprisingly well placed, um, second in my class or overall. So it was an amazing experience. So everybody who does the show, everybody has to do a show one time before they really know what it feels like. You can't really tell somebody what it feels like after doing, after doing the show, what just quickly, briefly, what was the experience like? Is it something you want to do again? Or is it like a one and done? Dude, I've got to do it again. It was, yeah. And I probably won't compete till next year. A lot of the feedback I got was like, you just need a little more, you need more size. So yeah. Yeah. Working on putting some size on now, but, um, just, I mean, a transformational experience. Yeah. Such a cool experience. And I'm definitely going to have to get back in mentally too. You go through like this kind of mental transformation. Cause you don't really know how far you can dig. You don't know really what your body is capable of until you dig into those like deeper body fat levels and really like transform your body like that. So there's a mental transformation that happens that I think people get people almost get addicted to that more than they get addicted to the physical side of it. So I think so. Yeah. That was, that was it for me. I was going in. And I, my attitude was like, Hey, this is kind of a bucket list thing. I'll do it, get the experience. And, um, I wanted to kind of treat it as sort of a meditative practice. Like, let me learn about myself. And I'm a fat, most of us are, I think I'm a fat kid at heart. So I knew it was going to be tough. And, uh, yeah, dude, it, it's that last month, last, you know, month, five, six weeks really like takes you to new places where you really kind of have to sit with yourself and, and just kind of observe sit in the suck. If you're actually going to get up on stage, not look like a bag of potatoes, sit in the suck is a good one. What, um, what was it like with a family? Was it hard with kids? Yeah, it was tough, man. And I prepped during football season. I was coaching my son's team. It was just a lot, but, um, that was one of my things with my wife. I was like, Hey, I'm going to, I'm, I'm going to handle all the food. I'm commit, like I'm choosing to do this. I'm not going to turn into a big dickhead. So I need you to let me know if that starts happening. Um, cause it's my choice. I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna make everyone else suffer too. How many times did she let you know? It was a couple, a couple towards, towards the end. And it wasn't even so much like, Hey, you're being a punk. It was more just like, are you in there? Like, are you okay? Cause I just kind of started getting quiet, you know, like you just kind of start to zone. That's it more. It's funny that you said that more than the dickhead, it's the, like you sit in solitude and you just, you're alone. You're kind of alone in your head. Cause like nobody really knows how you feel. And you're kind of just like, I'm going through this. I just need to be left alone to go through this. Yeah. That's really interesting. Um, you said you're a fat kid at heart. I have a couple of friends that are not fat kids at heart, which I'm very jealous of people who know me, know me from the podcast. No, I am definitely a fat kid at heart. I have a struggle with food. I wouldn't say I have like a, an eating disorder. Some people would say I do, but, uh, the term food noise was not something I knew about until recently. But for people that are watching that don't know what it means. Food noise is that constant, like, when am I going to eat? What am I going to eat next? Kind of, am I describing that properly or do you have a better, a better way to describe it? Yeah. So that is with me all the time. So when ozempic came out, I was like, Oh, I'm kind of interested. I took it once or twice. I think I took two doses total. It just made me feel awful. I didn't like the way I felt. I was really nauseous. I was like, you know what? This isn't worth it. I have enough discipline to like not eat. If I don't want to, I'm not gonna, I just don't want to do this. Then, um, Trisepatide came out and I tried that and I didn't really get great results. And then I heard about Reditrutide. Trisepatide gave me pretty good results, but I didn't take, I don't think I took it long enough or, or like consistently enough, but then Reditrutide came out and I heard really positive things. So I want to talk about that today just because, uh, it seems to be the most popular of all the GLP, even though it's not just the GLP. Um, it seems to be the most popular of all the weight loss drugs. I'll just call it that. Um, can you, I guess first let's just describe what Reditrutide is exactly. Yeah. So Reditrutide is interesting because you mentioned ozempic, uh, that's semaglutide. Then we had Trisepatide and then we've got Reditrutide and they each kind of build on each other. This has kind of been the process. So semaglutide was powerful. A lot of people felt like absolute garbage on it. That was my experience too. I just felt sick. Yeah. And so I was, I was about like a good, maybe week and a half. I was like, this is crazy. So, um, so semaglutide is just like a pure GLP one. Trisepatide is GLP one with a GIP and the GIP does a lot to help with the nausea and just feeling crappy. Um, Reditrutide is a triple agonist. So it's got the GLP one, the GIP and a glucagon agonist in there as well. And so the benefit there is that the glucagon is going to be a direct, uh, fat burner. It increases metabolic rate. Okay. So that's powerful. Before we go on though, you said GLP, GIP, and what was the third one for Redit? Glucagon. Glucagon. Okay. Can you just take me through what each of those does before we go on from there? Like, okay, exactly. Exactly. What is for people who don't know what a GLP is? What is a GLP? So GLP is, so we have G we create GLP one on our own. This is all stuff that happens naturally in our bodies. Um, GLP one is actually incredible. The problem is, is that we've got an enzyme that breaks it down in about two minutes. Okay. So after we eat, we release GLP one, um, and it's, it's broken down very quickly. And so then what these do is they extend the life of, of GLP one, essentially, right. Um, synthetically with the peptide and GLP one does a lot of really cool stuff. It does decrease appetite. Um, and this is what I think is so cool about these drugs is that they're, we look at them mainly as, as weight loss drugs, but, um, GLP one specifically is incredible in terms of what it does. It's incredibly good for, for lipids, um, inflammation. It has a direct impact on the brain, which is when I talk to people about these, and I think this is a huge, um, a huge disservice that there's a lot of great doctors out there, but a huge disservice that the medical community does with these is they'll put people on a, on a GLP one, um, towards appetite being the most common currently and put them on such a high dose that their appetite's just nuked. Right. And so they can't eat, they don't want to eat. And a lot of these people, they're not training. They've got no sort of nutritional help or guidance. So they might be eating solid, like 20 grams of protein a day. And so along with their appetite goes, their metabolism, they're losing nearly an equal amount of muscle. Um, and I think in an ideal scenario, understanding everything that these drugs do aside from weight loss, like a lot of the benefits here with, with lipids, with, uh, inflammation, with blood sugar support. I mean, the, there's a ton of benefits here. And with the brain, um, again, all independent of weight loss, the ideal scenario is you really want to find a dose that's going to allow you to practice the behaviors of the person that's going to live in the body that you want to live in because the, the impact on the brain is that it, it increases neuroplasticity in the brain. If you can do that, you can rewire behaviors and habits. And so ideally we want to, we don't want to be at such a high dose that we can't eat, that we can't digest our food, that we're feeling crappy all the time. We can't exercise. We want to have enough. The food noise is gone, but we can still eat. We can actually practice like eating behaviors that are going to lead to whatever the goal is. So are you saying, sorry, you're saying the longer, like it's basically setting you up for like the longer you do whatever you're doing, that's going to become your new normal. Exactly. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It's putting your brain in that environment. Like is that relearn how to live? Forgive me if this is a stupid question, but is that fluff or is that real? Like, is that, can you really do that? Can we really rewire the way we think? Am I not going to be a fat kid forever? It's a good question. I think there's a man, dude, it's so, there's a lot of directions that that comes from. I think there's a genetic component to that for sure. But additionally, like the food environment that we live in is rough. I mean, the, the, the way that food's been designed today, like the processed food, I think is, is very much designed to kind of hijack our ability to, to, to choose. No, I understand. I listen, I understand there's a multitude of factors that come into play when you're talking about like why somebody eats the way they eat or, you know, culturally, whatever. There's a whole bunch of different reasons. I guess what I'm asking though, is there a way to measure that? Like when people say like it changes the neuro, neuroplasticity of your brain and it's going to rewire the way you think, and then your new habits are going to become your forever habits. Is that, is there a way to measure that? Or are we just hoping that that's the case? We know it increases BDNF. So that's brain derived neurotropic factor. Um, that's a, when we've got high levels of that in the brain, it, it creates an environment for neuroplasticity. And that, that environment is basically the environment of habit creation and formation. So we, that can go either way. Right. And I think that's part of the issue is people go from a, you know, poor eating habits and then they just stop eating period. And when they come off of the drug, like they've got nothing to go back to. So they just go back to what they did. Um, but these, uh, GLP ones are being studied in alcoholism and in addictive behaviors. So there is research on, on actual like behavioral change, not just, uh, you know, decreasing hunger signals. In addictive behaviors, if you were doing something more while you're on a GLP one, would you be more addicted to it then? You could theoretically. That's the cool thing though, is that, um, food noise is kind of a, um, I think a relatable, uh, benefit that, that everyone can kind of relate to, but with GLP ones, we see a decreased desire for, for those addictive behaviors, whether it's, you know, uh, alcohol or gambling or whatever it may be. Okay. So the second one that you mentioned was GIP. What is GIP? Yeah. So GIP is a glucose dependent insulin, a tropic polytethyde. It's quite the mouthful. What does that mean? But it, um, it's, so it's released when we eat, especially when we eat carbs and fats, its main job is really just to help the body handle incoming nutrients. So nutrient partitioning. Okay. Yep. It, it increases insulin secretions specifically when glucose is present. So just, uh, it, it helps us to handle nutrient partitions. Perfect. Helps us handle nutrients better. So if it's a nutrient partitioning aspect of this as a bodybuilder, even if I wasn't using this for weight loss, let's say I wasn't even in prep, let's say I was in the offseason. I still want to use this just to get my nutrients to go where I want them to. You 100% can. I think that's a really cool, um, a really cool use case for it. I think the offseason is really, it's part of the reason I think that people should look more into the bodybuilding space. If you didn't have the reputation we do of being reckless. We're always, we're always the guinea pigs though. Like people, I always say this shit ends up in bodybuilding and then it ends up on the mainstream, like five years later. Anyway, I'm sorry. I totally agree. So it's, it's all, it's all dose dependent. I think like a low dose, uh, red, true tide in the offseason is a fantastic idea. Cause when we think about what are the rate limiting factors that either cut an offseason, offseason short or limit an offseason, we want to grow as much as possible. It's, it's always going to boil down to metabolic health. So inflammation or nutrient partitioning, you know, once you start getting too fat, you don't grow as well either. So yeah, it can play a huge role. Is this a side, kind of a side question. It's not about red or true tide, but is there a peptide that only has the other two and doesn't have the GLP? Because if I could get the nutrient partitioning and the glucagon alone, then I would be a great offseason bodybuilder. That's a great question. I don't, I'm not aware of it. I know there's a couple that have the GLP and the glucagon. I don't think there's any that don't have the GLP involved. The others that were studied just weren't as effective anyway. Um, but you can, and, and again, it, one of the cool things already true tide is that it isn't as heavy handed on the GLP one side of things as the others have been. Yeah. I noticed that. And we'll get, we'll get into dosing a little bit later and how it fades and whatever. I want to talk to you about that as well. I do think an offseason bodybuilder could take it successfully. So you're so, okay. I got a whole bunch of questions that are going to come later. Is there anything else you want to add to a GIP? Um, no, that's about it. It's yeah. It just helps with nutrient partitioning and it also helps with the, the, the nausea that can be associated with the GLP one. Okay. Glucagon. What would that be described as? So glucagon is, um, it's going to increase metabolic output via a couple mechanisms. So it shifts the, it shifts the system toward fuel mobilization. So towards fat oxidation, which is great. Um, it's also, it also creates kind of a, um, an inefficient environment in the liver. Um, it's called, uh, hepatic futile cycling. So it basically just means that it's, it, uh, it increases gluconeogenesis in the liver, but inefficiently. So the liver will actually use like the glycerol backbone of fat that's being burned to create carbohydrates to be stored, um, in the, in the muscle or in the liver. And that's expensive. It's an expensive process. So again, another stupid question. Does that mean you can actually reduce like a fatty liver? If somebody had like a fatty liver, like overly fatty liver, like that would kind of reverse that whole process? 100%. Yeah. So in the, in the phase two trials, they actually saw it was like an average 82% decrease in liver fat. No way. Huge benefit. Yeah. Oh my God. Okay. The scary thing about, I think the scary thing for me, and we're going to get, we're going to keep going back to these things, but I'm going to kind of jump around a little bit. The scary thing about peptides for a lot of people is like, I don't know where to get, like, where do I get them? Like, there's so many different places that have peptide or selling peptides now. It's like, how do I know I'm not just getting water in a bottle? You know what I mean? Like, how do I, cause I mean, look, I just don't know, like you get so scared cause you're like, everybody's selling peptides. Not everybody can be having great sources. So I'm like, how do you know, how does somebody know where whatever website they're buying from is reputable? That's a good question. Um, yeah, yeah, this is a really good question because I've, I know a couple, um, a couple of people that actually own like medical clinics and get into conversation with them. And there are some clinics that are, uh, you know, synthesizing their own, their, their, uh, you know, compounding pharmacies and stuff that's actually like made here in the States. A lot of clinics are getting their stuff overseas from, from China as well, which is where most peptide companies are getting theirs. You just got to make sure stuff is tested the best you can. So I think ideally you want to find somewhere that's got third party testing to, to test for, impurities, um, uh, dosing to make sure that, you know, if it's 10 milligram vial, there's actually, you know, close to 10 milligrams in the vial. Um, the third party test will tell you that. Would it be safe to say the more transparent the website is the better, maybe the better version, like the better chances you have that are, that it's legit. Yeah. A hundred percent. Yeah. I think that, yeah, because they've, they've got not only the info, but it also just kind of speaks to the people that are running the company. It's more work. But for example, like in the supplement space, anybody can get third party testing. It, it doesn't mean what it used to mean, I guess. So I just wonder like, is there third party testing? Okay. Is one thing I can look for? What's something else I can look for? If I'm, if I'm looking at a web, it's like, I don't want to ask you where you get your, I mean, I guess I can ask you where you get your pep. It's not illegal, but like, um, like what's a, what's a telltale sign that I would look for if I'm like this, I don't stay away from these guys or go with these guys. What would something be that you would look for? Yeah. What I would look for is actually like, what are they testing for? Okay. So you'll see some, some, um, some tests that just have kind of irrelevant or like not very helpful information. Okay. So you do want to look for purity. Endotoxin is a really good test to look for. Not a ton of companies do that, but that's as really helpful. It's good to know. I mean, endotoxin is definitely not, not helpful. Uh, and with everything coming from China, it's, yeah, that's definitely info you want to have. Would you say a lot of it is trial and error? Because I know like in, I look in the steroid space for a long time as a bodybuilder, you know, you, word of mouth is a big one. You know, if you had a, if you have friends that are dealing with a certain brand or whatever, they're like, okay, I'll try them out at the end of the day though, even with other people speaking highly of a company, you still almost like want to try something yourself and see if you can feel anything. The problem is though, like when you're talking about something like BPC and TB, you know, I guess you can try and measure how fast you healed from an injury, but it's not something you can feel. So, you know what I mean? So it's something you kind of left to your own devices as far as like, I guess, transparency on the website and word of mouth from friends or whoever, I guess is the only way to really do it. Right. I agree. I totally agree. I think there is an, there's ultimately there's an aspect of trust. Yeah. You know, I mean, even with like, if you look into recalls on with pharmaceutical companies, they're very high. So anywhere you go for anything, there's an aspect of trust. But I think, yeah, reputation's big. And then the more info you've got, the more transparency you've got, the safer you're going to be. Okay. So I want to get into, since we kind of, kind of described what it is, it's made up of these three aspects. I wanted to get into like the fat loss side of it and bodybuilding side of it, but something that's really piqued my interest is the health side of it. A lot of times, and on the podcast, a lot of, like I, maybe people I'm beating the drum a little bit too much. People get annoyed with me, but a lot of bodybuilders are dealing with a lot of different issues, whether they be a lot of bodybuilders have fatty liver from taking a lot of growth hormone. A lot of bodybuilders are dealing with high A1Cs, sometimes for the same reason. There's a lot of like different just ailments that bodybuilders deal with and carry with them for like many, many years that eventually lead to other things like they did for me. So can you explain to me, I guess, some of the health benefits, let's get into that first, I've read a true tide on things like, is there an effect on blood pressure, um, um, fasted insulin, you know, just all of these different things, lipids, all that you already mentioned lipids earlier, but can you get into some of the health benefits? Yeah, a hundred percent. So as far as, as far as blood sugar is concerned, it's going to directly improve insulin sensitivity. It's going to make insulin work better and improve nutrient partitioning. So keeps you metabolically healthy longer, which is going to, I mean, that affects just about everything downstream. It's going to have a positive impact on lipids, inflammation, uh, brain health is going to be really good. So, so more stable blood sugar levels is really good. Um, you've got the neuroprotective aspect, so it's going to reduce neuroinflammation, which is another concern for people running PEDs, um, lowers oxidative stress on the brain, um, improves mitochondrial function in neurons. So really helpful increases the BDNF, like I mentioned, um, really helpful for the brain. Um, that's all going to be good for, um, also reduces amyloid beta plaque. So can you explain something you're, you're, uh, you're way above my pay, above my pay grade. Maybe go like, bring it down to my level. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so one of the big concerns with, um, with amyloid beta plaques in the brain, that's leads to Alzheimer's. Okay. And we know that 19-nors increase amyloid beta plaque. So the DECA is the trends. It's pretty popular in the bodybuilding space. Right, right, right. Well, don't they use to combat that? Well, don't they also say that they say Alzheimer's, I think it was Alzheimer's is almost described as a type three diabetes. Don't they think that they say that like, um, really high blood sugar has a lot to do with Alzheimer's as well. So you're kind of helping it from that aspect as well too, I guess. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Exactly. Interesting. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Yeah. So, so go ahead. No, no, go on. Sorry. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Um, I was going to mention the, uh, like cardio benefits. So directly improves, uh, the health of, of, uh, like endothelial function. So the health of blood vessels in general, blood flow, um, increases nitric oxide. Um, interesting thing is, uh, GLP one lowers blood pressure, but glucagon can increase a sympathetic drive, which is the, the fight or flight side of the nervous system. So some people can notice that their, their heart rate might increase while they're on redditrutide, which is something to be aware of. Sure. Dr. Justin Marchegiani That's going to be more dose dependent. And that's kind of the, the, the tight rope that you want to walk. Cause usually we see the, the glucagon aspect kind of kick on above four milligrams a week. Okay. And so that, that's where we see the more steep, uh, incline in terms of fat loss. Right. But again, you, we do want to balance that with like systemic stress. So if you're, if it's too sympathetic, like it's crushing your sleep, then that's going to cause its own issues and, and create its own bottlenecks in terms of the goals you're trying to accomplish. So, um, just one thing to be aware of, um, improves lipid profiles. So it's going to lower, uh, LDL, lower triglycerides, um, reduces oxidative stress, reduces plaque formation. Can I stop you for a sec? Cause there's a, like, obviously there's a huge list of benefits here, right? Yeah. It's, it's massive. We could kind of go on for days, but it sounds like when I hear things like that, like, this is going to sound like a really stupid comparison, but I'm going to say it anyway. Back in the day, there was like this really big coconut oil craze for like, I don't know if you remember it. It was probably during the time of your first bodybuilding show, right? It was around that time, around 2012 to 2015. I don't remember, but I remember coconut oil was like the rave. Like everybody was like MCT oil and coconut oils and MCT oil. And it's like, it will heal your skin and your heart at the same time. And it's also like great for fat loss. And everyone's like putting coconut oil on their face and like eating it and like the whole thing. Right. When I see things like that, I'm like, this is fucking bullshit. This one thing can't be, cannot do all of these things. Right. So obviously this is a drug, so it's different and it comes at you from three different areas. So there's obviously reason for all these health benefits, but I guess, but the main question is not, can it do these things? My main question is how effectively can it do these things? And how soon can I see those results? Because you can claim that it'll lower, like I can make a claim that says it'll lower blood pressure. Right. But is it going to lower my blood pressure by three points? Or is it going to lower it by 30 points? Right. So like, and I'm not saying that you're saying it'll do that, but even if you're saying like it'll lower your A1c, is it going to make it, is it going to bring it from 5.9 to four or is it going to bring it from 5.9 to 5.8? Like that's kind of the question is the, the power of what you're saying and how soon does somebody see those results? That's such a good question. It's a really good point. Honestly, that's where you're going to, that's where the rest of the lifestyle factors come into play. Mm-hmm. Right. So, I mean, blood pressure wise, there's a lot of other factors involved, right? Like how are you managing stress? Are you taking sleep seriously? What does the diet look like? Are you, are you doing cardio? Um, so there's a, there's a lot of factors at play. And then you've got the genetic variable as well. Right. And so it's not, I'll be the last person to say that things move at the same pace for everyone. I think everyone's, everyone's going to have some variability. That's fair. Um, the nice thing is, I think that we're just more literate, like scientifically literate today. There's a lot more interest in, you know, what are, what's the research actually saying? Right. I think, um, back in the day, a lot of, a lot of, you know, the coconut oil craze, a lot of people were just kind of going off of, you know, well, Dr. Oz said, so, you know, so I think there's more literacy. I guess let's just take this. You know, I remember back in the day, flex, flex magazine used to always use the 200 pound body builder. So let's just use the 200 pound male, 200 pound male decides to change his life and is doing everything properly. Let's say he's eating right. You know, he's eating the proper amount of calories, proper amount of, you know, macros he's doing, you know, a little bit of cardio every day, 30 minutes a day or something like that, or four times a week, whatever. So all of these standards are in order. He doesn't drink. He doesn't smoke. He doesn't do it. At that point, can, is there a time limit? Can we say like, how effective is it? Like, is he going to be, see A-50% reduction? Is he going to see a 10% reduction? Is it going to be, is it going to happen in three months, in three years? Like, I just want to give people kind of an idea. The reason why I'm doing this is because people want immediate gratification. All of us do, even all of us, me, you, everybody does to a certain degree. And if they don't get it, they're like, well, this doesn't work. And they're like, fuck it. I don't want to do, I don't want to use this anymore. So I want to give people an idea of like, look, just be patient. It's going to happen. It takes this long and it's this effective. So it's worth it. Like some people don't want to spend the money, right? If it costs, you know, $300 or whatever it is for a bottle of whatever you're using, people got to weigh that factor out too. So that's why I'm asking the effectiveness in time. Yeah. I usually say 12 weeks is if you've got things dialed in, I'm assuming we're dealing with an adult here that, that can make big boy decisions, like get things in order lifestyle wise. Right. I'd say 12 weeks is a really good timeframe to, to start seeing the needle move significantly. So I've got clients that have come off of, you know, blood pressure meds off, um, like, uh, been able to come off metformin. You've had clients come off of blood pressure meds. Yeah. Really? Yeah. Now were those really overweight people or were they deaf kind of healthy people that had blood pressure problems like me? Both. Really? Both. Yeah. That's, that's, that's, that's a big thing because blood pressure meds are something that bodybuilders, look, a lot of bodybuilders take blood pressure meds preventatively. They don't even, before they even need them, they start taking like an, you know, like, uh, what's it called? Like Telmosartan's pretty, uh, yeah. Yeah. So, um, if you don't need to take a, uh, if I'm a bodybuilder and you're telling me there's a peptide out there where it can lower my blood pressure and also do a lot of nutrient partitioning for me. Now I'm like, I'm kind of, it's starting to sound really good just as a use all the time kind of drug, as long as it's not crushing my appetite, getting away from the health for one second. Is it cause I keep the bodybuilding aspect keeps sparking my interest. Is it something I can take? Cause since there's a GLP, obviously I need to be able to be able to eat as much food as possible. Like bodybuilders are taking the opposite kind of drugs to make them eat more. If I'm taking, let's, that's actually a good question. If I'm taking retitrutide for the nutrient partitioning and glucagon aspects and then I want to take, uh, like an MK six, seven, seven for the appetite increase, is that going to work with that combo? Like do what I want it to do. That's such a good question. Um, man, I've never eaten so ravenously. As I did on MK six, seven, seven, I've never experienced hunger like that. Um, yeah. So the cool thing is that you're a lot of these benefits, again, these benefits are all, um, the weight loss is great, but the benefits are, uh, seen outside or, or, uh, non-attached to the weight loss. And so just having the GLP one signaling, um, the, the GIP, the, the glucagon signaling is going to improve insulin sensitivity. It's going to signal all of those downstream cascades to, to keep things, uh, more in check. Granted, if you're, you could offset them, right? Cause in a, in a, like a, in a growth scenario, where you would be taking something to stimulate your appetite, um, you also wouldn't be taking a huge dose of, of reddit cause you need the digestion, right? If you're not digesting your food, then right. But you're stuck, but you're saying the glucagon doesn't kick into over four milligrams. If I'm taking four, you'll get some, and it's, it's not necessarily like a threshold, right? You're going to get some effect, but that's really where we see things start to kind of take off. So if I want to take one milligram of redditrutide, is it, and also this is a really stupid question too. Is it retatratide or is it redditrutide? Because I know the doctor that created it said it's retatratide. I know that's, yeah, apparently that is, I just think it sounds stupid. We'll continue to call it redditrutide. Yeah, it just sounds like I'm, yeah, I feel like you put the emphasis on the wrong syllable on that one. I prefer redditrutide. I'm sorry, I got lost here. So if I'm taking one milligram of redditrutide, am I still getting, I'm still getting a nutrient partitioning, I'm still getting glucagon. And in that case, one milligram is probably not going to kill my appetite. So I'm, as an off-season bodybuilder, I'm still getting everything I need. Yeah. Yeah. And I've even had guys run half a milligram a week and see benefits. So yeah, you can go pretty low on the dose. Okay. So before we get into dosing, back to health, we were talking about longevity and effectiveness. You said 12 weeks. I know effectiveness, I know you can't really give any answers to these things. These are so specific. So whoever's watching this, please, when you're watching these things, I always try and get some general answers from whoever I'm talking to. So please take this with a grain of salt. You're saying 12 weeks, obviously, if everyone's doing something, the person doing it is doing everything right. Effectiveness, we can't even probably touch on, right? Because that's going to be genetically dependent. It's just so variable. Yeah. I typically say like 12 weeks is in general a good time frame to be able to see improvements. Well, let me ask you that. Let me ask you this as far as effectiveness goes, because this is, this will give us a gauge. What's the peak and what's the valley of what they've seen as far as effectiveness goes? And what I mean by that is like, what's the best they've seen as far as like blood sugar correction or lipid correction or any of those that, and what's like the, oh, this didn't really do much, but it did a little bit. Do you know what I mean? Like, is there a high and low? Good question. I don't know that they've, I don't think we have any, any data in terms of like individual response in that sense. Okay. Most of the data is more correlated with doses. So, you know, the stronger response is always going to be with the higher doses. And the other tricky thing, again, it's just like, they're not researching this stuff and Yeah. Athletic fit people. Right. It's people with diabetes. It's people with, with issues. So we kind of have to do our own research. Right. The other question I think I get a lot before we move on to some other things is there's some people I know that are not in the bodybuilding space that are not used to, you know, I know some of these things are you, you are, you can take through a nasal spray stuff like SIMAC. I use SIMAC. I think Solank is also used in a nasal spray. Those we'll talk about on another episode for people wondering about those. Those are what you call mood enhancers, I guess. Yeah, you could. Yeah. I guess maybe that kind of cognitive peptides focus and mood enhancement, maybe anyways. I forgot where I was going with that. I forgot where I was going with that. Okay. Let's go back. Oh, that's what I, that's where I was going. The average person doesn't want to take an inject, an injection, especially because they don't have data. So what do I tell somebody who's like, well, they haven't researched these enough and there's not really any, any studies to show like what the side effects are going to be and all of that. Like, how do you, what do you tell somebody when, when they ask about side effects or, or long-term data? Which comes to show for a lot of this stuff, we don't have long-term data. I mean, we, we don't have long-term data and yeah, trans appetite or, or semaglutide red. It hasn't been approved yet. Like it's not being prescribed yet, but, um, that's part of the reason I think it's important to be able to look at mechanisms. Mechanisms can tell us a lot about like what's going on. And, and we do know a lot about, you know, what happens long-term if, if certain mechanisms are, are activated or, or, or working or not working. Um, but push comes to shove. I mean, yeah, we're with some of these, we are, you know, kind of experimenting along the way. But I mean, even with those Zempic, like it's only been out for a couple of years, right? Like it's not, they don't have any, they don't have any, as far as long-term 10 year, 20 year, they have no idea. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. So have we, have we seen, maybe I can ask it this way. Have we seen any negative side effects from Red or True Tide that you know of? Like, have you heard of people having anything, you know, bad happen while they've been using it? I mean, obviously there's going to be one-offs, but what are those? Yeah. The negative side effects that we tend to see are usually just the more behavioral components in, in the sense that if we, if we're not, if we don't have the lifestyle factors in check and we're taking too much of these, then that's where we start to say, and I do think that we're going to see, we're going to see issues with this in the next couple of years, I think with, with all of the GLP ones, with people that just didn't ask enough questions. I think, especially with people that got prescribed these, these drugs that, that were kind of put on a prescription starvation. Okay. With, with, with bone loss, with, with muscle loss. Oh, because you're saying we're going to see some serious thyroid issues. Because you're saying people are just going to stop eating. Yeah, that's happening. Like that is happening very, very commonly. And that's a problem. Yeah. That happened to my brother, my brother, my brother started using ozempic, um, before I did. And, uh, I think he lost a bunch of weight and his health markers all got better because, you know, I've talked to Stan Efferding on this and he says, basically whatever way you can lose weight, doesn't matter how you lose weight, but if you lose weight, your health markers are going to get better. So his health markers got better as he lost weight, but he wasn't eating. So he lost weight, but how much of it was muscle, right? So being his brother, being his brother, I kept like hounding him. I'm like, dude, you can't, you got to eat. Like you can't just not eat and lose weight. Like this isn't the way to do it. And so eventually he just stopped using it. Cause he's like, he just couldn't eat while he was on it. So he stopped using it altogether. And, uh, some of the weight came back, but, um, but he had me in his ear every day, trying to get him to, to get back on the right track. Right. A lot of people don't have that like resource around them. And, and they probably just see it as well. I'm losing weight. So it's okay. And next thing you know, they've lost half their muscle muscle mass to go with the fat, you know? So, yeah, I can see that being a real problem. Um, back to RETA though, let's talk about dosing. Now you're saying over four milligrams, you're seeing the best, um, benefits of glucagon. Is that the same for the GIP or is that the GIP instant? No, the, the, the GLP one GIP are more instant. Okay. Um, yeah. Any, any, anywhere from the, the half a milligram. And that's usually where, where we start people. Um, that's where they started in the trials as well as starting to half a milligram and then just slowly titrating up over the weeks. Right. Um, but yeah, four milligrams plus is really where we see the, the glucagon aspect really start to kick on strong. Now the retitrutide that I get comes in 10 milligram vials. So if I'm using four milligrams or five milligrams a week, you know, I'm getting two weeks. Is that normal? Yeah. It becomes an expensive habit. It can't, it can be for sure. And that's where I think there's, there's different things you can do there. So, um, it really depends on what you need and what you're looking to do, but some people will. And, and retta does have less of an appetite. Um, it's all dose dependent. So I shouldn't say less than appetite aspect, but I would say like milligram per milligram. Yeah. It hits appetite less than like trisapatide was. I know what you mean. Cause I, I said that to, to a doctor and he was like, no, it's exactly the same. They're both GLPs. And I'm like, they don't do the same thing. I know you're saying they do, but they don't feel the same. Cause I know the difference. Like I felt, yeah. Anyway, go on. I'm sorry. Well, I think it also just makes sense. If you've got, you know, if we compare, for example, semaglutide with retitrutide, one milligram to one milligram, one milligram of semaglutide is one milligram of GLP one and one milligram of retitrutide. It's got three things. Yeah. In one milligram. So it would make sense for them to be more diluted. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So in terms of like appetite, got a lot of clients that will know that they might add in a, a terseptide. They might add in a kegrelintide for the appetite piece. If, if their dosage of red is not hitting it, but they don't want to be taking a ton of red for, for budget constraints. So you're getting guys stacking. So, okay. Let's just, just clarify for people. So you're, so for people who don't want, who want more of the fat loss component, which is the GLP component, those guys are adding in trisepatide, which is trisepatide is GLP and GIP or GLP and glucagon. GLP and GIP. GIP. Yep. Okay. So why wouldn't they just add in more semaglutide? Nausea. Oh, that's usually. So trisepatide is a little better because it's not as strong. Yeah. Okay. So they're stacking trisepatide, uh, with red, a true tide because they want more of the fat loss component, but they also want, what do they get? They want the glucagon from the red, a true tide. Is that why they're using that even? Yeah. Okay. Exactly. Yeah. And then they get more of the appetite side with, uh, you know, and the other health benefits from, from the trisepatide. Right. Okay. So you're seeing people. I mean, in the trials, they went up to 12 milligrams a week. So, so you start, like you said, you start off a half a milligram. And are you starting off a half a milligram with the red, red, true tide too, or is that just with the GLP, the semaglutide and trisepatide? That's with red, true tide specifically. They started with half a milligram. Yeah. Okay. Now, if the best benefits you're seeing are over four milligrams, how fast is that guy going from, or girl, whoever is going from half a milligram to four milligrams? Like how fast is that titration? Is it, you know, half a milligram a week? Is it whenever you feel fit? Like, how does, how does that work? Yeah. Well, oftentimes kind of depend on people's experience. If I know that they've got experience and kind of tell me, how, you know, where they ended up with their last experience, how quickly they titrated up. We might go a little bit faster or slower, but usually we'll camp at a half a milligram for a week or two, assess tolerance, then jump to one. And then typically from one. So after three, four weeks where we've worked up to a milligram and we'll jump to two milligrams and assess tolerance from there. And then usually a couple of weeks there, and then we'll jump to three or four. So I was told now I noticed myself that it fades a little bit quickly. Like my experience from one to two milligrams was kind of quick. Like the, the one milligram, my appetite, my appetite really didn't take a hit at all at one milligram. So I went to two, I noticed some change there. Now I know it's not just an appetite suppressant. I know there's like, obviously it's not going to be as strong, but I expected, I guess more from when I started. Cause I didn't, I only took ozempic twice. It's not like I, you know, I've taken these things a lot and, uh, I just noticed that one milligram didn't really do much. I had to go right to two. And then is that normal? Yeah, pretty normal. In my experience, the sweet spot for people is right around four, four to five milligrams is where they'll, where they'll really notice the appetite suppression and get the fat loss. It's, it's super variable though. I've got guys that are like, due to the milligram, I can't even look at food. So it's very variable. Yeah. But I'd say kind of on average sweet spots, anywhere between three to three to five milligrams is kind of where we see people find the appetite suppression they're looking for, the food noise benefits and really be able to control things. Yeah. I asked a friend of mine and, um, he was saying that five milligrams was the spot for him. Once he got the five milligrams, he said all automatically, everything kind of just felt better. Yeah. So I was like, okay, well maybe that's where I got to go. Is it wrong to jump from two to five? Not necessarily. I'm not going to, I'm just fucking around. I'm just, yeah, yeah. Not necessarily. That's if you, if, um, it would just kind of depend on your response. You never know if that jump is going to put you in a world of hurt for a couple of weeks, you know? Well, the interesting thing is he said for a guy, your size. So that's actually a question I want to ask too. Does it matter how big or small a person is? Not really. That's the thing. Yeah. I didn't want to, the guy that I mentioned that can't really hardly do more than a milligram. He's like a good two 20 and he's very, he's built. So definitely, I mean, not like a professional open class bodybuilder by any means, but, um, general pops relative to general pop. He's pretty big and muscular. Um, and he can only handle pretty small dose. So it's pretty independent. So we covered benefit. We covered what it does. We covered benefit. We covered, um, health benefit. We covered fat loss benefit. Um, I want to get in, we got into dosing a little bit, but the question I want to ask still about dosing is, if you're taking more than one peptide, can you mix them all in one syringe? Yeah, I, I think, um, if you're mixing them in the syringe, I don't think you're going to run into issues. I've heard, I just like conflicting things about this. I don't know. Yeah, there's, there's a ton of, this is like one of the main areas where people, uh, have like really strong opinions. I think mixing things in a syringe where they're going to be together for, I don't know, 30 seconds. You're not really going to see interactions with, with the chemicals or anything like that. Um, don't really, I wouldn't mix things in, in the same vial per se, but, but yeah, I think, no, I'm saying like, if I have 20 IU of, like I said, like I was taking SEMAC, right? Or SEMAC, however you pronounce it. If I'm taking 20 IU of that, I'm taking 40 IU of, or whatever, 30 IU of, uh, RETA. And I put them, and I want to put them in the same syringe before I inject. I was, I, I did see an Instagram clip where the guy was like, yeah, you can't do that because the pH is going to ruin the drug and this and that. And you can't put them together. You had to do them separately. And I'm like, I don't want, don't be a pain in my ass. I just want to put them all in one syringe and do them all at once. Just a lot. So like just a lot easier. You know what I mean? But if I, if I, if I can, I can't, but I was kind of thought maybe there's a direct answer on that. I haven't seen any, um, we could, we kind of have to go on anecdotes here. I haven't seen any like decrease in efficiency. Right. And, and mixing in a, mixing in a pin. I just, I don't think that there's enough time for there to really be any degradation or, or issues. If you're mixing into the pin, I think it's pretty safe. Okay. Um, bodybuilding wise, we discussed some of the offseason ways a bodybuilder can take it. Pre contest is pretty obvious. Um, but bodybuilders think it's cheating. Is it cheating? Such a good question. Um, yeah. And I know I totally get it. I, um, the, the prep that I did in November, I didn't use anything. I wanted to, I wanted to have the full experience, like kind of, you know, sit in the suck. Um, I guess it would depend on how you define cheating. Honestly, like everyone's. Do you find it funny though, that like, you're using a stack of drugs as a professional bodybuilder. Anyway, I'm not saying you were, but I'm, I don't know if you did natural or not. It doesn't matter. Um, you're using a stack of drugs as a professional bodybuilder, open class bodybuilder. That might be, I don't know, four to eight, maybe 12 items long. You know, if you put it on a list, could it be anywhere from four to 12, maybe more. And then if I add this one drug, all of a sudden everyone's like, ah, you cheated. And I'm like, wait a minute, wait a minute. I mean, look, I went through my whole career. I never, we didn't use any of these drugs at the time. So I don't have any dog in this fight. I just find it interesting that like, you know, what are we talking about here? We're adding one more compound. That's just, you know what I mean? Yeah. And I'm also like, okay, but did you use a Fedrin? Like you're telling me you didn't use anything to help with appetite? Well, even if it's not appetite, it helped you with energy to get on the step mill or whatever, or like you used to pre-workout to go, to go work out. Like we use AIDS all the time to help us, get ready for contests. This is what it's about. So I'm just too good. This one's the one, this one is the one where people like, no, you can't use that. I don't know. I just find it interesting. I just want to get your, your take on it. I don't think it's cheating, but there is a moral question though. Like when you talk about red of true tide, socially, even there is a moral question. Like if you, even if you saw a regular person on the street and you like, Hey, Oh, you lost a lot of weight. So-and-so how'd you do it? Oh, I, you know, I took ozempic or I took this, you kind of frowned upon a little bit where that is. If you say, yeah, I just fucking did it with hard work and grit. You looked at it a little differently. So what is like, what is that man? Dude, I don't know that it's a moral question as much as it is just a cultural question. You know, like the, the hustle culture aspect of it, the, um, you know, what's the, what's the, like, I'm like, I'm self-made. Yeah. I didn't get any help getting where I got, but you did, if you did, but you, but you did because you took a thousand, you took a thousand milligrams of testosterone. So like, right. You built the muscle with help. You know what I mean? So like burning, burning, burning, it's like burning the fats where we draw the line. Like, yeah. And these are, those are, it's probably half the comments I get on any of this content is like, well, if we wouldn't need the stuff, people weren't lazy. I'm like, dude, if I have a, if I had an, if I've got a drill, why would I use a screwdriver? Like I'm, I'm never going to call someone lazy for taking a plane instead of walking across the country. Like if I've got a better tool for the job, why wouldn't I use it? Well, look, I, I, being a little bit old school, I can see, um, I can see that side of it. Like, oh, you know what? You grit your fucking teeth and, and just drink some water and bear with the fucking pain of being hungry. That's how I did it. Right. Yeah. But at the same time, when you describe all the other benefits, and I'm not just talking about health benefits as a bodybuilder, nutrient partitioning is a big deal, man. Like, this is my own bro sciencey theoretical, uh, thought process on pro bodybuilders. one of the genetic components. I think that the guys at the very top has is better nutrient partitioning. You know, they can eat 6,000 calories and not get fat. Well, why is that? It's because their body is, has a better nutrient partitioning aspect. So I'm like, I'm like, okay, now I'm leveling out the playing field as a bodybuilder. I have a new, I have a way to have, you know, people buy these supplements there that are supposed to be nutrient partitioning supplements. I'm like, now we have an actual drug that's doing it for real. So I'm not even talking about the, it's going to lower your lipids or lower your blood sugar or, or all those other awesome benefits, which are amazing. I'm focused on this one little piece that I'm like, okay, if it's does nutrient partitioning and allows me to have better pumps, better nitric oxide uptake, like better, all like all of those things, that's going to make me a better bodybuilder. Like that's a no brainer to me. So I'm not even talking about the fat loss aspect. Even if you use it in the offseason, this is like, to me, it's a way to go. Yeah. So, I agree. I'm all about the tools. I think to, to loop back around a little bit, it all depends on how you define success for yourself. Um, I think there is a benefit to intentionally, deliberately doing very hard things. Yes. I think there is some, you do, you know, raising kids, for example, I think like the, if I make everything really easy for them, I'm doing them a disservice, I should put them up in a position to like struggle and, and do challenging things. I think we'd benefit from that. Um, so there's that aspect. I think it's a totally fair argument. Um, sure. It just kind of depends on why you're doing whatever you're doing. But you got to also say, like, even with red or true tide, your diet's still not going to be easy. Number one, is it going to be a little easier? Sure. It might be skimming off the top a little bit, but you're still not going to get to 2% body fat in an easy fashion. Number two, you still have to train your fucking ass off in the gym. You can't just go in there and dick around with the weights a little bit, end up looking awesome on stage. So there's not, yes, we, are we making one aspect of bodybuilding a little bit easier? Speaking of contest prep specifically. Sure. But it's still a hard work. In my opinion, it's still a hard work sport, whether red or true tides introduced or not. Totally agree. I can see both points of view. Yeah. And I think that's a great point. Towards the end of prep, dude, I mean, it's not just, I mean, food noise is loud, but getting rid of food noise doesn't mean you're not going to be dreaming of food in your sleep. It doesn't mean you're not waking up every 45 minutes to pee. You know, it's, it's only a small part of the struggle at that point. But yeah, yeah, I agree with you. Well, Wes, is there anything about red at true tide? I did not like get into that. You want to get into a little bit before we go. I don't, I don't want to stretch the episode, but I also don't want to do it a disservice. Is there something I didn't talk about that you wanted, that you think is important that we should get into? Let's talk about it. Not really, man. I think in general, I think it's just helpful for people to, to be curious. there's so much, there's so much noise out there. Speaking of noise, there's so much noise out there. And I think it's important for people to recognize that social media is designed for, for attention, whether or not the information's good. And so I get a ton of messages about, you know, does it make sense to stack this with that? Can I take red at true tide for this? I think being curious and like getting into like, why am I using this? And what effect is it having on me? And just like looking at mechanisms, just trying to do research, being curious, I think is a huge advantage here so that you can actually think for yourself and, and make the most informed decisions you can. Right. So, I mean, hopefully this helps in that regard. Yeah. Well, Wes, listen, I appreciate the conversation, man. It is eyeopening for sure. It gave me a good, a little bit better insight into red at true tide. And hopefully you'll come back and we'll have a few more conversations about some of the other peptides. I want to talk about that other people are talking about. We still got to get into stuff like BBC and TV are huge ones in the bodybuilding space. A lot of people have been talking about MOTC. I know CIMAC has been a huge benefit to me. A lot of people are talking about GHK-Cu for skin health and things like that. So there's a whole bunch of peptides out there. There's some, I don't, people have been messaging me because I have like, I severed some nerves in my spinal cord. So they've been talking to me about ARA290, I think it's called, is a nerve regenerative peptide. So yeah, there's a whole bunch of stuff for us to get into. So hopefully, hopefully you're right up on all your peptides because we're going to get into more of them. I'm ready to go, man. I'm ready to go. I love it. For anybody who wants to follow Wes for more information or DM him for more information or be coached by Wes, you can go to his Instagram. If you're listening on audio, it's, it's Wes C I AI T S W E S C. And yeah, Wes, thank you very much, brother. Appreciate you. It's great to talk to you. Okay, brother.