 p degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees degrees There's an Arabic word. It says coiffaire. It comes from the same... It's coiff. Like in British, people, when you have your hair spiked up, they say coiffed. Really? But we can say coiffed for the rest of the podcast. You guys watch a lot of podcasts. I read a lot. You might even say a coiff. I went to elementary school. I learned that word. A coiff. Back in my day, that wasn't a commonly used word. What? Coiff? Coiffed. Don't mistake it for coiff. I don't think it was ever a commonly used word. Have you guys ever had a coiff happen and it kind of disgust you a little bit? You mean coiff like cue you? I've never thought it was disgusting. Have you ever been queiffed at? Yeah, I think it's cool because it shows up. With intent? No, with intent. Fuck you. Bitch. No, like by accident. You've been queiffed at. It just happens. Yeah. You got to make sure it's not a fart. You got to ask that question right away. Is that something a guy should be proud of? Because if you've been queiffed at, it means you left a little space in there. I think if you got a little dick, you're not queiffing nobody. That's what I'm saying, see? I think it all has to do with the amount of air that packs in there. Yeah, but you need to have some girth in order to produce that air. That's what I'm saying. It's very position dependent too. It is. Yeah. Yes, but you have to be able to open that like cavern up. Yes. We should have a girl on call during the podcast that we can bring her in and ask her a question. Get her like the NFL when the rule guy comes in. There he is. Like let's stuff this one over to Samantha over here. So what about you? Hey, Seth. What's up? You're having a good time. Can you cause a queef if you got a little dick? Ooh. Well, you could if she had a really, really little box. We're talking semantics now here. Yes, we are. Like she's got to be pretty tight and you. How little are we talking? Like what are we talking? I'm just saying like, can it, can it, how? Like can a little dick cause a queef? Like I'm pretty sure you got to create. I think if it trapped the air properly, it could, but I don't think it's like, I don't think it's going to be a problem. In my mind, a queef happens when you've created such a cavern. Yeah, like a plunging effect. You've created such a cavern. A deep crevice. Do you find that? Like a mediocre sized thick dick can cause a queef. Yeah. That's not little. That's not definitive of a queef. Not little. My wife told me. So that's a good size. Yeah. So she doesn't even like it. She says it's perfect. She says it's perfect. She said it's a good size. She told me it's perfect. It's perfect. Gross. She said big dicks are gross. No girl really likes that. They are too much. They're gross. Yeah. Gross. What are you going to do with that? Yeah. What's going on, Seth? Nothing. Nothing. How are you? I'm doing good. You know, fucking. Today was a day where like I was, I was so amped up this morning to fucking just stiff dick the day. And I walked into cleaning up like a huge puddle in the office. And I was like, would you spill? And he's like, he just pointed at the roof. And I'm like, fuck me. The ice. Like we had the ice was melting. And then we just had a leak. Like a fresh leak because it was so heavy on the roof. Like a huge sheet of ice just started lifting shingles. Yeah. It all up. Like just stupid shit. So like that's a shitty way to start your day. Yeah. So then we called our maintenance guy to come and he's like, oh, I can't, I can't make it. So I had to crawl up in there and start like Jimmy rigging something until we can get a roofer there. Oh, wow. You got a flat roof? No, it's pitched roof, but lightly pitched. But it's just that there's so much snow and ice, dude. It's melting and then refreezing, melting, refreezing. Right. I don't wait right at the edge of the roof. Paul, would you go up there if you had to? No, I don't like ice. If I had a harness or something, then, you know, no problem. But, um, free, free, free, free nut, no way. So your fear isn't actually heights. Your fear is falling. Yes. Yeah. So if I wasn't, yeah. So wait a minute. So if you're hanging off a building, but you're like secure in a harness, you're okay to look over. You're fine. Yeah. If I know I'm safe. Oh, then you're, you're not scared of heights then. Cause people who are scared of heights can't even look over. Oh no, I can look over. I'm afraid of dying. So I, I think that's what everyone's, you're not actually afraid of being high. You're afraid of falling. Yeah. What are you, pussy Paul? I guess in that way I am. Yeah. So if you knew 100%, like if they're like 100%, you skydive or bungee jump or whatever, like 100%, there's zero risk. Is then it all of a sudden okay to you? Or is it still really serious? There would still be fear involved, but I would, I think I'd be, I think I could over, I think I could get through that though. Even if it were guaranteed, like there's 0%, 0.0% chance that you will lie. There would still be jitters, you know, like I'm still, I'm sure Mike, you know, I'd feel my nuts in my throat if I was skydiving, even if I knew I'm safe. It wouldn't be, you know what though? It wouldn't be fun if you didn't feel that. Yeah. Like don't say like, but I think if, I think if you 100% knew there was no harm, it wouldn't be scary like that anymore. What I'm saying, what I'm saying, what I'm saying to you is I think the people that do those things, if there was absolutely zero fear, it wouldn't be fun. No. That's the whole purpose. Well, that's the whole purpose for them. It's an adrenaline rush, I think. Yeah. Like I like being, I like being a little scared. Right. Live it on the edge. No. I don't like heights. Okay. I don't like them. I'm like, not a fan, like getting on roofs, like just gives me this anxious feeling. Like, so I'm like, I'm afraid of heights, but kind of like what you're saying, Paul. Now, Hannah has a true fear of heights. Okay. Like when we go to like, I mean, we're talking the second story at the mall. Like she'll panic. Really? Oh, she won't, she won't go. She won't walk on like the open side of the second story. She'll be like, I got to walk over here. Really? Vacation. She's like, Hey, can we just like keep the balcony to like the third floor? And I'm like, no, like we got to go. I want the view. She has a true fear of heights. Crazy. Wow. I know. I didn't understand it until like she legit like gets sweaty, turns white, like true fucking fear. Like a real phobia. Yeah. She got stuck on a, she got stuck on like a ski lift. Yeah. That's point of a ski lift, got stuck for hours on. That'll do it too. Oh, that'll do it for sure. Trauma. And it, I'm like, cause I thought, yeah, you fuck off. We're fine. Like it's, we're secure. We're at a fucking hotel. Bro. Like turns white. Yeah. Yeah. So like, then I'm like, so am I afraid of heights or am I afraid of like, like falling off the roof? Yeah. But that's a difference, I guess. Well, I don't think anyone's actually afraid of heights. I don't think like, you're not afraid of being high. You're afraid of falling from high. You know, it's like, you're afraid of the possibility or reality of falling. Yeah. But you're just afraid of being high. Like that doesn't make sense. Yeah. I'm not afraid of being high at all. I love being high. Matter of fact, I'm high right now. Some people are, some people are scared to look over. Like they can't look. Yeah. But that's, but that's because they're, the reality of falling to them is more real than, you know, I get vertigo when I get too close to the edge of high shit. Like I feel like all fucking monkey. I got to step back. Yeah. I never met somebody like that until, until Hannah. Like I didn't know like how bad or how intense the fear could be. I went, I went on a couple of trips with my kids and we were like doing like not mountain climbing, but we were, you know, walking up some high places to take a look at some cool shit. And when they get near the edge, like I straight up panic. Like I can't even like to the point where I, it's better if I remove myself cause I'm going to ruin them from having a good time. Yeah. I've actually had to do that. Kids are more braver on heights than you are. A hundred percent. But you know, when I was a kid, I had, yeah, it's like that. I'm like, I'll be like, get, get away from the side. You know, like I'm just, I can't even handle it. So I just, I just removed myself. Yeah. But those are your kids. That's expected. Right. Like you're going to stream. I think my parents were kind of like that too. Like they didn't want us to do anything crazy. Well, he's not scared for the kids. He's scared that he's going to fall off. No. It's like, cause if they go, then I got to go. Fuck the kids. Fuck the kids. I'm not. Fuck the kids. I don't want to fall, man. I can't just sit on the side and be like, Hey, you okay? You know, I got to go too if they go. Yeah. If you jump after him, you can maybe save him, you know? Yeah. For sure. At least I'll die next to him. Fucking roll. Ian, what's going on with you this week? Moving, bro. How's, uh, how's training going? Good. Yeah. Moving this week. How big are you? Oh, you're moving this week. Yeah. Are you excited for the new house? Yeah. I mean, we've been there like pretty much every day this week, just doing like small amounts. And the actual movers come a Thursday to do like all the big shit, like the couches and fucking bed frames and stuff like that. So how's the house? Is it nice? Do you like it? Like, is it set up? Love it. You want? Yeah. Yeah. The last like week since we got it on the 27th of January, we've been doing all like, you know, the small stuff we want to change, you know, cause we, it was a new build, but a lot of the stuff, sorry, a lot of the stuff through the builders is like fucking, even though when it's like, you're customizing some of that shit, it's like bullshit to do, like changing some of the light fixtures and like some of the paint, like I have better connections to do some of that shit. So, um, some of the stuff, like I have my buddy Clayton into pain. We changed some of the lights ourselves, like did shit like that all week. So, so yeah, it's almost, did you guys use any trendy colors? Like one, one powder room. We have like, uh, uh, it's like, uh, are we going to have a fucking housewarming party or what? Sure. Yeah. Come on. What do you, what do you use the powder room for? Yeah. Powder of my nose breath. No, it's a, that it's like a dark brownie purpley red kind of like, and she did like ceiling walls. Yeah. And it's like 10 foot ceilings in this bathroom. So it's like ceiling walls, baseboards, everything back of the door. So that looks pretty cool. Um, and then, yeah, we changed like a bunch of lights, like fucking, you know, the pendants over the aisle and a bunch of ones all the way through at the house. So it looks good. And then we'll get all our main furniture. So we'll sleep there officially on Thursday. Do you guys, uh, do you guys change your toilet seats when you move into a new house? Well, it's a new build, Paul. Oh, right. Yeah. No one's shat on these seats other than me. Do you, Paul? Builders. Yeah. Except for the builders. Wait, wait. Yeah. Paul, you move. Do you bring your own toilet seat to a hotel? No. You might want it. That's a backlight. That's a good suggestion. Seth, do you change the toilet seats when you move into a new house? Uh, I mean, yeah, I did. I don't think I did when I moved into my house. No? No. Why was the person's ass before me? Like fucking clean it. I only want my ass on my, on my toilet at my house. Yeah. But then you're going to have, you're going to have Paul, uh, like who ads going to come in your house and shit. I'm going to come in your house. But I'll be, but I'll be the one most dominantly shitting in it. Well, you're going to be your asses though. It's okay. It's, it's come. That's okay. Yeah. I don't listen. I don't, I don't think, I don't think that's totally weird. No, it's not weird. I just don't, I just don't, didn't care. I was like, whatever. I didn't either. It's a nice, nice Italian family. I don't understand people that have phobias about like toilets and shit. I'll shit anywhere. Germs. Yeah. Germs don't bother me at all. I'll shit anywhere. I actually, I, you know what, Mike, I actually get really comfortable when I go to a fucking truck stop. Yeah. I love it. And I'm just, I'm like, I'm like, I'm in the element. I'm in my element. Yeah. Like even when you're in a stall and then someone else is shitting next to you. I don't like stalls and public rooms. I think they're disgusting and I'm fucking cool. I'm like, Oh God, you know what happens? So where I work right now, there's one washroom and it's gotta be shared with like 30 guys. So every morning I gotta, I gotta shit around 8am every morning. So I go in there and it's a fucking full house every time. And it's not very big. It's the most uncomfortable part of my day. Yeah. But you gotta, but that's different though. Cause you gotta see those people right after. Yeah. I gotta walk. When I go to, when I go to a truck stop, no matter how bad my shit is, I don't got to see the person next to me. So I don't give a fuck. But the worst part of it, like I could be by myself. There's two stalls. I always take the bigger one. I could be by myself. And then inevitably someone walks in the one next to me when I'm halfway through and starts shitting. And I'm just, have you guys ever had it when you're like at a public place, like at a gym? I've had this a few times where you're like at a public gym and you're like fucking going and taking a shit. Like the gym I train at has like, you know, change rooms with bathrooms, but also has like one like handicap washer. And that's just off the gym, which a lot of people use where you take like a shit in there and they come out and there's like a hot girl waiting. You're like, fuck. You know? I take pride in that. That's the worst. She comes out later and you see her in the gym and it's just like, she looks, you would disgust like after like you've changed. Fucking hell. You like that? Have you ever gotten to wash your hands and someone's in there shitting and it really stinks bad and they get out and you're almost mad at them? Yeah. You're fucking disgusting. Exactly. Yeah. Even though I'm going to destroy it way worse than an hour from now. I can't believe you would shit. You're disgusting. Fucking human being. You made that fucking gross. We got the Arnold coming up. Yep. Four weeks now. Four weeks now. Is it four? Yeah. Yeah. I think it is. Five. Four this weekend. Yeah. Four this weekend. Yeah. Yeah. That's coming close now, man. We got, um, I think Hottie just put out a little notice saying. He didn't address anything about the Arnold though. He was addressing. I'm pretty sure. I'm almost positive. He's going to be at the Arnold. I agree. Because he's not as far from what I've heard. And, uh, you know, I don't know for sure or anything, but from what I've heard, he's not in Iran right now. Oh, he's in America. I don't know. I don't know where he is, but I know he's not. From what I heard, he's not in Iran right now. Okay. So is he worried about his safety or anything? I think, I think he's partially worried about his safety because he's kind of fucked on both sides. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like it's like, if you do, damned, if you don't kind of thing. Yeah. Like the people that are protesting are mad. If he's siding with the government, then he puts out this statement kind of saying that he's not. Then he might piss off the government. He's not with the government at all, but then he might piss off the government. So like, who the fuck knows what, uh, you know, what's going to happen. And he's, you know, he's got a family to worry about the kids. This is one of those things that whenever you become, whenever you become a public figure like he has, like it's, it's, it puts him in such a terrible position because he's, how many years has he been just a regular person, a regular bodybuilder in Iran trying to make it. And then he makes it and he becomes the fucking rock of Iran. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, so of course the fucking political, the government's going to get behind him and say, look at this great figure, look at us. And he's going to get all these great perks of all the shit. And then a fucking civil war breaks out. Right. I'm just going to share this real quick. This is from RX muscle. Uh, this is Hottie statement. I'm not, I'm not going to read it all. Basically he goes on to say, uh, I was never affiliated with any governmental entity. So he's kind of taking himself out of that whole thing. How about you read us the original in Farsi? You read that, right? Uh, no, I don't actually. Farsi is not, Farsi is not like Arabic and I don't, I don't read Arabic either. I thought that. Um, no, I don't, I don't only speak it. I don't read or write it. That's weird. Um, what do you mean? What? Fucking air. No, you can say it, but you can't read it. You can't, but you can't do either. So what's the difference? Well, I guess you got one up on me. You don't speak Italian. You don't read or write it or write it. No, but, but if I do want to speak it, I think I know how to spell it. Listen, this is what kind of, this is what kind of Italian. I'm going to tell you guys, I'm going to tell you guys what kind of Italian Paul is. The other night, the other night he went to bed and he went to bed early. He was doing well. Then he couldn't sleep. No, I could. I fell asleep. Oh, he fell asleep and he woke up two in the morning and picture this, not boxer briefs, regular boxers, like with the fly and everything. They don't got a fly. They got the barn door. Yeah. The barn door with the white, with a white, with a wife beater, right? It's slippers. Very Italian and slippers. Trots his fucking ass up to the kitchen and makes himself a salami sandwich. Two in the morning. This guy fucking goes out. It's the worst thing you could eat. I know. I couldn't sleep after that. I sweat the whole night after that. I couldn't sleep all day. He's moved away from Oreos to salami sandwiches. I got no sugar in the house. Otherwise, I would have. That's funny. Anyway. So yeah, so fucking hottie, I think, is going to be at the Arnold. And the only person I think that can beat him is Andrew. He's looking crazy. Every week, he's looking crazier. He's doing this thing with his Instagram. I don't know who's running his Instagram, but it's really fucking annoying me. He's doing this thing with his Instagram where they post these photos like this. I know. And then it goes to. But if you click it, it's not the photo. Does he ever even at the end of the video show that? No. Same thing with this one. They post like this, this little like snippet to make you click it. Right. Which I hate that. Which works incredibly well. Yeah. It's annoying though. But you know what? You can, I've, you can rip them off and zoom in and stuff. And like, you can screen. You know what's funny for Ed? As much as I get taken by those things all the time, I never learned. I go back every time. And I get fucked into the man. I know. You know what though? Looking at this one up here with the lat spread, his back has made a lot of fucking progress. Yeah. Yeah. Somebody posted a video of the, the, the, the difference from the Arnold that the Olympia to this prep. Do you know who it was? Uh. Oh, I seen that. Yeah. Any, any idea who it was? No. Might have been. You could go to Andrew's tag. Maybe. Louie Marco. Louie Marco. Fuck. Remember Louie? Yeah. That's a throwback there. I was going to say. I think. He's back at it. Shit talking and doing all kinds of stuff. So. Atta boy. These guys. We blow it up a little bit here. Oh yeah. There you go. Um. Disregard the comparison for a second. We can talk about that after. But like. This is a lot of fucking progress since Andrew's back, man. Yeah. Like I know the back double bicep is the, is the, you know, the, the way we judge backs. But you can tell from the lats. Like they've gotten a lot thicker. Yeah. There's a lot of muscle there. His mid back came up a ton. How much sharper are the glutes and hams going to get though between now and the Arnold? Because that'll be the difference maker. Yeah. I mean, if that was like five, six weeks out, I mean, when were these, this was like over a week ago, right? Yeah. This was over five. So I mean, if you're like five and a half, six weeks, I think that's enough time to get those in. I mean, you know, I don't think Andrew's going to have Derek Lunsford glutes. I don't think he ever will. But I think that those can be, you know, the body fat's obviously getting low. You can see in the back and the skin texture and the side of the leg and the midsection. Yeah. Like it's getting low. So like, you know, he'll obviously lean out in the places that he gets leanest first. And those will be what's left. If he's got five weeks and that's kind of really what's left, I think. Hey, okay. It's on Louie's page. Do you? Louie? On Instagram? Yeah. I don't. L-U-I. L-U-I. Marco. Marco? Louie Marco. This guy? Yep. Okay. Where's Andrew? Where's Andrew? No, that's not it. No, that's his. It's just Louie Marco. Oh. Let's see. Let's try again. Louie Marco. Does he got me blocked? He might. Want me to try it? Well, that doesn't really help us. There's I. You probably a Marco. No. He might be blocked. He might be like. That's okay. I don't really. I don't really like that little French fuck anyway. I know. He's roasted. All he does is shit. All he does is shit talk bodybuilders. Fuck him. I can't. I can't see him either. And would you guys do one here? I don't think we did anything. I was just joking. I don't even know the kid. All I know is. What's his name? Who's Marshawn Lynch? The Marshawn Lynch of bodybuilding. Who's that? Bonak. Bonak was going to fucking knock him out. I remember that. Oh, yeah. I remember that. Yeah. There's a good chance that probably I might have blocked him when I was like a insecure bodybuilder at one point. You know? Yeah. It all happens. But anyway, he did a video. And it was showing the comparisons of his back. And it's drastic. Yeah. From the Olympia. You can see it for sure. Well, what do you guys think? Can he beat Hottie? Yep. You think he beat Hottie, eh? I think he can. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, even at the Arnold, I mean, there was a case for it for sure. Or at the Olympia, sorry. There was a case for it for sure. I mean, a lot of people. Yeah, especially on the second. You know, a lot of people, you know, had Andrew winning in a lot of cases. So, you know. Especially the people that watched it online. You know, I do think in person is a little bit different story. But I think Andrew, you know, you really could definitely make a case for him in a lot of shots. Yeah. Yeah. Hmm. Yeah. Paul, what do you think? Is he going to win? Uh-huh. The way he's progressing right now. I don't want to ask you guys if he can. Because you guys are all going to straight up. Okay. I think he will. You think he will? I think momentum he's got going right now, yeah. Seth? I'm going to blow my nose. I bet you do. He's been going to the powder room. Seth? I don't think he'll beat Hottie. You don't think so? Ian? Fuck it. I'm going to say yes. Mike? I know what Mike's going to say. I already said, yeah. I already said he's going to win. What do you think, Fred? I wouldn't be surprised if Hottie beat him. But I think Andrew will win. I think it'll be more surprising if Andrew beats him than the other way around. Yeah, of course. Because that's the way it's. Andrew hasn't beat Hottie yet. Hottie's beaten Andrew. So obviously, that's more of a surprise. But I definitely, I can see it happening. I think it's. I want to see Andrew win. I fucking want to see him win. I think he, I think. I'm more or less at that. I'm a little concerned about his conditioning. That's just my. Yeah. That's where I am. But you don't know. But you don't know how old that photo is. Again. Right. Correct. That could be like a, you know. Even if that's six weeks out. I'm not worried about that condition, to be honest. I've had my glutes look like that at six weeks out before. And I've fucking, they're peeled on stage. I'm not too. I wouldn't be too worried. The rest of his body. The body fat's low. Something's got to give somewhere. I think they'll come in. I don't. Like I said. I don't think there'll be Derek Lunsford cheese grater. But I think they'll be as tight as we expect from Andrew if he's in good condition. If that's the case, then yeah. Andrew. Yeah. I think Hottie's going to win. I think Hottie came into the Olympia. Tried to, he tried to play the conditioning game. And I think he came in a little smaller than he wanted to. I think he's going to be a little bit fuller. Thank you. And I think, and I think that's going to, and I think it's going to result in a win. Do you think any of this like political stuff and how he's being portrayed online? Do you think any of that? Like, do you think he's someone that might be influenced or affected by the noise? Like it's one thing when you're definitely, you know, obviously he's a fucking very militant guy, but I think also, you know, when you're like doing it for the people and when you feel those people are kind of against you right now, it changes your like motivations and your, you know, kind of that angle a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. But it could change your motivation for the good, for the, for the good, because you might think to yourself, I need to win to get these people back on my side. Yeah. Yeah. Do you, do you, do you, yeah. I mean, if that would, you know, I think that people, I don't think they don't like him because he's not a good bodybuilder. It's a political thing, right? No, no, no. I agree with you, but people love a winner, man. And if he's like, and if he's like, I did it for the people of Iran, like, you know, I don't, anyway, regardless of whether it's for or against that or whatever bullshit, I actually don't think he's the kind of person that we'd be bothered by that anyways. Yeah. I think he's going to be, I think, yeah, I think he's going to come in. I think he's going to come in better than the Olympia. And I think it's going to result in a win. We don't have, do we have any updates from Martin? No, Raphael had one though. This is old, right? This is Olympia time. Yeah, there was a back shot. That one right there, that one from behind. This one. I think that's recent. I don't think this, this isn't, this can't be recent. This doesn't look like Martin six weeks out. That looks like six weeks out. Then again, then again, Martin tends to like, Martin tends to kind of wrap it all up at the end. That looks like good conditioning for me six weeks out. That looks nice. The delts and the arms are tight in. I mean, there's a little bit on the lower back, like you'd expect from six weeks, but everything's pretty, looks pretty dry. Like it's getting there. I think that's a good six weeks out. I think you're being nice. I think you're being nicer to him than, than you would be somebody else because you like you don't think that's looks good for six weeks. Condition wise. I can't see enough to tell you to be honest, to be honest, he's super pale. He's white. But what I do know about Martin, like regardless of whether I think that's a little behind or not is irrelevant. Cause what I do know about him is he always kind of looks like a little bit behind and then it just seems to kind of like come in in the last few weeks and come in perfect. Yeah. It's fucking wild how he does that, to be honest. Well, it's not like he's ever really off. Like, you know, Martin's muscle looks, it looks like, it's like when he's not flexing, you're like, is he on or off? He can't really tell. And then he flexes and you're like, Oh fuck. Like he's on right. Comes alive. Yeah. So it's like, it's kind of hard with Martin that way because of the, because of the way his muscles look. But, um, I don't know how much of it is he drops a lot of fat at the end versus it's just the way his muscle looks when he's not flexing. Yeah. Cause when he was, when he was with hostile, he would send me messages and we would laugh because people like he would post photos and people are like, would say, Oh, he's way off. Yeah. But I would look at the rest of his photos and he would look like on, you know, like he's going to be ready. So it's weird. But you really see his striations and separations when he flexes. What happened to your microphone? Where's your mic? He all of a sudden sounded like you're in a tin. Where are you, man? He's got it on backwards. Sorry about that. Where are you, bro? Fucking headphones on backwards. Come back to us, man. I'm good now. I wrote a little wave there. Breathe it out, Paul. Yeah. That's what I did. I think I'll take a little T over there. Brando put out an update as well. I think there's a front front double. You can see of him. I feel like you need more of this. Yeah, you definitely do. I don't. We know you don't. What is that? What are you munching on there, bud? It's like a Coca-Cola. It's like a Coca-Cola gummy. Yeah. What kind of gummy? Sounds like, what? That's not a Coke bottle. Where is... I'll tell you later. Where is Rafa? I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. Just got to breathe it out again. Coming back. You're in space right now, dude. You got another wave in me again right now. It's coming and going. Why is everyone yelling? Stop laughing. Stop laughing. Stop looking at me. Talk about something else. I look red. All right. Good. You're good. Yeah, I'm good. I'm good. I need some water. Rafa's update. What do you think, Ian? I mean, it looks good. I mean, the conditioning... It looks pretty solid here. I mean, I don't think it's behind. I don't think it's ahead. I think it's in a good spot. Some of the pictures I saw... I saw some other ones that looked a little more behind than this, but this one actually looks pretty good. Muscularity looks great. Shape looks nice. I mean, I'm a big Rafa fan. I know you are. Do you think... What do you think improvements-wise, though? Do you think he looks improved? He looks bigger to me. Yeah. Does he? Yeah. I feel like his arms improved. Yeah. Yeah, arms. That's the thing I see the most. That chest is insane, eh? Yeah. How much that pops off is crazy. You know who that side chest looks like a lot? Huh? Who? Alexis Rivera. Okay. Do you see that? No. No. Do you remember that guy, Alexis Rivera? No, I don't remember that guy, though. I do remember that guy, but I don't see it. That looks like him to me. Is he having back shots? Where is he going to... Oh, we have a... Don't we have a bet, Paul? On something. Yeah. Me... I told you that I thought... No, was it me and Paul? No, that was an Olympia bet. Oh, it was on the Russian guy placing on the top 10. Yeah, that was an Olympia bet. No, no, no, no, no, no. I know that we have that, but I think I had a bet with somebody about Mo Fuda beating Raphael. It wasn't me, because I like Mo. I think it was Ian. Ian doesn't like Mo. Oh, it might have been me, yeah. Ian doesn't like Mo. Throw him under the bus. I love Mo. I just think... I just... Am I even... I told him he hates that guy. I know he told me, Ian. Don't deny it. I've never said that in my life. Paul's got zero filter. You said you fucking hate that guy. He said he got no back. I've never said that. I swear in my life. I'm just a huge... I'm a huge Rapha fan. So, I mean, there's going to be a lot of guys I'm going to put Rapha ahead. I mean, I think his shape is awesome. The biggest thing for him is going to be the conditioning. But at least you admit you're biased. Yeah, I mean, I'm a Rapha fan. I'm going to always be somewhat preferential towards his physique, you know? I think he's got a fucking super, super pretty physique that I think... It appears bigger than it is in a lot of ways, because the shape is so nice. I actually think the opposite. That's it. Really? Yeah, because a lot of people say, oh, he should do classic, because they don't realize how big he is. It's because... It's because, like, if we go back to Rapha's physique, I'll show you why. See, I don't think that's because they don't see how big he is. I think it's just the shape is so pretty, and people are just dumb. Well, no, people aren't dumb. This is a thing. Well, they don't understand that, like, he's 60 pounds over his weight cap, you know? Yeah, they just don't understand. But that's only because Rapha still has, like, the Regan Grimes, Quentin... To me, that's fucking huge, man. Like, I must be seeing something different than you guys, because that, to me, like, he looks huge. I think it looks great from the front. It's all he's in the back. It's this gap, Ian. Do you see this big, huge gap right here? Yes. I like the high lats into the small waist, into the flaring quads. I think it looks awesome. I know you do. I'm not saying... It's not about his look. His look is amazing. I'm saying... I'm saying why... Oh, we got a visitor? No. Okay. I'm not saying it's not pretty. He's very, very aesthetic. I'm saying the reason why people think he's not big is that big gap, because the lats don't fill the frame. The sweep doesn't come all the way to the hip. So you get a lot of, like, empty space. So people don't realize, like, how big he actually is, because there's those gaps that are there. And when he stands next to someone, that's why I think, like, he's going to have... Like, him next to Mo Fuda is going to be a nice one, because, like, Mo, if he's in shape, anyway... I think he's going to look really big next to Mo. You think so? Yeah? Yeah. I think he's probably, like, three inches taller, quite a bit heavier. I mean, like, Mo's full, dude. Yeah, no, I think Mo looks insane good, for sure. But I think Rafa has, like, kind of that similar structure. You know, like, they both have really nice aesthetic structure, but I think he's a little bit wider, a little bit taller. I think the parts are a little more accentuated. Like, the quads are a little bit better. You know, the lats flare a little bit more. The chest is a little bit more. Wait, wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Before you start running through all the body parts. You think his quads are better? I think Rafa has some of the best quads, fucking, for sure. Yeah. Dude, look how full this guy's quads are. Are you serious? Dude, I think his quads are insane good, but go back and look at Rafa's. Okay, I need another. Seth, Paul, Mike, somebody say something. Rafa's got crazy sweet, but, you know, Mo's so thick in his inner thighs, too. I call it a draw, pretty much, on legs. You're just saying that because you're Paul. No, no, I would. I actually would. I think Mo's got great legs, too. I don't think it's a big advantage that Rafa has over him. I'm sure I could find a side shot somewhere, Mike. Like, this looks like a really full leg. Like, I don't. I think he looks better from the front in his quads than Rafa, but I think Rafa's better from the side. There's a side shot for you. I don't know. I mean, something about Rafa's quads have always looked really, really big and round. Crazy sweet. And you're talking about, like, the chest popping off. Like, look at this. So, like, this is. Yeah, I mean, in the side chest, that looks crazy. Sorry. I was just talking about in the front. Like, Mo's is still exceptional for the front. We're just talking about, like, we're talking about millimeters in the inches. No, no, no. I know. I'm not saying. I'm not saying. Like, you know, like, in that front double, you can't say that he has as good of a shelf in that front double on his chest as Rafa does. You know? I think it's still really good, but I think that Rafa has a bit more depth to the chest there. Let me see. Now we're splitting hairs now, but I'll want to. 100% we're splitting hairs. Yeah, I would agree with you. Yeah. Yeah, I would agree with you. Arms up. Look at those legs, man. Those arms are crazy to me. I think his legs have probably the separations a little bit deeper, but I don't see more muscularity. But, you know, like I said, we're splitting hairs at this point. I also think that Mo has improved a lot since last year. 100%. Oh, yeah. You can see it. He put that side by side. He's way better. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think Mo from the front is fucking dominant. I think from behind is where Rafa can take a step in front. I thought that, right? But the interesting thing is the back is also Rafa's problem. It is. Yeah, it is. Conditioning and muscularity. It almost seems like Mo's back would look better in that lath spirit if he didn't pull his elbow so far forward. Yeah. Yeah. He's too pulled. If he just said it instead of like ripping it. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. It kind of makes him like pitch in a bit. Oh, I appreciate it. Well, anyway, I think that's going to be a good match because I don't know where Rafa fits after that. Like, because you're going to see like Rafa in a call out with Brandon, Tonio, and Mo. Which is where, which is where he should be. Right. Tonio's, Tonio's not at the Arnold. Oh, that's right. I'm sorry. Tonio's not at the Arnold. You're right. I apologize. He's out. Yeah. So then after, after, like, it depends what, if they do a three or four person call out, what the first call out looks like. Yeah. But if they do a four person call out, we're assuming Nick is in shape. So he's in that first call out. Yeah. The second call out is going to be Brandon, Rafa, Mo, and then who else is left after that? It could be like Akeem or like one of those. Akeem or one of those. So we're going to get to, we're going to get to see him next to each other. It's going to be, but I do, I do agree with you. Rafa's a, I think structurally because he's taller is an overall, like a bigger person. He draws attention on stage. Yeah. The dramatic X-frame that he has in his, in his just size. Yeah. I don't think Rafa's ever going to take that step like Dennis Wolf. Like for that. Yeah. Top three. X-frame size. I think he's always going to be in that, that aesthetic, you know, prettier look, if you will. You mean he's not going to fill in those gaps that we're talking about? Yeah. I don't, I, I mean, Dennis Wolf had a hell of a time doing it and that's where he got some of that weight, that waist extension from the front. Yeah. Put on that size. And I don't think Rafa's ever going to sacrifice that. But I think Dennis, I think Dennis Wolf was, when I think of Dennis Wolf, I think of like a really amplified version of Rafa. Like that's what I mean. Like I don't think he's ever going to. Yeah. Take that step. Yeah. Cause I mean, like I love Rafa's look, but like you were explaining that gap. I think that's the biggest, the problem for, you know, people to understand. Cause the dude is fucking massive. Cause when he stands up there, he took eighth, what, two years ago at the Olympia. Yeah. Two or three. Yeah. Like, I mean, it was. Or seventh. I think he was seventh. I think he was seventh. Oh yeah. Was that high? He was seventh. That's a, that's elite guys. Very. Seventh at the Olympia. I mean, I mean, what they say is like six, like top six is like the best of the best. And then I think the top seven is the best seven through 10 is elite. And then there's like a, you know, second and third tiers after that. Make a strong face, but I don't know. Debatable. You can only have a top and forget it. I don't want to get into the tiers. The top seven at any sport are elite. You know what I mean? Yeah. Top seven and up football, basketball. Nick left, Nick left HC today. Or I don't know. I don't know if it happened. I don't know if it happened. For the second time. How many times are we going to do this? Fucking Jesus Christ. Second time's a charm. I just thought it was interesting. And I thought it was, you know, it's like, it's just not, you know. Yeah, dude. Yeah. Not a good fit. Not a good. Well, I don't know. I don't know who's, you know, I don't know whose decision it was. You know, maybe it was mutual. Maybe it was mutual. Go back to hostile. But these days, though, like how many people stay with one company, you know? Well, that's the thing. Is nowadays, like most bodybuilders are, like if you look at any bodybuilder out there, they usually have three, four, five, six sponsors by the time their career is done. Yeah. Yeah. Nobody still. The days of one company are gone. I don't know if there's anything wrong with that, but it's nice to see somebody stay like, you know, fucking, you know, Samson was with us for five years. Like that's a big deal. You know what I mean? I've been with Raw for almost six, five, six. That doesn't count. No, it doesn't count. My brother-in-law is the company, so. Nepotism. Nepotism, yeah. But knowing Ian, if his brother-in-law didn't own the company, he would still be there. I would have been fired four and a half years ago. You can't fire me now, motherfuckers. I wouldn't have made it through the probationary period. That's fucking hilarious. Okay. What else we got? Oh, I wanted to show you guys this really quick. I just want to get your guys' thoughts on this kid. People have been talking about. Classic guy? This classic kid. Can you show me that? From Brazil? Yeah, that I think is going to be like the next, this kid's like the next standard in my opinion. As long as he can stay. No, he's never going to be a C-bone. That's a unique frame altogether. But this is his own thing. I think he's going to be his own thing one day. Like fucking, this kid's 21 years old. Yeah. He looks 21. Yeah. Mike, look at that shit. Man, imagine if you looked like that at 21. I'd have been fucking. I can't say what I was about to say. You could beg at everything. I'd have been fucking thrown that dick, dude. I didn't say it at all. There have been a lot of queefing. That's all I'm saying. Queef machine. Queef daddy. But no, for real though. He's got the physique. He's got the looks. Like the kids, you know. I'm telling you guys. Like this kid's going to fucking. Brazil, eh? Yeah. He's. I think he's going to fucking make his mark, man. Even from the back. Like if I find a good back shot here. Rear's in shape. He gets in shape, too. Oh, good for him. Great. Here he's on stage. He's got great skin. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thin skin. Yeah. It's pretty. Really great insertions. Like just like everything's real sharp. Look at that. Look at these adductors, dude. Paul, how's your GHK-Cu? Excellent. Excellent. Thank you for asking. You're glowing. You're glowing. I feel like I am, Mike. I feel like I've. I feel like. I don't even have. I'm vibrating. Look, I got a small wrinkle right here left. Before I had about five or six. You guys got to stick it right in there. Yeah. You can shoot it right in there. Sight eject. Yeah. Is that. That's actually a thing. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it fucking hurts. Just pinch. Just pinch the skin and just go right in there. Yeah. Try and just scrape. Scrape skull, though. Yeah. I got to scrape skull. Yeah. You got to get into the bone. So that's a little release. Yeah. Let me see. Let me see. That's all the wrinkle you have. Yeah. Come up. Come a little closer. That's fucking Botox. No. I've never done Botox. Like before, those are a lot more pronounced. And I also had a few extra ones up here. Yeah. I actually do think you look a little less wrinkly for sure. Less wrinkly. No. You look a little Botoxy. Like it looks like tighter. Like when you're moving it, it looks like there's less movement. I'm going to say that. Yeah. I feel like my skin feels fuller. It doesn't feel so low. I'm going to start blasting the shit out of this. More collagen. I saw you. More collagen. You know what, Paul? I saw you yesterday and you looked exactly the same. Yeah. But you see me every day for a second. Tell us your skin routine. Tell us that right now. I moisturize daily too. What do you do at night? I exfoliate too, Mike. But you wouldn't see it because you see me every day. Oh, yeah. That's why. That must be it. Yeah. Yeah. Paul, I think if you're going for the youthful look, though, you got to bring that beard down a little bit. Bring it like trim it? You mean? Yeah. Just put it a little tighter to the skin. Yeah. Yeah. It does need to trim. I think every day, not every day, every week I struggle with keeping it or not keeping it. Yeah. Me too. I'm all over the place. Like I got a fucking half mustache right now. So. Yeah. Don't listen. Don't listen to Ian. This guy's got a different fucking beard every day. Yeah. It's cool. Like one week, he's got a fucking full beard. Next week, he's got a five o'clock shadow. He had a stash for a while. Yeah. You know what? I would keep it like this all the time, but I'm just lazy. You look like a cop, dude. Yeah. Like why do you think that looks good? Yeah. Bitches love cops, you know? Well. I think it's more firefighter vibe than cop. Firefighter, yeah. Okay. Go for the firefighter. Go for the firefighter. You're like a bylaw officer. Go for like the firefighter special forces look, you know? You're like a bylaw officer. Yeah. Definitely special operator look. That's a special operator look. Go for the operator look. I think Seth's got it right. Yeah. Seth's got the full operator look. He looks like he's ready to kill some Taliban for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Seth looks military. Hey, did you guys hear about that? The fucking guy that was going around telling everybody that he killed bin Laden is not the guy that did it. I heard that. Oh, really? I just heard that. That's so crazy. That's so crazy because no one killed him and he's alive. He's a CIA asset, so he's alive. He's a made up figure. Okay. Can I talk about something quick and if you need to cut it, you cut it? If I have to, sure. Okay. Don't excite us like that. Go ahead. Did you guys see you with fucking Peter Atiyah? Yeah. I'm not going to cut this. This is great. Yeah. Okay, good. Yeah. Let's see the comment. Peter Atiyah fucking just flushed his whole career down the toilet. Yeah. That's a big, big fucking. Was he on the list? Is that the thing? He appeared apparently 1,700 times in the fucking emails and shit. Oh, that many? Jay-Z is too. Jay-Z disappeared. The only thing that's scary to me is like, man, when I look at my Instagram feed and look, I don't, I'm not like a big Peter Atiyah fan. I don't follow his shit. Like whatever. So this isn't like, I'm not speaking to him specifically. It just gets so scary, man. I look at my Instagram and 90% of it is just AI photos. And like how easy any one of us right now could take any real pictures of the Epstein list or like the emails, give it to chat GBT and say, do this with Peter Atiyah's emails. Do this with Fuad Abiyat's emails. It would be so easy. And even if it gets redacted later, it's already been called. I just want to touch on it real quick. So there's a bunch of emails going back and forth, but he also posted a statement like apologizing. Oh, he did? Oh, I didn't see that. I didn't think he made a public statement. There's a statement on his Twitter. What'd he say? Let me, you know what? I'll just play it for you. There's a goob. He's speaking or it's just a text? Well, it's his, it's his account. Yes. Just text. Okay. What's he say? It's a bullshit response. Yeah. It's like, uh, yeah. Look, obviously it's bad being in the, do you think everyone that's going to Epstein fucking is on these lists is child diddlers or some of them just like going to power? Let me, let me, let me just ask you this. He was charged with pedophilia in 2008 or nine. Was it? Oh, he was. Okay. Absolutely. So if, yeah. So if he's charged with pedophilia, so let's say some guy comes to you and he's got a fucking Island and parties and fucking boats and helicopters, but you know, he's a pedophile. Yeah. Are you going? Fuck. Yeah. That's a good party. I knew you were going to say that. I don't, I don't got to partake in the pedophilia, but if it's a fucking good party, I'm just going to get the invite to fucking go hang out. I'm fucking going, bro. Those are probably the craziest parties ever. Oh my God. Imagine man. That'd be fucking crazy. You guys are fucked. I'm not listed. Honestly though. For real. Listen, I know some guys who've done questionable shit and I was still partying with him. 100%. Paul, we're not talking about questionable shit. We're talking about fucking a 14 year old. Yeah. That's for sure. That's wrong. That's for sure. No, no. Fuck is wrong with you guys. That's pretty bad. Yeah. Let's talk about a couple of traffic. We're not talking about like, oh, he banged a 20 year old and it seems like pedophilia. We're talking about like straight fucking 14 year old. Banging kids and human trafficking. Yeah. Pretty sure that's different. So after that charge, all of these people are still hanging out with him and there's email, there's emails going back and forth between Elon Musk and Peter and Tia and fucking all these fucking people all going back and forth with him. Like he, after knowing that already. So you can say like, oh, I just wanted to party, but you're like, no, you're partying with a guy who fucked a 14 year old. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Did you realize he knew how powerful the guy was, you know, too, in a lot of these cases, like, I mean, you know, this guy had a lot of influence. The internet connected in his book. What's his book called? Like, uh, either way in his book, he talked, he referenced the time that he was, uh, he was traveling for work and his wife. Oh yeah. I saw this. And Peter at Tia's book. Yeah. And Peter at Tia's book. You want me to play it? You want me to play it? Steph? Yeah. Yeah, sure. Might as well. Sorry. Sorry. Carry on what you're saying. I'll just play it after. Go ahead. Yeah, no, but in his book, he referenced that his wife is, is like one or two month old son had an issue and they had to go to the hospital and his wife was pleading with him to come home so that he could be with his child that was just born one month old job. It's having an issue. And he had important work to do and he connected it and they, he was in New York city with Epstein. Oh, he didn't come home to your kids. Your kids sick and you're fucking partying. He literally said like, like I, in the book, like I had, like my work was too important. Yeah. This is, but this is exactly what it is. He's a powerful person. And they're like, I'm going to climb the social ladder or I'm going to, my career is going to get better or whatever. So I'm going to do it regardless of whether if he's a pedophile or not. Yeah. Mike, I know you're really quiet back there. I know you probably don't believe any of this is real. I'm just going with it. Cause it's fun. I haven't heard anything about it. I'm just, I'm not surprised though. Okay. Let me play this. Let me play this. Did you read, see the quote that Peter had to do? Wait, what a disappointing week it's been in the world. This is Peter Adia. He used to work with David protein bars and I guess he stepped down and they let him go today and he stepped down or they let him go today because of the controversy revolving him being in the Epstein emails and seeing all of this happen. It's just made me think and reflect a lot today about how him and others like him will happily overlook tons of fucked up and obviously wrong things to be surrounded by associated with or in the same room with people that are disgusting. But only if those people have jets and planes and islands and homes and connections and cool shit that they can put you onto so you can climb that social ladder to get to the top and maybe you'll get on Joe Rogan one day and you enjoy the fruits of those labors until it all comes back to bite you, Peter. And then you, like a giant pussy, post this huge excuse in your Twitter. At this point in my career, I had little exposure. I saw his jets and islands and I was wild. What could I, a grown fucking man with morals and integrity or so we thought, what could I have done? You just, you had no other option. It was, it was the only way to grow. We would have way more respect for you if you were just like, yeah, I knew he was a creep and I wanted the social accolades and I did it and I played these games and I did this and look where I'm at. But instead you posted this week shit. And did you guys see this email? One really stood out. It appears in this email that Jeffrey Epstein emailed Peter and said, re, got a fresh shipment and the email was a picture and it's described that the picture was a picture of a woman. And Peter replied, please tell me you found that picture online. And it's on space line. Dot, dot, dot bastard. Epstein said, afraid not. And Peter said, and here it is, here it is. You know, the biggest problem with becoming friends with you, the life you lead is so outrageous and I can't tell a soul. How do you? All right. That shit goes on for a little while. You guys can go, go to Goob's page and watch the rest of it if you want. Anyway. So he kind of like, you know, fessed up that those were his emails, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And he was trying to like climb the social ladder and all this other fucking bullshit. I'm like, I don't know. I guess you, I guess you, the fame comes and goes, you know, they find out you got fame quick and then they find out why. And I know that your fame is gone. There's always that risk of that price to pay. Right. I also wonder it's Peter Tia and it's his Peter Tia MD, but I don't think he has like an actual medical degree. I don't think he does. So you're just like, you can just do that. Yeah. You value your MD. Maybe it's initials or something. I'm going to be Fuad MD from now on. Yeah. I renounced my last name. I'm changing it. I'm changing it tomorrow on my Instagram. It's going to be Fuad MD. I don't know. It's that fucking easy. You can just do that. Yeah. What the fuck? And then you can say all your products are doctor formulated. Yeah. That's right. Right. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. He's not a doctor. He just apparently not. No, that he didn't finish med school or finish his residency or something. I'm not sure. That's what I'm saying, Seth. These guys just fucking go on Joe Rogan and they go on all these podcasts and they talk like they're doctors. I'm like, you're not a fucking doctor. I can't. I need a break from that. Why? Why? It's too bright. It's fucking killing me over here, man. I'm suffering. Like the sun is in my face. I'll put it back on in a couple minutes. What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? He's barely keeping it together over there. He's on Mars. He's a little dimminess right now. Are you okay? Yeah, I'm fine. I think you should actually go shut off all the lights in your room. I'm about to. Go do it. Go shut off the main lights. Yeah. Just go blank screen on us. I'm just going to hit the breaker. Just turn the breaker off in the house. Shut off the main lights, but just turn that lamp on. Do it. Do it. Do it. Do it. Go shut off the main lights, but turn the lamp on. I'm in the basement. All I got to do is turn off like two lights. Just turn off the light. Yeah. Just go turn it off. Okay. Go turn it off. He's not coming back. He's not coming back. The last we'll ever see, Paul. I'm fucking out of here. He's going to be knocking on your door in a minute. And his white beater and boxer. Saved me, man. That was a bad idea. That shit's fucking crazy, though, right? No, it's crazy, man. Yeah. Seth, you were going to say something? No, I was going to say it's like the week of fucking people ruining their own careers. Yeah. Scotty K Fitness and all that shit. What happened? Who? You guys didn't see the Scotty K Fitness stuff? I don't even know who that is. Is that the guy that doxed the other guy and made fun of him for being a mustache? The big mustache? Yeah, made fun of him for being handicapped or some shit? Yeah. Who is this guy? I'm like, I'm a handicapped motherfucker. You can't say that shit no more. Oh, yeah. Look at this guy. Beard glowing. Beard is glowing. All you can see is the beard. Wonderful. It's a good look for you. Yes, he's shitting her. Okay. Let me turn the lamp. There you go. No, no, no, no, no. Leave it like that. I'll do it like this. Okay. This is my white beard. Yeah. I like that. I like it, too. I like the white beard, actually. Just take a couple deep breaths and calm down. We're going to leave you alone for five minutes. Do you have any candles, Paul? Do you have any candles? Upstairs, I do. You should go light a candle and put it in front of you. Okay. Hang on. Anything to get off the screen. Anything. Fuck. I want to go light a candle now. Why is he so fucked up? Are you fucked up? He's fucked, yeah. I'm like a five, six out of ten. I'm like a two right now. What the fuck? You got to eat more of that, man. Your shit's old. I think mine was so old that it fermented. It got better? Yeah. As long as I was like three years old or some shit. Yeah. It was like an open chocolate bar that, like, open in the wrapper, exposed to air that might be at least four years old. I think that made it better, eh? Yeah. It tasted fucking tangy for sure. Yeah. The fungus has mutated. Yeah. Interesting. How much did you find? Fuad's going to, this gummy is going to break down slow in like two hours. I know. He's going to be fucking... I know. He's going to be texting us. Yeah. He's going to be texting us like Paul. You guys want to meet up? You got to meet up? It's going to be two in the morning. I'm going to be fucking wired. Yeah. Fuck. I'm happy I have sleeping pills. Yeah. Remember when you... I'm used to fucking dreams. Remember when you're over? This shit keeps me up, man. Yeah. You're like wired. I had a dream last night that Melissa was trying to force me to have sex with her best friend. Oh. Oh, that's a good dream. She was like forcing me. She's like, fuck her. Like, she needs to get fucked. Like, fuck her, you know? Really? Yeah. Did you tell Melissa? That's crazy. And I was like, no, babe, no. Did you tell Melissa? Yeah. What'd you say? She thought it was funny. She didn't get mad at you? No. No. I didn't fucking dream. It's just a dream, guys. I wasn't thinking it. Where's the candle? Right under my face. Oh, yeah. Look at that. Did you light it? Yeah. I'm lighting my beard on fire. There you go. Yeah. If I'm not careful, I will. What are you guys talking about? What was your dream? You. We were talking about you. Ian tried to fuck Melissa's best friend. Oh. In your dream? No, no. For real. Shoot. For real, yeah. She caught people. Is she hot? Yeah. Enough. Yeah. Yeah. Enough. Enough. You're going to love that if she hears it. That's cool. Did you tell her? Tell who? Melissa. Yeah, yeah, yeah. She watched. That's an awesome dream. She said the cuck chair. She directed it. Yeah, she directed it. The cuck chair. Yeah. You had a nice life, Ian. It's like that hotel chair in the corner, you know? Paul William, would you ever sit in a cuck chair? No, I'm not a cuck. That's one thing I would ever be. I didn't say you're a cuck. I said, would you ever sit in a cuck chair? Oh. Well, define cuck chair. I would sit in a cuck chair. Like, would you watch me and Melissa bang from the cuck chair? No, I like you. And you're my friend. I couldn't watch that. I wouldn't watch you fucking bang your wife. No. Really? But if too hot. I don't think he's offended. Really? I'm not an insult. I want you to. I want to show you my moves. I want to show you. He leaning back shots for you while I'm doing it. Watch this. Yeah. It's like if you see my deadlift all over again. See how many queefs I can do. I'll be in the back counting them. Yeah, but. You hear that? You hear that? That's two. That didn't count. That's three. That one didn't count. What the fuck? Would you sit in the cuck chair, Seth? To watch Ian? No. No. Can we stop with watching Ian? Stop watching Ian. I want everyone to want to watch me. This is fucking. Apparently he's got some things I can learn. Yeah. I didn't say that. Whoa, whoa. Ian doesn't have anything you can learn. I got shit, boys. But I still want you there for moral support. Yeah. Yeah. Just towel him down. Give him a little pat. Okay. You look great, Ian. You're assuming we're making it that long. We're assuming I'm going to make it that long that I need fucking towels and water, you know? Yeah. Okay. Aside from Ian, would you ever sit in a cuck chair? Like, are we, are we, like, just, am I sitting in the chair just like I went to the hotel by myself? No, no, no. Like, I mean, like. Can I travel? Would you be a cuck if you had a show going on? Like, like Brad Pitt is banging Rihanna and you're like, do you want to sit in the chair and watch? I'd watch. Paul. Oh, we know you'd watch, Paul. Paul's like. Rihanna. Would you, would you entertain yourself, Paul, or would you just. Yeah, I would, yeah. Five seconds. Yeah. Crazy. No problem there, Mike. I have no shame in it either. Five seconds ago, Paul was like, I'm not a cuck. He's like, I'm not a cuck. I'm not a cuck. He's like, let's go, Brad. Let's go, Brad. I think technically a cuck, it has to be your woman, right? Come on, Brad. Come on, Brad. Yeah. His morals just went away. Yeah. They're negotiable. They always have them. Oh, my God. Is technically to be a cuck, though, it has to be your girl? No. Like, it's just watching two people. That's more like voyeurism or whatever you call it, that side of it, you know? But I think if it's to be a cuck, it has to be watching someone bang your girl. Oh, it's not just viewing like two people. No, I think just watching is one thing. But I think like a cuck is having someone else fuck your girl while you watch. What? I'm not into that. Yeah. Yeah, I'm not doing that. Fuck that. What is a cuck? I think that's the actual definition. Oh, God. Paul, listen to this. You're going to look at it. It's getting hot in here. A week. You have a sweater on. A sweater on. I don't think you're going to have enough mad beef to use from that camel. It's not going to be hot. You have a turtleneck on. It looks like it. You look like a priest. You look like a priest right now. He does look like a priest. I should get a collar. Yeah, what are you wearing right now? We're in the latest hostile fall fashion. Oh, your t-shirt just rode up. I'm like, why does it look like he's wearing a turtleneck? It's actually a long sleeve. It's actually a long sleeve, but I got it too small. It doesn't fit right. I should have got a 2X. I never wear long sleeves. I don't either, but I had a chill earlier. Now I'm sweating my back off. Why did you get a 1X? I thought, you know, for the longest time, the 2Xs, they'd be a little too long on me. This is what I don't understand. Why would you change? Yeah, I don't understand why you do these things. He's been the same size for 25 years, and all of a sudden he's changed. You're like, you know what? I'm going to try an extra large. Is that like my dad? Someone told him once. He's like, you should try the XL. He's like, oh, no. He told me. Because a lot of times on the long sleeves, they're a little bit too long on the sleeve for me. So I thought I'd go with a single X this time, but it's tight. I can't even breathe in this thing. Shocking. Take your shirt off, man. You bought a shirt off. I'm about to. I'm going to get naked. You bought a smaller size. You take your shirt off. I'll take my shirt off. Shirt's off, party. Take your shirt off. Nobody can see you anyway, Paul. Just take it off. Yeah, I'm about to. I'm sweating right through this one anyway. Things are off the rails over there. Yeah, they're going down fast here. Jeez, I still got a couple hours to go. Still got an hour, buddy. Let's get my puffer. How many squares did you eat, dude? More. I told you, it's an Indian reserve, though. Yeah, that's triple dose. That's not as close. For sure it is. It's probably laced, too. Fence at all. My nose run. I think it's fucking shit. Okay. Okay. Sorry. Get a hold of yourself, Paul. Yeah, try. Where were we? Oh, I was going to. We were going to. Oh. I'm going to look at some. Let's see. Porn. Porn. Yes, porn. No, I'm sorry. We're going to. Bodybuilders. If you were to say, physiques-wise, will you say top five best, Mr. Olin, best bodybuilders of all time? Who's on your list? Yeah, I got Arnold. We saw this, didn't we? Did we? Yeah. Yeah. I think we. In those days, we were doing chest and back. We didn't see this, though. Mondays and Thursdays. Legs on Tuesdays and Fridays. Who cares? Who cares? Next. The fitness industry. Anything was possible. It was like heaven. You could say. Look how classy that scarf is. Yeah. Look, bro, you're talking about squatting. Chill out. Frank Zane would do one set of sit-ups for an hour. I'm like, wow. For an hour? For an hour shot. Wow. Get the fuck out of here, Tom. That's bullshit. Oh. Shut up. That's full of shit. That ponytail. I don't know. Who's the quarter is that? What's the most dangerous place to be around here? Here? I'd say every area of London, literally every area, is sketchy. I can attest to that. It's not like a segregated city. There's like, it's very. Everybody's scared. Everybody's. No, I mean, the nice areas are sketchy. The bad areas are sketchy. You just have to not do stupid shit. And y'all's robberies all have clues and stuff. That's what I like about London. Clues. Or like, you know, if there's something that happens, it's like, oh, he has a clue, you know? And then the detectives or whatever. And they're hot. What? Look at his hair. I think the things that, like, you guys, everything that you think about England is based on movies. What's the most dangerous place to be around here? That's a clue. It's like, he's thinking it's all fucking Sherlock Holmes, you know? I gotta find more fucking Theo Vaughn shit. Oh, Theo Vaughn. Listen, listen. This past weekend clips. This past weekend is podcast. He has everybody's sketchy. Theo Vaughn thinks like a fucking six-year-old. He's insane. His thinking is amazing. It's just, like, it's so free and just, it's like, it's what SJ would say. That's what my son would fucking say. That's what this is called this past weekend? Yeah. How'd you come up with that? Because I just started on a Monday. That's what this is called this past weekend. Congratulations, man, on being vice president. Thanks, man. That's awesome. That's so crazy, man. It's just, like, I just can't even, like, I can believe it, but it's just, like, I can't. You can't? No, man. It's crazy. What about that first night? Is this real? What did y'all do? Yeah. Yeah. Y'all got hired. He's interviewing fucking high-professor. Like, hey, how can you get out? Right. The white boy. Yeah. Said the N-word. And he shouldn't have done it. And look, don't do it, man. I know you want to do it. But, yeah, I've said it before. Write it down. Put it in a bottle. A lot of people will do that. I know. They put it in a bottle? Write it down. Put it in, like, a bottle. Throw it out in the water. What? What is that? Imagine just being at the beach and opening a bottle of the beach. It doesn't get rid of it. Oh. Did your dad die suddenly? Can I ask? Is that all right? Yeah. Yeah. Okay, man. Yeah, he got cancer. And I didn't even know about cancer that much. And he died pretty quick. But my dad couldn't see. He would drive. He would take us somewhere. But he couldn't see the lights or anything. So he'd be like, what? Is it red or green? And suddenly we'd get it wrong. And we'd fucking just drive out of it. It was all about cancer. Your dad had cancer or no? Yeah, he did. What is that dance called? It's the wall. Now he has a holocaust in a... What is that? So... Well, that went away quick. What the fuck? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I do like going into a place. Like, whether it's someone's home or a business. Like, people that have art colors popping. You're like, oh, yeah. This is better than... Like, when you're young and everything's just like... Like, you have your apartment. It's just white walls. You're like, this is actually... Like, oh, that's why I was depressed. Oh, yeah. This shit is sad. Yeah. Yeah. Are you married yet or not? I ain't married yet. Okay. I'm making him wait. Oh, wow. Making him wait. He made me wait. Yeah. Yeah. Is that your wedding ring on? Yeah, that's it. Let me see that thing. Yeah. See that? Oh, boy. When he opened up that box, I was like... Yeah. I guess I do. I guess I do. I'd have been dang... Hell, I'd have considered it, and I prefer women, you know? I know. I know. God, where did he get that out of a... Well, he designed it. Arkansas? He designed it. Did he really? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you see that? Uh-huh. That would make Superman sit down for a half hour. That's it. That's it. What? I'm making him wait. Making him wait. He made me wait. What's a country you might visit, man? If you ever could visit somewhere? I would say Germany. Okay. Would you ever go back to your homeland, your family's homeland, you think? Yeah. Yeah, I'm here. Yeah, I'm here. Sure, buddy. That's hilarious. That's hilarious. Oh, another year of great energy. The fourth grade you're pulling up in, you know? Are you scared about... Are there, like, girls in the fourth grade? Or that's not... What can you do with that bottle? No way he's drinking that. Yeah. Maybe, yeah. The water's not even moving. Good luck out there. Let's see one of those bottles. Like, those squeeze bottles. Paul, what are you doing, buddy? I can't even see you. My neck was bothering me, so I had to lean back a little bit. There's a lock. You just... Why don't you just lay down and put the camera on you? I'm up. I should. It's getting close to bedtime. Time's going so fast. Yeah, I start to feel sleepy. Are you okay? I'm fine. It's just the lights are off. It's just making me feel a little sleepy. Do you want to get off? No, I'm good for it. Keep going. I enjoy listening to you guys. All right. Let's do some questions. Paul, will there be an amateur Detroit show? Pardon? Will there be an amateur Detroit show? Yeah. Well, who's asking that? One of the questions I got here. Yeah, there's an amateur show. We've been promoting it for the last fucking... How many weeks now? What's your problem? You don't know that? Fucking retard. What the fuck do you think is it, you stupid fuck? You should Instagram or what? We've had the last two years. Fucking half-retarded or something. What's your fucking problem? Posting every week about it. What's your question about it? Hey, Paul, did you see the clip I posted with everybody talking about the vertical? You got a beat. I saw your box jump. People keep asking me to do it. I'm like, actually, yeah, I can't do Seth's box jump. I can do a shoebox, maybe. That's about it. But that was impressive, Seth. Very impressive. How long was that? Years ago. Years ago. How high is that, Seth? 50. I just read. You didn't see it? I've seen it. I'm showing it to the people, because not everybody that watches here on YouTube is on it. Yeah. No problem, too, eh? Like a fucking monkey. Yeah, like a frog. Yeah. That's impressive. I got you. Everybody's like, Paul, got to. Mike, can you do that? Fuck no. Something I want to start incorporating, though, if we had some box jumps. I haven't tried to jump higher than like an inch since I had my hips done. I don't even know if I can jump. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. That's something you want to start incorporating? Well, I'm going to start small, obviously. But yeah, I want to start doing some box jumps. Get one of those steppers that they use in the step classes and just start building up. Can we just start with jogging first? Can you like get jogging? I don't want to jog. You know, it'd be somebody brought up like the dunk contest. They were like, Paul, what the dunk contest? Dude, having like a six and a half, seven foot hoop would be a fucking blast. That would be fun. That would be fun. How great would your dunks be if it was like you could reach the net? Me? Yeah. A few years ago, they've been really sweet. Now I'd have to work on it again a little bit. But there had to be a pause there, right? Man, let me tell you. What a ridiculous question. Like I shouldn't even ask. I don't even know why I asked. Fucking Vince Carter. Put my arm up in there like Vince Carter. Yeah, I could throw those tomahawks still probably. Your dunks are probably so vulnerable. Can you throw it off the backboard and put one-handed in? If we start doing box jumps, I'm pretty sure after about four weeks or so of doing that, I can get that back. Four weeks? Four weeks of box jumps. Okay. You don't need to do box jumps. It's all the basketball. It's all the rib jumps. But right now my calves are tight. So we've been working on it for about a month. I think I'll be able to. You're fucking whatever. You know what? What about a six foot five rim? That's only four inches over your head. Yeah, then no problem. Can I tell you what the crazy thing is? He thinks everybody thinks he's fucking around. He's being serious. Four weeks. Absolutely, I'm being serious. If we do it every day for four weeks, we'll head to. Every day? Yeah. Well, I mean, we'll take weekends off, but five days a week. Have you seen yourself try and skip a rope for fuck's sake? You can't jump, man. I learned how to skip a rope very quickly. The first couple times I admitted I couldn't do it, but when I worked on it. And you can skip a rope well. Is that what you're saying? At one time, I could skip it probably, I would say, better than the average person. It lasts 30 years. Better than the average person. Better than the average person. Yeah. I'll take that bet. Okay. Well, I got to work on it again, though. I can't just go cold. What do you need? Four weeks? Four weeks. And then we're going to videotape you. We're going to walk into a good life, and we're going to challenge a random person to skip better than you. Yeah. And while I'm there, if they got a basketball court, I'll touch a room for you guys. That's a long time coming. This used to be a series of, like, Paul challenging random people to, like, a thing of their choice. I'm going to start it. It's going to be our hostile series. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Just going into the local YMCA, where guys are, like, working out or, you know, doing fucking playing basketball, whatever. Just go in and be, like, challenge you to a thing of your choosing. And then they do it, and then Paul's to try. Okay. Sure. You're going to get killed by everybody. What's some training for it? Four weeks. Four weeks is all I need. Four weeks of box jumps. Four weeks of box jumps. I want to jump up and down on a box for four weeks. Wait a second. I'm actually dead serious right here. If we did box jumps for four weeks starting next Monday, how high do you think you could jump? I don't know how high, but I know I could increase it. Seth, how high was that? 50 inches. I can't do that. I know you can't, but how cool is it? What about one of those? I do half that. I do half that, yeah. You think you can get to 25 inches? That would be my goal. You know that's only two feet off the ground, right? Yeah. I'm 53. Seth was, like, 33 when he was doing that. That's fucking like this, dude. What? That two feet. That's like up to his knee. Yeah. Yeah. That's it. Okay. Let's go hip. So what are you talking? Like three feet? Three and a half? Three feet. Okay. I'll do three feet. Give me three feet at least. I'd be happy to for that. We can start. We've got to get the equipment, though. We don't have any boxes. I'll buy it. I'll buy it. Okay. You buy it. I'll do it. I'll buy it right now. Yeah. But we've got to start. I'm serious. We've got to start doing them. We'll start Monday. Document the progress. These are the vlog. I'm going to document the whole four weeks. Okay. But you only release what I tell you. You know what? We'll do Paul. No, no, no. You know what? We'll do Paul. No, no, no. We'll just save it all up. We'll post it. We'll post it as a documentary. It'll be really like. Okay. Sure. Make it really dramatic. Let's get back into skipping rope, too, though. We'll show you like. If you made like a 12-minute fucking docuseries. Of Paul doing shit. Paul sitting down talking in an interview. I'd like to do that, actually. Because I have a goal. A 12-week goal right now. So I'd like to start doing that. What's your 12-week goal, Paul? I want to get in better shape. Let's define that. What does that look like? We need like definitives here. I want to be more athletic. Okay. How do you define that? Well, I don't have a measurement. No, no, no. Wait, wait, wait, wait. You need a measurement. That's all. Okay. I just want someone to tell me I look more athletic. Can I tell you? I'm going to run for five minutes. I'll die in. You just said you didn't want to run. I don't want to run. But I don't have to run. I want to do a three-foot box jump. And let's just pick any intent. I don't want to run. Let's write these goals down. Let's write these goals down. Run. Run. I've never talked about box jumps. And now, because we talked about it right now, all of a sudden, it's a 12-week plan. It's to get a 30-inch box jump. Three-foot box jump. Okay. I want to be able to do... Run for five minutes. Okay. Sure. Five minutes straight. I'm not going to train running, though. What speed are we just doing on the road? How are you going to do it, then? I'm going to do other stuff. I'm going to do more athletic training. Five minutes is seven miles an hour. Ian. Ian. Can I tell you what? Oh, no way. Listen. Listen. Can I tell you something? The assault bike will be incorporated. Last week. Last week. I can't remember what we were doing, but... We were doing lunges. We were doing lunges. One leg at a time. Step out. Step back. Step out. Step back. Right? Just lunges. Yeah. Paul's like, I really like this athletic training. What? We're just doing lunges. It's like any movement. Athletic training. Any movement other than like... It's not a step up and down. I'm a hybrid athlete now. I was like... I'm ready for my first high rocks. I was hoping we were going to go from there, though. We haven't done them since. I was hoping we're going to lead a more intense stuff. Okay. We will. We will. To box jumps. What about battle ropes? Do you want to do battle ropes, Paul? No. I'm kidding. Paul, you're never going to... You're never going to run for five minutes, though, if we don't run. I can run for five minutes if I don't run. I can do other forms of cardio. Ask Ted. You can't run for five minutes straight. Ted, tell him. He doesn't believe me. What if I do stair climber at a fast pace? That's climbing stairs. That's not running. No. Same, Paul. You don't think I'll... No? No. He'd do a little running. Okay. You could do some other stuff. A little trot. A little trot going. Yep. Okay. We got to start slow with that, though, for Adam Steph. I'm going to build up to a canter. What else is on the list here? Five-minute run. Five-minute run. Three-foot box jump. What about a dummy drag? Burpees? Like in high rock. Burpees. Yeah, a dummy drag. Burpees. Burpees, yes. Okay. How many burpees, Seth? That would be a good goal, Seth. How many do you think you could do right now? Not many. Five. No, I could do ten. I think the goal should be ten. That's it. I could do ten right now for you. Okay. Do it. I'm sweating right now for you. I don't want to do it right now. Okay. I think like 30. If you could do 25 or 30 in a row, you go. Okay. Okay. That's a goal. 25 to 30 for you. 30. I think you're going to do a gas after five. Well, I'll be breathing heavy. I could do ten. I could do ten. Because he can't take an hour to do 30 burpees. Right. So what's a good time? So 30 in. A minute. A minute? No. Two minutes. Two minutes. Yeah, two minutes. 30. Burpees. Yeah, let's pick up the pace on that. 25 is okay to put that in brackets. It's okay, dude. Up to 25 to 30 for you. Don't get me laughing. Hey, you know what? We're going to get together, and we're going to fucking put this list to the test. Oh, my God. Yeah. We're going to do it. We're going to do it. Troy's too soon. I need 12 weeks. Oh, yeah. You said four before with the box jumps. That's more than four. Box jumps. I could do one of the goals in Detroit if you want. Okay. We'll get a box jumps. Box jumps in Detroit. Okay. That, maybe I'll touch a rim. Yeah. Okay. And then immediately eat that disgusting fish. Right where you're done. Yeah, you owe us that. You have to eat the surf drumming. Why do you guys want to see me throw up so bad? It's hilarious. You said you could do it. No, I didn't say I could do it. I think I told you. Actually, I think that's because you lost the bet. You lost the bet that you owe us that. Oh, that's what it was. Yeah. Okay, I'll do it. Someone going to do it with me? No. No, we didn't lose. Just me. You guys are going to stand around in a circle and just watch me throw up. We'll probably throw up just from being in the area. Yeah. If you're still from watching me throw up, it's going to start a chain reaction. Yeah, it's going to stand by me. Yeah. What else is on the list, Seth? I mean, that's pretty good. That's good. Come on. What about a sled push or something? How many push-ups? I'm not making this thing at one pick. Oh, yeah. Let's do like three things. Let's get push-ups. Push-ups will be the final one. I'm going to fucking try out the line. Yeah. Three things, okay? Okay, okay, okay, okay. Okay, that's good. That's good. That's good. No, let's do 60 push-ups there. How many push-ups do you think you could do in one set? Right now? Fuck, I just hurt my pec. Not too long ago. Oh, my God. I would say right now, probably, I could crank out 20, 25. Okay, so let's go for a goal of 50. 50? I think you said 25. Ian's like 50. Yeah. 50 push-ups is pretty attainable. Oh, you're going to build up to it, yes. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. 50 push-ups. 12 weeks. Dude, if you can't do 50 push-ups, fuck. I think it hurts, man. I can do 50 push-ups. With good form? I don't know. I think I can do... Can the form be loose? Well, I don't have an arm, so it doesn't count, but if I had two arms, I could do it. Can the form be a little bit loose? Fuck you, Seth. I mean... The form doesn't have to be perfect. I have to touch my chest to the ground, nothing stupid like that. Minimum one hand from the ground. One hand from the ground? One fist? One fist, yeah. Like, turned up. Yeah. A fist. Yeah. Okay. And not lock out. It's got to be locked out. Okay. They got to... Your arms have to extend. They can't just... You can't be... Yeah, you can't just pulse them. They can't be the diamond gym push-ups. Okay. Is it my choice how wide I can put my hands? Yes. Yes. Okay. Why? What are you going to do? Close grip? The wider, the easier. You didn't do. No. Yeah, because less tricep. Yeah, but you want more help. Yeah. Incorporate all of all. Why do you want to isolate more if you want... If you're trying to go for, like, a larger count, you would want more muscles to help you. Yeah, you're right. How many... How many do you raise a good point? How many do you think you could do in a row right now, Ian? How many do you think you could get in one set? 65 to 70, maybe? Yeah, that's about where I am. Really? Yeah, when I was, like... After I stopped bodybuilding and I was doing, like, track training, I think I could do, like, 70 pretty good. Like, I think I got, like, maybe close to 80. Um, but I was off the sauce, but I was also lighter. So, it's like, yeah, I think right now I'm a little heavier. Somewhere in that, like, 60-ish range I'd probably be around. Once you start... Once you're... Once that blood starts pushing into your chest, it's like, you're done. It, like, comes so fast when you're fucking cooked. Mike, is your shoulder too fucked to do anything like that? My shoulder's not fucked. No, I could do it. I could do it. I asked Mike. Give me a second, Paul. Yeah. Don't worry about me. Go ahead, Paul. Sorry, Mike. Sorry. I don't know if you got you up there. Paul's my representative. Go ahead, Paul. My shoulders are fine. My shoulders aren't fine. Fuck his shoulders. Mine are fine. I'll do it. No, Mike, can you do something like that or not? Push-ups? Yeah. Yeah, I can do push-ups. How many things you do? Well, I'd like to think I could do, like, 40 to 50 maybe, but I don't know. I haven't done a push-up in a very long time. Really? Really? Me too. Interesting. Nice to do him. When? At the end of chest day. No, you didn't. You see me do him. I've been training with you for 30 fucking years. I've never seen you do a push-up once. I do them with depth. I do them in the bathroom when you're not all around. I do them in between. No, I was super excited. You don't know everything about me. You don't even watch me when I train. Got it. That's true. For the last, like, few months, he started adding, like, five push-ups. Depth, too. Yeah. Yes. With lots of depth. To stretch out the chest. Yeah. Yeah. Open it up. Stretch it out, Paul. Yeah. You like to be stretched out, Paul? Stretch that. Make that chest queef, man. Make that chest queef, boy. Exactly, yeah. Got to loosen it. Look at this. If you had to change each other's legal name, what would you change it to? My name and profile right here. Anal sex. I would change Paul's to, like, the most generic white guy name I possibly could. Bob. Bob Smith. I was watching Guardians of the Galaxy the internet, and Paul is literally Drax. Yeah. Like, you're literally the same as Drax. 100%. Yeah. Yeah. You're literally Drax. Personality-wise, it's exactly the same. Yeah. You even kind of look like Dave Bautista. Yeah. He's always there. Yeah. He's always small now, though. I would change Fuad's name to, like... Yeah. Muhammad. Like, Al-Alaqbar. Alan Snapbar. You look like a... Alan Snapbar. You look like a Kyle. Yeah, but Kyle. I would call Ian Ken. Ken Jones. Or Keith. I knew Ken Jones. I work with Keith. You look like him. Keith. I don't like Keith. I like Keith. It's a dead name. Reminds me of, like, a quiche. Oh, yeah. Is The Sopranos the greatest show of all time? No. No. Is Sopranos in the top ten of series? Yes. Yeah. Not mine, but probably is, yeah. You did last of it. Sopranos all the way to the end, though? I didn't like Sopranos near the end. No. The first few seasons I loved, but they all fuck them up near the end. Every show does that near the end. Yeah. I think Sopranos really set the bar for the future. I think they were, like, the first... They were the first series. Wowing series. Have you guys watched that show, Paradise? The second season's coming out this month. Yeah. No. Yeah, I watched that. That's a great show. Great show. You guys told me. That's the one with the... Underground City. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Have you guys watched this show? It's not like anything amazing, but it's a decent show to watch. Is this show Steel? Nope. No. Like, Steel's in Theft, not as in Metal. No. Okay. No. It's pretty decent. Dark Winds is good, too, if you've never seen that. It's a good show. I haven't seen that. I just watched that His and Hers. Oh, yeah. I've seen that. I didn't like it that much. It was... I like... I like that... What's that guy's name? I like that character. I like that actor. John Bernafal. Yeah. I like that. I like him. I just... I didn't think it was that great. No, it was decent. I like Presumed Innocent better, like as a crime killer. I can't remember it to be honest. Was that the one with Gyllenhaal? Yeah. And his daughter kills the... Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I love that. I love that show. Yeah, that was good. Yeah. I'm also watching the new... Any of you guys watch Game of Thrones? Yes. There's that new one, Night of the Seven Kingdoms? I haven't watched it. Oh, I've seen that. Is it good? I haven't seen that. It's like a pre-prequel. Really? Okay. What is it? Yeah, you see an old man with like a fucking 10-inch dick like 20 minutes in. Awesome. Did that make you happy? I fucking never watched that show. It was just dicks as soon as I turned it off. Dicks. Fucking dicks everywhere. That's what sells, Mike. Dick sells. Is that on Apple? No, it's on Crave. Because it's an HBO show, right? So yeah, for us in Canada, it's Crave. So it'd be HBO Max. Right. When you have a hole in a sock, do you throw it away? Do you throw away just that sock or do you throw away the pair? Mm-hmm. That's funny. Say that. I throw away just that sock. Yeah, so do I. Oh, you do? Okay. Paul, are you crying over there? God, I'm just leaking. I'm fucking sweating. Noses running. Eyes are watering. My body's rejecting something. My body's rejecting something right now. Yeah, the poison you ingested. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. I don't know what it's rejecting. It's already a poison environment. I don't know why it's rejecting it so much. It should be welcome. I know. It should be at home here. It's like, ah, I'm at home. Yes. I'm with amongst friends. It's leaking out of every orifice of your body right now. I'm going to open a window. It's fucking hot. I think I throw both the socks, actually. Like, if I'm wearing a sock and I notice it has a hole, I just take the pair and throw it out, I think. I don't throw it out with the pair because I'm like, I know I'm going to do laundry and I'm going to lose a sock somewhere. And now I have an extra one. Yeah. Yeah, I think Melissa would be too annoyed with me having, like, singular socks in waiting. She'd throw them wait for you. It makes sense. She would just, like, when she's doing laundry and sees a singular sock, she'd be like, this doesn't have a match, garbage. We're the same pair of socks for, like, four days in a row. No way. Really? We're not watching them? Wait. Oh, fucking fuck. Wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait. You're not slippers, Mike. You take them off and then put them back on? Yeah, like, if I go to bed tonight, I'll leave them on the floor. I'll pick them right up. Socks, you can definitely get them. Really? I don't do that. No way, man. Once I take them off. But I don't, like. Yeah, me too. Yeah, I'll box in different socks, so I'm sweating in different socks. Okay. Thank God. I'm not wearing the socks, like, doing crazy shit. No, because, like, if I was away hunting or something, I would wear the same pair of, like, It's different. It's different. If I was away with socks, I would wear those every day, sweating in them in boots for two weeks. They won't smell. I'm fine with those. Yeah, if you're hunting, it's different. But a work in sock feels good when you put it on. It's, like, already formed to your foot. Yeah, it's ready. Let's move it. No, no, no. It feels dirty. It feels dirty, man. It feels good, man. A little moist still. Let it air dry. I love. Why are you so moist, man? Paws are moist because he doesn't dry his feet. That's why. Dry his feet. That's right. I'm always dripping. My underwear and socks are always dripping wet. Fucking wet-ass pussy over there. Even lap sacks. Interestingly enough, the next question is, can we get Paul to do a full hot yoga class? I would love to do a hot yoga class. Would you? Right now. I'm sure you would. I tried one. Okay, a long time ago, I went to a class. You probably know the girl who had. I was trying to bang the girl at the time. That was teaching the class. I didn't bang her, though. I remember that. You failed. You went there for no reason. Yeah. She's a fucking loser to hot yoga. Yeah. This is when I was fully sauced up. I like to date men. Yeah. And I was fully sauced up, so I just sweat like an animal all over my mat, and I was actually slipping on it. Gee, I wonder why that didn't work. Yeah. I didn't turn her on at all. Best advice to open up my own gym. That's a fucking long answer. Good luck. Don't do it. For Fuad and Paul, you guys have been best friends for decades. Has there been a time you forgot each other's birthday? Paul does all the time. All the time. Every year? He's a stoner. He doesn't remember. I don't know. Tell me. I didn't know your birthday. October 17th. No. Close enough. What is it again? 15th, you asshole. 15th. I knew it. Fuck. It's right in there. Darn it. 30 fucking years, dude. I'm really bad with birthdays, though. So I'm an exception to that rule. It's 2026. Would you rather win 200K for winning a show or win 100K plus a Hummer and a Rolex back in the 2000s? Yeah. I was just talking about this in a different YouTube video I was doing. What do you guys think? I would take the Hummer, the ring, and the money. No. Why? You can buy your own fucking Hummer if you wanted one. Money comes and goes. No, but I'm saying if you won 200K, you can buy. A Hummer is just money, Paul. You know? Yeah. Yeah. But not really. Because it'll retain its value. I kind of know what he means, though. It's not going to retain its value. No. It's a depreciation. I kind of know. It's a depreciation asset you can buy. I kind of know what he means, though, about getting a gift. If somebody gives you a gift. Yeah. Because no, you're going to spend it. You're not going to remember it. Like, if you want a ring or a watch. The ring or the Rolex, I think, is better than the Hummer. Yes. Agreed. Because the Rolex will hold its value. It might go up. Yeah. Right. No, no, no. Keepsakes. They could be engraved. Whatever. That car, you're going to fucking get rid of in six months. You know? Yeah. Yeah. I think, actually, I think Ronnie kept that Hummer for a really long time. Yeah. Would you guys get rid of it? If you want one of the old Hummers, one of the H1s? I'd probably keep that now. I would have kept that. Imagine driving that thing around now. Yeah. That'd be pretty cool. Great. Yeah. Driver or anything. All right. We all change your mind. We're taking the Hummer and the Rolex. Paul, what's the strangest compliment you've ever gotten about your physique? Just recently, actually. Last year on vacation, a guy told me my rear delts look great. Nice. Did he actually say rear delt? Yeah. He did. And he was a regular guy who you wouldn't think know what a rear delt is. He asked me what I do for my rear delts because they're so impressive, he said. You know whose fault that is? It's that Ryan Humiston guy. Yeah. Seth, you know what I'm talking about on YouTube. Yeah. You know Ryan Humiston? He's got like 400,000, 400 million fucking subscribers or whatever. This fucking guy, it's like every other video is a rear delt video. Really? I don't think I've seen this guy. I'm telling you. He started a trap with young people? I just think now average guys know what like a rear delt is. Oh, I thought you meant they tried to. The secret having good delt is having good rear delts. For some reason, every time his videos come up on my YouTube channel or on my YouTube, like, you know, watch this video, it's him doing like a rear delt video. Yeah. Really? Yeah. It's crazy. Rear delt is this thing, right? Yeah. Let's see. Ooh, that's a dark one, but not interesting. Who had more potential, Dallas or Luke? Oof. That is tough. Man, I don't even know. Yeah. I mean, Dallas structurally was obviously very impressive, but Luke had some crazy density. I preferred Luke's physique. Yeah. I liked his structure. I liked how he built his physique, and I think he had a crazy upside. Yeah. Crazy. Yeah. Both are amazing. I think Dallas was maxing himself out constantly. Like, so I don't know if it was so much like, I mean, he had crazy impressive physique, but I prefer, I'm just going to be biased on Luke's side. For Luke's size too, like for how big of a guy he was, he had really nice shape still. He could have carried more muscle. Well, you know, it wouldn't have blown out his shape by any of what it means. Where Dallas, yeah, I can see what you're saying. He was almost at the max side of his physique now. Paul, spell Sriracha. Oh, yeah. No problem. S-I-R-A-C-H-A. No. S-I-R-A-C-H-A. Say it louder. Louder, louder. Say it louder. Where did I mess up? There's more than one spelling, though. It's Sriracha. Sriracha. There's more than one spelling, though. If you go to the grocery store and you look at the sauces, it's spelled a number of different ways. S-R-I. S-R-I? Two R's? S-R-I-R. Yeah. Sriracha. Ian should know. The guy eats, puts it on everything. Yeah. I haven't eaten in months, actually. I'm off it, but yeah. S-R-I-R. I'm off it. But I've seen it spelled differently. He's off Sriracha. He's off it. I got to think right now where Frank's extra hot. Nice. I like Cholula. What's that? Cholula. What's that? You don't know Cholula, Paul? No. It's like a hot sauce. Oh, that shit. Oh, okay. Yeah, I've seen that. Yeah. Yeah, he liked that, eh? Like an actual hot, like a ghost pepper hot sauce kick right now. That's really hot. Can't fucking do that shit, man. Yeah. Just ruins everything for me. Just flavor. I need flavor. It's not flavor, though. It just makes everything a lot. Incitement in my life. I want to feel my esophagus melting. Just trying to feel alive over here, guys. Trying to feel something. Something to make my heart beat. This says, Bro Chat Awards. Decide who gets what. Best devil's advocate. Best know-it-all. Best training partner. Best doggy enthusiast. Best heavy bulk enthusiast. Best enthusiast. Mr. He looked great, but could be leaner. You're going to have to put that to the fans to vote. Okay. Start from the beginning. Best devil's advocate. That's me. That'd be sad. Yeah. The host is going to be that. Yeah. Best know-it-all. Ian. Probably me or Paul, but Paul in a much more endearing way. Not a know-it-all at all. Yeah, you are. Well, you know a lot about things, and like you do, but it's like always comes off in like a nice genuine way where I'm a know-it-all for sure. Yeah. No. I appreciate the compliment, Ian. But no. I will tell you what it is. It's nice of you to say, Ian. You're a know-it-all. You're a know-it-all. Sometimes you make up stuff and just make it sound like it's real. Me and Fua had this talk recently about you. And Paul is a know-it-all, but only knows about 15% of the actual facts. I'm more than 15, but. Best training partner. Paul. That's got to go, Paul. Thank you. I'm proud of that one. Best doggy enthusiast. This will be interesting. Like, is this the sex position? Yeah, it's Paul. I'll be sure I'm a dog. I'll be sure. Fucking dog master over here. Fucking stupid doggy dog, man. He's only done doggy for the last 40 years. That's right, Ian. Fucking dog pound. I got time on that shit. Okay, but is it really? Because, like, we haven't asked Mike or Seth. It's still Paul. I'll give it to Paul for sure. I'm a goat at doggy. Doggy goat. Doggy goat. Don't cut that out. Okay. Don't cut that out. I couldn't actually. I might see that. No way. So, a question, though. Is here the dog master? Yeah. Does it have to be... Does it matter if it's standing or kneeling? Fucking Cesar Millan over here. Dog whisper. Dog whisper. What's breaking to the butt? When it's queefing, it's... I hear that sound. That means he's angry. He's angry. I can tell what the queef says. Translate it for you. Does it matter? Jabbing chicks in the side to shut up. Pushing their bellies in. Like an air balloon. I'm going to put this candle. It's too hot. Yeah. You have to take that shit. You think it's the candle? No. Why is the washer of the sweater? Do you have anything on under the sweater? No. Go put a house coat on and come back. I could put a robe on, Mike. Just be naked underneath it. Your balls are out a bit, man. Boys. I need a shower for this. Okay. Are we going to finish the categories or move on? Best heavy bulk enthusiast. Oh, you. All day. Yeah, two foot. The bulk master. Mr. He looked great but could be leaner. That's Ian. That's me. That was it. There's no more. We need to come up with a whole list. Yeah. Weirdest gym locker room encounter or something you witnessed? Oh, I got a really bad one. Oh, yeah? Yeah. I got like proposed. Is that how you say it? Well, it depends on what he asked. Proposition. Proposition. Proposition. Proposition. That's it. Proposition. This is way back when I was like 18 or 19. Whatever. Remember? What did you have to do? You know that? I didn't do anything. Someone diddle you or whatever. What did you do? Got strains for some change, huh? We will laugh at you. Tell us. It was at Windsor Squash and Fitness place, Paul. Yeah. Squash and a lot. Nice. I used to sit in the fucking sauna after my workouts. Oh, you can't fool it. That's your first mistake right there. Those are just painful places. I never sleep. That's a known gay hangout. It is. It always has been. Especially at a squash club. He's right. For sure. It's old white guy. They assume if you're in there, you're down. Yeah. It's like having an earring in the right ear. Okay, so you're in the sauna, the squash club, naked. I had a towel with me, thank God. Just over you, though, not wrapped around you. Oh, I think you did tell me this. Towel, towel, towel, over me. I did tell you that. and then there's a guy sitting next to me like little you know a lanky like scrawny a picture like a twink okay guy like a spanish twink okay and he just he asked me like he sat there for a few minutes and then he's like you work out i'm like yeah i'm in the gym right now and then he's like uh you want to see my dick he stood up he stood up and he turned towards me and he was like can i see under your towel and i'm like no you can't what are you gonna give me what do i get kevin spacey over here that was that was it that was the whole fucking encounter but i said no and then he just left no i left oh i said no and then i fucking left and then i think he walked out behind me but i was like jerked off that was the end of it you walk out backwards that was uh yeah that was my encounter nice that's gay yeah very good you should know those saunas i know you're only 18 i was only like 18 dude i know i didn't fucking guys doing there i didn't know then i thought it's a sauna people go in there in sauna yeah guys go there and sweat naked together that sounds like it's okay yeah when you're 18 who knows you know yeah i had older bro you had older brothers you should have known i didn't any encounters paul gay encounters yeah uh i got hit on a couple times but nothing gay that's gay well i mean i turned it down so nothing gay happened yeah but i turned it down too you just said it was gay yeah but you were like naked with a guy i was just at a bar i was fully close to a lot of drink wait wait wait wait you were in a bar and somebody came up to you and tried to try to do what i asked if i wanted a drink that was it well then he meant my drink he wasn't this guy it was obvious you know it was pretty obvious he was gay and he wanted to buy me a drink what was obvious about it did you get uncomfortable no i just didn't think i told him i wasn't gay and i didn't want to drink you said i'm not just like a perfectly straight dude be like hey brother you want to drink what are you drinking tonight i'm not gay bro so he's drax from i never thinking him but i was like i'm not going dude that guy's not gay man huh that guy's not even gay he was gay that dude's telling a story right now this one time like we were all having a good time yeah i just wanted my buddy a drink he's like fuck off i'm not gay i was nice i thanked him you're fucking gay leaking like a faucet i think now the lights are off i feel like you're melting in the dark i feel like i'm gonna shower so bad right now take that fucking sweater it's gonna melt into the seat what a t-shirt on man it's a long seat t-shirt you haven't stopped moving in five minutes it doesn't feel like it to me at all oh my god oh god okay ian this is for you what's the optimal rest time between cigarettes between cigarettes yes oh it depends there's a lot of this is a very one up the other one's ending i mean like am i fucking sniffing lines like because then it's like yeah one after the other there's no 30 seconds yeah i mean if that yeah i might have two going at once just use the one to light the new one up if i'm drinking like if you're out drinking maybe like every 15 minutes you know you like have a smoke out on the patio you go in chill for a minute and then your boys like you want to go with smoke and you're like all right you go back outside you know it's every like 15 20 minutes if you're doing drugs though it's if you're doing rails it's every two minutes every yeah if it's just a normal day you're hanging out with the boys there's no drinking drugs i mean maybe every like 90 minutes you know hour 90 minutes that's yeah okay yeah uh would you rather eat 10 000 calories of pizza or donuts well yeah i'd probably go with sugar uh would paul take rihanna to paris if he had to maintain eye contact with the other dude the entire time what other dude i don't understand the question i don't know it's all it says say yes or no yes i would forget to bang rihanna uh would paul rather watch a tom cruise marathon or a gay porno scene to complete to completion no tom hates then i have to think about i hate tom hanks i want to know the answer to this tom cruise i would definitely take tom hanks listen you got to watch a tom hanks every single movie all day long all you gotta put put forrest gump on for me and i'll watch a gay porn any day over that cast away forrest gump on repeat yeah oh no i'll watch gay porn all day over you hate forrest gump i hate that movie so stupid and i can't stand it it's literally like the nicest movie ever no i really like it either i ain't gonna lie i hated it really seth you probably love forrest gump i liked forrest gump what was what about that what's the other movies and um where he's uh cast away mike that's it i don't mind forrest gump it's right oh really huh just mean that i guess it annoyed the hell out of me no a lot of people hate that movie really yeah i don't know why uh remember remember the question if a plane crashes on the border where the survivor where the survivors are buried you all said where they were from have a little rethink prove you aren't all meatheads what fuck off next question fuck off dickhead next question doesn't make any sense what the does that mean trying to play riddles with us not tonight pal you don't know where people would be buried if they crashed and then fuck off how much more difficult was it to score at peak size during your careers more it was easier definitely easier yeah i'd say easier oh yeah really yeah yeah i mean especially if you're if especially if you were trying to bang like fucking fitness chicks like that's fucking like you know yeah there's not there's always a sect of sluts that like huge guys oh yeah yeah maybe you should a brood of sluts it's like can you put that on a shirt the dog whisperer represents the second holy shit it's just paul is up with a pimp hat on with all these things this is my sect of sluts you got him with that one you broke him you broke him i got him with that one the train is off the tracks now i don't know if i brought this up when i was at guys it would be our guys house you guys weren't there i think it was the second night did you guys ever watch back in the day those videos that unforgivable no no no go ahead to youtube and put it unforgivable what the fuck is that you guys have never seen this this is like a class a classic youtube like oh gee you know a lot of people will know this one for sure brian put it on i was fucking dying laughing i hadn't seen it in 15 years this is this is black and white with a black yeah put this on it uh-huh what is it not too long ago i was at a christmas party with my turn it up a bit who's having fun eating christmas cake and whatnot saw another cunt i wanted to spit to walked over to her and said what's up you cunt what you trying to do she said excuse me i said bitch excuse me i'm looking for some pussy and some kind of some butthole said well i mean i have a boyfriend i said bitch no one asked that she kind of got a little scared a little frustrated i said i'll snap your neck like a twig right now if you sass me again this is paul this is a dog back i'm like nigga what's the deal he said he had a letterman jacket on he was from high school pissing me off i said nigga what sport you play you little pansy he said i'm a football player i said i don't care i took him by his wrist cut him cut his wrist vertically vertically that's it what now ho oh he was on the floor dying making a scene that nigga daddy came over said what happened i said nigga i split his wrist took his letterman from him put it on left without paying that bitch walked to me after i got out she was like what's the problem i was like i'm about to call bovis we're about to run through you he said start crying a little bit i slapped that so fast i ain't trying to hear that she left my nigga bovis came up i was like let's go smoke some weed he said i really ain't got no i said nigga you better get me huh of course your body i'm turning on my own niggas what the 11 million views yeah dude that's a cloud there's a few of them i think those are 11 11 million views holy wow yeah but how long was that posted 20 years 15 years 19 years ago yeah 19 years ago yeah oh yeah that's old youtube those were hilarious well i used to watch this like when i was a kid like these were like me and my buddies would watch that was like funny when you're a teenager yeah and brian boudreau was like yo you ever see this video i put on i was like dude i literally haven't seen this in 15 20 years we were dying laughing watching it that's so crazy um all right we're gonna do a couple more uh i don't know yeah that's from like that's from like my new haircut era you remember that no oh man is that like early youtube stuff oh my god you guys don't know my new you know that obviously set yeah okay one more we gotta play my new haircut that is that's like the youtube classic for bros i wonder how many people watching no well i mean it's gonna live oh i bet tons yeah yeah there's gotta be yeah this is especially if you're like 30 plus oh you know i was at a barrage last night 18 18 and older and uh you know i got myself a prom date hey broski two heinekens i want a shot the title you know you gotta make sure they're ready you know what this is this is my new haircut you know what that means getting some fucking pussy tonight my boys they're coming out they all got the same haircut they're getting some fucking pussy tonight i'm gonna grind on every piece of pussy that walks through that door all right i'm gonna fucking grind onto my fucking dick falls off bitches love my haircut and if they don't i'm fucking skanks you're fucking skank fucking skanks oh i have seen this yeah this carlis parked because i'm the fucking man and everyone should know it i swear to god one motherfucker looks at me the wrong way i'm starting a fight you're fucking looking at me huh huh fucking games on the case of water check in not now chief i'm in the fucking zone i'm the fucking man oh yeah thanks all right i ate that shit for breakfast lunch and dinner i'm in control baby i'm a fucking control fucking protein fucking protein where's it got their protein mom don't you get me some protein yeah i get my swell on at the gym that's because everyone should fucking see how jacked and tan i am oh my god what what two fucking jager bombs down here chief muscle milk HGH protein power bars i'm gonna get fucking wasted tonight i'm gonna drink heineken's and jager bombs all fucking night jager bombs fucking shower in that shit fucking jager bombs jager bombs jager bombs jager bombs jager bombs jager bombs i think i remember that one i think i remember that one oh yeah charles hey charles charles let me talk to you i'm talking with charles ramsey he's a neighbor uh walk me through again what happened this afternoon you you heard screaming her screaming i meet my mcdonald's i uh come outside i see this girl going nuts trying to get out of her house so i go on the porch okay i go on the porch and she says help me get out i've been i've been in here a long time so you know i figured it's a domestic violence dispute so i open the door and we can't get in that way because how the door is it's so much that the body can't fit through only your hand so we could kick the bottom and she comes out with a little girl and she says call 911 my name was amanda berry now did you know who that was when you when she said that when she told me it didn't register until i got to call the 911 and i'm like i'm calling the 911 for amanda berry i thought this girl that's too long okay i don't even know what that is dude this guy goes uh he ends up being like i knew whenever that white girl grabbed jumped in the butt that's what i thought i was like something was big time wrong right that's what i thought all right that was right down that was right in cleveland not far from uh like i i whenever i worked up in cleveland it was maybe like five minutes away from where i was it was wild mike you still with us oh yeah paul you still with us oh yeah okay he's in this sunken place i'm going i'll tell you i'm running my last legs here though i got about 15 minutes left to be for that all right well we're all done buddy we'll wrap it up there okay why don't you uh say a nice prayer good night good night fucking walls are mailed over here i'm fucking losing my mind okay try to pull together here let us pray dear leader we have much to pray about we have much to be thankful for let's hope this trip ends soon so i can get to sleep tonight take a little shower because some of this filth off me i don't know why i'm sweating so much and blowing my nose so much but dehydrated i have to drink some water before i go to bed too but um it's been an enjoyable evening with you gentlemen once again i um i think whoever whoever your lord is that we to bring us together like this and to bless us with uh our health and um that's about all i got going for me right now come on man you're halfway there okay all right try to finish it strong here well tomorrow's a new day we're about what you say about halfway through the winter maybe right now i think uh the peak of it hopefully has passed it's been it's been an awful winter it's been an awfully cold winter and uh we look forward to good times coming soon detroit pro march 14th looking forward to that um i'm gonna go take a shower now and i'm gonna go to bed i'll see you guys i'll talk to you guys later amen amen good night everybody see you guys