 aromasin, aromasin,ублиza, naringin,ублиza, naringin,ублиza, naringin,ублиza, naringin, aromasin,ублиza, naringin,ублиza, naringin,ублиza, naringin,ублиza, naringin, What's going on everybody welcome back to unscripted episode number two and I am here with the UFC featherweight Arnold Allen who is on the rise to the top was I saw a 20 and three record which is insane how are you man I'm doing good man thanks for having me on thank you for coming on I uh I've been a off and on watcher of UFC since like way back and I've seen a couple of your fights, I've seen the rise and I wanted to get you on just to kind of ask you what it was like to be a UFC fighter. Like this is the top, the cream of the crop, the top game, like everybody wants to be a UFC fighter who's in the fight game. So the very first question is a very broad, open question. How does it feel to be like in the UFC at the top level that you're at? Uh, it's my dream. It's everything I wanted. Uh, it's tough, man. It's tough. You know, you're always chasing the guys above you. And then, you know, you get that number to your name, like a ranking. Right. Everyone behind you is chasing you. Everyone behind you is constantly new talent that wants to come and take your position. Right. Um, explain to me the ranking situation quickly, because I saw that they have you ranked six, but I also saw that you fought like the number one contender. Yeah. Right. So how does that, how does that work? Like, how did they push you all the way back behind Aljamain Sterling, but you fought the number one contender. So, yeah. How do you see, where do you see yourself? And does that matter? Like, is the ranking concrete or is that just like, kind of like a thing that they think that's where you're at? Yeah. Um, for me, so I've been dealing with some injuries, so a little inactivity. So I've slid down the rankings a little bit. Oh, okay. So it's more of a timing thing. Yeah. But the rank is always, they've always been kind of controversial, you know, like it's, in the UFC, it's not unheard of that the number nine guy has had a title shot. Oh, I got you. You know, if that guy's more popular and maybe he's knocking people out, more exciting. Right. It's a good chance that guy jumps seven, eight, you know, those guys. But you had a, correct me if I'm wrong, but you had an undefeated run for quite a while there, right? Yeah, it was 10 fights, 10 fights. 10 fights undefeated. Yeah. What does that do to, this is a really stupid question, but what does that do to like the male psyche when you're just like crushing people left and right? Are you like, you feel invincible at that point? Yeah. So when I, when I was younger, when I, when I started the, the win streak and I, in my head, I just always had it. I was like, oh, maybe this will be the one. Like, maybe this will be the one that I lose, you know, maybe this will be the one. Yeah. And then it got to about five and I, and I was like, yeah, nah, I'm going to keep this going. I'm going to keep this going. Let's go all the way with this. And, do you, so do you, when you go into fights, are you going into a fight? Like you're saying that, like, maybe this will be the one. Are you going into a fight, like almost, not scared, but like pessimistic? No, not now. No, not now, but before. Yeah. Maybe, maybe when I was a little bit younger, I'd have a, you know, except that the reality of losing, you know, there is a potential, there is opportunity for that, but you know, like just leave no stone unturned, just to make sure all the chances are on your side. And I don't even think about it. It is a possibility that that can happen, but. Right. Just doesn't even enter my mind now. How old are you now? I'm 31. 31. When did you start fighting? Professionally at 18. 18. When you say professionally, and correct me if I'm wrong, I know this is, I think this is the way it works in boxing, but can you just say that you're going to be professional now, or do you have to win something? Pretty much in MMA. You just announced. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So you just announced that you're, so you decided at 18, like this is, I'm ready now. I want to fight professionally. I had a, I think about 10 amateur, amateur fights. I won a couple of regional titles and, uh, started getting like pullouts, cancellations. Yeah. And just the opportunity came up to fight a good guy, a professional level, professional show. And my manager and coach, he just, he believed in me and he said, yeah, I think you could take this guy. And, uh, yeah, we got, got the win, got a knockout win against a highly talented guy that went on to be a European champion, you know? Okay. So how many amateur fights did you have? Uh, across the board, probably about 15. 15. And how did those go? Like wins, losses? Uh, so I won all the MMA. I lost one amateur boxing. You won all the MMA fights though. Yeah. Yeah. Jesus. So is this something that you, you, like, do you have brothers and sisters or no? Yeah. My older brother, uh, competes in strongman. Okay. So is this something that like, do you and your brother, like as kids, would you fight a lot? Is this something kind of like you knew from like a very early age? Yeah. I wouldn't say fight. He would beat me up. I'd survive. Yeah. That's it. Yeah. Yeah. So from an early age, you were, were you like, I want to be a fighter. I'm going to learn how to fight. Yeah. Yeah. I, I got kicked out of school when I was about 15 years old. No way. No, nothing too bad. It just, you know, I kind of messing around and I just had my heart set on what I wanted to do. And school didn't really help that. Right. So you left school at 15, you got kicked out. Yeah. Yeah. Can I ask what you did to get kicked out? Um, I couldn't even, it was just a load of little things. Just being an annoying little kid, you know, just a pain in the ass, but nothing specific, nothing bad. But you didn't care. You knew at that time, you're like, I'm going to be a fighter. I don't give a shit. Yeah. Yeah. So in England, it's like, uh, you kick out of school, you get taken to a naughty boy school. Yeah. And, uh, you have to spend time there. They used to drop me off at this naughty boy school. Yeah. I'd walk around the corner and go to the boxing gym. No way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you didn't even go to the bad school. Yeah. Did you ever check in there? Yeah. I check in, but then I'd kind of walk around the corner after the, just, uh, I knew the coaches there in the day. So I was like, wow, I'll go do some boxing instead. So when you started boxing, did you have a, talent for it right away? Like, did the boxing coaches there kind of push you, push you along because they saw something in you or were you just starting from scratch? Like with nothing? Yeah. Starting from scratch. But, um, people always whisper. People always said things. The coach was very old school. Like, uh, if he did see something, I don't think he'd ever let me know. Oh, okay. Okay. Yeah. So negative reinforcement. Yeah. One of those. Yeah. Uh, okay. So were you, were you the kind of athlete that wanted to please? Like you were trying to like, you're going to make, trying to get a compliment no matter what. Yeah. Like just trying to be the hardest worker in the room, you know, like, right. If we're doing conditioning drills, I'm trying to do them faster than everyone else. So try and do, do more reps than everyone else. And then be like, look at me. Yeah. What about, okay. So what about family life is your, are your parents or your brother, are they pushing you along at this point? Are they happy for you to do this? Like, what's the, what's the home life like? Yeah. Uh, very competitive. So my dad competed strongman back in the day. He also fought, um, in MMA. He had some MMA fights. So, uh, but even just seeing, he always worked hard. You know, he was a truck driver, a doorman while competing strongman, and then fighting at the same time. He always did everything to a high level. Right. I think, uh, that sort of pushed me and my brother to pick one of the sports and push at a high level too. So when you're fighting, is your dad still like, I can kick your, kick your ass or is your, is your dad scared of you now at the level you're at? Uh, yeah, I think he still thinks he'll kick my ass. Yeah. I think so. Do you think he can? He might do, to be fair. He's a bigger boy to me. So yeah, maybe. If your dad and your brother both did strongman, why fighting and not strongman? Or did you do strongman too? No, just the optimal. My brother's more athletically gifted. He's, uh, you know, he's six foot. He's competes in the, what is it? Under 90 kilos. Oh wow. Yeah. So, uh, but no, he's athletically gifted. I'm not. Okay. So you decided fighting is better for you. Yeah. Yeah. Crazy. So what, so, so walk me through the journey. You decide you start your own to this boxing gym and you decide you want to be a, did you want to be a boxer first? Did you always want to be MMA? Yeah. Uh, it's actually quite funny because my dad was doing, uh, mixed martial arts and doing some grappling. And, uh, as, as a kid, I'd see the men rolling around the floor and I was just like, you know what? It's kind of, it's kind of gay. I don't want to, I don't want to do that. I was like, I'm going to do a real sport. I'm going to punch people in the face. We're not going to lay on top of each other. Right. Yeah. And, uh, now about, I don't know, near 20 years later, I'm a black belt with jujitsu. And, uh, right. I do it for a living. So at the time you're like, I'm going to box. So you start, so you start boxing. How does that, how does that journey go? Like you start in the boxing gym. How long before you stop going to the bad boys school at all and just go straight? I'm boxing. Um, it wasn't too long. It wasn't too long. Um, yeah, I didn't, I wasn't the most active, boxer. Just, uh, I didn't know it now, but like my, my coach at the time, I'd, I'd know your will towards him, but he had a lot of, uh, local drama, local issues with, you know, the guys promoting shows and no one wanted to have his guys on their shows because he was causing problems. Uh, okay. Yeah. So I wasn't ever able to compete. And I kept asking, why, why can't I compete? This guy's competed 10 times this season. Yeah. And I've had two, but, um, yeah, my goal was to go all the way with boxing and just those little stupid politics drive me into MMA. How did those first, you did, you said you did a couple of fights in boxing. How did those go? Yeah, it was good. I won a, um, East of England championship. Oh, even, even next. So in England, you do like the juniors and it'll be like, if you have over 20 bouts, you're in the advanced. If you have under 20, you're in a novice. Okay. I ended up somehow four and O in the advanced and yeah. So I knocked the boy out in the first round and I got passed through to the semis, but the semis in the whole country and all of a, not just my region. Yeah. And, uh, so excited. And my coach pulled me out and he didn't want me to fight the boy. Cause he said, uh, ah, he's like, this guy's too good. If you get hurt, you know, I couldn't live with myself. Right. And in my head being 14 years old, that was my opportunity. That was it. Right. Right. That was it. So I was like, I'm going to have a look at this MMA. So see if I can get a fight there. How many of that's it have you had? Like, I'm sure there's been a lot of fights where you thought like, this is the key to me moving forward. Yeah. Are they really though? Or is it just kind of like a sum of everything? Yeah. Yeah. I think so. I think, uh, where I've had an injury and I've been out, you sort of get to look at things from a different perspective. And, uh, yeah, it just makes you who you are on the, on the journey, isn't it? Yeah. So you, after the, after they don't give you that fight, you decide to switch to MMA. Yeah. Then you're okay with rolling around on the ground with men. Yeah. Yeah. I still try to keep it standing, but yeah. Okay. When do you start jujitsu? Um, I was dabbling a little bit, bit after the boxing. I was doing more Muay Thai than jujitsu straight away. Yeah. Well, I was like, Oh, maybe I'll add kicks and knees. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Still more man left. Yeah. Uh, so maybe about a year, a year later. And do you become a natural jujitsu or are you, is it hard for you? Jujitsu was hard. Yeah. Yeah. I was getting submitted five, six times every session. How does that, how does that feel? I did jujitsu for like two months. So don't, I just, I understand what it feels like to get my ass kicked is all I'm saying. Yeah. How did that feel for you? Like when you were getting submitted, were you like, I'm just going to push through? Yeah. Uh, so it's kind of hard to go from being really good at something. Right. To then sucking at something. Right. And, um, I just kind of had the mentality that if I go to a session, I get submitted 10 times, I get beat 10 times. Well, next week is nine times. Uh, and, uh, eventually now, you know, usually it's zero times. So that's, that's some improvements. Yeah. I mean, that's what they say, right? Like small wins, small victories. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I never looked at it like that. Maybe I shouldn't have quit. It's one of the ones. It's like, I've been doing jujitsu now 15 years and I've trained with some guys and it's like, oh, okay. These guys aren't on that level. But then there's guys out there that make me feel like a beginner. Yeah. And they play with me and I'm just like, man, why do I even do this? Right. How do you feel about the black belt situation? Because I, I know black belts are given out by each school. Like each school has their own system and their own, obviously, um, teacher of the school that gives the black belt when he feels you're ready. Yeah. So how do you feel about like you could have 10 different, 10 black belts and 10, all 10 different could, could have different styles and different levels of like how good they are. Yeah. So it's, it's a tough one. It's a, cause it's not like there's a criteria of like, if you can perform this move, then you can, you're a black belt. It's, and competition to, you know, hobbyist, just maybe cause someone's been training 20 years in the Gi Jiu Jitsu. Yeah. Does he not deserve his black belt? Cause maybe some young guy would whoop his ass in competition. Right. It's a hard one. There's definitely a spectrum of, of black belts. But yeah, but see, I can see that situation where like, I've been to some of those schools where two schools I've been to both where they had like somebody who's been there a long time. Yeah. He's got his black belt, but you can see that some of these young blue belts or purple belts could beat that guy. Yeah. So it's like, it's, it's tough to, I guess when I, I guess the reason I, the reason I'm asking this, I guess to lead to the question is you're a black belt, but like you said, there are people that come in that you're like, wow, that's a different level. How does that make you feel about your own black belt and, and how much better you have to get? Like, how do you get better to that level? Yeah. Uh, I just think there's like different grades of black belt, different, you know, you're not just cause someone's so much better than you at jujitsu. It doesn't mean you're not the black belt. Um, it just means he's so much better. Right. But, um, you know, it's a tough one. And I feel like, yeah, if a guy has been training 20 years and he's got the skills and he shows up and he helps people, sometimes the thing outside of the competition that, that gives him his black belt status makes sense. You know, he helps the guys that come in the white belts that come in. He shows them the techniques. He teaches people. He's a good guy in the gym, helps people, good environment, like all those, those little things. If you have a guy who could maybe submit him, it's so much more skilled, but he's an asshole, doesn't help anyone, a bad attitude. Maybe that's not the guy I'd want to give a black belt. Right. Right. But for you personally, now that you have a black belt and you know, there are people with jujitsu black belts that maybe have a better skill. Yeah. How do you go about reaching higher levels? Uh, training with those guys, just redoing the same thing of when I was a white belt, you go with the blue belt, they kick your ass and, uh, just being open-minded and learning. I do think there's some guys that, they get there and what they do, they hide away from the people that are more advanced than them. Cause they're now worried. They're like, well, if I'm a black belt and this guy from this school submits me, it's going to look bad. Yeah. But you, you have to embrace it, learn from those guys. Everyone does something different. And sometimes I'll train with guys that are, you know, blue belts, purple belts and give me big trouble, you know? Right. Yeah. So when you're, you're from the UK, right? So do you travel a lot for training or no? Yeah. I'm over in Montreal right now for a training camp. Okay. It's funny. You said, I saw a story about, you said somebody, you got in a fight because you couldn't speak English. It was a joke, but yeah, everyone, everyone thinks, cause I didn't know they have some sort of, uh, sensitive sort of French and English situation here. Yeah. Yeah, it is. Yeah. So many people have been messaging me. I'm like, no, no, it's just a joke. Just a joke. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So you're in Montreal right now. Are you at TriStar? Yeah, that's right. Okay. So do you feel like there, there is someone there or the school there is just a level up for you? Yeah. Um, so Faraz Zahavi, he's the coach and he's one, like one of the best minds in MMA. Uh, he's always, like I say, with the, the black belt thing, he's a long time black belt, like fantastic coach, but he's still on the mats still like today. I was training with him today. Yeah. And, uh, he's always learning new techniques. He's learning and training with new guys. Uh, he'll travel to train with different people and bring new skills back. Right. He's a black belt a long time, but he trains like a white belt. You know, he's always learning new things, always picking things up and, and trying them out. And, uh, I don't really have anyone around. I don't even know if there's any coaches like him. He's always on the mats with you. When we spar, he's trying to take my head off. And, uh, yeah, you know, he's, he's not a competitor. He's not competing, but he's fantastic. So how long will you stay in Montreal? Like how long, if you're doing this kind of camp where you're trying to get better, how long will you stay there for? Um, so I haven't got a flight schedule at the moment. Initially there was rumors. That's why I came out. They said that December was the target, but, um, nothing has happened for that, but usually eight to 10 weeks. Yeah. Yeah. It's 10 weeks there. And you feel like in that eight to 10 weeks, you can get a good gauge of what you need to learn from him. Yeah. Yeah. Just like when it comes to game planning, like he looks at a fight so different to anyone. I sat and watched footage together and, and I see things, but he sees things a different way than I do. So who's it? So obviously he's a coach. Can you just go there and be coached by him? Or does he have to see a level of talent that he thinks like, okay, I can like, does he have to accept you is what I'm asking as a, as a client? Um, yeah, it's a bit of a weird, but so he runs classes through the day. He'll run the class and anyone could be in the class, you know, from profiles to amateur fighters, but, um, on a different level of actually getting like personal attention and, you know, breaking down your fight footage. I think that's more very old school martial arts where there's not ever verbally said, but it's, yeah, you know, it's earned for your actions of turning up, being a good training partner, being on the mats and helping the team out. Sure. So is he gonna, would for us coach you into a fight like all the way through? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All the way to the last, to the fight. Yeah. All the way. Okay. Do you have other coaches too? Yeah. Yeah. Boxing coaches, Muay Thai coaches. All right. Uh, wrestling coaches, strength conditioning coach, everything. Yeah. So you have every type of coach. Yeah. That's it. Strength and conditioning, also nutrition, I'm assuming. Yeah. Yeah. So that's how we, that's how we met. So, you know, Ben Chow. Yes. That's it. Is Ben doing all of your nutrition or some? No, no, I don't work with Ben anymore. He was my, you were working with Ben. He was my strength conditioning coach. Okay. He used to, kill me. He used to kill me. That's Ben for sure. Yeah. So you might've moved on to, from Ben to another strength and conditioning coach and you have a nutrition coach as well. That's it. Yeah. Okay. How long have you, I, this is most, people don't really know how all this stuff works. So I kind of want to get into the weeds a little bit of it. How do you afford to pay all the coaches? Sponsors. Yeah. Sponsors. So I have sponsors, um, fighting, I sell my own like clothing and stuff like that. Um, yeah, mostly sponsors, but I'm injured, obviously. Okay. Um, yeah. Now when I'm active competing, it covers the bills and everything's, everything's good. Right. I guess when you're competing, like my question is this, and I don't, and I don't know how deep you want to get into. Sure. Confinances. So if you don't want to go too far, we don't have to, um, for people wondering, like, I guess is some of it, um, pay on a fight. Like if you had like six coaches, would you ever say something like, look, I'll work with all six of you and you get X percentage of the purse. Like, does that kind of thing ever happen? Um, I know some people do that, but I like to just pay per session. Uh, yeah. Yeah. Okay. I know. Yeah. I do know a lot of people that do that. There'll be a 5% of the total or whatever. Yeah. Right. A lot of time we're like managers fees. It's like that. So it's really, it's actually sounds really expensive to be a fighter. I mean, like I have a, like most bodybuilding, uh, to try and relate it to bodybuilding. Bodybuilders have one coach. Right. Right. They do usually do their own training or their coach might be involved in their training. And then the coach usually does their nutrition and maybe there's supplementation, their drugs, whatever. Yeah. Um, but that's one guy and what they're paying one, they're paying one guy. Right. So it sounds pretty expensive to be a fighter, especially at the highest level. Yeah. Yeah. I guess when you compare it to one guy. You're right. That's what I mean. Like even if I compare it to any sport, really, like it sounds like you guys would have more coaches than any other sport, because if you're a boxer, you have a boxing coach and maybe a nutritionist, but you guys, because so many different disciplines. Yeah. You know what I mean? MMA coach, wrestling coach, jitsu. Yeah. There's so many. So, so throughout the week, how are you fitting all of this in? Like you're, does each day, like you work with a different coach each day kind of thing? Uh, not necessarily. Um, so we do two sessions a day. Okay. Typically. Uh, like today's, so Wednesday is kind of a half, half day. Yeah. So I went in this morning. Usually I do, uh, Muay Thai in the morning, hit the pads, take a break, and I'll do my, my strength and conditioning after. Sure. Evening is a recovery. I'll do like spa sauna, cold clunge. Okay. Um, but our coach for as kind of oversees most things. So if we're on a sparring day, he'll run the class, he'll run the sparring. He'll pick who you're sparring with and he'll watch your sparring. And, and, you know, I need to go with this guy, try this, this, and this. And then after the sparring, he'll break down, uh, what we did, what I did wrong. I'll go over drills after that. But yeah, then. So he's, so each session he's picking apart everything you're doing and then you're fixing it right afterwards. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So if I spar, uh, you know, we spar at one, we do five, five, five minute rounds, finish at one 30. Uh, we do half an hour, like drills working on, say, if I kept getting kicked in the body with something, I'll go over practicing this and defenses to that count as to that. Sure. And then the rest of the week, like, are you just throwing in the other things a little less maybe? Cause they're not as important. No, uh, I always, one of my coaches, my boxing coach, I've, I've worked with him for a long time and I was having a couple of weeks where everything, but my sparring was going shit. My sparring was great. Right. Everything else was going bad. Yeah. And, uh, he said the only thing that ever really matters is sparring. If you're sparring is good, then everything's good. Really? Yeah. They kind of make sense. Yeah. Well, yeah. If you're winning your fights, I don't really fuck everything else. Who cares? Yeah. I was hitting pads. I didn't feel sharp on the pads. You know, when you're off target, don't feel fast. I was like, sparring is going really good. Yeah. Then everything's good. Yeah. I guess it makes sense. What's your nutrition like? Is nutrition like, is it similar to bodybuilding where you're eating like, five or six small meals a day, you know, lots of hydration, all that. Yeah. That sounds pretty familiar. Yeah. Yeah. I got to ask you this question and you can, we can get away from it or not. It's up to you. How, I know UFC has steroid testing and all that. Yeah. How intense is it? And do you think there are guys that are somehow getting past it? Or do you think it's covering everybody pretty evenly? Uh, I'm glad they have the testing. I am glad they have the testing, but my, my confidence in it isn't like great. It's definitely. No, there's definitely people that have, uh, you know, past tests and, you know, there's ways around it. I'm sure. Really? Um, yeah, it's definitely flawed. It's definitely flawed. So how do you feel about that then? Because you guys are in a sport that, you know, it's, it's dangerous. I mean, your, your, your life is on the line with not to be too dramatic, but it is like, yeah, it is that dangerous. So like, if somebody has an advantage of either more power, more aggression, uh, more endurance where they can fight longer, like, does that, how much does that bother you? I guess if you know that it's flawed and you know, there are people there that are kind of getting by, how much does that bother you? Yeah, it sucks. It's just, it's one of those things. And it's, there's so many, you don't know for a fact, obviously, but everyone has sort of ideas of who's who and what teams do what. Yeah. Um, but you know, it's that kind of sport where we have the fans that if you, if you were to speak up and say something on it, if you were fighting a guy that failed a test, they would say you're scared and you're making excuses. So it's like, you just kind of have to suck it up. That's so crazy though. Like I'm not, maybe I'm like, obviously maybe I'm not enough of a UFC fan to understand that, but I'm like, I would never, like, I remember like Daniel Cormier saying stuff about John Jones being on steroids and how, you know, he fights differently when he's not on steroids, which I think I can kind of see that. Yeah. But I don't think, I wouldn't look at it like Daniel scared. Yeah. You know what I mean? I'd be like, no, you fight different. Like I can see a clear distinction between when you're tested and not tested. Yep. So I've trained with people. Um, definitely won't say any names, but I've trained with people and, uh, you know, sometimes they're really fucking strong. And then a few weeks later, I train with them again. They're not really. They don't really feel very strong today. They're not really strong. Yeah. Yeah. That is interesting. That's so funny. Interesting. Morally, do you get upset about that though? Because it's like I said, it's a, it's a very dangerous sport. Yeah. Yeah. It's, I think whenever there's a sport where there's gonna be money and there's always gonna be cheats and certain regions, certain places, um, it's kind of part of the culture and they don't even like think of it as cheating. It's, you know, they're taking it in their head is we all do it, but yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It sucks. It sucks. Like obviously coming from a strong man family, I grew up walking in the room. My dad's got a needle in his ass and yeah, you know, it's, it's, it's pretty normal stuff, but strong man, you're lifting weights, you know, uh, no one's getting hurt. The risk is yourself. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I guess it's tough. So I want to ask about a few like everyday things, like as a kid growing up, you're 31 now, but I guess in your late teens and early twenties, were you hyper-focused as an athlete? Were you like, I'm staying away from drugs and drinking and partying and all that shit. Did you, were you able to stay straight laced or were you able to, were you, were you kind of like partying, but still fighting? I was playing a lot. I never, I never touched drugs or anything like that, but, um, all the way up until, but I got it done early, like until probably 19. So you were partying like at 15, 16, 17. Yeah. Those years. Yeah. Holy shit. Yeah. Yeah. Is it just alcohol? Yeah. Yeah. I never touched anything. Like I never smoked a cigarette or anything like that. So you're drinking a lot and fighting. Yeah. Yeah. Pretty much. Are you fighting in bars? Alcohol times for nothing. Nothing crazy. I've always wanted to ask a UFC fighter, like, you know, it's funny when you're, when you're in a bar and you're watching a UFC fight, somebody will say to me, cause I like, I used to weigh 300 pounds. So I'd be like, do you think you could beat up Arnold Allen? Cause he's only 145 pounds or whatever featherweight is. And I'd be like, at one point in my life, before I knew anything about fighting, I would say, oh yes, of course I can. 145 pounds. Then after I knew a few things about fighting, I was like, I don't know. I'm like, he would fucking kill me without even trying. So it's funny that do you ever get when you're out? Like, does that ever happen to you now that people know who you are? Like, yeah. Two questions, I guess, kind of, I want to ask about this is one, have you ever used it to your advantage when you were out with your friends? What, what, fighting? Yeah. Have you ever, have you ever been in a situation where you're like, you know, I know I shouldn't be fighting cause I can kick these people's ass, but they're bothering me. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. It's happened. Yeah, definitely. Definitely. Does that feel good? Like, does it feel good to be the guy that's like with your friends that can handle all that? Yeah. I mean, let's see all my friends growing up. So my best friend, he's like a six foot two, you know? Oh, so they can handle themselves. Okay. He's like a big rugby player. Yeah. But we're in a group. Then my other friend was a kickboxer. He was, he's about the same height. Yeah. Other friends, six foot three, you know, they're all big guys that we hung out with and I'm this little five foot nine. Yeah. Everyone would always start on me and I'm just like, yeah, I'm not even involved. But, yeah, no, it's definitely, as a kid, I do remember my, my friend getting, um, a drunk guy was punching him through the window of his car and they took the keys out of the car and started hitting him. And I was in the back seat and had to tackle the guy and sort of choke him unconscious. And he was, he was a big guy and I was about 15 years old. So I was like, oh man, I can't let this guy off because he's going to beat the shit out of me. But yeah, it was nice to know jujitsu then. Yeah. So the second question I have is as a, as a UFC fighter being at the top of the food chain, as far as fighters go, does it ever serve you when you're out? Or are you like, this is too dangerous. I can't, like, I can't fuck with anybody because I'll just hurt them. Yeah. No, I kind of avoid all of those scenarios now from being younger and like stupid stuff happening. I don't even put myself in those situations anymore. Right. I, you know, I, it was a funny one. Someone, a few years ago, I was in a bar and some guy, big, big guy juiced up on all the wrong stuff. I'm sure. Yeah. And, uh, I figured, you know, he was coked up as well. Yeah. He's trying to stop me. He's saying, he said, he thinks he could take me and all this. And did he know you, did he know who you were? Yeah. Yeah. He's like, I've seen you fight, but I think I'd take you. And I was like, all right, cool. Probably. Oh shit. I was just making jokes. And he kept starting, starting. And, uh, the only way I spun it and stopped it, cause I was like, I said to him, I was like, I'm on a night out. I'm having a night off from work. Unless you're going to pay me my, my, my purse to fight. Fuck off and leave me alone. Yeah. He was like, Oh, I'm really sorry. I didn't really think about it that way. I was like, I'm being a real dick, you know? I was like, yeah. That's awesome. I was thinking he's so big guys. I don't know if I could take this guy. Yeah. So you diffused it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's awesome. Yeah. I thought I'd avoid those, those situations now. So the partying for you has ended at the late teen stage. So through your twenties, are you hyper fixated on this UFC goal? And you're like, I'm going to eat, train, sleep, do it. All right. Like, are you eating clean? You're not like eating any shitty food. You're not doing anything. Like, is that your whole twenties? No, no. I'm blessed with good metabolism. So yeah, definitely outside of camp. I like food was like my advice, like eating bad. Yeah. I'm much better now. Um, probably maybe with a bit of that athleticism starts wearing off in your late twenties, early thirties. Yeah. You know, injuries start racking up. So I'll start eating home cooked, you know, home cooked pizzas. And that's my cheat day sort of thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So how many injuries, when did the, people don't really, I know some obviously fight fans think of it, but people on the outside don't necessarily think of this, but like, what does it feel like after a fight when you're done? Like, you know, you've gone through like a five round fight, like when you fought Max Holloway, for example, you go through a five round fight with somebody at that level. What does it feel like the next day? Like I've been in fights where I wake up the next day and I'm like, my face hurts or like I hurt something like, you know, I tore a muscle or whatever. Like how does that, how does that feel like the day after a fight or the week after a fight? Um, so I remember actually the day after the Holloway fight, we stayed, I think it was in St. Louis cause we went on a road trip across and it was a rough, rough hotel. Yeah. My wife booked it. She always seems to book the roughest hotels by accident. And I remember just thinking like, if something happens, it's like you're on your own here. Cause I'm useless. Like my hand was busted, my elbow hurt, my knee hurt. I was hobbling around. I even watching the fight. It wasn't like, I didn't feel like I took a beating or it was a good fight, but like I didn't feel beat up or anything. Yeah. But the next day I was, man, I was, I was feeling it. My hand was like a balloon. My head was out here. Yeah. That's why I, that's why I asked that question. Cause it's like, look, I'm not, I'm not a fighter at all. I've been in like a few street fights or whatever, but like, I'm, I remember being hit like really mildly in the side of the head, not like a hard punch or anything. Like you wake up the next day and it's like a fucking, it's like your head is throbbing and there's swollen. And I'm like, so I just can't imagine like after five rounds of actual real fighting with like a high level person, how much like damage do you feel? And then how long does it take to recover from that? Yeah. It's a couple of weeks, about two weeks. And I was back, you know, back to normal. Um, I had a bit of nerve damage on my shin. That was, that took a few months. It was just kind of like tingling. It was tingling for months. Um, it didn't hurt. It was just, yeah. I thought it was like permanent damage or something, but it's, it's good now. So when fighters fight, the recovery time before they're back in the gym training is two weeks, three weeks. Yeah. I like to have a couple of weeks just to, especially we smash a hard camp. Used to be when I was younger, used to be a week. I'd have a week where I'd force myself. Now I'm like maybe two weeks. And in that week I'll do a bit of fitness just to sort of, so I don't get too fat. Right. Right. Um, being at the UFC level where you are in like the, like I said, ranked in the top five, six, who do you fight next? How do you, how do you get back to a level where you're in contention for the title? Yeah. Just need to take out one of those big names. That's, that's why I came back to, to Montreal. I was told it was going to be, um, Yair Rodriguez. I did see on the rumor mill, apparently he had a surgery, um, kind of like conveniently after they said that it was like a few days later, I saw a rumor come up. They had surgery. Okay. I don't know. I'm kind of speculating. Maybe they offered him me and he punched a wall or something, but I, I don't think that's the case, but yeah, yeah. They seemed a bit strange. So you got to fight somebody in the top five. Do you know, how do you, how does that fight get put together? Do you just get a call from Dana White one day or like, yeah, how does that work? Not, not for me, like Dana ain't contacting me personally, but usually the team will contact. And back in the day, it would just be this name, this date. Yes. No, that's as blunt as it is. Right. And, um, but now it's, you know, you get a call. This is what we're planning. Um, this is what we'd like to do. And yeah, so that's, that's nice to see a bit of direction. Um, but yeah, it's just, it's kind of whatever their, their vision is. If they're sitting there looking at the division, uh, this guy's exciting. This guy's boring. Yeah. How can we get rid of that guy? That's boring. You know, that's right. I'm sure that's how the meetings go. Yeah. How do you, do you feel like you have to do like, uh, like a Chael Sonnen kind of act or like something to like get noticed? Or do you feel like if you just keep knocking people out or choking people out, like that's it? Or do you feel like you have to do if you like to do something otherwise? Definitely. Um, the first half of my career being sort of naive, I just thought, you know, I was going to keep winning. I'd win a fight, disappear, win a fight, disappear, make no noise. I wouldn't talk no shit. Um, you know, I wouldn't call anyone out. I wouldn't ask. I just, whatever happens happens. Whoever's next, I'll beat them. And, uh, I think, I think I might've had like the longest or one of the longest win streaks without a title fight. I think there's only about two or three people that had that win streak. Right. I think it was like me and Tony Ferguson that had that long of a win streak without a title fight. Right. So since having that win streak and not getting the title fight, then losing at the end of it. And then obviously not getting it. It's very frustrating. Very frustrating. So I went back and sort of learn. I had to put my character out there. Even if I'm not going to be the guy that talks shit, I still have to show my personality and put my character out there. Um, it's entertainment at the end of the day. I know it's, it's under the facade of a sport, but it is who moves the needle, who makes the most noise. That's who probably is going to get the opportunities. So who are you calling out and how, like, how do you, how do you curate that character? Like, how do you, how have you decided, like what direct, how have you decided how you're going to talk shit? How are you going to get noticed? Yeah. Um, you know, everyone just calls me autistic. So I've started showing my character a bit more and they just keep saying, Arnold Allen's autistic. And, uh, so I'm starting to think I might just go back into the hole and be quiet again. But, um, but, um, but yeah, no, look, I feel like the fights that made sense. Uh, you know, they, they said you, I, Rodriguez and for me, I'm like, that's, that's the kind of fight. It's going to be a fight of the night. Uh, both two guys that like to strike, both two guys that like to strike and, uh, stand and throw bombs. So he's a big finisher. I've shown before I've got a good chin. I'm going to pressure and try and take someone out. Yeah. Uh, when you're, when you're coming up and they say to you, uh, Arnold, here's your fight. Take it or leave it. Obviously, if you say no to these fights, they start asking you less, correct? Yeah, exactly. So you could basically kind of have to say yes. Yeah. It's for me. I'm like, if I'm fresh and I'm ready to go, then yeah. But if I'm, uh, sitting there nursing some injuries, like while I've been out, so I tore my, uh, labrum. Uh, I did a whole load of things on my shoulder, uh, rotator calf labrum, AC joint. I had some life changing opportunities while being out, you know, pay-per-view co-main events, uh, big money, uh, title shot, eliminators, I think three fights, fantastic fights, all dream fights. Right. And I've had to turn them all down because I haven't been in a position where maybe, maybe when I was younger, I'd take it a bit naively, but, uh, I don't believe I could beat these guys with one hand. So, yeah. So what does that do to your, does that set you back pretty far though? Like if you're talking to like Dana White and Dana White's given you, I mean, you're not talking to him personally, but like your team is talking to his team and they've offered you all these things. And then you kind of can't take them because of your shoulder. Is it a long time before you'd offer that stuff again? Or are they, are they, uh, understanding of the fact that what you're going through? Yeah, no, they're understanding, but, um, the, the sport moves fast. And like, you know, as soon as they're off the phone to you, they're getting the next guy in. And that's exactly what happened. I got offered the opportunity. I'm assuming I got offered the opportunity first. Right. And then they call the next guy and then that guy takes the opportunity. And now, you know, he's getting all the rewards of, of obviously taking the risks, but yeah, that's the, that's just the game. So how long before you're recovered and your injuries are, are back to, you know, you're back to normal. No, I mean, I'm in camp now. I'm, I'm smart. Yeah. Yeah. I'm, uh, that's, that's why I came back to Canada. Cause they, they said December with, uh, yeah, Rodriguez. And, um, I was like, okay, well, I need to get out of there and start preparing. And now there's, now I'm just here in limbo. So you're in camp now with nobody to fight. Yeah. I think that's pretty much a way to put it. Yeah. Is somebody in that top, top five going to step up? You think? Yeah. I'm just kind of the last, the last word we have with them, we asked about EIA and they just said, just leave it with us. I was like, okay, so we'll just see what happens. How does that feel as a fighter being in camp? Like, I can't imagine like getting ready for a show and then not, you know, obviously I'm just going to keep on dieting. If I'm a bodybuilder, I don't know when I'm competing, but like for fighting, it seems like it's so much more intense with different coaches and, you know, a lot more planning goes involved. How does that feel like being in limbo like that? It's frustrating. Just because I know I am going to fight eventually. I've had a long time out and it's, I've been out 15 months now. So it feels like everything has come to this. So I'm like, just stay the path, keep preparing. But yeah, like you say, if I'm, say, fighting a wrestler, but now if I end up fighting a wrestler and all I'm doing is preparing for kickboxes, I'm not going to really drill or spar with wrestlers. I'm going to spar with guys that are good kickboxes. Right. So there's those little fine details. Definitely. So you end up just, you spar odd rounds with, you know, one tall guy, maybe a short guy, maybe someone that throws powerful overhands, someone that's going to wrestle. You try and try and cover all bases, you know? Right. Right. So what is your, if somebody had to like put a label on Arnold Allen, what's your label? What do you think it is? As a firelight style? Yeah. Yeah. Striker, I'd say, yeah. Is that something you're proud of, or do you want to be known as the black belt jujitsu guy? I'd like to be known as someone who could do it all, but I mean, I can, I can do it all. I definitely do it all in the gym. Right. I did at a, I was at the UFC there in Vegas, for the performance center. They run through your stats and all your statistics. Right. Apparently I've never shot a takedown in the UFC. And now you haven't. No, yeah, no. But, um, I work with my, some of my wrestling coaches, uh, a Georgian guy, Gia Sassori, a world champion wrestler. He won, um, silver medal in the Olympics in kind of what year is, but he's an unreal athlete, unreal wrestler. We work with him so much. Yeah. And I've never shot a takedown. I was just like, oh, let's see. So I'm going to have to fire my wrestling coach. Yeah, exactly. What do you think that is though? Um, I think it's just preference. I just enjoy standing and trading. And, uh, most of the fights I've had have been against guys that want to take me down. Right. Um, so it's me trying to avoid the takedowns and stay standing. Uh, yeah. So maybe that. Have you been in a UFC fight where you were worried maybe between rounds or worried in the middle of a fight? Like worried. Just worried about losing. Like, has, have you been in a situation where you're like, holy fuck, I bit off more than I could chew? Like, are you, have you been pretty lucky that you've been able to handle your fights? Yeah. So not, not that I felt like a bit off more than I could chew. I've been there where I've just like, right, I need to turn it up. I lost the fight, uh, to a Russian fellow, Mosvar. It was very controversial decision. A lot of people thought I won. There was, um, he's the number one contender right now. Right. Um, I felt like I won. So I remember getting hurt with a silly shot and it just, I remember being so confident that I had his number. I was too fast for him. Right. And then I walked into a silly shot and I remember just getting rattled. My brain was boggled and I was, uh, like actively having the thoughts in my head going, Oh, you fucking idiot. Like, what are you doing? And, um, but then it was, it's not long after I sat on the stool and I was just thinking, just like, you know, we just sit there like, Oh, dickhead. Like what? Oh, but no, I never felt like a bit of more than I could chew. I still felt the fight was winnable. Yeah. And, uh, I mean, I went out and won the next round. Good. I felt like I did enough to, to win the fight. Right. It was quite frustrating because they, they changed the rules of, um, MMA because of that fight. Why would they change? So there's, I don't know if you're aware, but they have, um, it's like a hand down thing. So if you're, you've got a hand on the ground, you couldn't kick or knee a guy in the head. Okay. So people would go front headlock and then they would just touch, touch their like pinky on the, on the mat, you know? Right. Couldn't kick him in the head. So in this fight, I caught him front headlock and I lifted him up and need him in the head. Right. It was, uh, like a fight finishing sequence. Sure. I'd say it was, you know, three, four knees to the head. He was as good as about to be finished. And the ref stepped in and said, then the knees were illegal and gave him, you know, time to, time to compose and get back into the fight. And yeah, just, were they, were they illegal? Or did you get his hand off the ground? Yeah. So I, I was actively lifting his head up and knee and, right. Um, and he was trying to put his hand down to make it illegal. Sure. But because of the, uh, controversy of all these stupid rules, they completely changed the rule. You can't, you can no longer like hover your finger over the mat or something like this. You have to, uh, sit on your ass, both knees on the floor. Oh, kicking the head. So now if you're, now if just your hands down, it's free game. Yeah. Yeah. So if you're sitting there with a hand, you can get, yeah, at least you got this rule change for yourself. Yeah. It's so bad that I didn't get the finish that they have to change the whole rule set. Right. Right. Jesus. And that's the, and that's the number one contender. What did it feel like to fight Max Holloway? Is that, you know, Max Holloway is Max Holloway. Like, holy shit. Like as a fan that doesn't, you know, I watch as UFC as much as I do. Max Holloway is a huge figure in the sport. Yeah. There's somebody coming up fighting. Do you think that kind of thing when you're fighting him or are you like, it's just another guy? Yeah. Just another guy. Okay. Even, it's quite funny because he came off a loss to, a bad loss to Alex Volkhodovsky, the champ. Right. Like before that. And, uh, I was getting so many messages from people being like, oh, he's done. He's washed. He's, you know, you're going to kill him and all this. I remember just thinking like, that's Max Holloway. Yeah. He's good. Like, he's fucking good. This guy is definitely not washed up or. Yeah. Um, but no, I just think it brings a higher level out myself, you know, like, uh, just in the training, you give a little bit more preparation. You give a little bit more, you know, like the diet. You're a little bit, you don't have that cheat that you usually would have. Maybe those sorts of things. Yeah. You're from a small town, correct? Yeah. How does it feel going from a small town to fighting Max Holloway and like the biggest fight production in the world? Yeah. So I never really stopped to think about it, to be honest. It's a, you should, but it's pretty, it's pretty cool. It's pretty cool. Yeah. Listen, as, as an older guy that's been in bodybuilding and, you know, now retired. Yeah. My career went by like a blur, like a whizzed by. So I would take the time to go, man, I fucking, you know, you've come a long way, right? Like, do you ever, you don't ever stop and wait and like, just look at where you can pause and take a note of all the different phases you've been through? Not really. I think there's more, you're too still far, too far into it right now. Yeah. You know, I have the mentality of like, if I don't achieve the goal, then the whole lot was for nothing. I know that's not the case. Yeah. But that's, that's my mindset right now. I know the feeling. It's just onto the next one. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, that's crazy. So in your fight camp now, are you doing mental drills at all? Like, do you guys do cover any mental? Because I know it's a big part of the, part of the sport. So is that, do you have a mental coach or no? Is that not something you do? No, I do. I do do a lot of that. I can visualize a lot. I, you know, meditate, all these things, but I don't work with anyone. You don't work with it yourself. Yeah. Yeah. I've, I've done it as long as I can remember. Yeah. Really? Yeah. How long do you, like, I know it must be such an important part of fighting. How long do you spend doing just, it seems like your whole day is spent preparing. Cause you got to fight, you know, you're fighting, practicing or whatever, twice a day. Yeah. And then you got to worry about eating properly all day long. And then, so how long do you spend preparing mentally each day? It's like you say, it's all day. If I have, so when I have a name and an opponent, you know, that's, that's kind of almost all you think about. Okay. I have sparring, say a 12 o'clock. I'm thinking of all the things I'm going to do to this guy and how I'm going to implement it in my training today. If, if he has a technique he's very good at, I'm going to be visualizing how I defend that and counter it. So it's, it's nonstop. I find, I find the battle is actually turning off, trying to find things to switch off, you know? Okay. So what does someone like, you know, I know some guys in bodybuilding do like various things like, you know, a friend of mine, Samson Doubter, like races. He's got a car. He races one day a week on a track or stuff. We get to get away from bodybuilding. Yeah. What's some of the stuff that you do to get away from fighting since it's an all day thing? Yeah. I used to go do a lot of mountain biking. I used to jump mountain bikes for now. I try to stay on two wheels because it's a bit risky. Yeah, of course. Mountain biking, off-roading. I do a bit like four by four and awesome. But yeah, I try to stay in the car. Cause that's been, I nearly rolled it off a cliff once before a fight. And then the week before a fight and I was just like, Oh, maybe stop doing that. Not a good idea. Yeah. Yeah. That's cool. So who is in your life that's kind of pushing you along or is riding along with you this whole journey? Is it just you and your wife or do you have a team that kind of is with you all the time? Yeah, there's a big team. So it's, you know, my, my coach is obviously back in England or my manager is one of my first coaches. My dad, my brother, my mom, like they're all, you know, big support. They have a huge team over here in Montreal as well. So it's just like an extended family. But yeah, yeah, I think my, my, my brother's probably the biggest, he's a crazy guy, but he's like the biggest sort of push for me. You know, he's always, yeah, he's always that guy that sort of blows smoke up my ass and gases me up. But he's also the number one guy saying, you know, you need to talk more shit. You need to do more of this. And he should give you the opportunities. And I was just like, yeah, he'll come, he'll come. Yeah. So what, who's a, is it your dad or your brother? Who's more proud of you? You think? Um, I think my dad. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let me ask you this. It's gotta be tough. Like I had family used to come watch me bodybuild, but bodybuilding is not dangerous. What does it feel like for, have you asked your wife or brother or dad what it feels like to sit in the audience when they have to go through watching you in a fight? Do they, is it hard for them? Uh, yeah, we never actually really had the conversation, but, um, my mom likes to be in the arena and it's weird. She doesn't want to be in the arena, but she does. Yeah. So I stopped giving her a ticket for the nerves. I want to look, well, I'm not going to give you a ticket, but just stay home. Like you don't have to watch. I'm fine. Yeah. She will always just appear in the arena. She has a few drinks and, uh, yeah, she wants to be there, but she doesn't. So, so she wants to be there, but she's not watching. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So I was like, I don't come, like stay home. Don't watch. Yeah. Yeah. She can't not be there. How's your, how's your wife feel about it? Is she the one nursing you back to health afterwards? Like, how's that go? Yeah. Um, she's pretty, pretty good with it. I think she's, uh, so since we got together, I've been, all she's known is me to be in training camps and preparing for fights. And she's been to all the fights since we've been together. Yeah. And, uh, I think she just thinks I'm really good. So she's not too, you know, maybe because she sees like the hard work, she's like, ah, well, these guys suck. Like you're the best. And I'm sitting there like, oh, this guy's pretty good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. Well, I mean, that's, uh, that's pretty cool that you have like your dad and your brother and your mom and everybody's there for you all the time. Do you guys plan on having kids at all? Yeah. Yeah, we do. Like it's, I don't, I don't know if you could, uh, you know about it, but like when you, when you're in the career and you're chasing, the goal, it's hard to, cause we took, we have talked about it. I'm always just like, ah, maybe if I get these couple of fights and then we'll, you know, it's always like that. Yeah. It's really hard, dude. Like we, we, we, we tried like just naturally. Right. And it just didn't like, didn't happen by accident. So then we're like, okay, let's see about doing it around like 30. I'm like, maybe around 35, like these couple shows have gone by. Now's a good time. And, uh, then it was like, well, let's wait till after these shows cause they're going to come and go. And then I don't, next thing you know, you're 40 years old. Yeah. And we were like, huh, maybe it's, then you're kind of like set in your routine. Like, you know, you're my wife. This is what we do. We hang out. Yeah. You know, we go, we do whatever we want. We have a couple of dogs and, uh, that just became life. Yeah. So, you know, I don't know. You just lock into the goal, right? That is what it is. That's why when you said to me earlier, I don't know. I can't see like how far I've come. It's cause you're so in, in the, in the fight that it's like, it's, you're not where I am. I'm way past it. Yeah. Right. Yeah. That's crazy. But same thing with the wife. Like it's, you know, as far as like kids and stuff like that, you're like, well, I got to do this and this and this, and then maybe, and the next thing you know, it's like 10 years later. Yeah. Yeah. I do that. It's in, it's down to learn like, ah, maybe now. I noticed that you have a podcast that you do with another guy. Is that just a friend of yours? Yeah. It's my best friend, Max. Yeah. So you guys started a podcast. How many episodes in are you? I think we've done 20, but see, that was a problem there. I came back to Montreal and we're, he's back in England. They just haven't worked out yet. Why not? You can just do it remote. Yeah. I mean, that makes sense. That makes sense. That's what I do. I mean, my podcast has been running for six years. I've never done an in-person podcast. That's true. Yeah. They're, they're all just remote. You got something, do you, you got a call? You busy? No, no, just a glitch for a second. Oh, are you there? Yeah. It's good. Yeah. I would just do a remote. How do you, how do you like doing the podcast? Is that something you enjoy? Yeah. It's fun. Cause you know what? It's, we don't talk fighting. We don't talk sports. He's my best friend, but he's not really interested in MMA. Right. He, he likes, his favorite fire is me. So he doesn't watch anyone else. Yeah. So it's good. He doesn't ask me any fight questions. We don't talk fight stuff. I noticed you're talking to really stupid shit. Like we talk about on my podcast. Like, so my, we have a podcast called bro chat and we just talk like bros. We're just like, we just talk the dumbest shit that you can think of. Yeah. So that's what you guys are doing. Literally. Yeah. Just the boys. Yeah. Just people. People in the bodybuilding world enjoy what I do because it's kind of like people get to hear their favorite fighters talking just like normal people. Yeah. Are your, are people watching your podcast enjoying it the same way? Yeah, I think so. And I, and I think, you know what, it's been a good, like I said, I'm not one of those guys that talk a lot of crap and. Right. People end up assuming that this guy's boring. He doesn't have a character. Right. And then they just watch you talking shit. And they're like, Oh, actually just like us. He's funny. This guy, the normal guy. What's your podcast called? It's the milkman. The milkman. Yeah. Yeah. Why? Um, well, we live a little bit in the countryside. We used to go chasing cows and shit. And, uh, yeah, that's the one. And, um, his, I just remember when we were younger, his, his granddad was from up North. They're all farms. And he took us to see some cows get milked. And it was just the weirdest thing when we were kids. And I was just like, this is, this is fucking weird. Why are we watching these cows get milked? So I was just like, fuck it. Call it the milkman. So that's it. It's from your childhood. Yeah, man. That's pretty cool. So what, okay. I'm going to ask you this. What's the dumbest thing you talk about? Um, you know, what we talk about a lot is, so, you know, like the Facebook community groups and it'll be like, uh, local pages. We just go through them and like get the local updates. So just the funniest things. It's always something crazy. Yeah. I don't think I've done that yet. I don't think I've done that yet with my, really. Yeah. So good. Do you guys do like audience questions? Yeah. Yeah. People call and this, I don't know if they're my fans or what, but like these people ask fucking weird questions. Yeah. I get those too. Yeah. Yeah. All right. What? Okay. So one of the questions on my podcast is how many times do you use a towel? Okay. After you shower? Like how many times did you use a towel to dry yourself off? Yeah. Before you put it in the laundry? For me, it would be like three. Three. Okay. That's pretty average. Cause I, it went from like, I have one guy, one friend who does it like every time he showers. No, that's crazy. Yeah. And then I have other friends who are like one week. So I'm like, okay. I'm like, it's either one is fine. Like one week is fine for me. Three days, three times is okay. Yeah. Yeah. Right in the middle there. So I have a, a rule. If it, if it ends up on the floor at the gym, it goes in the wash. So yeah, that's a good rule. Yeah. So we were in there, everyone throws their training kit on the floor, you know, everyone's showering. If it ends up on the floor, the other shit, I'm like, ah, that's gotta go in the wash. But yeah, for three to four is the average. Three to four is that. I give you that. Okay. Yeah. So another question is favorite fast food, burgers only. Burgers only? Burgers only. Favorite fast food. Ooh. I like, I don't know if you have A&W there, but I like that. Really? You have A&W? Yeah. Yeah. We have A&W. That's the first time I've ever had somebody to ask. Use A&W as an answer. Yeah. I like A&W, like a double mozzarella cheeseburger. Really? Yeah. Arnold Allen, like A&W burger. That's good. One for the record books. Put that in there. Oh, yeah. Not, not, what about Five Guys, In-N-Out? Like, have you had any of those? I love Five Guys. I do, I love Five Guys, but I think I've had it too much. Oh, okay. So you're A&W over Five Guys just because of, okay. Okay. I'll give you that. What, Nick, what's some other bro chat questions? I don't want to ask him, I don't want to ask him the grossest one. Should I ask you the grossest one? I'm open to it. Okay. So when the first one started, the very first gross question we had that nobody wanted, like that we all answered was, do you wipe your ass sitting or standing up? Sitting, for sure. Ah, see? Yeah. Arnold, Arnold Allen's a sitter. Yeah. Anyway, that's like some of the stuff that we, every week, man, we get questions from our audience members and stuff that want to do, that want to ask us that kind of shit. So is that, is your podcast going that way? Like that kind of thing? Yeah. Yeah. People call in with some dumb shit. And so, yeah, I, sometimes I'm just looking, I'm like, I don't even want to answer this question. Yeah. I'm just like, I'm going to leave this one. But do you think it's like, do you think it's one of the kind of thing where you're stuck to have other fighters on? Yeah. We did fit. We thought about guests for a while. So, but yeah, it's just, I think I'm, I'm pretty awkward. I wouldn't ever ask people. But yeah, I think, I think, I think we would eventually. I'd be, I think it'd be kind of weird to have other fighters on, especially if you're going to, from your own class, because you're going to, that's actually an interesting question. I want to ask you is, are you guys, when you're fighting somebody, are you ever friends with them? I see, I don't really have, I have a lot of friends I was trained with, but not really any in my division that are in the UFC. Right. But, you know, we bumped into each other at events and, you know, you chat, say hi. Yeah. But yeah, not, not friends. I wouldn't say, you know. Well, not friends, but even like, you know, like you said, you bump into people, you say hi, that's like a nice person. Yeah. You know, you don't, you don't have a, dislike for that person. Yeah. How do you punch them in the face? I guess it's just sport, right? It's just treating it as sport. Like, I mean, you're getting paid to punch them in the face. So I guess that's why. there's that, there's that. I think you just like, you look at it like football, you know, like I land two good jabs. It's like a couple of good passes and getting closer to the goal. You know, that's not really the same. Yeah. You're punching another guy in the face. That's true. I've always wondered that. I was, cause like, I know, listen, I know anger is not part of fighting. Like if you're a good fighter, then you're probably not angry. Correct? Yeah. So I know it's like, if you're angry, you're probably in a wrong place anyways. But I also think like, I mean, I'm not a fighter and that's probably why, but like, I feel like it'd be weird to punch somebody in the faces as hard as I could. If I didn't have some type of problem with them. Yeah. I see what you mean. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. I do. It is a weird thing to think, isn't it? Yeah. Cause like, you're going to hurt them. Like you're going to punch them in the face. It's going to hurt. You're going to, or you're going to, you know, leg kick them and they're, you know, like, you're obviously going to inflict pain on this person. Yeah. I think more than the, the actual physical pain is like, I'm taking money off this guy's table. You know, I'm taking, that's true too. You know, most people want a half and half paycheck. You saw, you get the extra 50% if you win the fight. So, right. You know, if you're taking food from his family, that's, that's, but that one, I feel like that one, I could get over a little bit more easily only because I'm like, it's either going to be his table or my table. Yep. Yeah. Right. So I'm like, I'd rather it be my table, but the inflicting pain on the person, I'm like, fuck, I don't know if I could, I could do that, but I guess you guys are different that way. Do you think, do you think fighters are like a different breed in that sense? Like guys who love to fight? Yeah. But even then there's some fighters that are like, maybe not that, you know, some guys fight and, you know, they're very good. They're very skilled, but they just, they haven't got that in them. I know that. I know what you're saying. And I've thought that before. I've always said to myself, you know, amongst UFC fighters from, from the way I see it, which is very, like, like I said, I'm not a hardcore fan or anything, but like the way I see it is like, just from growing up and knowing people who fight, there are guys that fight that just like to fight. Yeah. It is like the, the whole, the whole thing, the pain, all of it. Yeah. And then there are guys who are, who fight, who are just very, very skilled and very good at it, but don't necessarily like want to get punched in the face. You know what I mean? They just, you know what I mean? Do you understand? Yeah. Do you, is that what you're kind of talking about? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But just even a more, I've, I've seen guys that have competed that are like, even on the other end of it, not that they don't want to hurt anyone. They're so scared of getting hurt. Like, you know, you throw a shot and they're so timid and, you know, obviously the, one of the things is to be cool and calm under fire. You know, guys throw a shot, you, you can't like just shut up and look away, you know, but they don't, they don't get hit. Well, they're not, they're not got that sort of cliche, but they haven't got that, that dog in them, you know? Right. Right. Right. Have you fought both kinds of fighters? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember I fought a guy before the UFC and I remember just, he was asking to fight me and I remember faking a shot at him and his reaction. I was like, all right. It's one of those. It was like one of those guys. Yeah. You knew right away. You didn't want to fight. Just like a little shoulder pump and he's got like, like that. Yeah. All right. Got you. Do you think, do you think you can get to the, to the top of the UFC, like the top five, if you don't have a dog in you? Because I think like some people would, and I hope to God, I don't get roasted for this, but some people would say like George St. Pierre didn't like to get hit. Yeah. And I'm, even though he's been in fights where he's been like hit a lot. Yeah. But like, if you compared like Nick Diaz to George St. Pierre, some people would say Nick Diaz is a dog and George St. Pierre is not. Yeah. I see that. Is that, do you, do you feel like that's accurate? Um, I feel like, so I've, I've spoke to George kind of about this and he is very interesting. It really confuses me because he told me like he hated fighting. He said, absolutely. Like backstage when you're in the warmup area, he told me he'd be in the mirror, like, you know, G and himself up and he'd have to convince himself. Like, you know, I'm the man. I'm good. I am good. Right. And, uh, he said he hated it. Absolutely hated it. Yeah. I was just like, if you hated it so much, why would you do it? But, cause he's good at it, but he's good at it. But yeah, I think in some way, the fact that he can overcome that feeling of not wanting to do it, wanting to fight and being so afraid and actually just going for it. Right. When you see him walk out, like he's stone cold. He's confident as he's overcame so much already to make the walk. Right. Uh, in some ways he's got more of a dog than anyone. Right. And like Nick Diaz, I'll respect to Nick Diaz, but like, I don't think he thinks twice about it. He walks in, you know, no care in the world. He's going to have a fight. Right. Like he didn't have to overcome anything in that sense to make you what you're saying. So the guy that doesn't want to fight is more of a fighter because he's got to convince himself to get in there. Yeah. Like he's, and it would confuse me when George told me, cause I was like, you're the best ever. Right. What could you be scared of fighting? Right. Yeah. But that's how I always looked at George is like, even though he's the best ever, one of, one of the best ever. Yeah. I always looked at him as more of an athlete than a fighter. Yeah. You think that's accurate? Um, yeah, in some ways. Um, but the thing is he's, he, when he got dropped by Carlos Condit and, you know, he got knocked down, I think a lot of people wouldn't have came back the way he did. Yeah. Yeah. And even he got knocked out by Matt Sarah. He came back and got the finish on him. Matt Hughes, you know, it would have been very easy to get all of his losses. He avenged. So, right. Right. I think that is a true testament of a fight. You know, he came back, fixed it in the gym and, uh, came back and got the win. I feel like his career could have still been great without fighting those guys again. Yeah. Yeah. Who do you think is the greatest fighter of all time? Is it, is it John Jones? Is it George St. Pierre? Who is your, who's your pick? Uh, for me, George, just George. Yeah. George. Just, uh, maybe I'm biased. I've, I've, you know, I've spent time with him. Yeah. I've spent time with him. I've seen him in the gym, but like, you know, one of the, the reason I came to try style was George, you know, as a kid, I was watching his countdown. He was the guy everyone wanted to be like, he's a better guy in person than, you know, you see on TV and they say, don't meet your heroes. And yeah, he's one of those people that exceeds that. I see him in the gym sometimes and there'll be a guy over there. He's like a beginner. And George will come in and ask the guy, Oh, let's, let's wrestle together. Let's drill. Like, you know, he doesn't just cut himself off. He'll work with whoever. Right. And, uh, little things like this, it kind of made the same. We talked about the black belt. George is still in the gym now as a martial artist, long retired, trying to get better. He's still learning new techniques and still helping people out. Yeah. I think a lot of other guys have, you know, long retired. They ain't helping people. They're doing their own thing. Yeah. So maybe the guy, maybe like you said, he didn't love fighting, but he loves the sport. Yeah, exactly. He's, he's a true martial artist. Yeah. Yeah. There's bodybuilders like that. I can think of, I mean, I was kind of like that myself. Like there's a lot of bodybuilders who you, you would think is a really strange thing to say, but, and this is not nearly the same because going out to fight is like a different thing. Like competition. It's competition. Yes. But there's, there's no danger in bodybuilding, but it is competition. And I can think of, many bodybuilders I've talked to, including myself at times where I hated the stage. Really? Like I didn't want to compete. I want, I love bodybuilding. Yeah. I want it. I want it to train. I want it to diet. I want it to like progress. I wanted to see how far, like I could make them my physique change, but like to actually get on stage and like compete. Yeah. I just didn't give a fuck. I was like, I don't want to do that. Really? But I don't know. You kind of have to, at the same time, like to, if you're a bodybuilder, you know what I mean? Yeah. I'm assuming that's kind of what George is talking about, obviously to an amplified level, because like I said, it's fighting, but, um, I do kind of understand the sentiment, um, of what he was saying. Do you, what do you consider yourself? Do you consider yourself more like George or more like Nick? I think I'd closer towards Nick's, Nick's way of thinking. Don't give a fuck. You're just going to walk in. Yeah. Like not, not that I don't give a fuck, but I just like, I wouldn't say scared is the, the way I, I'd feel. Um, I do hype myself up, but like, as long as I've trained and I've prepared and yeah, then I'm confident, you know, I'm, I've done everything in my power. I can then. I'm like, the outcome's almost out of my hands in a way, you know? Do you think the more you fight, the, obviously the less, like the first time you fought or first few times you fought or first few years you fought, was there a level of fear at all? Or did you always have this, like, I'm going to, I'm prepared. I'm going into fight. Yeah. I think the first few, um, just the unknown, you know, obviously I had loads of sparring sessions and whatnot, but never been like in front of people. And another guy that I don't know across the ring from a gym, I don't know trying to kill me. Right. Yeah. How does that feel when a guy walks in that, have you ever been in a situation like Max Holloway, for example, or even earlier in your career where you walked in and this guy had like a big name or a lot of accolades and you were kind of worried. Did it ever happen? Um, not worried, I guess, I wouldn't say worried. I mean, I thought, uh, Dan Hooker, he had a big highlight reel, a lot of problems. Yeah. Like six foot two, six foot three. Yeah. Really rangy, dangerous guy. Um, yeah, he presents a lot of problems and, you know, I obviously watched his highlight reel and I'm like, don't want to be one of those guys. Yeah. Yeah. I wouldn't, but then with, with the drilling, the training, the preparation, I'm like, right. That knee isn't so scary now that the right hand, he's knocked this guy out with ain't so scary now because I'm prepared for it. You beat Dan Hooker. Yeah. How did that feel to beat? Like, you know, a pretty well-known name in the UFC. It was good. It was, you know, it was really special actually because, uh, my, my Muay Thai coach at the time, he, he passed now. Um, he was an older, older guy. He's about 60, 60 something Thai, Thai guy. Yeah. And, uh, he had, uh, uh, he had a cancer. Okay. And, but he was, he had this killer mindset, like, you know, if you train with him, he would just, everything was kill, kill, kill. And, uh, you know, in sparring, sometimes accidents happen. Sure. You drop your partner, knock someone out. We don't try, but accidents happen. Yeah. And, uh, I'd always feel bad. I'd help the guy out, you know, like, it'd be like, I'm so sorry. He would rip on the guy. He would go in like, ah, my fucking student kill you. My guy knocked you out. I'm like, just like, man, like, don't do that. But yeah. So before the fight, I didn't get to train with him. I was back in England and he was in, he was in hospital here in Canada. Yeah. And, uh, he was on his, you know, he was in the hospital and, uh, I called him before we spoke on FaceTime and I didn't really recognize him. He'd lost so much weight and just, you know, doesn't look well. Yeah. And I asked him for advice. I said, oh, you know, the guy's tall, rangy, throws long knees, big kicks. I said, what do I do? He said, ah, fucking kill him. And I was just like, anything technical? And he's just like, ah, fuck him, fuck him. I was like, okay, coach, got ya. So, uh, yeah, I remember just moving, moving, moving. And I got a punch, like a knuckle in my eye. I remember just seeing like two or three of him. Yeah. You know what? I cannot afford to like run away for this guy with my eye hurt. The ref hasn't seen it. Right. I'm just going to go forward and throw punches. Fucking kill him. Let's go. And, uh, yeah, managed to get the finish. And, uh, me and Fraz spoke to him after the fight in the hospital. He was crying. Yeah. It was a, yeah, it was a bit of a brawl. And, uh, yeah, but that, that fight was for him. That's crazy. Yeah. He just said, just fucking go. I was like, okay, I got you. Is this the finish? Uh, it comes up after this bit. There's like a little break. Yeah. But don't have to. Nah, that's so crazy, man. Um, that I think what, listen, I think what you do is absolutely insane. Like, I don't know. You probably, I know when you're in the bubble, like, it's funny with bodybuilding, like when you do it for long enough, you think everybody just understands food and training and all that. You forget that like 95% of the world has no idea how to eat and train and all that shit. I'm sure you're the same. I'm sure like as a fighter, you, you probably think everybody kind of gets it. I don't think anybody gets it. Like what you do is fucking wild, man. It's so crazy. It's like, I think what you guys do and, and how you guys like prepare and how you're so calm and collected. I remember when I went to the jujitsu camp, I was like, look, I don't know anything. I know I'm big. I know you guys are going to kick my ass. I don't care. Just teach me whatever you can teach me. And, uh, I have so much respect for like fighters and people that take the time and years and to, to become black belts or even just, even if they're not black belts, just the guys who get in there week after week. I have a lot of friends who are like, um, what's the belt after white, yellow and then blue, uh, white, blue, purple, brown, white, blue, purple. That's it. Yeah. So I have a couple of friends who are blue belts, a couple of friends who are purple. And then it's same thing. I saw the same amount of respect for them. Cause they're in there every week, just slugging it out. Right. Yeah. I know so many guys are there. It's, uh, I don't know, man. I think what you do is awesome. And, uh, I'm really happy that you came on the podcast and give me a chance to like, ask you a few questions, man. I appreciate it. Thanks for having me on. It's been great. Hopefully when you're champ, you'll, you won't forget me. You'll come back on. That sounds good. Yeah. That sounds good. Do another one. I, uh, I appreciate you taking the time, Arnold. Is there anybody or anything, you want to thank anybody you want to thank or anything you want to say, uh, before we go? No, nothing. Shout out Ben, Ben for linking us up. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Thank you, Ben for, for hooking it up and, uh, Arnold, I hope we get a chance to, uh, talk again soon. Yeah, I appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you, brother. All right, man.