 GITCN- wisely, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3, wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T3 wisely T Or you can do your own. You can check out any type, anything you want. You can check your testosterone, your HbA1c. You can check anything, progesterone. Any of these that you see here, you can add to like an alucard and do your self-lab, self-checkout. You get the requisition. You take it to the place and get your lab work done on your own. That way, if you don't need any medical oversight, you don't need anybody to read your blood work to you, and you want a cheaper option, you can check out Merrick Diagnostics, and you make your lab work as expensive or inexpensive as you want. This is kind of the best way to check if you want to check your testosterone levels, check if your gear is working, check if you're running too low. This is kind of the best way to do it if you want to save some money. So MerrickDiagnostics.com. Check it out now, guys. Thanks for watching. Wait, we didn't record with the... What's that? You have one fucking job. I have one job, but I fucked it up. No, I knew I wasn't recording. I just said it because I said it. Oh, damn it. What a great way to start the podcast. What? i haven't seen these in so long so good dude my my moment was with with uh scary movie yeah a scary movie and they do it yeah yeah remember that you could fucking have like the phone was on the wall and you could talk like at the same time as somebody else can't do that shit no more you're fucking do that shit no more yeah when you have an older when you have an older brother they always fuck with you though yeah they're trying to talk with a girl ian what's going on what's up guys i saw your uh oh cat i saw your update i saw your update today looks like you and uh joe palacios are gonna have a showdown um yeah i got i got a couple pounds to go till i'm at joe weight but i'm getting there i i got to see you in in ohio yeah that was cool look at this fucking look at your head dude this looks like AI know it's like a lizard my head doesn't look that big i swear that's just a bad head angle it's like an iguana like you have no neck it just goes right into your face it's because i'm like turning my i'm trying to like maximize angles here and i made my head get the it was it was worth the trade-off you know i don't think people know you like i'm married at this point so i like i don't really care how ugly my head my face look because it's i don't think people know you like i know you how many pictures did you take before you that was it swear to god one and done i took i took three and there's i posted two of them the third one i didn't post wow okay that was it because i wanted to seem like i wanted to seem like i was actually taking a piss in the bathroom so like i went to leave the gym and jay and mark were waiting for me so i'm like i'm just gonna take a piss i go in there i take my shirt off i take like three pictures i'm like okay good let's go you know okay hit him with it what's that i love that commercial we were just watching it oh really you missed out can i see it i haven't seen it in a long time can i see it can i see it in a long time all right paul that was originally a super bowl commercial yeah watching the game having a butt true true yo pick up the phone hello can you play the scary movie one yeah that was great the scary movie one what do you do he's like chilling killing he's like smoking blood you know smoking the fucking blood they're like uh i think this is it oh shit yes yo hello shorty what are you doing nothing sitting here watching the game smoking some butt i don't smoke some butt are you all alone what's up who's that yo pick up the phone what's up what's up yo duke pick up the phone yo what's up what you doing son nothing that's fucking funny wait what does he say here at the end just chilling killing true true true true remember that that whole commercial too those guys um they're like protein you got protein like i like protein he's got protein yeah um Okay, from now on, if podcast members meet us in public, that's how they have to greet us. What's up? We're bringing that back. Just don't get creepy in the tongue. Yeah. I don't want to see anybody doing like a flicking, you know? That's the only way I'm going to do it. Ian, back to you. So the lizard photo, how much do you weigh in that photo? I'm like right around 280 right now. Still? Well, it was like 277 when I saw you. I'm 280 now. Okay, that's pretty good progress. I'm not trying to push my weight up. I'm not really trying to get heavier at this point. I'm just trying to get better, you know? Are you still getting stronger? Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. That's really all I'm using is my metric right now. If I'm seeing visual changes, my performance in the gym is increasing. Yeah. I'm not like super concerned. I mean, like either way, I'm not going to be fucking 270 on stage. Like, you know, say I'm too, you know, I need to be probably if I was going to compete, I'd probably need to be like 255, 260. And I'm still 20 pounds over that. So like, I don't really need to gain too much more weight at this point, you know? Yeah, you're not fucking 20 years old anymore. You're not trying to fucking bulk. No, no. I'm not like the tissue is there. Like I've, I've, yeah, I've had it in the last three years, you know? So it needs to come back and come back different in certain areas to like, look good. But yeah, I'm happy with how things are going. So I don't know. I'm just having fun, man. I don't know. How's the haunted house? Good. Dude, that's fucking fucked me up last night. Do you have any more incidents? No. Joe, I guess you trusted the dead bull before you fucking. Yeah. I've never done that in my life though. That's fucking. If I try like replicating it, it felt so weird to do. I'm like, there's no way. Can you tell, tell Joe what happened? Cause Joe doesn't know. Yeah. I guess nobody does. I've been us three. Yeah. Four. Yeah. Like last night I was up in our room watching a movie with Melissa. She falls asleep. I go back downstairs to eat my last meal. It's like 1130. And, uh, my dog wants to go to the backyard. So I, I let the dog out the back door. Um, and then I hear like when I opened the back door, I hear like, uh, a door creaking, like, I'm like, what the fuck? So I look up the stairs. I'm like, babe, like, is she, I thought she was up, but she was like out cold bedroom doors closed. Then I go look at the front door. My front door is wide open, but my deadbolt is still locked. So like the deadbolt was out, like sticking out this far, but my door is wide open. I'm like, the fuck is going on here? So like when I opened the back door, it creates that kind of like back, you know, that pressure through the house and it swung the door open, but like it was already open with the deadbolt out. So I'm like, how the fuck did this even happen? So I was fucking, I'm like, who the fuck's in my house? I'm going to fucking kill them. You know? So I was on a, I was on a chair. I'm like fucking going around the neighborhood, like checking for tracks in the snow. And I'm like, you know, did you do, did you do what I do when I get freaked out? You went to like every room of the house. Oh, I checked my whole house for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Cause I'm like, I don't know if someone's like trying to fuck with me here. I mean, like, obviously the logical explanation is like Mike said, I probably came in the house. I flipped the deadbolt without closing the door, which, but like, yeah, I mean, when I pushed the deadbolt, I always pushed the door in at the same time, but like I was walking the dogs. Maybe I just came in, like took their horses off, flicked it and walked in. But yeah, I don't know. I've never done that in my life. So it just like felt weird when I tried to like replicate, like, I don't feel like I would have done this, but it's obviously the only logical explanation. I mean, I don't think someone was, you'd be kind of fucking weird to like come in the one house that has lights on at midnight with two cars in the driveway. You know what I mean? Like it's, I was, do you have any, do you have any baby powder? Any what? Baby powder. Oh, fuck that. Well, if I could start doing fingerprints. Yeah. Sprinkle some. Sprinkle some by the door. Chicken. Chicken.!! But we got some fresh snow. We got some fresh snow last night and there was no like tracks in the snow leading up to my front door. So I think it must've just been that I didn't lock the door. Yeah. But I always tell, I always used to tell Summer, I'm like, cause she used to worry about like, oh, somebody's going to break in. I'm like, this is the, not the house. No. They're going to, they're going to come to like, no, I weigh 300 pounds. We have two fucking dogs. You're home a lot. We're home all day long. Like people, people rob houses where it's like old people that like are not home at like are on vacation. Yeah. Or it could be young people, but they're at work all fucking day long. Yeah. During the day. Exactly. They go when people are out of the house. You don't go when, and like they case houses. Like they're not like, just like, oh, there's a house with lights on. Let's go in there. Like for all they know, they would have walked in the front door. I would have been standing in the fucking front hallway. Be like, sup, look the fuck you doing. You know what I mean? Like, so it was, yeah, it was obviously me just being fucking retarded. Yeah. Well, one of the creepiest things, I don't think I said on this podcast, I believe I said it before though. I was at an ex's house and she already told me. What were you doing at your ex's house? Chilling. Chilling. So, so I was just chilling with her sister in the kitchen while she was getting ready upstairs. And she already told me the house did some weird shit. It was like haunted. She told me it was. And I'm just talking to her sister. She was actually asking about diet stuff, ironically. And then I hear, Joe. I was like, what? And I didn't hear anything back. And then the thing was, my sister heard it too. I was like, well, she called me again. I'll go upstairs. Like a few seconds later, Joe, hold on. Let me go see what she wants. Cause she's not responding. So I go upstairs and I'm like, what's up? She's like, Hey, what the hell? I was like, what? Called me. She's like, Joe, uh, her sister. She's like, my sister is changing. You're going to see her naked. And I was like, well, you called me to come up here. She's like, no, I didn't. I was like, shut up. Yes, you did. She's like, no, I didn't. My sister's changing. Why would I call you? I was like, what the fuck? And I was like, darling. That was her sister's name. Come here. Came upstairs. I was like, didn't you hear her call me? She's like, yeah. She called me twice, right? Yeah. She didn't call me. It was fucking weird. It sounded exactly like her. Okay. Who, who here, who here believes in haunted shit? Somewhat. Somewhat. I mean, it'd be hard for Joe not to. That's one of my stories. That was one of my stories. Some weird shit has happened in my life. Yeah. I'm terrified of that shit. So I tried not to believe in it. I've never had anything like happen to make me believe it, but I'm not against it. You know? Yeah. Paul, you believe in it? You're the most skeptical guy I know. I've never experienced anything too weird. A couple of like little things that probably could be easily explained. But like what? Okay. One night. This is a long time ago. This is one of my old house. Someone ate all your Oreos and it wasn't you. Yeah. I don't know. Someone does them every night too. Who's been here? They followed me to themselves too, Mike. I don't know how they found out where I moved to. He's like, I woke up. The Oreo ghost. Straight up. I'm getting excited. I buy a new pack every couple of days. I don't know what happens. But no, one night, this is going back a long time ago. I remember I worked an afternoon shift at work and it was like, I think it was like October 30th, like the night before Halloween. So at the end of the night, like at work, it was kind of slow to last hour. So we're all just kind of sitting around telling like, like ghost stories that we knew about, you know, like vocal legends and stuff like that. And so I remember going home that night, watched a little bit of TV before I went to bed and I fell asleep on the couch and my cell phone woke me up because it started like it lit up or like it made a noise, whatever that it was like, I was getting a text coming in or, or there was activity on my phone. So I look at my phone and the number six, six, six just kept getting repeated across the screen. Okay. So somebody was like button got, got stuck, obviously. But you know, after hearing all these ghost stories all night. Yeah. Then he ate all my cookies right after. But, but I know a guy, but I'm friends with a guy who's, um, he's like a local historian. Um, so he gets called a lot to do like, um, with grave of gravestones, get misplaced or whatever. He'll get called a lot to go out there and, uh, and research. Is he making this friend up? I feel like you don't know this guy. I don't, but Paul knows a lot of people. I don't know. You've met him once. You've met him once for that. Uh, he's a friend of mine from work. Okay. Um, anyway, he's literally a modern day Viking. I love this guy. Um, so anyway, uh, he was telling me a story how he got called to this house and like somewhere around here, Kingsville, like one of the older areas outside of Windsor. Cause a guy called him cause he, he, he heard about his research that he does for like, you know, gravestones and stuff like that. Cause this guy was swore that he had a haunted house. So Ken went there and he showed me the videos of what was going on in the house. And it was fucking nuts. Like doors shutting on their own lights going on and off on their own. No way. And like, and he's there and like, I trust Ken, like he wouldn't bullshit me. Yeah. Yeah. And like, and he's like, and he was, he was videoing all this with his phone while he's there. Yeah. Like, Oh really? Yeah. Yeah. So I was like, fuck, don't show me that shit no more, man. That house is haunted for sure. And then he did some research on the house and there had been someone murdered in that house. Like I'm out years ago. I'm out. I still spend one more night there. Put it up for sale. Literally that night. I'm like, I'm going to a hotel. Yep. Tell the fucking house. I won't be back. I'm not coming back. But if I find a mouse in my house, I'm ready to move out. Let alone a fucking. He's like, Ken, we can't be friends anymore. We got a plant. We're going to, we're going to plan the hunt this year, Paul. That's what I want to buy you for your birthday. Go hunting. We're going hunting. Okay. Ghost hunting? No, Ian. Get him a fucking electronic meter. Yeah. We're going to go. No, we should go to like Texas and do fucking boring or something. Oh, that would be awesome. So I don't think Joe knows. Paul's like, listen, I think I've asked Paul like probably four times in our lives. Like, what do you want out of life or what's on your bucket list or what do you want to do before you die or any of these like random questions? The fucking guy never has anything to say. Now it's hunting. He wants to go hunting. Just want to try it. He's got one. This inner man. He's got one fucking thing on his list that he wants to do in his whole life. So we're going to make it happen this year. But the deal was I don't have to clean the animal. Yeah, that's fine. You have to, but like, we'll just, we'll help you, you know? Like you're going to do it for me. It'll be, it won't just be like, let you fend for yourself. It'll be a collaboration, you know? Okay. Fair enough. You got to do, you got to do the whole thing. You have to partake in something. Yeah. Okay. You can't be like, I just want to. Does that abscond me from doing the fish though? First of all, hold on. There's no such word as abscond. That's not what you're trying to say. Exactly. You're trying to say abstain from the fucking, because that way you don't have to do it. No, he's kind of right. Like he is only kind of right. Always. Paul's going to be like David Ortiz with like a walk off home run. He just shoots the fucking chicken. He walks off. You guys take care of that. It means to like escape, make off with, run away with, sneak away, evade, you know? Evade. Yeah. Yeah. All right. We'll give it to you for fuck's sake. All right. Here we go. Another one on my notch. Another notch on my belt. You're lucky. What's the word score on that one? Totally. Listen, you're fucking lucky because you didn't even know. You were like. I was, I was, it was partially, I was about 60, 70% sure that I was using the word correctly. No, you weren't even, you weren't even, you weren't even sure that was a word. Cause I said, it's not a word and you didn't even fucking fight back. You were like, oh shit. There was, there was a little bit of doubt there that I may have pronounced it wrong, but the word in my head sounded right. Okay. It ends with a D. Yeah. You said it wrong. Anyways. No, not yet. You said it with a D. You finished it. You said abscond. D. No, you said abscond. There was a little D at the end. You said it ended with an N, but you were close. You were close. Okay. Anyways, the point is if you're going to hunt, you gotta, you gotta do the whole thing, man. Yeah. You want to do it. You'll feel a lot more fulfilled if you do the whole process and push yourself through it. Yeah. Yeah. Now, do you clean a bore or what do you do with them? Well, it depends what you want to do with it, but yeah, I mean, it's, it depends where you go to like, you know, and what you're doing with the meat and like some places you might go, it might not be part of it. Like it really depends what you want to do, but like if we go to Texas and shoot boars, like that's not for meat, right? Like you're just killing animals. You could, you could eat it. I mean, it's fucking like pork. I mean, it's not quite as good, but it's still fine. Paul, wherever we go, listen, I've never been hunting either. I think wherever we go, we should do the whole thing. So let's go with what, let go. Yeah. We should do the whole fucking thing. We should go shoot. We'll go gator hunting in Florida. Except that. That I don't want to do. Let's go to Africa and hunt some fucking lions already. I mean, might as well. That shit's fucking expensive though. You know, I'm talking about like, we'll go to Wisconsin and hunt pheasants with fucking Nick. Oh yeah. That's boring. We'll shoot ducks and shit. I don't know. Birds is like fun, but it's not like Paul's got to kill big game. You know what I mean? I know. The guy got a deer. Yeah. Yeah. You got to shoot something like that. Yeah. Okay. Let's go get deer. If we can even fucking do it. We can just go shoot. We can go shoot a deer off of Steve's back porch, dude. It would do it at guys house too. Yeah. Literally. We could, we could sit on fucking Steve or guys back porch and shoot four deer. Not that that's legal, but I mean, maybe. But it'll achieve Paul's dream. So it doesn't matter. Yeah. Right. Yeah. As long as we don't, you know, post it right away. That's all right. Paul, make a wish. It's like a make a wish for me. Yeah. Joe, what's going on with you, man? It's been a while since we've been on the podcast and we haven't talked in a little while. What's going on? Well, the peak of my weight got 313. We pulled back. My offseason is over. I'm just kind of chilling right now. offseason is over. Mm-hmm. Why? What are you doing? You're doing Tampa, aren't you? Yeah. Well, so this period of time, I'm just kind of training, staying the same. Letting my numbers come down before prep. So you mean like when you say offseason is over. Like a whole phase. You're not pushing. The last push is over. Like the hard part's done. I'm just kind of chilling right now. So. Is it kind of like when I, I think Ian hates when I say this, but when I say like you're growing into your weight kind of thing, like you're holding here. Essentially. Yeah. Trying to get leaner. I mean shit. Yeah. That's it. I got off all that excess water off my body. So I'm 305, 306 now when I wake up and I've just been kind of steady there. So the question I have for you is how much anadrol did you take this offseason? Look at your. I can tell you. I can tell you my whole. You got cheeseburgers like me. 100%. It's the Mexican in me. So he must be Mexican. Tacos. Everyone's just everyone's a little Mexican, you know? Yeah. Yeah. A little bit. What? Seriously. How much anadrol did you take to get this big? See, he's got the no neck. He's got the no neck reptile from the side too. Look at this big fucker. Not like. No. No, it's funny. A lot of people actually compare me to Ian whenever I do those kind of. Yeah. I'm just turned a little more sideways because I need to maximize my angles a little more than Joe here. You know what I think it is, Ian? I think because he's got a beard. It looks like his head is separate from his body. Yeah. I'm turned more. I'm like leaning. So I'm like this. I'm pushing it. You have no beard. So like this was all disconnected. Yeah. I don't have as much beard. You're like a Ninja Turtle. Yeah. Anyway, Joe. Seriously. Yes. How long was your offseason? So would you count like post show and everything? Yeah. Or just because I do that rebound thing. That was 10 weeks after the show. So for 10 weeks, I was still on test and GH and some other stuff. Not a lot. But that was 10 weeks that I came off and then we did an official. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Some other stuff. Wait, wait. Just glossed over that. He's like. A thousand milligrams. He's like. I was on test GH and some other stuff. So that was my off period. Peptides. That's what everyone wants to know. That's when I was off. Okay. What was it like? The secret to the pros, bro. Every single rebound after a show. Because that's how I've kind of done it. Because I've always done shows kind of far apart. So it's always obviously stays as possible. And typically that ranges from six to 10 weeks. So this one was 10 weeks. I was on test. NPP. dbol. And GH. You don't find DECA fucks with you like anxiety wise? No. Well, I know NPP is like a. I know it's faster acting, but it's still. Yeah. It's one of my favorites. It's one of my favorites. Yeah. I actually like it a lot. I get strong as fuck. Yeah. But yeah, that was when I was running post show. That's literally what I run every single time pretty much. Then I came off for, I think it was eight or 10 weeks. I can't remember. So around there. Eight days. Yeah. And then what? And then I jumped back on. My cycle was, it was a 15 week pushing phase. And I was on. Seth. EQ. Anavar. GH. And that was it. Anavar. Yeah. It was interesting. I find guys run that a lot now in the offseason, but we never did that before in the offseason. So I think that the, the, the idea was running Anavar was going to, as I pushed, it was supposed to keep me tighter. So the goal was to stay leaner this year round. So I think that's why we implemented that. But normally I don't have that in my offseason. That was like a new thing for me. Do you ever have orals or no? Yeah. I usually do. It's, it's typically either. Cause I can't handle Ana draw. Yeah. But because we ran, we ran deep ball rebound. We didn't this time. I'm like, we, we ran, we run deep ball sometimes, but the last like two off seasons, I haven't. And we stick to just oils. Okay. This time was the first time he threw Anavar in there in like the last two years. And you felt like. For an actual offseason. You felt your offseason was good? Productive? Yeah. I didn't expect to make this much progress. You know, I thought I'd bring up some things here and there, but I didn't expect to get as heavy as I did at all. He only, he kept, he kept feeding me because I wasn't losing any lines. Like I was staying pretty solid for the most part. I would say like the last like five, seven pounds. That's when I started getting that tiny bit softer. But once I got that water off, it started to look like they were getting tight again. So. I like the way Justin does things. I feel like he's a little bit old school. He does all by eye. He doesn't care about the number. Yeah. We're supposed to, the idea was, hey Joe, we're probably not going to push you past 290, 295 max this offseason because I want to keep you as lean as possible. Right. And then we got there literally right away because the start of the offseason was at 285. Right. I jumped there like instantly. And then I got to 300 pounds. He's like, dude, I can't believe you look like this 300 pounds. Like, yeah, let's just keep going. And then we got to where we got to. He was like, okay, this is where we're done. The last time I talked to you though, to get your calories in, you were eating a lot of like pop tarts and fucking a lot of like shit like that. Are you still like, do you start to pull up some of that shit out now? Are you still eating all that shit? At this point, I still eat it just because I'm about to take on a hard prep. And so mentally I get all out of my system. That's what I do. Usually the last like, once he tells me a date, I'm like, okay, I start checking off a list. I got this shit out today. I'm going to get this shit. You're a food guy. You like food. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Because Ian's different. Like Ian can do fucking contest diet like all year round. Yeah. No. Yeah. I like pancakes. I like burgers. I like nachos. I like, yeah, I mean, I enjoy it once in a while, but like, I don't know what I'm, what I'm like really full all the time in an offseason, like satiated. The idea of like eating non like food other than that just like makes me feel like, like it's, it makes me feel like my digestion and the rest of my meals get harder to get in. And I just like, I don't know. Like, and I also just don't have like the mental queuing for it because I'm already full. Like I'm not like ever like points in my day where like who I'm super hungry. Like when my time comes for my meal, I'm hungry enough to eat it. I have no problem eating my food. Like it's easy to get all my meals and I eat them quick, but I'm never like, oh, I'm like maybe once in a blue moon, but like I'm starving. I'd like to eat five guys or which I do make maybe every couple of weeks, but like really not often. But that's just me. I just mean personality wise. Like Ian, I've never seen you get like excited for a meal. You're like, I gotta have this. Cause I'm never like, like, look, if I prep for a show and got super duper hungry, I'm like fucking pushing down in the whole heart, then yeah, I mean, I have the hunger cues that respond like everybody else when they're hungry and I want food and I'm getting excited for it. I'm just like so rarely in that state of like famishness that I'm like excited about food, you know? So then what happens, I was going to say what happens with me is I push to where I don't like food and it becomes a calorie thing at the end of the push. And then when we pull back, I started to get my hunger cues back. So then I do look forward to those meals. But Joe, I've been in that cycle. It's a bad cycle to be in. I've been in that cycle where like you eat as much clean food as you can, but then you get, you get like, you're, you kind of almost get sick of eating your fucking food. You can't get it in, but you need to get calories in. So then you start adding like some junk food in there to get the calories. Like I've been in that, but that cycle doesn't. I feel like that cycle doesn't elicit as good a response as some of the off seasons I had where I was able to just stay pretty clean all the way through. You know what I mean? Like I've, I've done, I've done it like kind of both ways. So, so yeah, for me, the only thing that's worked for me is like saying like I get to a weight I've never been. And that last hard little push that we do, that's how I started doing it. And then the second time around, so I go into a prep, nothing but clean food, rebound, nothing but clean food. And you're right. Everything looks real good, stays real tight, all that stuff. But then I get to a point where like, where I started struggling with the food, the clean food, say 295. Yeah. I can actually push to 305 now eating nothing but clean food. And I feel into that, that body eating nothing but clean food. So I only start implementing it once things get uncomfortable with a place I haven't been. I get you. That's usually when I do it. Like breaking a plateau or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I, that's what I try to tell people like, yes, I'm a fat ass, but I don't do that in the beginning because I'm a fat ass. It's like, okay, like the goal is to see a place I've never been. So I need to find a way to get there. Right. And then after that, it just happens to lead into a prep every time. Cause that's how my, my journey has been so far. So, but I always eat clean and there's like no cheat meals until post rebound. And I only do like one. Yeah. Yeah. And that's just to take my wife out. Yeah. And then it goes back to, so I'm very much like Ian until it gets to a point that I've never been. But I was kind of like you at the, before my preps, like if I had like a whole bunch of shit in my diet, I'd be like, cause a lot of people like kind of weed things out and go slowly into a prep. I would kind of like eat whatever the fuck I wanted on top of my diet and then just kind of flip a switch when it was time to start dieting. Like I would just chop everything out of my, just take everything out. Yeah. So it was like, I was allowed to eat. Like if I write it like the 14 week mark or 16 week mark, whatever it was, that would be like, okay, I'm taking all this shit out now. I'm done. So would you drop weight super quick when you would do that? Like right off the hop, have like one initial drop. The first two weeks is like, like 10 pounds. Easy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I always feel that right away. And then it, then it slows down a bit. Then like another chunk comes off and then around eight weeks to four weeks is probably my favorite period of dieting of any like, yeah, that's the fun part. Yeah. That's the fun part where you kind of start to hungry enough that it like feels good. Your physique starts to look good. Like you're responsive, like how you look at the gym. Like, yeah, I think that's the best time. You still have energy. Yeah. Yeah. If anything, energy is like kind of higher at that point because like you're not bogged down by food, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Efficient. There's like a, like, there's like a Goldilocks zone for like food as a bodybuilder. Like you start to eat so much, you're tired as fuck from eating so much, but then you start to eat so little or not even eat so little, but like cardio is high plus foods less than, you know, your energy gets low. So there's like that sweet spot from like, you know, eight to four, eight to six or 10 to six kind of thing. That zone, you know? Mike, did you eat a lot of shit in the offseason or were you a cleaner offseason guy? I wanted. Yeah. Yeah. Literally. Did you box the pasta a day? Yeah. Yeah. You get like certain meals in and I just eat whatever I wanted. Yeah. That's kind of like, yeah, you had your structured diet and then like everything, whatever you want on top of that. Yeah. So come diet time, was it just same thing? Like you just flip a switch? Like chop everything? I would literally get my diet, like this is what you're going to do. And I just started the next day and just turn the switch off. No, I actually had this conversation with one of my clients today, one of my in-person because I still do in-person training. And I explained to him how towards the end of an offseason, after pushing yourself so hard, there's that moment, like I'm explaining to you guys, like before prep, where I almost want to feel somewhat normal. And there's like a, I guess you can say it way off my shoulders. I don't feel stressed out. And I feel like that's a really big deal. Like when I try to be perfect, I stress myself out. I'm perfect to a point. And once I start to feel like it's overwhelming, it's costing me sleep. And I started like almost not enjoying it. Like hyper-fixation. Yeah, exactly. Can I get like that? That's the worst place to be. I agree 100%. And I swear to you, I truly believe that's how I've made leaps and bounds in my physique from year to year because I'm not stressed about it. I'm like, there's certain fundamentals I need to follow. It may not be like the best approach, but my mind, my body and my soul are just good. When I do take on the prep, I feel like that's when my body shines. So I don't get burnt out. My body actually comes to life almost in the midst of it. It's funny. When I worked with John, when I started working with him, I was a stress bag. And towards the end, John would just tell me, it's just, why are you calling it? Why are you making it this big deal? And you're calling it all these things. You're still dieting, training, and doing some cardio. All we're doing is eliminating a few of the foods that you eat in the offseason. Nothing else is changing. You don't have to like, people make it this big deal like, oh, I'm starting prep. It's the same kind of shit you've been doing all year. You're just kind of eliminating some foods here and there. Nothing really is changing. So there's no need to put this huge weight on your back. Yeah. So the hyperfixation can be too much. Did you guys ever do the last supper? No, before prep. Before prep, that's what you mean, right? Like, take your family or whatever you're going to do. Yeah. I would always, like the day before my prep, I would always be like, okay, I would get all the food I want to eat. And I would sit there like a fat fuck and eat all of it. And then the next day I would start my diet. You see, that's what I do different. I mean, there's a buildup. I have a checklist in my head. Oh, you do it slowly. Slowly. So I don't gorge myself in one day and feel sick. It's like, okay, I knocked that out. I knocked that out. I knocked that out. But typically, the last weekend, I'll usually go to Cheesecake Factory and get like two slices of cheesecake. That's it. Because I always want that so fucking bad during prep. So like, if I have it this close. Paul, the more I hear people talk, other than Mike, I feel like Mike was a lot like me. The more I hear people talk, the more I realize I was a really fat fuck. And your bodybuilding career? Towards the end, maybe you got a little bit not as disciplined as you were earlier in your career. No, no, no. I don't mean in prep. I mean like throughout my whole career, whenever I had the chance to eat, I overdid it. You're a foodie. You're a foodie though, Fuad. You've got the biggest top 10 of anybody I know. My wife is like Fuad. 100%. She says hi, by the way. And Paul, she's like, hi. Yeah, it was nice meeting her, Arnold. Yeah. And so, but I tell my wife, hey, you know, you've been doing really well. Like, let's go ahead and have a cheat meal. She's like, can I get anything? I'm like, yeah, sure. She doesn't just get anything. She gets fucking everything. She damn near finishes all of it. I was like, damn. You know, I always wanted to be with somebody that would be able to put down like that. But I'm like, but you can't be fat. That just doesn't matter. You know, there's got to be a balance. You got to eat like me, but I want you to be nice as well. You don't eat it, but we don't want no fucking fat bitches here. Yeah. Yeah. We're going to clean this shit up. Like, once the damage is done, you're going to clean it up. So like when she had jacks and I was getting her body back, there was like no cheese for a while because I know how she is. I'm like, no. We got to get you down to a point where it's like, okay, this is just recoverable now. Like, you feel a little more free. Do you coach her? I do. I do. Does she compete? No, she hasn't, but she really wants to. We got her blood work done. So like. Don't do it. Everything's good. She's good. Don't do it. It's like her. It's like her lifetime goal. She wants to do one show. At least once. See how it feels like. And I told her, I was like, watch. You're going to end up just wanting to be a mom. But I was like, let's do it. Let's at least once. And she could achieve that goal of yours. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We talk about this all the time because she's seen Jacks grow up so fast. And she's like, fuck, like it's almost over that beginning portion. And she's like, fuck. She originally wanted like three kids with me. Very first started talking. She's like, I want a big family. Then we had Jacks. And then she wanted to do the bodybuilding thing. So she's like, no, no, I want to get my body back. And she did. Once she did, I think there's a realization like, it's just a body. I'd rather have a family kind of thing. So she's leaning more towards, okay, maybe just one time just because it's a huge achievement. Yeah. And then I'm going to be a full-time mom. I'm a fit mom, just not a bodybuilding mom, you know? So you're going to have a big family. I see us having no more than like three. She originally, that was her number. But I was told by a psychic I would only have two. So maybe I'm going to be a two and done. Everything that I've ever been told by a psychic has come to pass. Okay. Hold on. Hold on a minute. How many psychics have you done this week? Yeah. Two. How often? How often? Like how many years apart? The first time my mom took me when I was a freshman in high school. The second time, I think I was like 24. And both times they told you everything they told you came true. They were different things. So like they didn't, there were different specificities between the two. So like, for example, the first time it was very much like, they always tell you like for the most part, oh, you're going to be healthy. This isn't that. But I was specific with one of them. One of them was a palm reader. One of them was just doing whatever the fuck you did. I don't even remember. But I said, is this the girl that I was with in high school? I said, so I was a freshman sophomore. I said, is this the girl that I'm going to end up with the rest of my life? And she told me no. Yeah. And I didn't. I was with that girl for 12 years. I could have told you that too. You told me my wife. I could have told you that too. Hey, can I ask you a question? Am I going to marry the first girl I fucked? I'm 18 right now. Am I going to marry the first girl I fucked? He was with her for 12 years. I was like, dude, it was fucking close. Maybe. Maybe it was a self-fulfilling prophecy. Maybe she put it in your fucking head. And you're like. Yeah. She's good for me. I was like, oh, this bitch don't know what she's talking about. I left all mad. I left her. You left her pissed off? Yeah. This is stupid, mom. This is fucking dumb. I love my girlfriend. What the fuck? I don't want to know my future anymore. What else? Is that the only thing that came true or something else? That's the only thing I remember because it stood out so much. But the second one was very specific. She was a palm reader. And I'm going to live a long, healthy life. I'm going to be, I'm going to actually be pretty wealthy and successful in the business that I take on. I'm going to, a big event is going to happen in September of that year that she told me. I'm going to have two kids, a boy and a girl. She didn't specify which one was coming first. Has any of that come true? All of it so far. What do you mean all of it? Name something. The trajectory of how my life's going. So, for example, I've already had Jacks. So, that's one of the two. That's a boy. So, if I'm a girl, it's a holy shit. Okay, wait a minute. Let's back up for a second. Hold on a minute. Wait a minute. What happened in September? You got your pro card? That's what I was going to ask. No, before. No, no. No, Mike. It was in October. It's close enough. It was like September. If you look at the Mayan calendar. It was in the fall, Mike. But without her knowing, without the psychic knowing, I already had a proposal planned for September where I proposed to my first fiance. So, that was the big event. I didn't plan that afterwards. Paul's still skeptical. I still do two for two now. There's more concrete. I'm going to have to wait to see how long I live. You're not going to walk in there and they're like, oh, man, you're a goner in two years. Yeah. If I go to 50 and I'm out, I'm like, fucking bitch, like me. I mean, shit, I'm still healthy at 300 pounds. That's pretty cool. So, there's that. And then. Oh, there was one more thing. I don't exactly remember the amount. But she said a large sum of money. That is one thing that I don't think happened. Wait for that one still there. Anytime. Yeah. It hasn't been yet. It was like, she said, no, she told me a large sum of money. I'm going to come my way in like November or something. And I don't remember if it did or not. It was. It could have been that long. Could be any November. Yeah. There you go. There you go. Could be this year. Anybody. Anybody else believe in psychics here? I saw one once. Did you? What'd she tell you? Well. They would give you the talk of the context of this first. Okay. It was many years ago when I worked at a strip club. And after the club, there was a party. So it was a stripper party. So you're all drunk. You're all drunk. There's a stripper psychic too? You will fuck a stripper. No shit, bro. I work at a stripper. It was a stripper's friend who she brought, who she claimed was a fortune teller. Yeah. She was topless too. So that was even cooler. Busted out her fucking crystals and shit. By looking at my nipples, I see that you're going to be happy. My right areola is telling me that you're going to get lucky tonight. Look into my crystal tits. So what happened? She told me I was full of poison. And I remember that. Bingo! She was full of poison and I had bad spirits. Well, you're on steroids and you're probably on cocaine at the time. So. All she's looking at is the powder under your nose. She's like, you're full of poison. He's always red. That's a good way. See all the fucking poison. Wait, she said you're on poison. And what else? What was the second thing? She said I was full of poison and I had bad spirits in me. No. She doesn't know you very well. Not at all. I know. Bad juju, dude. She's a co-toe peeler. What does she know? So you didn't really see a psychic. You saw a peeler that was like, just tell you. I do the next time she's on stage. And then she's like, that'll be $50. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. For sitting here with you for an hour. Yeah. Yeah. Mike, are you in? Anybody see a psychic? Psychic? Either one of you? No. No. Melissa, Melissa, when the last Olympia I did in Vegas in 22, we were walking through Planet Hollywood and some old lady, we walked by her and then she turned around, ran back to Melissa and grabbed her. And she was like, I'm a psychic. And I was like, you walked by and your energy, I'm compelled to talk to you. And they sat down. She gave her a full thing and talked about the same kind of shit, talking about fucking having kids. But she did say some shit that was interesting. She didn't know. I didn't stick around. I was like, I got to go back to the hotel I dipped. I'm like, I'm fucking a day out for the Olympia. I'm not going to sit here for 20 minutes. I'm like, fuck you. I got to eat, bitch. I'm not fucking out of here. So, but she said shit about like, you know, you guys are going to have kids, but you're going to have struggles with your fertility, but you're going to get there and blah, blah, blah. She told her a whole fucking thing. Oh, shit. Yeah. She said a lot of shit. Wait, wait, wait. But you're at the Olympia. Who knows? You know what I mean? She saw her with a fucking huge steroid. Yeah. She's like, he's got no fucking. This guy's not going to be a little kid. This guy's sterile. I promise you not all of us have a part time. Yeah. But I don't know. She knew like she was just like, she wasn't there for the Olympia or knew what was going on or saw me. I just like walked right by, you know? Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, I don't know. I mean, I can't remember. I'd have to ask Melissa all the shit she said to her, but that's my only encounter. I've never entertained. Like I'd never had anything like that done. You know, it's crazy. The closest thing I think we've ever seen I've ever been to a psychic is Kevin and he's not a psychic, but like. Oh yeah. Kevin. The magician. Oh yeah. The mentalist. That's a little different. He does some shit that I like. I don't get it at all. And I don't want to because it's great, but I can't explain it either. It's better to not know. You know, I've always, I've always been interested. Like I want to go. I'm not a believer or non-believer. I'm just interested to see what someone would tell me. We should go sometime, Paul. Let's go. Me and you should film. You should film it. Yeah, sure. For me. For me. You got to say now. It's one of those things. Like, I don't fucking like look at that. I'm like, oh my God, this is it. This is what's going to happen. It's more like, it's kind of like, it trips me out if these things actually happen. Like, oh shit. Like, what the fuck? It's exciting for me to hear something. Yeah. I think that's how I would approach it more too. It's just like, I'll see what she says. Yeah, it's fine. I mean, I think that kind of stuff is fun. I mean, you just don't put too much stock into it. It's like, it can be fun to do. I think it would be fun fucking content for us to do for sure. Do you think it would get in your head if she was like, you know, you're going to die of a horrible disease in the next two years? I think that would fuck you up mentally? No. No. It might fuck me up. I think I'm going to die. I think I'm going to die anyway. I'm like, well, you're going to die today, sweetheart. Did your fucking card tell you that? There's nothing worse she can tell me that I'm already panicked about anyways. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. We've all worried about everything she's going to tell us anyways. You know? Yeah, true. Yeah. We're a bunch of fucking bodybuilders. We've all stressed about fucking dying every goddamn day of our life. Yeah. True. Fuck. There's an issue with your heart. Yeah. Which one? I already know that. You talking about the blockage or the other thing? Or the LVH. Which one? Joe, what'd you think about the Arnold? Columbus. So I personally had Nick winning. Not because I like him. Because he looks like you? No. Exactly. No, just because I'm huge on the whole bodybuilding criteria and checking off boxes and higher averages and others. And I just feel like Andrew wonders because he's just prettier to look at. Well, wait a minute. You just said he's prettier to look at. That's not the right word to use, is it? It is not incorrect. Well, if we're talking about pretty physiques, Andrew's got the pretty physique. That's what he said? Yeah. Oh, you said Andrew's prettier to look at. I'm sorry. I thought you said Nick was. Yeah. No, no, no. He said Andrew won because he's prettier to look at. Oh, I'm sorry. I misheard. To me, bodybuilding standards, like I gave Nick, personally, I gave him five out of the eight shots. Right. And I just felt like for it to come down to Nick, like, I guess, breathing in between the transitions and that being the reason that Andrew got the head over him, I'm like, I just don't like that reason. But I think, Joe, that's a common misconception that people have. And a lot of people, I think what Tyler's doing with the breakdowns is really, really good because it teaches people a little bit of how to look at bodybuilding. But, Paul, you could probably add to this. I think it's a misnomer to say that, like, we're looking at a bodybuilding show as shot for shot because you're being judged the entire time you're on stage. So, the in-between, the transitions, the skin. The je ne sais quoi. The je ne sais quoi. No, but, like, you know, some people I've heard say, like, well, his veins shouldn't matter. They're just, you know, it's veins in his calves. But there's actually something. It's bodybuilding. Veins are fucking sick, bro. There's something in the criteria that actually says, like, anything unsightly. So, if your veins are unsightly, if it's too much or it's not appealing or it doesn't look like the look they want, it detracts from the overall look, it can be a problem. So, like, I think people... Did Tyler comment on his veins at all, though, being an issue? No, no, no. No, I'm not saying that that's what it was. I swear I'm not at all saying... I'm trying to make a further point that... And, Paul, like... These little things matter at that level. Paul, maybe you can add to this now. I'm just trying to make a further point that it's not just shot for shot. No, no. No, especially when it's that close. Yeah, yeah. That's what I think the difference was in this show. It was so close that those little things are what ultimately made the decision. Well, and I go back to... The reason I said the veins is I go back to the Derek and Nick at Pittsburgh. And I thought to myself... And I don't know what the reasoning was they gave. But I thought to myself, maybe it's just the overall look. Like, Derek's got a very clean presentation. Skin quality is very good. Doesn't have anything unsightly. Whereas Nick has a couple things that could be looked at as maybe not as favorable. So, I'm just... That's why I threw that in there. It's bodybuilding. This is a freak show, boys. No, it's not. See, that's the hard concept, right? Because at the end of the day, they're going to want somebody to have a look that's really appealing, right? Like, I mean, essentially, Mr. Olympia is supposed to be the best body in the world. Yeah, right. Like, although it's the Arnold, but it all ends up being the same. So, Andrew is obviously going to be way more appealing than Nick's look. It just is what it is. Right. It's just the whole... Not that Andrew doesn't work as hard or hard at all. Like, he has to. Yeah. But Nick has that, like, that just bodybuilder's bodybuilder kind of look. Okay. Let me stop you for a second there. So, I think there's a really heavy weight placed on conditioning. When people see strided glutes, you know, feathered quads, like, completely dry back, really thin, thin skin, there's a really heavy weight placed on that. Phil Heath was one of the best bodybuilders of all time because of that, like, plasticky fucking... I mean, Ronnie too was winning on... Ronnie too, right. But I think... Everything else but conditioning too. But I think, Ian, and maybe you can agree or disagree, I don't know, but I think since, like, 2020, 2022, they've even said... I've heard... I know I've heard this somewhere on some podcast, that they were going to not treat conditioning as, like, such a top priority and they were going to start looking at shape more. Yeah, I... Look, I don't agree with that, obviously. Like, I don't like that fact. I can agree with them from a judging perspective of not excessively rewarding conditioning at, like, the extremes. Like, I think if someone's conditioning... Like, Andrew was in great shape. But, like, so that is, like, you're ticking off the conditioning box. But then being, like, excessively conditioned, like, more than that isn't necessarily worth more, much more. You know what I mean? So I can get away with that. Like, that's the only way I can justify my head. Like, you know, I think if you have bad conditioning, it should absolutely be detracted. Agreed. Up until a point of it's being very good. And then I think being, like, Andreas Munzer fucking dick shredded is not worth 20 times more. So, like, that's where I... Look, me competing, I wish it was worth... Yeah. ...worth everything. I'm sure a lot of guys do. Yeah. You know? And I made a lot of my career at the time when I was just because I was leaner than guys, even though they were better than me. Right. But I do understand, and I have seen a slight change, but it's... I don't see it uniformly across. Like, I think in classic, that's still rewarded at a very high level. No, no, no. I'm talking about bodybuilding more so because I'm looking at it like... And I guess I'm trying to get people to look at scoring more in terms of levels and not an on-off switch. Well, I think you have to look at them as a gradient, too, because like... That's what I mean. That's what I mean by level. Yeah. Yeah. The conditioning... You know, it's a spectrum, guys. You know? There you go. Like sexuality, guys. This is a... There you go. Now you're on to it. I'm fucking kidding. I don't know. That's not a spectrum. But no, and I think the spectrum with conditioning is the same as like a spectrum with aesthetics. And I think like it's not like linear. You know what I mean? So it's... I don't know how to explain it. But I think Andrew's aesthetics is so good that like his conditioning can be really good, but it doesn't need to be that extreme. You know? I think that's the point. Because he's still conditioning the checking bot. Like when he was showing up with the same aesthetics, but his conditioning was just not quite at that point where it was like, all right, this is championship level conditioning. Now he's at that point where, hey, this is good. You're good. You're in good condition. It could be better, but this is still definitely very good conditioning. He wasn't winning shows. He wasn't winning the Olympia. He wasn't winning the Arnold. He was like, you know, four, fifth, sixth, that kind of thing. He upped that conditioning just enough that it was, okay, boom. Now all these things matter more, you know? Okay. So we're on to that, but this is going to be kind of a separate point. And I just want to, we'll touch on it for one second. I was thinking about Rami again. And I was like, I wonder if they had applied that standard when Rami had started in 2012, 2013, 2014, when he wasn't as shredded as someone like Nick, but he was still fucking good enough. And his shit was fucking sick then too. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. So I do York pro fucking Rami. He would have absolutely raped guys. Right. But that's what I'm saying is I think the judging has changed a little bit where they have eased off the conditioning needing to be. Yeah. I think judging changes, but I think judging goes cyclically based off of who the talent pool that's available. Okay. You know, and I think when you, when you have talents like the Samson's, like the Andrews, it's hard not to reward that stature of physique, even though I agree with, with Joe in terms of my personal preference. Like, look, when I look at Andrew and I see my clothes, I'm like, holy fucking shit. This is hard not to reward. I get it. I think Andrew is a very deserving champion. I think he's an incredible bodybuilder, but my own personal preference. I prefer fucking freaks. Like I want guys to be fucking 400 pounds and peeled out of their skull. I know, but I get it. But when we did that, like, this is the problem. When we did that, then everybody complained that everybody had a bubble gut. But that's why I'm saying that they're doing the right thing then. Yeah. The judging goes cyclically based off of the physiques, you know, it's like reading on a curve on the test. Like it's like, it's the bell curve, you know? And I think, and I think that's exactly how they're doing it. And I think when you start to have more physiques with this kind of style, you need to kind of grade towards that. And I don't disagree with that, you know? No, but I think, but this is the thing is I think, no, I don't know if I a hundred percent agree because I think they lead, they lead bodybuilders where they need to go. So, and what I mean by that is this, if they would have rewarded Nick over Andrew, you would see a shift. They'd be like, oh, okay, wait a minute. Maybe bigger is better, but because they rewarded Andrew over Nick, now we're like, okay, no, shape is still important. And I think that's why. That's why. With also massive, massive. No, no, no. But, but I don't know if even in the early two thousands, if Nick would have beaten Andrew, I think he would have back then for sure. You think so? I think so too. I think. Actually, yeah, because I guess like you think of like Tony Freeman wasn't beating those kind of guys in my, in my era or the era, like just before me, Nick would have fucking mopped up everybody. Yeah. But then like you, Marcus rule wasn't bopping up everybody. Yeah. But Marcus rule didn't missing conditioning of it. And the Marcus rule, his legs were half the size of his upper body and his conditioning wasn't like, wasn't like proportion was off. Yeah. Proportion was off. Yeah. But people critique Nick for that as well too. So I mean, Nick's leg heavily got brought up. They're just, I agree. I thought, yeah. So I didn't think his legs were, were a weak point at the show really. Like, look, do I think they could be bigger to match his massive upper body? Sure. But did I look at them? I'm like, nah, no, it's weird proportions. Not at all. It's funny when Nick, when Nick has peaked well, like he was. Yeah. I actually think his quads are, his balance is good. They're good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The balance is good. I think it's funny. It's an interesting conversation to have. And I bet you some of these other news outlets will pick it up. I'd like to hear what everybody has to say about that. I think if Nick was in like the 2000 to 2010 era, he would be leading the charge right now. Because they did reward conditioning more then. And the thickness of your waist didn't matter as much. You didn't get penalized for it. No, I agree. So. No, I definitely think the judges are the ones like are calling the shots. But I think when you start to have physiques like this emerge, they start to reward that more to incentivize it. Do you know what I mean? That's what I'm saying. So are you saying if there was like three Knicks on stage, it would be different? Yeah. Maybe. Yeah. You think so? Maybe. Like, I think they make some decisions, like Flo said, based on the direction they want bodybuilding to be at. Like, they want to make sure it has that look. Well, it's the same thing. It's the same thing they did with men's physique, where they're like, you know what? This is getting out of hand. We're putting a weight cap. They're doing that, but without actually putting it. They put it when Aaron Bakes won? Sorry? When Aaron Bakes won? No, I don't know what. Sorry, go ahead. I think it's in general. 23. Yeah. No, I'm just saying in general, like the men's physique guys in general. We're getting really big. All started to get really muscular. Right. And then they made the call with Ryan Terry and like, yeah, I agree. Right. So they're like, we're putting a weight cap because we want this class to look like this kind of thing. So I think they're doing the same thing in bodybuilding. They're just not, it's not maybe written. They're saying like, you have to look a certain way. It can't just be muscle and condition. Yeah. I mean, it can to a point because obviously Nick is still coming second to the Arnold, like top of the Olympia, but it can only get you so far when you're competing against guys that have X, Y, Z, but certain things may be a little less like the conditioning or the muscularity, but they have other things in spades. And that's why I was saying with Andrew, it's like it's a gradient because I think if his conditioning is not quite there, it can't overpass Nick's muscularity and conditioning. But once he gets it good enough or Samson's like Samson won the Olympia with not excellent conditioning, but it was good enough. Right. It was good enough that, okay, all your other assets of shape and size, they're enough to overtake these other guys with a little more conditioning. Right. Which is obvious. Like that's an obvious statement to make. What do you guys think is going to happen with Hottie now? You think he's kind of reached his peak potential and, you know, that's the most we're ever going to see from him now? Well, yeah. I mean, look, he's an older guy. We're going to see Hottie all of a sudden transform his physique at like 40 something. You know what I mean? No, I know that. But I guess let me re-ask it. I guess I meant like, or do you think we're going to start to see him kind of go downwards from here on in? Well, I think that there's guys that are progressing that were hot on his heels. Well, he's kind of maxed out or maybe slightly regressing in some areas. So I think it's just going to be, you know, father time wins every time. You know what I mean? It's going to just be that younger guys that have assets are going to start to get better and Hottie will kind of stay the same and eventually they'll pass him. It happens to everybody. You know, we saw it with Brandon. I mean, we see with all these guys, it's just eventually younger, better guys will come in and pass them. It's just how it happens. You can't stay on top forever. You know, I find it interesting that, you know, Nick beat him for the first time. Andrew beat him. Andrew beat him for the first time. I wonder now if that's it. Like now that they've beat them. Yeah. Look, I don't think it was the best Hottie we've seen, but that also might be the best Hottie we can see now. You know, and that's where you need to see a couple more showings because like, you know, the Olympia and then the Arnold, we need to see if this is a consistent trend of, okay, is just, just where Hottie's at in his career now and time will tell, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Because like if he, if he shows up to the Olympia and it's kind of more of the same, we like, okay, look, this is still a top tier bodybuilder. And like, even when Steve did it, he's like, look, this is still one of the fucking top dogs. No doubt about it. I mean, Hottie is still a top three, top five best bodybuilder in the world for sure. But, you know, is this kind of where we've seen the plateau of, and guys will start to edge past that, you know, with, with, you know, Nick and Derek and Andrew and Samson, these guys are, are slowly passing, right? Yeah. Um, do you think Brandon will pull ahead of Martin in the UK? No. No. What Martin do you expect after all that he's gone through? I think honestly, we're going to see a good, a good Martin here. I think he's got a little bit of pressure off him. I think, you know, it's the pressures often that he feels it's only up from here. I think there's no Nick in the lineup. Uh, I feel like he doesn't have like a lot of like eyes on him right now. And he feels like kind of like a nothing to lose. Um, and that's when we, I think we usually see the best Martins, you know, I saw the opposite. Sorry. Go ahead, Joe. What were you going to say? You're the opposite or you think the opposite. I think the opposite. I think, um, it's one of those things. I, I, if, if whatever happened, just got to him and then say, cause I don't see the Andrew. I don't know, no, no, no. So for him to lose again, I think it's kind of like he, he's going to put pressure on himself to win. I don't, I don't think he can't. I, you know what? I think he cares about beating Nick, but not only that, but not only that, Nick, Ian, you made a good point a couple of podcasts ago and I look back at the record and you're a hundred percent right. Anytime cyclically with Martin, anytime Martin is seen as a favorite or a competitor or like somebody who could, Oh, he's going to stand with Hottie. Who knows what he's going to look like? He gets pressure gets him. It gets it. And when he's not looked at. Yeah. Cause nobody's looking at him right now. They're like, and nobody thinks he's going to, and nobody thinks he's going to be dead. Right. So it's like, he can go into there. He doesn't need to beat Andrew. Cause no one's expecting him to. Right. And he becomes second place, which is very, very possible. And in his mind, he's probably like, I can get second here. He's set his expectation and there's nobody setting a higher expectation for them externally. I think it's going to be a chill, a chill mode for him. I'm going to tell you something and hope to God people around Martin help him. This is exactly, I never even came close to the same places Martin has reached in my career, but this is exactly how my career went. Yeah. Anytime it was a big show like the fucking Arnold or the Olympia, I fucking couldn't handle it. And anytime nobody gave a fuck, I showed up like in some of my best looks. Me too. A lot of the time. Or when it was a show that like, I know I could win easily. You know, I would go to like a, like a fucking, you know, Toronto pro or Vancouver pro. And I'm like, yeah, there's no pressure here because I feel like I can win this no matter what. But then, and say with the first couple of Olympias, when I was coming seventh, I feel like it didn't matter. Cause I knew I was good and I could only place better than where I'd placed in the past. Right. But then once I had two seventh place Olympias in a row, it got the idea of coming seventh or better with the better lineups that were starting to happen. Yeah. My head, I was like, fuck, I don't think I can exceed that anymore. Then I start to get my head and I started to place worse, you know? Yeah. So whoever's around Martin, you know, it's good to, you know, sports therapists are a real fucking thing, man. And if he can, cause it's, it would really be a shame to have that talent not able to like do what he can actually do at big shows because of his mindset. Yeah. But I agree to a point, but I also think the mindset is, is, is just as important as the physicality of it. But that's what I'm saying. You should go to sports. So I like, I don't think it's a shame because I think that's part of the equation. It's just being like, it's a shame. He doesn't have the physique. It's like, it's part of it all the same, you know? You're right. You're a hundred percent right. But that's what I'm saying. Like you would just like you train your body. Yeah. Your brain is a muscle. Yeah. You know? So just to leave it alone and be like, well, that's how I was born. So fuck it. Yeah. That doesn't make any sense. Oh, I agree there. Yeah. So you should just like you train your body, you should train your mind so that you can deal with these things. Right. So that's, that's all I'm saying. I'm not saying it's a shame. I'm just, I'm just saying like a lot of, yeah, I'm agreeing. I'm agreeing. I guess what I'm saying is that a lot of guys don't ever reach their potential because of that. Right. Some guys reach higher levels than maybe they, than other guys do because they have that. Like a lot of the reason Chris was so good is because Chris's mentality was really good. You know, like Chris, Phil's like, or Phil, you know, like a lot, a lot of these guys like don't get shook by that stuff. And even if they do, they don't let it dictate their actions, you know? Right. So, right. And this is where my, my, my thing comes from is that Martin from the very beginning says he would give anything to be a Mr. Olympia. Right. So with that statement, obviously like show it. Yeah. Show it. But like he already applied a certain pressure. He's already beaten Andrew once. So he lost, he's lost to Andrew. And then he, uh, he has a second chance of doing it again, but there is somewhat pressure that he applied on himself with the way he handled things. People are watching him going into this one. But Joe, the pressure that Martin puts on himself is never what's been, what hurts him. It's the outside pressure. Like whenever, and it's not pressures and people are watching him, see if he good does good or bad. Whenever anybody props him up. That much more than he feels he's at in his mind. That's when he starts to falter. Yeah. Yeah. What's going on guys. I just want to break away to show you one of our sponsors, David protein. The sponsor I came across by accident, I was eating their bars, actually enjoying them. They contacted me because they saw me enjoying their bars. And so we are now partners. If you go to their page, David protein, you see here, if you buy four boxes, you get the fifth one free chocolate chip cookie dough is probably my favorite guys. If you want a good snack, their tastes really good. 20 grams of protein, just about 30 grams, 150 calories, zero fat. It's like it fits into your macro count almost perfectly to help you top up that protein count by the end of the day. David protein.com by four boxes. Get the fifth one free. Joe, we've all done it. We've all done our predictions. Oh, I got to bring something up here. I had a few people message me about your points for Krizo and that they've been changed now and they don't think it's fair that we got them for eight points and they had to pay 41 for them. Too bad. Tough shit. Should have got your picks in earlier. You missed the yard sale. Apparently he's been changed to be worth more as he should have been the first place. He should have been. Yeah. So we caught the error. Yeah. We got it. We got it early on the stock. It was low. We got them cheap. Yeah. We got it. We got that. We got the, the big insider. The big coin at $1. That's right. Yeah. We're like Martha Stewart. Yeah. That's too bad. Sorry, guys. Joe, let's do some predictions. I can't, I can't plug them in because predictions are closed, but I'll show you the list and you can tell me and I'll write it down that way. Just in case, just in case you're right. Okay. Okay. The guy, the athletes on the left. These are all actually Mo's not in. So we got to take Mo food out. But other than Mo, is that the list? No. It's really short. It's a small list. I know that. Is that the list? Yeah. Okay. Minus Mo. Go ahead. Yeah. Mo's out. Yeah. So I have Andrew Jack. I have Brandon Curry. I have Martin. I think I want to put Patrick. Patrick. No, no. You know what? I want to put Akeem and then Patrick. You know, I was really surprised with Patrick's size in Detroit. He put on quite a bit of muscle. Yeah. Up top. He was big. Yeah. Okay. Akeem, Patrick. Then what? Then there's just Hassan, right? Left. No, there's Abu Kanate. Oh. Blessing. Sam Mustafa. Blessing. Blessing. And then Hassan. Blessing. Hassan. And then Abu Kanate. Okay. And then we have, do you want to do classic or do you not follow classic? I don't follow it that where I don't know any of the guys really. Do you know? But I have Wesley beating Mike. Okay. Mike made weight today, right? Yes. He made weight. Yeah. But I don't believe that that weight cap favors Mike. I agree. Well, they also only have 24 hours here to garblood. They compete tomorrow? Exactly. Tomorrow morning. Okay. Yeah. I truly believe that Wesley's really, his stage presence is overwhelming. His, I think that the combo that he brought where he was conditioned like we were just talking about, but like full, it just looked really good. And I think Mike won't be able to fill out. He'll never be able to mimic that look he took second to see bum again because he doesn't have the weight to play with. And I just think he's too muscular. It's at that point where once you develop the muscle and you have to kind of dig into it, it never brings the same look. No, I agree. But the only thing that is tricky is Mike from the back, I think, is a little bit more complete than Wesley. From the front, Wesley's quads have come up, but from the back, his hamstrings still are a little bit, the quads from the back still look a little bit straight up and down. And Mike, Mike's lower body from the back is like really complete. And he's got thick lats. So I'm like, I know the carb loading portion is going to matter, but like the backside might be Mike's. I think that's what my, that might be the difference. I can see that, but kind of like, it's not the same as Nick and fucking Andrew, but I think just Wesley has a look. Yeah. It's just very appealing to the class. This is what I, you know, me and Ian had this conversation, like argument, conversation, debate, whatever you want to call it. And I, I feel like classic, the winner should almost be chosen on a unique, like a classic look. You know what I'm saying? Like it's not necessarily the same thing as bodybuilding. I don't see it the same way as bodybuilding in that it's like a criteria of balance and muscularity. I look at it more as like a, does the physique look classic, like Wesley, like Logan Franklin, like those kinds of physiques. You know what I mean? Like they're not complete muscularity wise, but they have a look. I think it literally mimics Arnold's era just with a little better conditioning. And there's more muscle, but there's a float. It's like a Y almost like a Y looking physique. I know the problem is, and the part where Ian is right, is they're not trying to mimic the seventies. They're trying to make the most complete shapely physique in classic, right? So you can't say like, well, the guys in the seventies didn't have great legs. So that's got to be the standard because they're not, that's not what they're doing. Yeah. They're not, they're not trying to mimic the seventies, right? They're trying to make the most complete physique with shape being the top criteria. Yeah. So I think when you look, when you look at it that way, Mike, Mike is a kind of a little bit more complete than Wesley. I see what you're saying though. Yeah. No, I'm just, cause like Mike, like, look, when I saw him next to Sebum, I was like, holy shit. I think he might beat him. Yeah. But he definitely like Sebum's look had that, for lack of better words, class. Like it literally just had a look. He's unique. And I think that carried him. Yeah. And I think Wesley has that in his own way. He may not have Sebum legs, but I think that's a direction they may go. And it's already been, it's been rewarded. And I think it will continue being rewarded to make it the main thing. I don't know. I hope you're right, but I don't think you're going to be. You should have a moment too. Paul, what do you think? Between Wesley and Mike? What do you think about that conversation? Like the classic look? You're a judge. I mean, what do you think? Yeah. I think there is something about the classic look, but I also think that presentation done correctly can give you more of a classic look too. I mean, you know, if you're hitting, like, I think Mike's a master at presenting his physique in a classic way, even though his physique may not fit the definition of classic for some people. Right. Um, and I think that's, I think he makes up for some of that ground with that presentation. Um, but I do, I think it's going to come, I got going into it. It's going to be a smaller mic that we see again, like somewhere to last year's Olympia look. Yeah. So, um, I, so, um, Mike, if Mike was at his higher weight that he was at before all this height stuff came in, um, then I think Wesley would have had a really hard time with him because I think even though Wesley might have a more classic look, Mike's, Mike's advantages would have been too strong for Wesley to overcome. Um, but this now with a smaller Mike, I think it's gonna be very close, but you gotta, okay. So first of all, I do for sure think it's going to be competitive. I'm not saying it's going to be easy, but you guys got to remember even a smaller Mike still second deal. Everybody except for fucking Dino. But Wesley's gotten better since then. But do you think Wesley would be Terrence? And, and, and, and, and fucking, uh, one punch until you stand next to each other. It's hard to say, you know, who could, I, I really like Niles look, you know, I know we're on a, we're on a podcast. So yeah. Right. Can we, can we, can we look at the best? All of my, can we look at Nile just to glaze him? Like we do every day. He's the fucking the best. So let's look at him. Not one punch, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's the fucking goat. He's going to be the, the, the shit for sure. Yeah. Yeah. As long as he can stay in weight still too. Yeah. Yeah. I hope he fucking makes it happen. Because in Detroit, wasn't he like 20 pounds old? Look at this guy. This is fucking, this is ridiculous. Like it's funny. I've actually been asked like what physique, like if I were to choose anyone in the world, this would actually be the physique I would want to look like. Me too, dude. This is crazy. Him or Ramon is like, if I could walk around, I'd want to look like that. You know, I'm pretty sure his back better than Ramon's. No, but I'm saying like, if you're walking around, like to the beach, you don't need a pro bodybuilder back, you know, just having the sick arms and shit. Like Ramon, the nice abs, like that's a good look to walk around. Like, you know, I'm pretty sure he's going to be Mr. Olympia this year. A hundred percent. He will. Yeah. I think so too. This is an inevitable force. That's like going to happen here. You know, look at this shit from the front. Yeah. I mean, but he's going to run to the same problem as Mike with the weight. Yeah. But he wants to listen. I had him on the podcast a couple of years, a year ago. Now he said he doesn't, he's not like canceling out the open move. You know what I mean? So I can see him. I could see him winning and then moving up. And then I think that that's what, that's where some of the problem, I guess you could say is with classic. So let's say Niles wins this year and he makes weight by a pound or two. So he's right at his cap and he wins the Olympic this year. Yeah. He's people are gunning for him now. So they're going to have to get bigger, more, more, more proportion, better shape, whatever they're going to build towards that. And so Niles is going to have to keep getting better too, but you can't get better anymore when you're maxed out. Yeah. But he doesn't though. That's the thing. He doesn't have to get bigger because this is what I was talking about to have. This is the thing. Remember I was talking earlier about having a unique shape. He has it. Niles has the completeness that they want in the criteria, but also has the unique shape, which is what Chris had. So he's got both things. So if you're like a, if you're a fan of like the classic look. Yeah. Between 2020 and 24, Chris didn't get bigger. Like, you know what I mean? Yeah. And he kept winning. The gap was so big though, between Chris and the next guy. No, no. But Paul, listen, hear me out for one second. We're talking about, there's this debate me and Ian have. Do you want subjectivity of the classic unique shape or do you want complete muscularity and balance the way the IFBB criteria is set out? This fucking guy is both. I know. There's not really anybody else in the class that looks like this. So I don't think he's got to get bigger. It's like. No, what I meant by. What I was saying though is right now, I agree with you right now. He's where he needs to be. And I think he's, I think he's going to be, you know, probably a top contender for the Olympia, if not Mr. Olympia this year. But moving forward, like in the next couple of years in order to retain that title. But I don't think it's a matter of size. I think somebody else has to come in with that unique shape. That's what I'm sold. Like the guy's chasing for him now. So to retain that title, he's going to get better. How do you get better than when you're already maxed? What I'm saying to you is I don't see anybody in that top 10 lineup that has that freakish structure. There's not that. With that conditioning, that skin texture. That's why I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. Like, like you said, Chris was there for four years and stayed the same size the whole time because nobody could beat him because they couldn't put the structure, muscularity and conditioning all together in one package. So if once Niall gets to the very top, I don't see anybody else behind him that has that kind of shape. And there's not like there's anyone that's like that much bigger. That's going to just like out muscle him that hard, you know? I mean, good young guys coming up, you know, that you give them a couple more years. They can. They'll run into the same issues though. Everyone in classic will eventually. Yes. That's what I'm getting into the size issue. That's basically what I'm saying. When you run into the size issue, who's best at that point? Right. Yeah. But then how are they going to beat him if they all bump up against the cap? That's what I'm saying. If they're not better at shape. Then you've all bumped up against the cap. Niall's better. And now what? You know? That's what I'm saying. It's going to take somebody with a better structure. It's not going to be muscularity. No, because they'll reach the cap the same as him. If anything, because he is a little taller, the little higher, taller heights have a little bit of curve advantage in height. My hope is that when he was joking around about it on the podcast, he's serious. And that he wins and then moves up. Because he's only fucking like 28. Oh, really? Well, we're at it. Pull up Jose Ma because he's been fucking getting absolutely. I talked to Jose Ma. He is big as fuck. Listen, I was certain that he was going to open. He's not, eh? He said he's not. Really? Yeah. And I'm a huge, I've been comparing him to Dory Neats. I think people are getting angry. Listen, just hear me out for a second before you shut me down. It's the same. It's a similar physique. He's got a crazy back. He's got a high, he's got a high tricep insertions. His quads are like a little bit straighter. They don't sweep the way that like other guys do. Like this is a Dory Neats sweep, right? It's like, there's a lot of similarities. I'm telling you. That looks like an open bodybuilder from the back. It does not look like a classic bodybuilder from the back. Well, he started as an open bodybuilder. You should go back. Yeah. Yeah. He said to me, he goes, I heard you said on a podcast that I had no potential in open. And I said, no, you heard wrong. I said, you've reached your potential in classic. Because I think his muscularity and conditioning is what's overpowering people. But I think then when he gets up into the top five guys, now we're talking about muscularity, conditioning and shape. And I don't think there's any way Ozama can change his structure. So now I'm like, okay, now you're bumped up against Terrence, Dino, Nile. And it starts to become an issue. I think it opened. This motherfucker dominates. He's got a frame for it too. I'm telling you, man. Him. Imagine him on stage at 250, 260. I know. Like with that conditioning. Didn't he, did he win a show as an open bodybuilder? I don't know. No, he never went any like a European show. I thought he did. No. Anyway. Yeah. He's got a crazy physique for sure. Like this is like, oops, wrong thing. Sorry, guys. His level of detail and conditioning is. I was going to say, he's crazy dry too. How the fuck does he ever. He doesn't drink water. That's what it looks like. Fuck me. I think he might be the most conditioned person I've ever seen on stage. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We saw him at Pittsburgh. Yeah. Yeah. In Pittsburgh. That was like. Especially from the back. From the back. He's fucking nutty. Granite. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's wild. Crazy. Yeah. It's just that if he had a little bit more quad sweep, it would be. Yeah. Anyway, I was shocked. I was shocked because he's posting these update photos of his offseason where he's like 280 pounds. Yeah. And I'm like, he's got to be going open. And then he's like. That's bigger than half the guys in the open right there. Yeah. He said the plan for him is still to go back to classic. And I'm like, holy shit. What's that? Can I see that front lap that was to the right of it? Sorry. I'll go here. Yeah. It's nuts, man. So. I'm guessing he's at his cap already, right? Like he's right there. I don't know. I didn't ask. But he's got to be. I mean, he's in. I'm assuming so. He's in condition at 280. Right. Okay. Let's do some questions before we go. You want to play a game? Yes. I like games. Someone messaged me. I say. I'm sure we've all heard of this game. But basically, you pick a simple category that agree on an order for people to answer in. Then you go around in that order and give an answer that is in that category. If someone hesitates more than a few seconds or say something that is already said, then you're out. And it keeps going in total is one left. So potential categories, types of alcohol, countries, exercises, the gym, fruit, sex positions, gym equipment, et cetera. Okay. So you pick a category. Everybody's got to pick something in that category. We'll be like breeds of dog. Fuad goes. And then until someone's like, ah, I can't get it. Then you're out. Then you're out. Okay. How much time do you have to answer? Three seconds. I can do a shot clock if you want. Well, it's. Instantly got nervous. Me too. I don't want to lose. My heart's racing. Read that already. It's so easy. But when you're against the clock, it gets so hard. I'm thinking about everything else that everyone's going to say. Yeah. Your mind goes blank instantly on this. I've played this game before. It's fucking hard. One second. One second. We're going to play. We're going to play a game right now. I need some random categories. Just give me random categories. One through ten. Any category. Okay. First one is animals. Okay. Ready? Well, we need to establish our order. On my screen, I got Joe, then me, then Mike, then you, Ian, then Paul. Okay. So we're going Joe, Mike, Paul, me, you. Yeah. Do you want me to call the names? Yes. Yeah. So you say who's next. Okay. Joe. We're going to start with animals. Joe. Dog. Elephant. I didn't say mine. I thought I was next. No, it's Joe, then me, then you. I thought you said Joe, Mike, then me. I thought you were last for that. Yeah. Okay. We can do that. Fine. Okay. So elephant. Okay. Ian, go. I'm going to go off the corner. No. Okay. So it's Joe, Joe, Mike, Paul, me, Fuad. Joe, Mike, me, Paul, Fuad. You got it? Okay. So after Joe, it's you, Paul. After Paul, it's Mike. After Mike, it's me. After me, it's Fuad. Okay. I'm after Joe. Okay. He said dog. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, please. I'm not going to remember this. I don't after you, Joe. That's all I know. Joe, Paul, Mike, Ian, Fuad. Joe, Paul. Okay. I'm after Fuad. Mike, Ian. Okay. I'm after Ian. I'm after Paul. I'm after Paul. Sorry. I'm after Mike. We're not even going to get the game started. Okay. Okay. Animals. Joe said dog. It's you, Paul. No. Yeah. It's Paul. Okay. Go ahead. Okay. Elephant. Giraffe. Tiger. Rhino. Boar. Duck. Zebra. Eagle. Leopard. Pigeon. Robin. Quail. Rat. Whale. Seal. Hippo. Panther. Lion. Snow leopard. Qida. Someone said leopard already. Someone said leopard. Yeah. Is snow leopard different? Yeah. Oh, he says. I mean, snow leopard. We'll keep going with it. Okay. Qida. Cardinal. Dolphin. Armadillo. Or. Paul, you're out. Paul. Ant. No. He's waiting. He's waiting. That's unanimal. That's an insect. That's an insect. That's an insect. Insect. Paul, you're out. No, you're out. You're out. Rattlesnake. Oh, we did. Are we counting reptiles too in there? Insects? No. You're not including insects. You can't include reptiles. Okay. I'm out. Flamingo. Wait, wait. So what's the order now? Wait, wait. What's the order now? Now it's you, Ian, and you add. Paul. Yeah. Wait. Paul's out. Paul's out. It's Joe, you, then me. Yeah. Okay. So who's up? You. It's me? Yeah. Cardinal. No. Mike already said it. You're out. Mike, was out when he said it? No, I was in when I said it. Yeah. It's my last run. Yeah. Yeah. You're out. My turn? Paul doesn't care who wins. Head to head. He's a pelican. Boar. I said boar. You're out. Joe won. It's hard to remember. Okay. Joe. Joe has got one point. Okay. Next up is countries. Oh, boy. Fuck. Paul. Paul, you should be out. I'm going to be out soon. I will rule this way. Okay. Who wants to go first? I'll go all night with this. Same order. Start with Joe. Joe, Paul, Mike. Okay. Joe, go ahead. Spain. Portugal. Mongolia. Canada. USA. Italy. Ah, fuck. France. Denmark. Zimbabwe. Greece. I'm out. Paul. When you said fucking Denmark, it was over. Mike. South Africa. Australia. Lebanon. Me? Austria. New Zealand. Japan. Afghanistan. Afghanistan. China. Fuck. I was going to say Afghanistan. I was going to say Afghanistan. Mongolia. Iraq. I said Mongolia. Did you? Ah, you're out. Yeah. Paul, go ahead. Sierra Leone. Iran. You're out. Paul. You're out. It's only you two left. I'm out. Oh, fuck. You're out. I win. Fuck you, Paul. I got to peel that one. You're out. I win. Fuck you. This is old peel shit. Movies. Hey, Joe. Go on. Before we do this. When we say movies, we can't say sequels, right? We can say sequels. You're just trying to buy time. You're just trying to buy time. Go. No, no. You can't say like Godfather part one, part two, part three, part four. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Okay, go ahead. Someone says Rocky. Rocky of all numbers is out. Yeah. Okay. Say scream. Oh, what's upon a time in Hollywood? No, God. Home Alone. Inception. American Gangster. Bambi. Deep Throat. Deep Throat. What? That's a porno. It doesn't count. It's the first porn ever made. It's a porno. It's a classic. Yeah, a porno. It's a movie. Interstellar. Okay. Who's up after Paul? Sorry. Interstellar. Right. The Matrix. Rocky. Aladdin. The Exorcist. Expendables. Lion King. Remember the Titans. Spider-Man. Grind. Oh, that was slow, Paul. Thor. Thor. No, Grind's a movie. Aladdin. Working Man. I said Aladdin already. Ah, fuck. He ends up. I already went. Joe, you're up. Wrath of Man. The Aviator. Born Identity. Fuck! Joe. Warrior. Rambo First Blood. Green Hornet. Rocky. Someone said Rocky. I said Rocky. Yes. Oh, he did? Yeah, he said Rocky. Damn it. The Avengers. Paul, go. The Avengers. Oh, Forrest Gump. Paul, Mike's going to win this for sure. Castaway. Fuck you. Fuck. I was about to say that. I win. Paul's got one. Okay. I'm not even a movie guy. Foods. I thought Mike was going to breeze through that. Me too. I couldn't. Okay. Foods. Joe. Go ahead, Joe. Burger. Lasagna. Pizza. Prize. Chawarma. Spaghetti. Meatballs. Sub sandwich. That's not fucking. The meatballs. Staining meatballs. Meatballs is the food. Okay. Thank you. Hummus. Contenders. Bubba Gadoosh. Sushi. Quesadilla. Food. Hot pockets. Rice. Suvaki. Sushi. Spaghetti. Oh, fucking hell. I just keep getting out by saying the same ones, but I don't remember. Joe, you're up. What do you feel? I said spaghetti. You know? Oh, spaghetti. Peanut butter and jelly. Bananas. Oh, wait. I said spaghetti. Yeah, no. Spaghetti was settled right because Paul said meatballs after it. Yeah. That's right. And I knew he said it. I'm like, I thought I skated by. Yeah. I was going to let you skate by. Then Joe called it out. I'm like, all right. Because I know he said it. Fucking Joe. Fuck you. Who's up? Who's up? Joe. I said peanut butter and jelly. Okay, Paul. Paul said bananas. It's Mike. Avocados. My turn? Yep. Or oranges. Chicken wings. Dates. Strawberries. Ribs. Raisins. Pork chops. Chicken noodle soup. Braised beef. Raisins. Oh, he said that. Somebody said raisins. I said raisins. Ah. Fuck. Mike again. What'd you say? It's me and Mike again. Yeah. Dates. Nope. I said dates. I didn't hear that. Damn it. Everybody's got one except Ian right now. Yeah. Okay. I just keep saying the same ones. Fuck. Next up is cars. Oh, God. Oh, fuck. I'm going to lose. Okay. Do we have to be specific about the car maker, like the brand and model? No, you can just say like Mustang, Prius. I know, but if you say Ford, is that all Ford? No. No. You can't say a brand. It needs to be a model. You can't say a car maker. You got to be specific. Okay. It has to be a model. Yeah. Okay. Fuck. I'm going to lose. I should just battle this. Yeah, me too. Mustang. Paul. Old Cutler Supreme. That's my first car. Escalade. Camaro. Stellar. Impala. What is that? Stellar. Stellar. What's that? It's a Hyundai Stellar. Yeah. Chevy Cavalier. Tahoe. Pontiac Sunfire. XFR. 350Z. Nissan Ultima. Elantra. Nissan Maxima. Jeep Grand Cherokee. Hummer H3. Passat. Jeep Liberty. F-150. Dodge Ram. 2500 LT. What? Yeah. Is that a car? What is that? That's a truck. 2500 LT. That's a truck. Yeah. Wait a minute. What is that? A truck. It's a truck. It's a Chevy truck. What truck? A Chevy. A Chevy truck. Okay. So you said F-150. I said Dodge Ram. You said 2500 LT. That's it for trucks. For those trucks. No, there's still lots of trucks left. Yeah, but you can't say like F-150, F-250, F-350, F-450. Sure. Right? Unless it's a completely different truck. Yeah. Yeah. Unless it's a completely different truck. Okay. Paul. Paul. Gremlin. What'd you say? Gremlin. What? What's a Gremlin? Gremlin? It's an old car. Like the little monsters? An old car. They're hatchbacks. Like overly ugly old fucking things. Okay. I think they're a Chevy. So they multiply when they get wet? Sierra. Tacoma. Chevelle. Rolls Royce. Tundra. Ford Windstar. Corvette. I think it's been something. Balibu. No, it hasn't. No. Paul. Austin Martin. Does it be Pagani? Code exec. We're saying brands now. That doesn't count, but okay. Lamborghini Gallardo. Paul. Pontiac Aztec. Toyota Sienna. Chevrolet Cavalier. Oh, that's been said. Fuck. Who said that? Paul said it. Fucking shit. Land Rover. Who is it? It's Paul. Oh, Ridgeline. Honda Ridgeline. Honda Ridgeline. Range Rover. Fuck you. Honda Odyssey. Fucking Jap. Honda Civic. Jap cars. Reload. Shit. Fuck. Honda. Go ahead, Joe. Joe. Corolla. Acura MDX. Doesn't it? Paul's going to name every Jap car. I know you guys have all the Jap cars. I was close. And I'm horrible at cars. Okay. Sports. Clothing brands. Musical instruments. Job professions. Should we try and do open bodybuilders? Okay. Go. Joe. Just current? Like active? No. Any. Any. Okay. Joe, go. Paul's in bodybuilding. It's the 70s. Yes. I'll do this all night. Wait. Current or all time? All time. Open bodybuilding. Yeah. No. We can just do any bodybuilding. Oh, no. Let's do open pros. Open. Open. Open. Open. Open pros. Yeah. Go, Joe. Go, Joe. Huh? You said me? Samson. Gary Yates. Frank Zane. Ian Bellier. Adi. Fuck. Joe. Paul DeLette. Mike. Justin Compton. Adi. Adi said. Ah, he's out. Somebody said Adi. I think you said it, Joe. I think you said it. No, I didn't. Somebody did say Adi. Somebody said it. Somebody said Adi. Yeah. Flavio Paciagnini. Flavio. What is it? Wait, really? So was it Adi? What the fuck? Guys, Sister Nino. Flex Wheeler. No. Wait. He's 2-12. Open. Oh, he said open. Yeah, he's 2-12. Open only. Does a guy ever do an open show? Yes. No. Yes, but he's 2-12. Wait. That counts. He's done an open show. That counts. Okay, fine. It does count. I'm still in it. Okay, let's roll. Let's roll. I said Flex Wheeler after that. Chris Cormier. My turn? Yeah. Yep. Ola of Anus. That's not how you say it. Sean Ray. Sean Ray. Marcus Rule. Jump here, folks. Paul. Ray McGrath. Dennis James. Ronnie Coleman. Quinton Uria. Sonny Schmidt. Antoine Vallioune. Hunter Labrada. Dorian Yates. Tom Terwilliger. Jordan Hutchinson. Who are these fucking people, Paul? I didn't even verify this, because I don't even know what he's saying. You can verify this. You can Bilbo Baggins. Erz Kelsinski. Ronnie Coleman. I said Ronnie. You're right. You said Ronnie. Paul. Andreas Munzer. Martin Fitzwater. Antonio Burton. Porter Cottrell. Derek Linsford. He's out. I'm I blanked. Mike Christian. Andrew Jacked. Rich Gaspari. I was too late. No, he got it. He got it. He got it in. Okay. Got it in. Okay. Keep going. Albert Beckles. We're never going to be Paul. Paul's cheating. Dumb shit. So we all laugh and get off our fucking game. He's just reciting. Chris steals. He's reciting like the 19th. Guy won the Nationals in 77. He's just going like first to 20th from like the 1985 Arnold Classic. That's all he was doing. All right. We'll do what we'll do. One more. Okay. Clothing brands. Oh, my God. Okay. Oh, this you guys are going to kill me on this. I can't even name five. Joe. Religion. Religion. Okay. Lulu. Paul. Like Kith. Nike. Champion. Oh, Versace. What the fuck did you say? What did you say, Paul? That's how you say it. Is it? Hello. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I didn't hear it. What did you say, Mike? Versace. Adidas. Gucci. Lululemon. Oh, you said it. I thought it was the third time I've done that shit. Levi's. Dolce & Gabbana. Puma. Blue Vita. Under Armour. Prada. Asics. Champion. Champion's been said. I said it. No, it hasn't. Yeah, it's just. You were out way back. I said it. I said it. I said it. I said it. I said it. It was the second round. Yeah. Who's up? Me. Roots. Nike. Nike. Who said that? I said Nike. Fuck. Louis Vuitton. I said Louis Vuitton. I said Louis Vuitton. I said Louis Vuitton. Yeah. I won. I won the clothing brands. Paul won clothes. Out. The least knowledgeable about fashion out here. All right. Paul's the champion. You got four wins. I like that game. Play that again next week. I like that game. Yeah. Thank you to MW. I like winning. That's what this feels like. MW2375 for that one. What's the name? I'm going to give him a follow. MW23785. You hear that? Paul's going to follow you. Did you hear that? I like games. It's your lucky day. You get to have unlimited one of these on prep. Which one are you taking? How much, if any? Cigarettes. Cigarettes. Cigarettes. Next. Would Urz still win classic show at his current weight? Let's move on. Can we do a few rounds of Spelling Bee with the Doggy Master? Yes, we could. I think we should. Yes, we could. The Doggy Father. One second. The Doggy Father. Want me to start with Abscond? We're playing a... Yes. Yes, Abscond. A, B, S, C, O. Can you shut up for a second? I feel like that's already wrong. Finish it. We're playing a Spelling Bee. I need a list of random words for a Spelling Bee. Within reason. Not national level. Yeah. Like, no. Third grade level. Eight letters. Third grade level. Loxy, noxy, nihilipillification. Okay. Paul, you're first. Okay. Let's go. Conscience. Conscience. You mean like your subconscious? There's only one conscience, Paul. There's only conscience, Paul. Well, there's unconscious. You're unconscious or you're conscious. C-O-N-S-C-I-E-N-C-E. Conscience. Good. Mike, you're after Paul. I'm going to fuck this up. Go ahead. Handkerchief. It's a fucking lob. Handkerchief. Lob. Paul's like, what a fucking lob. Okay, go. How about it, Paul? How about it? I don't want to take your word, Mike. You go ahead. This fucking guy. I don't know. Wait, wait, wait, wait. You guys see how fast the ego gets blown up when you win something? Let's see a fucking lobbing up softballs here. Oh, fuck. Go ahead, Paul. You have to go down. You said that. Okay. Handkerchief. H-A-N-K-E-R-C-H-E-I-F. Handkerchief. No, dummy. No. You just called hangerchief. No, if I were to put the I before the E, it would have been chief. Dummy. It's wrong. There's no I? What is it, though? There's an I. You put it in the wrong place. Wait a minute. Handkerchief. So, hanker, I know that part. Try again, Paul. We'll give you a second chance. Oh, it's just C-H-I-F. It's just a A. Paul, it's just a lob. Come on. I thought it was. He's shooting blinks. Okay, there should be no E. No, that's also wrong. Really? Yes. What about the Z? I don't know. Apologize to Mike. Sorry, Mike. I shouldn't have been so arrogant there with my quick response. It's H-A-N-D. You forgot the D. Handkerchief. Handkerchief. Oh. Handkerchief. There's no D in there? Okay. It's stuck in its line. Like hand? Yes. Handkerchief. So three syllables. Handkerchief. Yes, Paul. Like that? Really? I'm going to try it again. C-H-I-F or I-F? I want you to try it again now that you know this is D. Go ahead. Okay. H-A-N-D. Yep. K. Yep. E-R. Yes. C-H. I-F. I-E-F. Okay, good. You got it. Yes. I-E-F. I just missed the K. No, you said E-I-F the first time. You missed the D. You missed the D and you said E-I-F. Oh, sorry. Yeah, I missed the D, yeah. And you said E-I-F. I never missed the D, though. Yeah, yeah. I just fucked up like three letters. Half the word. Yeah. Half the word. Two letters. Ian. Oh, boy. Okay. Paul, you didn't read my name tonight. Oh. Oh, my clit's wet. Clip that right there. The way you said that was so sassy. My clit's, Paul. Nice. I give it. I forgot to look at it tonight. I look forward to this every week. Ian. Millennium. M-I-L-L-E-N-I-E-U-M. No. No? Does anybody else want to take a shot at it? I'll take it to the one. Is there only one L? I'm not telling you until Paul gives it a shot. Okay. Millennium. What's the word? Millennium. Millennium. Millennium. Millennium. Millennium. With an M. Yes, not an N. M-I-L-L-E-N. Millennium. I-U-M. That's how I spell it. E-A. No. Paul, can I tell you something? E-A. Paul, you know how much joy you get when I lose? I get equally as much joy when you lose. I've come to learn that spelling isn't as wrong. I love it. Wait. You fucking. We should all get a little whiteboard so we can actually write it out. Is it one L, two Ns? It's harder when you can't write it out, though, I find. There's two Ns. It's M-I-L-L. No, there's two Ls. E-N-N-I-U-M. M-I-L-L-E-N-N-I-U-M. Yeah. I-U-M? There's two Ls and two Ns. Two Ls and Ns. Okay. Sure. So I got it all right, just I had one, two little Ns. Joe. Mischievous. Oh. M-I-S-C-H-I-E-V-O-U-S. Yes. No. Really? Yes. Don't change it. It's Mischievous. Yeah. Nice. Paul's mad because he's like, that's how you spell it. I didn't think that's how you spell it. I thought Joe was wrong. Do we get a ruling on that? Yeah. What I was going to say was, wait. That's my final answer. Paul. Liaison. Oh, it's easy. L-I-A-S-S. Is that his fucking last name? Close. The way Ian pronounce it, especially. Well, I pronounce it the proper way. No. L-I-A. Lose on. You say it the French way. Yeah. L-I-A. Let him go. L-A. Go ahead. sson no what is it on s what did you say it's s isn't it i'll give you another try go ahead go ahead paul l-i-a-s-o-n no i want a third try i-o-n liaison i-o-n it's the fact that wants him to fail most i know i know he loves he loves my failures isn't that fucking what what a good friend i have now you do the same fucking thing don't even fucking wow just because you're really good is it l-i-a-s-z-o-n l-i-a-i-s-o-n that's so it's about l-a-s-o-n l-i-a-i-s-o-n there's an i there's an i before and after yeah yeah yeah yeah uh who's next mike mike occurrence oh you got that you got that yeah oh cc you are a nc no yeah occurrence yes he's like mad at me yeah yeah yes is it a is the east e-n-c yes yeah spell it all again spell it all again mike don't fucking make me do that again a o cc you are e n c e no pink oh e n huh yeah e n c e you i said no it's not what right what is it what he said is not right what is it i don't know is there a name two c's and r a r a n e no occurrence two r's it's two c's two r's yeah that's it two r's okay oh there's two c's and two r's yeah that makes sense uh who's after mike that's the uh ian you're next sure uh one sec there's no good ones here i need i need more medium difficulty ones you gotta participate too no fuck that okay i got a word for you ian uh preposterous linguine well i don't like that but committee c-o-m-m-i t-t-e no close e e very close oh what is it t-t-e-e yeah wait say it again i don't know what it is it t-o-m-m-i t-e-e or no or t-t-t's two e's mm-hmm paul two m's two t's two e's paul's just nodding at everything no he had it for a second nope paul are you now you just joe or paul who's next t-o-m-i t-t-t-e-e you're right two m's two t's two e's yeah yeah yeah who's next joe joe or paul joe uh joe ask me uh guarantee oh you got that that was always a bitch for me g-u-a-r-a-n-t-e yes paul last one paul just said close did you just say close yeah because you said g-u-a-r-a-n-t-e yeah that was right that was right okay it's like close like he's right close i thought joe was off by one letter you know why i had to get happy when you fail is because you think you're right all the time are you sure about that confident uh webster dictionary he's so right the computer is wrong well it's who i'm trusting here too paul i'll give you an easy one here give him a lob i'll give you i'll give you a lob okay a lob worcestershire okay chester shire yeah worcestershire worcestershire worcestershire no no you forgot a letter r e no i said no you kept going you're already wrong worst that worst sorry again say the word worcestershire worcestershire worcestershire worcestershire no so i know it's a fucked up word yeah give me the tough ones um okay when we're trying it w-o-r-s do you have a different word no yes i like a different word yes okay pneumonia pneumonia i i know pneumonia uh p-n-e-u-m-a-n no no no you put in one extra letter there i know pneumonia hold on let me just nail this for you real quick i've had pneumonia a couple times i love you paul okay so p-n yeah okay e-u yeah m yep o-n-i-a yes yeah all right yeah you put an a in there myself yeah i put an a seven o put an AI'm on yeah can we do like let's just burn through some questions please okay i gotta blow my nose oh hang on okay uh free food unlimited free flights free gear can only pick two which two are you picking free flights free food free flights of course love you guys love the show keep killing it martinez fit group happy birthday martinez happy birthday uh do brands like young la dark sport and athlete make bodybuilding look bad with gym influencer culture too many young kids now hop on gear early just to try to get signed with them they're two separate things um i think this is a long fucking drawn out answer i'm just gonna say this bodybuilding culture has changed completely so it's not because of young la dark sport all these it's those brands are born out of the culture changing the culture is now much younger than it was social media and the culture is now much more social like bodybuilding back when i started was like just kind of like a bunch of fucking weird freaky cultish people that worked out and were looked at as fucked up people and all the younger people were still out drinking and partying do all now that's not even like cool anymore now it's kind of like part of your social part of your social life is going to the gym now so those kids are just all going to get into that anyway because of social media and whatever else i don't think young la dark sport or anything like that or alpha elite have anything to do with i see them as two different things i see the fitness industry and the bodybuilding industry as two separate things i think they yeah i think they're two circles that do have a point where they intersect at times but i do think that they are two separate entities you know yeah i think what he's saying is like is it bad that they pay these kids to be influencers because they're well it's not bad because they're selling product for their company they can do whatever they want yeah no no i think he means like because it's influencing kids to get on gear young oh yeah i mean no different than bodybuilders could potentially you know like uh with the weight cap and men's physique does this just encourage small legs for more upper body and calf size no because they were no no go ahead no you started first go ahead i was gonna say because they judge the legs like even with even with the shorts on they're still looking looking for a certain amount of balance yeah they don't care that you have huge legs but they don't want them to be disproportionately small yeah hypothetically if an open pro had no sponsors would you expect them to compete more often or shut it down until the oh depends what what are they doing on the side like do they have a job and you know like are they working like it depends what if if they're making money elsewhere and they want to compete don't want to compete it's really like it's completely contingent on what their other source of income are like not many bodybuilders unless you're really really at the top are competing as a as purses being a source of income right like unless you're someone that's like really winning the top shows like even for me i won many like multiple shows i placed at the olympian arnold to get decent money i was never that was never like my planned source of income you know i was never competing to win the money to make more money i was competing to get myself to the olympia i happened to make money but the things of my sponsors and or if i was training clients at the time whatever those were my sources of income the other things were like cherries on top that were great but i was never planning for them to be my income all right so it's a very very small select few people that make so much from it that they can really plan their life off of that you know after watching paul jump rope i am 100 certain he cannot touch the bottom of the net oh my god can we watch this this was the great i haven't seen it who i will attest that i've gotten better even since that video you're jumping so unnecessarily high i didn't know that yeah well the other the other thing too that he's doing is he's he's skipping rope with his entire arm yeah instead of just not just your wrist yeah yeah yeah i'm working on it though very loversome yeah listen yeah i know can i tell you guys from the first video for anybody who remembers or can go back and watch that podcast from the first video to this video it's like exponentially like the difference is insane and even since the video till the last time i saw him skipping rope uh where did you put up all this one yeah that's right yeah here we go i like your your boxing too is just left right left right left right left right left right left right no no yeah let's look at these let's go for speedia there's some good push-ups in here yeah those are good okay and we get 25 this guy sent me a message and he said left right i had to slow down the video so i could see false punches left right left right left right yeah i'm very predictable with my combinations right yeah if you're fighting you know what's coming next this is crazy yeah i can see that now i was literally about to say that by jumping so heavy it's crazy the arms the arms just going so hard that was day one this is the best yeah yeah i was expecting way too much energy yeah that was awesome um best pasta noodle this is interesting because i could go boring or i could go elaborate i'm a little boat the little bow tie one what does it good i like today i kind of like the i like the scoop because you get a lot of sauce in the scoop like a shell yeah like a shell yeah i like shells you do a shell with a spoon and you fucking just shovel that fucking i don't like the cylinder one i feel like that's that's the i like penne i don't like that one really i love penne wait wait you're talking about anything angle big noodle one yeah the thick noodles cd i i do think and you guys are going to disagree here i do think that spaghetti and long noodles are the by far inferior noodle the long ones like the linguine noodle anything long like a penne or like a spaghetti or a linguine or those long ones i think are by far the most cumbersome worst noodle i'm gonna say something only a fat person would say the noodle the best noodle depends on my mood yeah how much you can shovel in at one time no because sometimes i'd like spaghetti i like twisting around my fork yeah i don't want to do that i like i like to get a fetish thing out for you though how many i can fucking how many turns do i do to fucking have it like that yeah gayest gayest protein powder flavor uh we did a white we did a birthday cake oh birthday cake wins 100 yeah good one mike 100 why white chocolate raspberry is like good as fuck no no it was awesome but it was kind of kind of a little bit fruity i guess yeah it was a little fruity uh i really like that ginger one that you come up with recently gingerbread yeah i love gingerbread yeah i like that have you ever had bad gym days or sessions where mentally you went you wasn't there and you walked out jay cutler said he's had may he's had may over the course i think he's trying to say many he's had many over the course of his career on a pot on a podcast once um i don't know if i ever had i think i'm i haven't had that many where i just walked out i've never i've never had one i walked out before yeah i'm a little short no i've had bad sessions where i'm like and i didn't feel like connected or good or yeah i didn't feel that great but uh i've never like just been like fuck this and left unless i like hurt myself in the session like in the early yeah i'm like man but even then usually i'll just like work around it you know yeah so i absolutely go go ahead i've gotten i've gotten hurt and i finished my workout before i left yeah paul i don't remember like when we were like like i was when i was in my prime like i don't remember ever leaving no i don't remember ever doing that before no yeah not unless something happened like one of us got injured yeah yeah um recently i had surgery and i'm out of the gym for four to six weeks what are some things you guys did to improve or distract yourself when you can't train jerk off a lot jerk off and sleep yeah too much jerking off jerk off and smoke the more you sleep the more the faster time passes i'm playing just be unconscious unconscious if you just sleep for the whole time all day it'll be over real quick take sleeping pills you'll get right through it just take like a couple zoplicone every like six eight hours you'll be good uh okay one second this fucking thing i have to reset it uh if paul was a car what car would he be uh the old mobile cut in the supreme that you uh i was gonna say but i didn't have it in me to say it out you know with the roof starting to cave in on you you know those old cars that would happen my mom had that shit yeah but that car that i was referring to had that happening you didn't didn't matter you couldn't pin it up or nothing because it was just like that area only the rest was still collapsed yeah how do you stop your wife from being a bodybuilder you tell her she's gonna look manly yeah tell her that your face is gonna change yeah it's gonna look like a hairy face yeah yeah this is gonna deepen uh is it gay to share your location with your homies uh depends on the car unless you've been kidnapped i share on a daily basis this weird i have mine shared with my buddy jay but it's only because of getting to the gym at the right time wait a minute you have a constant like share with your location like i could go right now to our conversation and see where he is and see where he is yeah that's gay but i only check it like i only check it because i live like where we live from the gym so i'll be like i can leave now he's left if not instead of being like which i've known you for like 15 years it's the gayest thing you do i mean i do some pretty gay things in the shower i do some pretty gay things in the shower like my wife has my location she knows where i'm like so i if i ever go anywhere shady or something she'll always know where i'm at so if i go missing there's no reason for me to give it to anybody else i don't think you know me and melissa have ours on too yeah uh is it gay or cool to like it when it rains but i'll say having my wife's location on like so we can see each other's is actually so prime for jerking off what do you mean well because like i have eight minutes i have eight minutes till she's home i have 22 minutes till she's home i know what i can do yeah but if i had if i had eight minutes till summer was going to get home i'd wait till the last two minutes then start jerking off yeah you would yeah well i know you would yeah no no i wanted her i wanted her to catch me oh whoops no he wouldn't say oops so he'd be like what yeah you gonna help out or what yeah she's sitting right here she's not very happy with this have you seen the new uh that new ryan gosley movie yet no what movie is it uh hail mary hail mary project hail mary is it good no did you see it mike no nobody's seen it no does it look good i mean is it good it's supposed to be real i watched it i thought it was okay yeah i didn't think it's as good as people said no it's not even it's in theaters though oh in theaters i just watched on like one of those fucking cam sites did you really yeah but it was a good quality it was good one second i didn't want to go to that is it an astronaut movie there we go yeah this thing here amazon it's amazon mgm studios it's not on amazon not yet it sucks oh does anybody go to anybody go to the theater that much anymore no i don't think very rare if there's something like really good i want to see that i think work is worth seeing in theaters i think this is probably one i should have watched in theaters not on my phone in my fucking bed you know with no sound on but still it's good yeah all right like scary movies in theaters because the the way they suspense with the higher volume and stuff yeah like movies like you know when you see like avatar one with the fucking 3d and the crazy shit like that's worth seeing in theaters you know yeah not a question but i just want to say another reason why i love ian is because he actually responded to me in the dm multiple times when i had a question first celebrity that i had an actual conversation with celebrity unlike guy where he just read my message and didn't respond oh fuck you guy disrespect can i just say something to that i try and respond when i can but sometimes when you get really fucking busy it's hard to respond to everybody so i hope nobody takes offense if i don't get a chance to respond do you respond to everybody feel better i make time to give you a little fist i make time for my people i do the fist a lot yeah i was like yeah that's great love you man dude do you have time honestly you have time to respond to every message every single one no but i respond to probably 85 yeah i try to i mean i try like if it comes into my main inbox for sure i respond to all those yeah yeah um if it comes in like my hidden or my other ones i check like reasonably often um but i wouldn't say i get to everyone because i that would be a lie but i usually make an effort to respond to almost everybody yeah yeah okay um unless it's like you know like i have someone like like you know i'll look through thing it'll be a guy like like oh my god dude you look so handsome like i might not respond to that you get a lot of those yeah you did don't lie yeah you do you're like i'll put like i'll put like a blusher face yeah you're like let me share my location with you um assign a number assign a number two four six eight to the following topics equaling how much you do it shots of vodka miles ran darts smoked training sessions at diamond gym i don't know what i don't get it either let's give it i was so confused if you could be the goat of any sport which would it be basketball formula one well formula one would be dope except it's just like a rich boy sport but yeah that would be sick okay moto gp i'll take moto gp you could take formula one no i'll take track and field i want to be the fastest man in the world i think i'd be in like a ufc let me say a boxer i don't even fuck up anybody a boxer ufc paul what are you saying nba i'd be a basketball basketball like you want to be fucking lebron yeah white chocolate out here yeah larry bird would you rather be a grower that go grow goes from one to nine inches or be a shower that's a six all the time grower i'd grow her for sure yeah i go from one to nine that's that's you could tuck that thing right in it wouldn't imagine imagine that surprise she's like oh yeah like just wait a minute just wait a minute put some water on it put some water on it trust me uh did you ever do the 72 hour fast no i didn't it is something i really am interested in trying but i've never done it fast i just want 72 hours i don't want a 70 i think that's the thing but i wanted to just do 24 first just see how it felt i know i can do 24 but i've done 24 for sure you know i know but they say like you start to get like different effects after 24 not that i'm not talking about that just like the way you feel like more energy and stuff so i'm like i've done 48 it's actually easy in my opinion after the first 24 that's what that first day yeah and the second day you don't even feel it like yeah you just drink well you don't really get hungry it's weird it is supposed to be good for your digestive system and all that you just do it like one sensitivity whoa let's see so that was paul that was paul's pussy sorry all that pussy excuse me uh you're not your pussy paul okay thanks last question if ian asked paul to shave his ass for a show would paul do it what i shave you know fucking hope you would be like your cheeks or like in clipper you gotta do everything you gotta get right in there is he gonna wear a thong cheeks to the crack are you wearing a thong are you naked i'm naked but i'm like i'm like just to the crack you don't need to spread my cheeks oh you can see is that but you can see his asshole no i got a big ass you're not seeing my ass yeah but you're shredded so it's gonna be open no no my ass is huge all the time as long as i don't see his b-hole you won't see my butthole you're good okay and your dms are gonna fucking light up tonight yeah and i'm wearing gloves that's fine i'm a little offended but it's okay if you had to trade if you had to trade lives and bodies with paul for one day tomorrow what would you do with it you know you don't want to go get a haircut try and dunk yeah you guys you guys couldn't you guys couldn't couldn't wear these shoes there's there's too much to handle here yeah besides fucking 13 i do roll on 13s uh not a question just loving the podcast i do have a question actually have you ever went back and re-watched the podcast from the very early beginning no i haven't but thank you very much uh just want to thank you for in just want to thank you for introducing me to brian from merrick health i upgraded to the executive panel looking to get the results this week everyone to try it thank you jesse merrick health is a shit code ian um could you could all you guys combine swim a mile no yeah combined for sure we could yeah you think so dude i can't swim i can't swim to the end of this room me either so you could carry them a mile that's 1600 meters that's like 300 meters each yeah no that'd be tough fucking way dude yeah no we couldn't joe weighs 320 pounds so like a olympic size pool is what 50 meters or 50 yards olympic so that would be like six lengths of the pool each yeah no never there's no fucking no chance you're right i could do it for doing breaststroke yeah i could maybe do i mean i could do it but it would take a long time for sure yeah i get doggy paddle like 20 yards it's the same with me having the same for some reason i can't see paul being able to swim i can't you can't no i can't either after seeing him skip what do you expect yeah to the bottom i can't see you swimming at all yeah yeah no i think you're made of lead paul swimming like a mermaid yeah i'm not buoyant i don't i think i think that's not the reason why i think you just don't know how to swim yeah that's part of it and he's had shoulder surgery and he's like yeah i got tight hips there's all kinds of problems probably feel great in the water you know yeah that's a relief for it yeah how much for paul to kiss ian or fouet kiss where he's shaving my ass kissing me yeah how come people want to see us do gay stuff because you're in love with ian you're like you really like people can see it really yeah uh he's like yeah he's like yeah you got me having our solo breakfast together you know yeah yeah we enjoyed one just recently we did um what can you tell someone who starts falling out of love with working out and just goes as a chore how do you reignite that fire more juice you don't you go because you fuck it the fuck up go work out more juice quit just quit you know what i got i got an idea don't play video games if you fucking hate it don't don't go like yeah you know what i'm gonna say check your blood words no man i think honestly honest to god i think evan satan upon he said it best he's like if you just don't like it don't fucking do it just like that's it other things you can do like you don't have to work out man yeah like we all work out because we love working out if you're talking about like periods where you're like maybe not as motivated that can be from overtraining like if you're going all the fucking time and your body's worn out like that like if your bat if your battery's worn out yeah um exhausted battery no but seriously that can happen and then you get a little bit just take a couple days off and then if you don't feel like going again then you just don't want to go uh okay with that said paul tell say a prayer so we can get the fuck out of here okay i'll keep it short let us pray let us bow our heads the words aren't coming so easily uh lately with these prayers um because i'm running out of ideas dear leader i pray that the words come a little bit more freely tonight um let's just skip past that um bless us with your blessings and um fill us with joy with happiness and with um with valor um nice fucking um as we nice of the round table over here yes yes as we as Nolan valor yeah as we um face the uh the obstacles uh and challenges and um day-to-day things that we go you know that we have to do that we have to do um you guys got anything you want to really you're really bad at this joe can you say a prayer what's on your mind what's on your mind paul you gotta tell us what's going on just yeah just let it out paul there's something in there i can feel it there's not much in here mike to be honest i think you need a bit of a release i'll just let it out yeah well i'm glad to see that the spring is finally starting to arrive slowly at that but it's nice to uh come out of that winter haze that we that frozen tundra that we suffered through for the last couple months and with uh with with that new freshness will come some fresh things and beginnings paul new beginnings new beginnings endings as well that old endings if you will um so with that being said um bring it home you're a cunning linguist paul you're almost there okay we're doing so good um yeah let's um let's be mindful of one another um um let's um let's um oh my god you're killing me in this end this prayer for my suffering ends just end it just end it amen amen good night everybody good night