 What's going on everybody, you're watching Unscripted, and in this episode we are going to be talking about things that are very violent, graphic, I suggest if you have anything that makes you might maybe queasy to see, or anything that might trigger you if you hear it, if it's too violent that you might not want to watch this episode, but this is the trauma doctor that saved my life, Dr. Zerrold, and I'm happy to have him on to talk about his time as a trauma doctor and his time as a military trauma surgeon as well, and again, this is an amazing episode, it's short, but sweet, and graphic, so if you are prepared, it's unscripted. What's going on everybody, welcome back to another episode of Unscripted, and I'm here with Dr. Zerrold, how are you, sir? Doing great, thanks for having me, Haas, I'm looking forward to it, and just glad to see you sitting there on the other side of the microphone, looking healthy, and yeah, I'm excited, this will be fun. Well, so for people, I thought it would be interesting to show a night at the hospital that you work at, and you sent me a video from one of those nights, and I wanted to bring that up first, just to kind of give people an idea of what you do and what it looks like to be a trauma doctor. So, Matt, can you pull up that video that we got here? Okay, so what exactly are we looking at here? So, this is kind of a training video I wanted to make recently of a patient that unfortunately suffered a stab wound to the chest. He came in under CPR, and these are pretty rare cases if they actually survive and make it to the hospital. So, we actually did in the emergency department, it's called an ED thoracotomy, emergency room thoracotomy, meaning we kind of cut open into the chest to figure out what's bleeding. When we got into the chest, I noticed that the knife had actually penetrated the ventricle. Okay. So, the heart didn't have any blood in it, and that's kind of what you're seeing there. So, that's the heart that you're pulsating in your hands there? Yeah. It's kind of like, that's called internal CPR. So, you kind of put your thumb on the top of the heart and your hand below it, and you squeeze it, hoping that you can get blood going again. And unfortunately, kind of at the top there, I had repaired most of the laceration, but it was still kind of bleeding. Yeah. And so, we had to do a little bit more work. I was able to get him up to the operating room, and we did some more work to try to get this thing to stop bleeding and make sure his heart worked. Matt, can you bring me back, please? Sorry, go ahead. Keep going, Dr. C. Yeah, these things always happen in the middle of the night. So, it was, you know, it's one of those, anytime you get a trauma call at like 2 or 3 a.m., you know it's never going to be good. So, it's kind of what the team experienced last night, and yeah, it was a crazy case. So, you get a call. Are you on call? Like, are you at home, or are you at the hospital at this point? We're at the hospital. You're at the hospital. Yeah. Yeah, a lot of trauma centers, the trauma doctors are at home, and the ED doctors, the emergency room doctors will kind of start stuff. And if it's beyond them, they give a call, and then you come in. But we've always felt at our trauma center that, you know, having us in-house 24-7, 365 is important. I think it helps our results. So, we kind of take most of the trauma call and get down to the ER immediately within, you know, three to five minutes. We're present, usually present before the patients arrive. And I think that, you know, it definitely improves our results of patient outcomes. So, walk me through this. So, you're in-house. You get the call that this person's coming in with a stab wound to the chest? Correct. Yeah. Does it tell you, like, that's all you know. Do you know any more than that? The only thing, typically, what you hear is the medics will call in and say, we're coming in. I knew that this patient was under CPR, which is never a good sign. Yeah. And that basically means he doesn't have blood pressure. And there was some kind of a stab wound to the chest. It could have been, you know, anywhere on the back, the front. You don't really know. So, you're kind of, like, expecting the worst. Certainly, things in the front part of the chest, when you get stabbed in the front part of the chest, those tend to be the worst. So, we kind of were preparing for the worst, assuming that's kind of where it happened. And, in fact, that's where it was. So, when the patient comes in, you get them on the table. You see that it's to the chest and you see it's to the heart area. Now, you have to go, you have to cut it open further to see where it's hit. Is that how it works? Yeah. It's a brutal procedure. Go ahead and walk me through it. So, basically, the patient's laying flat and you take a knife, a big old what we call a big 10 blade. It's the biggest scalpel that you have. And you go about, oh, a couple centimeters below the nipple, right at the sternum. And you literally just cut down through all the skin and the muscle all the way to the bed. And you get down to where you can see the ribs and you take a pair of scissors and cut through the ribs and then put your hands in there and spread it. And then you can kind of see the lung and the heart and put a retractor in to kind of hold it all open. And then you kind of try to figure out where this stab wound went. This one in particular went kind of through the lung and then into the heart. I think in the past, I think I'm doing this like 28 years, I've maybe done 12 to 13 of these. This one was by far the biggest laceration to the heart. I'm actually surprised that he survived long enough to get to the hospital because it was a big, big wound. I could put three fingers inside the heart. So, it was big. How do you know to keep, sorry, if any of these questions are stupid, I apologize ahead of time. How do you know? Nothing stupid. How do you know to try if like you, if you get a guy there and you see that there's this like three finger deep laceration in his heart, how do you know to keep trying? Or is it just because there's still a beat or is that why you keep trying? Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, for him, what you do with this procedure is you kind of go in, you find the heart and you can actually see it if it's beating. Because, you know, you couldn't feel a pulse. Right. But if the heart's still beating and you can actually see it beating, then that's when I go for it. Okay. You know, try to fix the hole. The priority is fix the hole. Fill the heart up with blood. You know, get blood into their veins. Get it to start pumping blood again. And initially, you kind of have to give CPR internally. In this particular patient, the heart was just empty. I was able to get enough, put a special central line in and got enough blood into him where the heart started to fill up, did some CPR, started to get a beat back. And then it went into what this rhythm we call fibrillation, like atrial or ventricular fibrillation, which is kind of a deadly rhythm. So instead of, you know, the shock pads that you put on like this, they have these little paddles that you can put right on the heart. And I put those in and hit it and the damn thing started beating again. I'm like, fuck it. Let's get to the OR and see what we can do. Okay. Sure. So hold on. So like walk me, take me back a minute. So you filled it with blood. You got a pulse. But then it went to, there was a bad rhythm of that pulse. So then what do you do to get it back on track? Or let me ask you this. Did that patient survive? Unfortunately, he didn't. He ended up, you know, I think it was just physiologic exhaustion. It was just too much work for the heart. But the other thing I think happened with him was he, this particular patient, the stab wound actually transected some of the blood vessels in the heart that, you know, that provide blood to the heart. And those are really small vessels. You know, the cardiothoracic surgeons do bypass procedures for them in really controlled settings. And I think that's kind of what happened is he, you know, he transected those or cut those vessels in half. And, you know, he wasn't getting blood to half of his heart. And it finally just kind of gave out. What is that like for you? You know, I've had, so I've had been, I've had a bunch of muscle tears and I've seen different doctors and I've had different surgeries. And there's some doctors who care and some doctors who don't care. And, well, I shouldn't say don't care. That's not fair. Some doctors have a good bedside manner. Some doctors don't. But nobody ever looks at it from like your side of the table. So, like, how does, how does that impact you when someone comes in like that and you're trying to save them and then you can't save them? Is that, is that hard to go home at night after that? You know, to be honest, perfectly honest, I think it doesn't affect me as much as it used to when I was younger. It, it certainly feels like a personal failure. And this may sound kind of harsh, but, you know, the, the average kind of lifespan of a trauma surgeon before they just get burned out in this country is about 12 years. And, you know, you just get so many of these cases and you just kind of start to get this almost like compassion fatigue with these cases. And, you know, it's tough when you talk to the family, you kind of get a little bit of pangs of emotion with it. But that can really bring you down over time. And you've got to find a balance to where you've, you can, you know, kind of feel the feeling in the moment. Certainly process it with the team. Some of these young techs and nurses that are in the, in the ER, you have to remember that this may be their first time they've saw this. So you can't, you can't really act that way around them. You've got to kind of check in with them, make sure they're doing okay. But over time, I think you kind of become numb to it, to be honest. And, you know, that's a dangerous place to get, you can get, you can become, you know, a little bit too numb. And that's when, that's when it's time to hang it up. So if you get numb to something like that, how do you, if you've trained yourself to be numb to something that's so traumatic, how do you, like, how does the rest of your life look? Like, is it, are you still able to be up and down when you need to be? Or is it like, does it kind of make everything else gray? Yeah. It's certainly, it's a struggle. If you don't work on it every day and come up with some kind of peace and something bigger than me, you know, you know, for me, it's my wife, my ranch. I live away from a lot of people. I have my horses. I have a little cow that I play with. And, you know, I, I do some, some little hobbies that take my mind off things and certainly have to kind of dive in. You know, tonight, today, after this, I'll probably take a nap and get up and probably just lounge around and, you know, think about it a little bit. Yeah. And then just try to hang out with, you know, the horses, really. They, they kind of help me more than anything, to be honest. And, and certainly I've sit down and talk about it with my wife. She was a trauma nurse, so she understands it. She was a young man. Get through it. Make dinner. Watch some TV and wake up the next day and start again. When you train yourself to, you know, a lot of people talk about like feel the feeling and then move past it. Right. Like that, that what you described, people, people use that all the time in all different sorts of like professions. And when you feel the feeling and move past it, does it still pop up every once in a while? Like, do you still like get glimpses of those things? Yeah, certainly. And, you know, you'll have similar cases come up and it'll remind you of that case. The key to that and, you know, full disclosure, I've had I've been to therapists, especially after, you know, doing some combat tours. I really needed some some professional help and really hard to admit that got myself in a really dark place, couldn't get myself out of it, got some help. And really that type of therapy was teaching you how to kind of get back that if you have a feeling, how how does that make you think? Like, what are you thinking about that feeling? And there's a disconnect with that. And it's kind of called cognitive processing. And some of those feelings that you have in these stressful situations, the thoughts that you have don't really match up with them. And that can just drive you down and get you farther and farther away from from who you need to be and what you need to do. So you really have to kind of sit there with the feeling. You have to allow the feeling that we can't help how we feel. You can't you can't help how you feel. That's just that's a natural chemical neurologic response in our brain. But you can control how you think. And that's and that takes effort. Some people it's easier than others. But for me, you know, after the wars, it was really hard. And I had to really train my brain how to feel the feeling and then try to train my thoughts to kind of match that in a in a healthy way. I do that to this day. You know, it's it's just a skill you have to use. It's funny. I come from the bodybuilding world, obviously. And we're always talking about getting past things and things being in a dark place. And like these these sayings like always arise. And we forget there's people like you out there, like actually, you know, maybe in a dark place because of all the things you've experienced. And I kind of wanted to talk about your tours, which is one of the main reasons I want to have you on because I'm fascinated by all things military. Can you explain to me how did you get into doing? Military being a doctor in the military? I'll try to keep it short. Basically, came from a pretty blue collar family. Dad was a copper miner. We didn't have a lot of money. I really, you know, was kind of getting good grades early on in school, really wanted to go farther, knew I wasn't be able to pay for college. My sister, who's four years older, she she got the hell out of there and joined the military and she got put into kind of the medical service corps. She's about five years older than me. And after she graduated basic training, I was still in junior high and we went and visited her in Texas at her base at her first job. And I remember walking into her, you know, they'd had a little tour and you could go into where she was working in her job site. And I remember walking in there and seeing her her doctor that she was working for, her boss. He was a captain. He was a cardiologist. And to this day, I just remember him being in uniform and having that rank on his shoulder. And he just looked bigger than life. I mean, I felt like this little tiny kid in a room just looking at this huge, you know, human specimen that was just so in control and so confident and so, you know, serving others and into the mission. And that really stuck with me. And, you know, I he kind of talked to me and I told him, yeah, I'd really like to join the military. And he said, you know, you should if you want to do that, you should become an officer and try to go to the Air Force Academy for for undergrad and see where that takes you. It's not the best route to become a doctor. But, you know, most of the people go to the academy want to become a pilot. And but that's that's one way to do it. And so I, you know, in high school, early on high school, I really put my mind to it and, you know, apply. I didn't think I'd have a shot in hell because they, you know, they don't take very many people at the academy. And somehow, by the grace of God, I got accepted and and it was kind of over from there. So you got accepted into the Air Force. Air Force Academy. Yeah, it's kind of like the I don't know if you know what West Point is or the U.S. Naval Academy. That's the Air Force version in Colorado Springs for your for your college. And so I went through that and on to med school. So you did that. You went to med school. You became a doctor. And then you have to go. You have to actually serve in the military at that point. Yeah. So after you graduate med school, you go into training, surgical training. I was accepted to become a surgeon. I didn't want to be anything else at that point. After I through my med school years rotating on some of these surgical rotations, I knew that was for me. And so surgical training, six years and you're a resident. You kind of work under what we call attending doctors and they you're kind of a trainee and you get through that six years of training. And then you take, you know, different tests and boards. And once you pass all those, you're officially a surgeon. And then, you know, you serve in the military. Okay. So they send you to Afghanistan. So interestingly, at about that time, we went to war and I was a brand new surgeon. And it was Iraq first. And I was nine months out of training. Most surgeons out of training are just like fixing little hernias or taking out an appendix or doing simple shit like that. Next thing I know, the fucking captain called me and was like, oh, hey, by the way, you got three weeks to prepare. You're going to northern Iraq as a trauma surgeon. I'm like, oh, God damn, I'm not a trauma surgeon. I mean, that takes another two or three years of training. So off I went to Iraq and completely unprepared, really difficult situation, dealt with a lot of stuff that, you know, never thought the human body could even endure. Anything you want to touch on through that? Any examples you can think of? And not that I want to take you back into like a bad place or anything like that. I just. No, it's. This stuff's fascinating to a lot of people, right? Like it's crazy. We don't. You generally like. How many people do you think in their life will come across someone like you that they actually get to ask these questions? You know what I mean? Like that's pretty crazy because I'm sure there's a lot of people that come across doctors all the time, but like. Never somebody that served in the military, never somebody that served as a trauma surgeon in a war and never somebody that's going to sit down and actually answer some of these questions. So I don't want to take you to a bad place. I'm just curious. You know, you're a desert storm. You're a young kid. You just are a young man. You just, you know, kind of graduated. What are you seeing and is it freaking you out? Yeah, you know, I guess I'll preface this by. Saying that, you know, after the three deployments, I kind of hit a pretty dark, dark place. You know, what I went through certainly wasn't what the soldiers went through. Those are the real heroes of the war. I just took care of them, but, you know, seeing them be injured and trying to save them and sometimes failing and having to live with that kind of, you know, got me in that bad place. And part of that bad place was I was obsessed with trying to relive it, trying to solve it, trying to figure out what I could have done different. You know, I'd read every war book that I could find. I'd watch every war movie that I could that I could find. And I went on a lecture circuit and was talking about it nonstop. And it was just bringing me farther and farther down. And, you know, in the therapy I was in, they finally said, that's enough. You're done. You can't. I don't want you talking about it anymore. And so I kind of got off that train and just put it all behind me and, you know, put it all behind me. Didn't really talk about it much anymore. But I think, you know, it's been long enough that I'm able to kind of talk about it. There's some of it that I literally, when I think about it, I can't remember. There's bits and pieces. And I don't think me trying to remember is a healthy thing. But there was one particular case. And when I went to Iraq, it was a couple of weeks after I got there. And Sergeant W came in. And it was kind of one of my first really big traumas. It was IED. He had a bilateral amputation, blast injury to the lung, to the face. Really sick. Had to put tubes in the chest, kind of like, you know, that kind of tube that you had in your chest. Had to put them on both sides. And beyond that, I really didn't know what to do to get his blood pressure higher. I just, you know, I made some mistakes. At the time, I didn't know they were mistakes. And I really thought that this guy could have survived. And he didn't. And, you know, there's, I think I've logged, well, I can tell you, 4,862 soldiers that I took care of. Some of them were much sicker than Sergeant W. And, but that case really burned me. And it drove me because I had to figure out why, where I screwed up. And I knew I needed more training. So when I was in Iraq, I started calling back home. We didn't have cell phones. There wasn't like computers or email and that sort of thing. And, you know, I got a hold of UC Davis, the big level one trauma center here. And I was like, look, I'm coming back. I'll be back in two months. You got to accept me into your fellowship and train me because this is fucked up. I mean, I don't know what the fuck I'm doing. And I got to come back and fix this shit. And, you know, they were nice enough to accept me. And I went back to the training and then, you know, I deployed a couple more times. But, you know, that particular case in Iraq was the one that really stuck with me. Sorry to interrupt you. I didn't, you know what, I apologize. I just, was your intent on going back? Was that like your main, like you really wanted to like get home, learn more and go back. Was that your main kind of purpose in life at that point? Yeah, to a sickness, you know, at this point, I know it was too, it was too a sickness, completely obsessed. It really, you know, I was married at the time, married my high school sweetheart. Within two months of me being back, it's pretty, it's so fucked up. I was working at several different hospitals, trying to get any experience I could. I'd leave on a Thursday, come home the following Tuesday, sleeping in my truck. And I remember I left, you know, one Thursday, didn't come home until the next Wednesday. And she was gone. And I had no idea when she left. And that was it. And, you know, I remember thinking at the time, wow, this is horrific. I just lost my wife. And that feeling lasted for about two hours. And this is someone I'd been married to for like 15 years. And, you know, I immediately said, I got to go to work tonight. Going to get some sleep, going to eat and get back to work. So, you know, it kind of destroyed, destroyed my life a little bit. I was just so obsessed with learning. And, you know, there's a lot more to it in that time frame. But that's just an example of how obsessed I was with getting back. Did you fix things before you went back for your second tour? Like, did you get back with your wife before you went back for your second tour? No, no. And, you know, I had, you know, really nice discussions with her. We're still, you know, really good friends. She went back home. She married my high school nemesis. Fuck her. I didn't marry it. Go for your fucking merit. Fucking hated merit. Of all the fucking people she'd go back to, it's merit. Oh, he named Merit. Fuck that guy. Fuck Merit. Anyway, she, hopefully Merit's not watching this. Yeah, hopefully not. Yes, fuck it, man. Motherfucker. I hope he is watching. Fuck you, Merit. So, I was hoping. She basically said, look, you're going back, aren't you? And I was like, yeah, you know, I am. I got to fix this. I don't know how long it's going to take. And, you know, you deserve, you deserve a better life. And I, you know, we just kind of kept it amicable. And that was it. Okay. I was hoping. I don't know why I was hoping, but I was hoping that was going to be like, yeah, we got back together and we're still together to this day. Turned out to be Merit popped up. That's what the book, the book, the fiction book I write, that's what it would say. But it didn't happen that way. That's okay. It doesn't matter. You guys seem to have a great life anyways. So, if we can continue this story. So, you go back. Do you start to make some of the corrections and start to feel better about how you're operating at this point? Yeah. I don't want to come across as bragging because I think anybody in this situation that's put in these scenarios, any surgeon that, you know, has the will to keep going could have done this. So, I don't think it was just me by any means. There's a lot of surgeons. But I got tagged to be what's called the trauma czar for Afghanistan during the surge, the Obama. So, we kind of ramped down on Iraq. Obama came in and said, we got to wipe this war up. Send in 50,000 Marines. Clean out Kandahar. Clean out Panjshar. And, oh, by the way, send a couple extra team of surgeons. You're in charge. So, I was kind of the, it's called the trauma czar, but I was the director of combat trauma operations for the entire country. All NATO troops, American troops. So, anybody, NATO that was injured, NATO Americans that were injured had to come through me. I had to see them either operate on them or have one of my partners operate on them. And then I gave it, gave them the get-go that they could go to launch. So, it was a big, big responsibility. And it took a couple years of training to get ready for that. And, um, uh, I fucking nailed it. I fucking nailed it. And, um. That's got to be more than just medical training, though. Like, did you have to take in, you must have had to take, like, uh, operations training and all of that to be able to deal with that whole, like, organism. Yeah, there was a lot. You know, I worked with the, the PJs, pararescue troops. I got in with them here in stateside. Those are the guys that rescue the special ops guys that are in trouble. Those are the guys that are floating in the fucking Blackhawk out here as the, you know, the SEALs were raiding the, when they were getting Osama. Right. They were, you don't hear about those guys. They're 20 minutes out, ready to go in. So, I spent a lot of time with them up in the hills in Tahoe, um, training with them, doing a lot of animal labs, a lot of rescue labs, a lot of operations, a lot of leadership stuff. Just did everything I could to prepare for it. And, you know, I hit the ground and I was, I was a machine. I was not going to fuck this up. And, um, had a really good team. It wasn't just me. You know, when you're in charge of something like that, the success is the team. The failure is me. The failures are me. The success is the team. And that, that's kind of the approach I took. Yeah. No, that's wild. So, you go back and you dominate the whole thing on the way back. And then the war, the Iraq war ends, how long after that? The Iraq war was kind of, um, settling down. They were kind of starting to pull out when I got sent to Afghanistan. There were still a couple of surgeons there. And in fact, I was getting hammered so much. One of the buddies I went to med school with was kind of cleaning up in Iraq, picking things up, really wasn't much going on. And I, I called central command and said, Hey, can you send him down here for the rest of his tour? And so he was a buddy I went to the academy and med school with, and he came down and was the, one of the surgeons with me. So kind of all the resources started going to Afghanistan at that point. Um, so we were really built up. We, we had a good, we had a good team there in Bagram. Again, forgive me for any stupid, stupid questions. But the, you're not, do you operate on any Afghanis at this point? Are you helping any Afghani people, any Afghani security, police, whatever, or is it just American soldiers? Yeah, we operated on a lot of Afghani police, security police, uh, the locals, the locals took a big hit. Um, they, you know, some of the shit was just fucking nasty. It was, um, Taliban would, you know, often go into a village, round up the women, shoot them all in the stomach, put them in the back of a truck, drive them to the base, throw them over the fence. And suddenly you have, you know, eight women with gunshot wounds. Um, they like to do it at weddings. Um, one particular situation I remember, they dumped like seven women, killed all the men, shot them in the head, shot all the women in the abdomen, dumped them off. The, the one, uh, woman, local village woman was pregnant, shot her through the uterus, um, killed the baby, had to operate on both. Um, a lot of times they go in and, and take the, I don't know how much you want to know this. Oh, I'm open. I'm open. And listen, this is, I mean, for people listening, we've already given a warning that it's, uh, going to be graphic. So, I mean, they can, they can watch as long as they want to, but I'm, I'm personally interested. So one of the things that really got me with operating on some of the locals is, you know, to be a little girl in Afghanistan was tough. Um, and a lot of them would, one of the things they'd like to do to go in and intimidate, you know, the village or turn them to their wills. They'd get, get the little girls and, um. We don't have to talk about this too much, man. No, it's, it's, it's good. So they would, uh, you know, pour kerosene on them and, you know, light them on fire, throw them off the roof. They'd come in all broken, burned. Um, those were kind of the toughest cases that really, um, really kind of hurt that, you know, you kind of, in the moment, you know, while I was there, it didn't affect me. Cause I was just doing everything I could. But I think when I got home from this and that, you know, there's a lot more stuff that happened, but when I got home from this, you really lost any hope for humanity. Yeah. It's just that the human, humans could do this to each other. It was just, you know, it was just horrifying. And, you know, I don't think any, any sane human should have to ever see anything like that or certainly deal with anything like that. Cause it's just, it's otherworldly, just pure evil. So basically I think what you're telling me is everything that I'm seeing in the movies, like when I watch a movie like Lone Survivor, I'm watching some of these military movies. It's got some, it's got some real, like real life, you know, stories behind it that have actually happened and you're maybe just saying worse if anything. Yeah. I think a lot of this stuff, they, you know, they toned down for it, um, for, for Hollywood. But yeah, some of this stuff was just, it's just, it's just gruesome and tough to deal with. Um, I didn't know it was a policy of the American military to take care of civilians. That's kind of a shock to me. Yeah. I mean, some of it was, you know, when we go in, especially at the end of the Iraq war, there was a lot of humanitarian aid. So you kind of want to win the hearts of the people. So you would do a lot of elective surgery and that sort of thing. We didn't have time for that in Afghanistan and we were, you know, responsible a lot for, you know, villages getting hit or maybe not protecting them. So we took it on ourselves to say, we got to help these people. We got to show them that we're here to help. Um, and so there, there was a lot, you know, I took care of Taliban. Um, you did. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so are you still there? Yeah. So even the enemy, you guys were taking care of. Yeah. We took care of the enemy, but, uh, yeah, there were some interesting stories, stories with that is, you know, they, sometimes the Americans really wouldn't, or NATO really wouldn't hit the kill shot. They, they'd get them in the leg and, you know, blow half their leg off, make sure they're alive. They'd come to me, never actually talked about this in public, but anyway, they, they would come to me. Um, I'd get them patched up. Suddenly some spooks would come in and take them away. And, and then two weeks later they'd come back and all their wounds were infected and they'd take them away again and come back and they're all infected. So, you know, I can only imagine what they were doing to them or trying to figure out from them, but it, you know, it was, it was pretty dirty on both sides. Um, but yeah, we, we took care of a lot of the Taliban and interestingly, a lot of the, the enemy, the enemy Taliban, um, there was one kid in particular that had that, that had that story. He, he got, um, they shot him in the leg. They brought him in, uh, he had a vascular injury. We fixed the vascular injury or, you know, blood vessel injury to his leg, fixed his femur, got him back to normal. And he kind of started, I kind of started talking to him and essentially, you know, Taliban offered him 500 bucks. And if he would take out a convoy and he was from Kazakhstan and, you know, he was barely making it in life and his family had no allegiance to the, the Taliban. Just the 500 bucks was going to change his life. And, and he took it and went there and, uh, hit one of the, hit one of the convoys. They figured out who he was. They went and shot him in the leg and, you know, they took him back, interrogated him and realized he really wasn't a big enemy threat. And we were able to get him back to Kazakhstan. But there, there was a lot of that going on too, which was kind of unnerving. I mean, he ended up being a nice kid. I ended up talking to him quite a bit. He was actually a kickboxer. He had dreams of representing his country in the Olympics as a kickboxer. And, you know, it was just horrific human tragedy type stuff that just, it was just horrible. How many times did you make over the course? I can't, can't say over the course of your career, cause it's probably going to be so many, but how often when you were in a military situation as a trauma surgeon, did you develop relationships with any of your, um, anybody you worked on? That's a, that's a really good question. And it's funny that you asked that cause that really was the crux of what broke me when I got home. Um, the difference, you know, I'll be honest with you, Haas. It's, it's kind of why I grabbed onto you so much. Um, I don't want to make this too personal about you, but in your situation, your surgery, the type of person you are, the, you know, the warrior, the fighter that you were, um, it, it really reminded me of some of the soldiers I took care of. And one of the things that I couldn't do in Afghanistan is I only had them for 72 hours, sometimes three or four days. They never woke up. And sometimes I didn't even know their name. All I saw was their name tag. Then they went off and I never knew what happened to them. So did all this work on them. They're gone. Couldn't really have the time to track them. Never figured out what happened to them. So it just left this huge black void in my, in my mind that I just started filling up with shit. And, um, and, and, you know, it, it just kept building and building. And, you know, the longer I was home, the more I tried to think about it. And that was one of the reasons I just kept reading every book I could read about war, watching every movie, trying to fill in the blanks. What happened in this battle to bring these guys here? What, you know, what happened when they got back home and did they, were they able to get, you know, their sensation back in their legs or were they able to get a prosthetic and walk again? So, yeah, that, that black void was really difficult. And that was, I think that was the impetus of the, you know, the kind of the combat stress disorder that, that was, I was, you know, essentially diagnosed with, um, and got treatment for. So. You brought up our situation. So. I have to be honest with you. I've never had a doctor care as much as you do about my recovery. I guess I understand a little bit more now why, but you still, you've had how many hundreds come through your current facility, for example. I just don't. I guess I just don't know. I don't know. Is it, is it the bodybuilding connection? Is it, uh, there's gotta be something more, I think. And I, I guess I'm asking for my own, I guess I'm asking personally now is like, what is it? I think. That makes you care. You know, there's. You care about every patient, right? That's what I'm supposed to say. I care. The care, the same amount about every patient. They're going to get the same care from me. And they do. They get the same effort from me. But, you know, like we started this conversation, you kind of have to be guarded about how much emotion or connection you do to patients. If you do it too much, you're going to get burned because things just aren't going to work out and you're going to run out of steam. So it is every once in a while, somebody will come along. A patient will come along that you can just see the fight. Um, you can see the family. I could see the expression on summer's face. I could see all of your friends and family coming in and out of the room. I could see you fighting like a motherfucker on that vent to, to survive it. And, um, yeah, it hit me. It hit me in the chest and I was just like, you know what? This motherfucker is going to make it. He's going to do good. I don't care. I'm putting it out in the universe. And, yeah, I just grabbed onto it because sometimes I need to see a success story in order for me to get up tomorrow and to keep doing this shit. I need to see that for me as well. And, and, yeah, some of it was the bodybuilding connection. I, I had, I was a, you know, I big bodybuilding fan in the 80s. And, um, but more of it was I could just see you were a fighter. And, you know, there's a lot of my patients in the trauma world that, you know, I'm not judging by any means, but a lot of it's self-inflicted stuff. A lot of it's kind of the, the underserved population. And, um, they don't want to fight. They, they just kind of give up. And, um, I didn't see that in you. And, and, and yeah, you were, you just, I just grabbed onto it. And, um, I want to talk a little bit about that. So. Can you walk me through what the phone call is like? Like you get the phone call, motorcycle crash. What do they tell you? So basically motorcycle crash, um, in, in your particular case, you know, high speed motorcycle crash, significant chest wall trauma, um, difficulty breathing. Appeared that he had a flail chest and I can explain all this stuff to you, but, um, how to decompress the chest in the field, which essentially means you had significant chest wall trauma and you punctured your lung. It was collapsed. They tried to re-expand it with the needle and that, you know, blood pressure was what we call soft or it was a little bit low. So you may be bleeding, um, and then it's a guessing game and just kind of a waiting game. So really you just kind of get a general idea of what the accident was, a general idea of what they did to you in the field. And, you know, once you've been doing this long enough, you kind of start to develop these patterns. Like, okay, this is what, this is what we're worried about. You know, big time chest. Did he get his spleen? Did he hit his head? Has he got spinal injuries? And all that stuff starts to run through your head and you get down there with the team and you start getting prepared. And, you know, it's, it's certainly not just me. It's an entire team. The, the respiratory therapists are there, the labs there, the x-rays there. And, and then that's who I kind of involve and, and we work as a team to get, get it figured out as quick as possible to, to get you through the life threatening injuries. And get you either to the operating room or if, if you need a surgery or get you to the ICU and start doing some of the critical care stuff. Okay. So I show up. What's the first thing you guys ended up doing then? How did, like, how do you save my life? So when you first show up, you determine if you have an airway or not, meaning can you breathe on your own or not? And, um, you weren't really able to breathe on your own very well. Um, so the, the trauma to the chest was significant enough that we had to put you on a breathing machine, the life support machine. Um, so that's the first step. You got to be able to oxygenate the lungs, get oxygen to the blood, um, and, and kind of take over breathing and sedate you. And so we can kind of slow things down and get it figured out what's going on with you. So the second thing you immediately after you get the airway established is, um, are you bleeding anywhere? And there's certain things that we go through, you know, exams, x-rays, um, ultrasound, CT scans. And if you're bleeding, how do we stop it? And in your case, um, your lung had been punctured. It was collapsed, severely bruised. There was some blood on the outside of the lung that was collecting and starting to kind of press on the lung. So instead of just like in that video you saw, instead of opening it up, um, short of that, we can put a tube in there and drain some of that air, drain some of that blood and hope that the lung kind of expands. And in your case, it did. Um, and then we take you to the CAT scanner. Um, you're completely sedated at this point. And we kind of do a head to toe three-dimensional x-ray to see where all the injuries are. Uh, in your case, you know, you had some spinal injuries. Yeah. I don't know if you want me to talk about your injuries. I, yeah, I'm open. Yeah. You know, you had some spinal injuries. Um, we didn't exactly know if it was affecting your spinal cord or if you were going to, you know, you seem to be moving your legs. So that was a good sign. You seem to be moving your arms. That was a good sign. At least your hands. Um, the lung had kind of come up, but it was severely bruised. And it was just really difficult to oxygenate you, meaning it was really difficult to get oxygen in, in your lungs. They were very, they were very full of blood and you just weren't accepting oxygen. So at that point, you didn't need any major surgeries, you know, in your abdomen. Thankfully, you didn't injure anything. Um, you had some fractures in your arms that, you know, weren't life-threatening at that point. Those things get splints. And we take you up to the intensive care unit and start doing what we can to stabilize your lungs and your heart. Okay. And that's kind of what we did for you. So you guys stabilized me and I noticed you checked in on me like, I mean, you have to, do you have to check in on me once a day or I don't know how often. I mean, I was asleep for the first week. So I don't know how often you were in there. Yeah. I mean, we round every morning, so we do rounds, but we're always up there. So we're always kind of looking in on you, looking at all the labs that we're getting, looking at all the x-rays. The nurses are constantly reporting to us that, you know, hey, we want to make this change. They'll report back and say, well, that change didn't really work. So we come back to the bedside frequently and try to titrate things to make it better. The breathing machine, the blood pressure medicines. So it's a kind of a constant thing in the ICU. It's kind of like around the clock, there's a surgeon, maybe not right at the bedside, maybe with another patient, but you're in constant communication with the nurses of what's happening with the interventions that we had ordered to happen. I felt like I developed a pretty good relationship with everybody in the trauma center or in the trauma unit. Is that normal? For that unit, yes. That's a very high-powered unit. I mean, I've worked at a lot of different trauma centers. I've worked at the downtown big level one trauma center. And this particular unit, the nurses, the respiratory therapists, the lab, the x-ray, they are all by far kind of the best crew in Northern California. That TNI is very tight. Our results from that unit are, you know, very high nationally, you know, nationally ranked very high for outcomes. And, yeah, they get pretty personal with the patients and they really attach. If you go back in their break room, in fact, they have all over their wall, they have just tons of pictures and notes about all the different patients that have been there. And then a lot of patients come back. Like I know you did, came back to say hi, and they just, they fucking love it. And, you know, it's so, yeah, it's not abnormal at our hospital. I think it's a little bit more at our hospital than other hospitals I've worked at. But I think it's a special place. I think you landed in the right spot. Yeah, I came back to say bye to everybody before I took off. It was a weird experience when I left that place. I was there for, I don't know how long I was there, a month, maybe more. A little bit more. And it's like I felt like I didn't want to leave, but I did. It was weird. And then I felt like I had to go back to say bye to everybody. Yeah, I think it's a good thing to do. I'm glad you did it. Yeah. So the question I have is what do you do with the people that don't want to fight? I mean, I know they get the same kind of care. I know they get, you know, obviously you're going to try your hardest for them. But like, what do you do? What do you do with the patient that's just not, that's just not doing things that you guys are asking them to do, doesn't want to put in the effort, doesn't want to put in the time. How do you save that person? Yeah, I think that's kind of where the art of medicine comes in. I think the older you get, you know, we kind of talked about maybe you get a little bit of compassion fatigue. At that point, the way I deal with it is it becomes personal for me. If the patient fails, I fail. So I have to kind of make it my failure. It's no longer their failure. It's my failure. And I really push them to do things they don't want to do. Take it to the extreme, to the point where, you know, they basically tell you I'm done. And then you kind of have to honor their wishes. But it's a good question because it can be very frustrating. You go up there and they're just not doing what you're asking them. And they're just, you know, each day getting a little bit worse. But for me personally, I just kind of make that my personal failure. And that's what keeps me going to the bedside instead of giving up on them. If I give up on them, I'm giving up on myself. It's kind of the attitude you have to take. Is it fair to say that you're kind of, and I don't know if I have this mistaken, if it's just my own, the way I view it. But are you kind of the head of that unit there? I'm one of the senior surgeons. I've been there for quite a while. A couple of the other surgeons I've been with there for multiple, multiple years. So, you know, we have a boss, Dr. Pearlstein. He's kind of the in charge of everything. He's always been three or four years ahead of me. I've been with him my entire career. Incredible surgeon. Not being biased, this is actually other people's opinions. Probably one of the best trauma surgeons in the country. He was in Iraq as well. Big guy. Played football in Nebraska. Doesn't fuck around. Knows his shit. So he's kind of the leader of the group. But yeah, I'm one of the senior guys there that's been there for quite a while. You had some bodybuilding experience in your life. Matt, you want to pull up that photo? I was so excited to show you this, Haas. I don't know why. I know you were going to laugh, but fuck it. No, I didn't laugh. I had a cool story with it, though. You're what? You said you were 16 here? I was 16. That's good for 16, man. I don't know. There's nothing to laugh at. I don't know. I didn't have any gear. But yeah. That's 100% natty? 100% natty. Yeah. It was really cool. You know, I was a wrestler. And our wrestling coach, he actually sparred with Dan Gable back in the day. Out of Iowa State. So big time dude. Great coach. And when he came to coach and titters, we had a really good wrestling team. This was one of the better teams in the state. But he really pushed us in the offseason. Those guys that were on varsity. We didn't do any other sports. That, you know, you cut weight. You cut weight. You get down to a weight. And then season's over. And you just eat like shit. Gain a bunch of fat. And then you cut weight. Cut weight. The next season. So he was really big on us hitting the gym. So about 15 years before this event, he kind of started this weight training program. Met a guy on the big gym in Salt Lake where all the big guys hung out, worked out. He got us all memberships. And, you know, in the offseason, we were required to go up there and work out. And he set up this high school bodybuilding competition. That's awesome. And at first, it was just kind of a little thing. It was just kind of between the wrestlers. But over the years, it started getting bigger and bigger and kind of got some sponsors. By the time I was there, it was, you know, it would fill an auditorium of like 1,200 people. That's amazing. And one of the judges, and I've tried to look this up. I lost my brochure about the competition. I lost the brochure. One of the judges, and he was actually, he was the guest poser. And then he judged. He won the Emerald Cup. Okay. That's still around, I think. Yeah. And so, big dude. Yeah. That's a big show to win. Yeah. He was, he was legit. So, I mean, so, you know, we pulled a lot of people from the community in and, you know, other schools were trying to get involved, but it was a, it was a pretty big event. And I, you know, I put about 10 months of training in, just worked my butt off. Back then, there's no internet. Yeah. All you had was muscle fitness. And then I remember like in 1980, I think 1984, Flex magazine came out. That's right. And now I had two sources and I was, you know, I'd get the, I'd get it and fucking read every article and like, how do you peak your biceps? And I, you know. Is it weird for a medical doctor, trauma surgeon? Is it weird to be involved or interested in a sport that's kind of like, you know, you know, these guys are all using steroids and all that. Does that matter to you? You just don't, didn't, didn't bother you. You don't care. No. I think that's why I gravitated towards you as a doctor. Cause you're like, no bullshit. You're like, whatever. Yep. No, no, no. I think that, that sport, I, you know, I, this is just a stupid little high school show, but I, I, you know, back then when you're 16, I remember the commitment it took and the dieting. And, you know, I did like sodium depletion, sodium loading and all that, you know, everything that muscle fitness told me to do, I did it. And, you know, it's a, it's a hardcore lifestyle, whether you're on gear or not. And, you know, extremely, extremely dedicated athletes. It's, it's, you know, I, it really, in my opinion, should be mainstream. This should be on ESPN. And, um, I've always kind of felt that, but, um, I think it's, I think the average, the average viewer doesn't know what they're looking at necessarily. So they can't pick between, you know, first and eighth. So it's hard for them first. So it's hard for them to watch. You know what I mean? Um, so how long did that, so, so 16 years old, what did you weigh there? Do you remember? I weighed 131 pounds, 132. Was there ever a show number two or no, was that it? No, it was just that senior year. I trained for it for nine months. I didn't do it my junior year. I didn't think I was ready. Um, it was, you know, it was kind of fun show cause they gave trophies first to third. I took fifth, but then they gave trophies for best back, best arms, best chest. And I was all excited cause I won the best back trophy and, you know, and then, you know, I graduated and went off to the military two months later, but it, it was a, it was an experience. Um, but you know, the one thing I wanted to, this is probably boring to you, but it was very interesting now that, cause I've been all into bro chat now. And I'm, you know, trying to predict who's going to win and shit. And, you know, I was all over the Olympia. Um, I really thought Andrew looked great by the way. A lot of people did. Yeah. But everything's on the internet and you know, these bodybuilders are kind of, they show themselves working out. You can pull up what they look like two weeks out, a month out, three months out. Um, we, when I, when we were getting ready for this competition, I do not know how this happened, but Lee Haney was in town. Okay. And doing like a meet and greet at that gym we were at, this is like the main gym and I bought tickets to go see him. And I, you know, I had my little questions written down, like, how do you peak your biceps or how do you, you know, should you sodium load? Did you really? That's awesome. It was, I was all fucking into it and I was so excited. And one of the rules was you couldn't take a camera. You couldn't take pictures. Okay. And some motherfucker in the back snuck a camera in and he was doing like preacher curls, kind of going over how to do biceps or something. And he kind of pulled up his sleeves. He had a shirt on. He wouldn't take his shirt off. Wouldn't show us anything, but he kind of pulled up his sleeves, kind of trying to show us how to, you know, do the exercise appropriately. And then all of a sudden you see this fight from behind, I see this fucking flash and he just fucking puts down the bar, stands up and points, points at the dude. And, um, the whole room went quiet. I mean, it's fucking Lee Haney. I mean, it's like 380 pound dude. Like you're like, holy fuck. And they, they went and got the guy and took him out. And back then it wasn't digital. It took his film out of his camera and kicked him out. That's amazing. But it was so different back. You know, I don't know what, what, what your take on that is, but it seemed back then that, you know, like Dorian Yates was like the shadow, right? He would just be like absent for months and all of a sudden he'd show up and fucking kill it. Right. But it was kind of like a secret thing back then. They didn't really want to show what they had until they were at the show. You can't really do that anymore. I don't know if that's a thing or not, but. You know, it is a thing, but you can't do it anymore because. I mean, you can do it, but only so much. Bodybuilders now make majority of their living from sponsors and sponsors want you to be out there and sponsors want you to have to want you to build a fan base and sponsors want you to be interactive. And if you're a bodybuilder, it's hard to do that with your clothes on all the time. Yeah. So even when you're prepping, it's encouraged. Like I've never encouraged my athletes to go like, you know, don't be the shadow, but I do want them to post. It's, it's not the sponsor encouraging you as an athlete. It's best for you to be as open as you can be with your audience because you're going to get more attention and more attention means more followers. More followers means bigger contracts, blah, blah, blah down the road. Right. So if you just try, if you just try and hide away all the time, the internet moves fast, man, to just move on to the next bodybuilder. Like, oh, like, okay, well let's take Andrew, you know, you've been following bodybuilding recently. So if Andrew says we don't want to like before the, before the Olympia, Andrew wasn't talked about quite a, quite a, quite a lot. No, I didn't hear anything about him. Yeah, but it's because he's always covered up. If Andrew was exposing his 24 inch arms every week on the internet, on Instagram, everybody would be talking about him. So, but maybe Andrew doesn't give a shit about sponsors. I think Andrew has like a real job. I don't know. I heard he was like an engineer or something like that. So I don't know if like he cares that he has sponsor. I mean, but other guys don't, other guys live and breathe by their sponsors. So like, you know, for someone like Andrew, he may be hidden away. For somebody like Nick Walker, he may post a photo every week of his, you know, his check-in pictures, his update photos, whatever you want to call them. I think what the internet has done basically is take the bodybuilder from up, like where nobody can touch them. Like the Lee Haney's and the Doreen Yates is like, like what, what Lee Haney did in that story that would never, ever fly in today's bodybuilding. Yeah. I can't imagine it. I mean, you see some of these guys in the gym and it's like, you know, people that they're really reaching out. Everybody's got a phone, right? So like we, I went to, I went on a tour to Mexico with Samson and you walk into a seminar, for example, and every single person's got their phone out and they're ready. They're waiting for their photo. Yeah. So they form a line and then I was directing because nobody knows me anymore because I'm old. So I would just direct traffic and be like, Hey, you come meet Samson, take a photo, picture, move on to the next person. Next, that person would come meet Samson, take a photo and everybody has their own, their cell phone and they want their own photo with Samson. So a lot has changed since then. And some bodybuilders missed that time where they could just be just bodybuilders. You know, they didn't have to worry about doing the social engagements all year round kind of thing. So, but I don't know. That's a, that's a cool story. It's nice to hear that Lee had that kind of power. That dude was big. That dude, that fucking was big, man. I was like, Holy shit. I just put my notes away and I'm like, I'm just going to stay quiet. But it was, it was a cool experience seeing him. And, um, you know, that's the closest I got to, you know, an Olympia. That's still big. Like Lee Haney's, you know, an eight time Mr. Olympia. I know he's not talked about in the top five, maybe by, by, by some people, but in the grand scheme of bodybuilding, Lee Haney was a massive, massive icon. Like to never, ever be forgotten. So, you know, that's pretty cool that you got, I mean, you got to meet him. Yeah. Yeah. He stuck around after that guy got kicked out. He stuck around. I went up and I was able to shake his hand. And did you get, did you get that question about the sodium in? I didn't. I just did what muscle fitness told me to do. And it's fucking, I was walking around. I can't remember how I did it. I just remember the week of the, the, when I was in, in prep, I don't know what you'd call but I was like fucking drinking distilled water for like three days. That was old. And then I just started loading salt and it was just fucking so nauseous. And when I got on stage, I, my fucking abs kept cramping. I had to keep pulling it apart. And I'm like, I can only imagine what my electrolytes were, but it was fun. I mean, it was a lot of fun. Good memory. Well, Dr. Z, I, I appreciate you sharing some of the stories. I feel bad that I like, I didn't want to dig and like scratch that scar, like scratch that wound too much and like make it bleed. But, um, I got, we got a little bit in there about what you do. I wanted, I wanted people to get a sense of what a trauma surgeon does and what it's like and kind of what you guys, uh, have to go through from your point of view. Well, I really appreciate you having me. I mean, I, you're very special to me. I love bro chat. The fact that I'm sitting here looking at you face to face after taking care of you is, you know, just warms my heart. Um, I love summer. She was incredible. Um, so this is a big deal for me. I mean, I just was so thrilled when you, when you asked me to do it, I, I was nervous. I didn't want to screw up your unscripted thing, but hopefully, hopefully. Yeah, this fits right in. You're not screwing up anything. This is amazing. This is perfect. Look, this whole unscripted thing is a new project. It's basically just, I want to talk to as many different people from as many different walks of life as possible. And this is, this is, I think, pretty special. I think it's, uh, like I said, man, I don't think a lot of people, you should give yourself more credit. I don't think very many people come across someone of your stature. And if they do, I don't think they get a chance to really sit down and pick their brain. So, um, I appreciate you giving us the hour to, um, you know, just learn a little bit about you. It was my pleasure, Haas. All right. Well, hopefully if you're up for it, maybe we'll come, you'll come back a different time and give us some more stories. Absolutely. I'm up for it. Um, as long as you tell Summer, I said hello and keep me up to date on how you're doing, then we're all good. I'll come back. Trying to tell her, I'm trying to tell her not to wrap me out when I'm not doing well. That's the problem. But, uh, I'll tell her to keep you in touch. I'll tell her to keep you in, in, in the talks of what's going on. I appreciate it, Haas. Okay, man. Thank you so much. I appreciate you being a part of it. Yeah. Good talking to you. Thanks, man.