 What's going on guys, welcome back to the podcast, I know it's been a while, but I'm happy to be back and I just want to let you guys know that Merrick is still a big sponsor of the show, me, Ian, Samson, Samson, many others are sponsored by Merrick, because we trust them, guys, if you want to optimize your hormones, if you want to make sure your test levels are where they need to be, if you want to make sure your estrogen levels aren't too high or where they are where they need to be, or if more importantly you want to get your blood work done to make sure that you're healthy, if your kidney, liver, thyroid, sugar levels, cholesterol levels, everything is in check, Merrick Health is the one we trust, Merrick Health is the one that keeps us all healthy, with the second, with the second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, with second, God, I haven't seen you guys in forever. It feels so good. It feels good to be back. I saw you last fucking week, bro. What are you talking about? Yeah, but this is different. Yeah. You weren't paying attention to me. When you're here, you have to pay attention to me. I'm your... I was definitely paying attention. I'm the center of attention when you're here. Hey, do I sound okay? I feel like I sound weird. It doesn't sound as good as normal, but it sounds fine. I wonder why. Sounds a little... Hollow? Yeah. It does, right? Yeah. Let me see. I forgot my fucking... Something got all fucked up maybe while we were gone. I don't know. I don't know. I need an audio tech guy. Oh, my God. What? It got really bad. Now you sound wild. Okay. How does that sound? Oops. That's back to what it was, yeah. Back to what it was? Yeah, that's not bad. All right. We're going to run with it, and I'll get it fixed in the meantime. No, I like it. Sounds good. Seth, what are you eating, Mr. Comeback? Rice and beef, elk. Mmm. Wait. I'm always on diet. I eat today, too. Fucking right back to where we started. Ian's just interrupting Seth. Well, I was trying to interrupt you, but I... He didn't. He interrupted Seth. He didn't get back, though. Yeah. Um... Seth... How are you guys? How's everything going? Seth, Seth, I'm going to re-ask the question. I'm ready. I'm ready to interrupt you. Go, Seth. Go. Okay. Go, Seth. What are you eating? Rice and elk. You know what I'm eating? Did you say... Okay. Did you say rice, beef, and elk, or just rice and elk? Just rice and elk. Okay. I thought you said beef the first time. Um... So... Your face is looking, uh... Like, three weeks out. Are you doing Detroit? No. No. Are you going to jump... Are you going to jump into Detroit, or the Arnold? After looking at some of the people that are looking at doing Detroit, they're huge. They're really big. Like who? The guy that you just... You posted about that, um... Fuck. The black guy. Massive. A couple, few days ago, or something? Carlos? Horrible setup. The black guy, yeah? The black guy. There's a whole bunch of them. Poo. That was a bad comment. That's half the top... More than half the top body dealers in the program. All right. Three quarters of the IFB. That big black guy with the bubbly muscles. The huge black guy with the awesome muscle. Okay. That narrows it down. Mike, where are you? You're in a different room. Fucking cat switched around her whole fucking setup in here, man. It's fucking bizarro world. But somehow they're still... Not happy about it. Somehow there's still clothing and shit in the background. You're in a different room, but it's still a closet. Yeah, because I used to be over there. Oh, okay. In front of the window. Oh, she moved you to the other side. That's okay. It's nice scenery in the background. She put her office in a closet. Like, how fucking odd is that? I wonder if Paul remembers that we're podcasting. People are going to revolt if Paul doesn't show up. Oh, yeah. He just emailed me. He's having trouble getting into his email. It's not surprising. He's been hacked. Just open the email, Paul. Yeah. Just click the button. Just literally click it. So, where should we start? Seth, you just got back from Texas a couple weeks ago. Yeah, we were down at that absolute recomp. Dude, those gyms are wild. Yeah, the guys went... When I was down there the week after you, the guys went there, but I was in... I was riding that day, so I didn't get to go. But you went down for what? I know you saw Hany, but what else did you do while you were down there? Just absolute recomp. That gym. Oh, it was a gym opening? Yeah, they were just... They started carrying our products here a few months ago, and then they were having their grand opening, and then I saw everybody was going, and I'm like, I haven't seen anybody in a while. Fuck it. I'm going to go, too. And then it ended up being super cool to see everybody. I was pumped. Did you guys get to train together? You and the boys? No. No training sessions. Hany hit me up, and he's like, hey, dude, you're not coming to Texas, and we're not not training. And I'm like, I know. So we hung out on Friday. But I'm shocked that you didn't get a chance or didn't try to get in a session with, like, Martin or Derek or Nick or anybody. They trained first thing in the morning before the event. I didn't know they were training first thing in the morning before the event. But I do want to go down and train with them in Florida. I want to go see them because those two are wild men. You're talking about Brett and Martin? Yeah. I don't know. I trained with Martin. It wasn't crazy. Martin, if you're watching this, don't fucking lose your shit. No. Yeah, he's going to. No, I think you know what it was. I think I have a lot less muscle, so I can handle way more volume. Yeah. Like, we were doing, like, a high-volume leg workout. And by the end, Martin was torched. But it's because his legs are 35 fucking inches around. I don't think people take that into consideration. Like, when a little guy trains with a big guy and he's like, oh, I was able to keep up. I'm like, I don't think the little guy understands what it feels like to have 35-inch quads and have them full of blood and lactic acid. I agree. I agree. Because the bigger I've gotten over the past, like, few months here, it's not the same. No. It's much different. No. Much different. Because I could have fucking trained for, like, another half an hour and been totally fine. And Martin was like, his legs were, you couldn't see a line in his legs. They were so fucking swollen. So, you know, there's something to be said for that. And I don't think, like, the regular Joe public understands that feeling. And he said he was, he said he's in, you know, just coming off of everything. Yeah. In somewhat of a health phase now. Yeah. Because he said he's going to do the Pittsburgh. So. I love the word. Health phase is awesome. I love that word. I don't know what else to call it. Health phase. I don't want to offend anybody, but it's a fucking health phase. What do you call it, Mike? What do you call that? Bodybuilding? Doing less drugs? That's a health phase. You take some drugs away. Super healthy, yeah. Take some drugs away and you get healthy. That's the whole thing. It should be the healthier phase. Yes. The healthier phase. Yes. Blasting and cruising, man. I got to tell you, though, I've trained with a lot of fucking pros. I like the way Martin trains. Yeah? He's got, yeah, because he's. He's very deliberate in his movements, but not slow and annoying. You know what I mean? Like, he's not like. We all know those guys. Yeah, let's name a few. Listen. There is controlled movement and there is so slow that it's like watching paint dry. There's a difference. And I think Martin trains with like an intent that you can tell he's working the muscle, but it's not, you know, it's deliberate is what I would call it. I mean, it also directly correlates to his physique. Yeah. I mean, that style of training directly correlates. Like, you're like, oh, this is. I would imagine. Like, you know, it's like. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you're going to go down and train with Brett and Martin. I want to hit them up and just go down whenever they're both into their shit. And I am too. That way it's like. Be super cool and fun and intense. And just also. Like you said, like the different methodologies. Of people that could be following me and don't follow him. See that and see what it's like to be an open class bodybuilder. And like even, you know, dig into him and, you know, exactly what podcasts are supposed to do in training videos is pull things out of people that they normally wouldn't say in a video or something like that. Would you say set that you probably train closer to the way I trained? Like more high volume, a little bit faster, less rest periods, kind of that kind of thing. Yeah, I think. Yeah. I mean, I think that's AI think that was a style of training back whenever you and I were really in it. And I think that it's continued to evolve because even training with honey now, like he was like because he even said he's like, hey, he's like, we changed that up. Yeah. He's like, we're going to do this instead now. And I'm like, oh, OK, that makes sense. Like just the evolution of training styles and thought processes. And I think I think training and you can correct me if I'm wrong or Mike, because, you know, you guys are obviously at the top of the game. But I think training evolves with the people at the top, because if you think about when we were competing, Seth, or coming up in our younger years, Jay was at the top and Ronnie was at the top and they're both high volume guys. Technically, right now, Samson's the top and he's kind of down that road more. I'm not talking about just the very top. I'm talking about like if you if you if you took the top. Yeah. If you took the Olympia back in 2000 to 2010 or the 1990s to 2000, like other than Dorian Yates, everybody was doing high volume stuff. Yeah. So it's like I think it kind of now like the low, moderate volume, high intensity is definitely more the norm. And obviously, you guys are still doing high volume stuff. But, you know, I think it's I think we're starting to come into like this year of like a healthy mix of two. I think there was a time when people were like so married to like one methodology and everything had to be that way, which is like, right. You don't have to paint your entire training with the same brush like you can do two sets of your squats and 10 sets of your fucking leg press. Like I've done that. I've done that. I actually it's funny. It's funny you said that because that's exactly how my leg training has been for the last 20 years. My squats. My squats are always like low volume and reps. Yeah. Like it's always an eight to 10 maybe or even a six to 10. Yeah. But my leg press is always a 15 to 20. Yeah. And it might be four sets versus two sets. It could be on a test day. You could do heavy incline press and do two or three sets and you could get to a fly or a cable based motion or something and do three, four, five sets if it's still feeling good. You know, right, right, right. I think people need to not get so married to like the ideology like aspect of something. It's like they think it's I'm in this camp. I have to be this way. But it's like you can be everything, you know, you can be the best of all worlds. And I think that's what we need to find to be the best at training is like be open minded to like all these things. Yeah. And I think the guys that are starting to do that are the guys that are really excelling, like someone like Martin, you know. Yeah. Do you think that there's like there's a difference in training? I mean, there is, but I'm asking you so you can answer it eloquently between like open class bodybuilding and classic physique. Like, do you think there's a big distinction between the two? That's hard for me to answer because obviously the majority and actually the only classic physique top guy I've ever trained with is Chris. You know, I have done some other workouts here and there with other guys, but in very controlled settings like around the Olympia or, you know, when we're all kind of just doing fucking pump workouts and shit. And Chris trains like us, you know, like Chris is, you know, trains. Oh, you shouldn't say us because you train differently than like me and Seth, for example. No, but trains like a pro bodybuilder. Oh, yeah, that way. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He trains heavy. He trains heavy with high intensity and a combination of, you know, lower volume, lower rep on certain exercises, higher volume on stuff that he likes that feels good. There's a healthy marriage of those kind of two aspects in their form. You know, so, yeah, I think I think building muscle is building muscle. I don't think because you're in classic or you're in fucking men's physique, you need to train differently. I think when you're eating, how you push your off seasons, maybe where you allocate your training. But I mean, even within that, like how Samson might versus how Derek might allocate their volume would be based off of their strengths and weaknesses. So you could get that same variance in a classic physique guy or in a men's physique guy. So I think training across the board is honestly the exact same for everybody, in my opinion, and it should be, in my opinion. But I wonder about that. Muscle is building muscle, you know. It could feel like more men's physique muscle if you train a different way, you know. Because I think, like, I wanted everybody to hear because I think I agree. But I also think that, like, after going to a gym like Absolute Recomp and seeing all the different machines, like I could see that you would be able to build a little bit of a different workout that could be geared to, like, again, it's like it's really touchy. I'm thinking in my head because you don't have to do a lot of these big compound heavy movements to build muscle. You know what I mean? Like, that's why I was trying to – because when I went there, I'm like, I don't need to do one barbell row. I don't need to do barbell rows here. I could fuck around on these all day and build muscle. Yeah, and I think as technology and training advances with, like, the equipment, I think we're going to find that that becomes more and more commonplace amongst everybody. You guys know I'm going to tell you guys to fuck off when you say that, right? Yeah. Well, I'm excited. I'm baiting them. You're trying to bait me? Are you trying to bait me? Is that what you're doing? But this is one of those things that, like, I think you just need to use the best tool for the job. And I don't think – like, just like I said with the volume, I don't think we need to get too attached to any, like, sentiment of any certain thing. And if a T-bar row is better than the machine row for trying to hit what you're trying to hit, then fucking do it. If this machine is better for what you're trying to hit, then do it. You know, I think – Okay, but hold on. Before we get into the training debate, because we get into this all the time, what I was trying to get to originally with this point was if you looked at – hey, Pauly, you finally made it. Yeah. Turn your landscape off so you can turn your phone. Okay. How do I do that? Swipe down on the left – yeah, that's good. No, no. I got it. Swipe down on the right-hand side. Good. And you'll see a little – Up, up, left, right, down. Stop, stop. You'll see a little lock icon that's probably red. Yep. Push it. No, it's not red. Okay, well, click it anyway. See what happens. Okay, just a – Turn your phone the other way. Okay, how do I – hang on. Turn your phone sideways. What's going on with your computer, Paul? There you go. I can't get into my emails. Why? He changed his password. He can't remember. I changed my – no, I remember the password, but they're locking me out now. And it's doing a two-step verification, but I'm not getting a text message to verify myself. Maybe the two-step verification is coming to your other email. Do you have another email? No. Oh, okay. Can you get it to call you? What do you mean? Sometimes two-point authentication will be like text me or call me or email me kind of thing. You can call. Let's tell you the – I don't know that. Mine's got the text, but no text. You're probably going to have at some point a bunch of texts show up, but – Your peck tear looks horrible from this angle. You need to get your phone raised on something so it's the same – I'm just joking. Leave it. It's good. It's good. I'm so mad right now. I'm just joking. Just leave it. Something with your right peck. This side's good. How's that? Get some books, Paul. Build a fucking base for that book. Yeah, I don't want you guys to see the titles of these books. They're all my wife's social work books. Oh, no. They're all woke. Put it down here and put it to school. Paul, took my five books. Put the phone on. Woke. Woke library. Oh, okay. Okay. Paul's sitting in a woke library right now. He's like – Hang on. Here. We can't see it. If I could read you somebody's title, you'd have a good laugh. Do it. Do it. Tell me one. I'll just tell you one. Okay. Tell me one. Okay. Don't say that to the wife. Oh, yeah. She'll never find out. Decolonizing trauma work. Oh, my God. Hurts my head just to hear that. Okay. Anyway, what I was saying is it's funny that now if you look at guys who train – before you got on, Paul, we were talking about how training has changed, but it changes usually because it trickles down from the top. So what I was trying to say is like nowadays, it's kind of like Ian, Hunter, Nick, Martin, Brett, like all these guys that are like seen as being at the top of the game all train in this – I don't know. I don't want to call it low volume, but less volume, I guess. And it seems to trickle down to the rest because even like I got guys at work that are just amateurs that are like, yeah, I train – like I only do like two sets, blah, blah, blah, or they like – they just have totally changed from back in the day. Pussies. Don't say it. I'm just joking. I'm just joking. Dorian Yates, you fuck. I'm just joking. They have Dorian Yates as their like leader. They can say whatever they want. Yeah. Anytime you say anything about low volume training, there's like Dorian Yates. Work for Dorian. Yeah, that's a good guy. Mike Mentzer. Well, listen, you have to admit it works because – It all fucking works. Hunter is fucking jacked as fuck. Martin is jacked as fuck. Like Ian was fucking jacked. Like these guys are all putting on tons of muscle. Well, you're not anymore. You're skinny fat now. Let's see it. Let's see it. Dang, remember we were – did you guys make me show my abs that night we were out? I think I remember that. The night we were bowling. I didn't see that. You're still pretty jacked. Yeah, those are like – are there 18 now? What? It's a bad camera angle, okay? Anyways. So, Seth, you went down to Texas. You trained at Absolute Recomp or not trained but got to hang out there with the boys. Any drama? Did you find out any dirt from anybody while you were there? No. No. Nick is big as fuck. That's a normal. He looks like a mutant. Yes. As usual. Martin's pretty big. Martin is bigger in person than – I think – Like, when you see him on stage or you see him there, you don't think, oh, like, he's like a – you don't think of him as this huge bodybuilder. In-person, that motherfucker's really big. He's very round. It's crazy. It's very three-dimensional. Brett's sick too. I'm excited to see how Brett does next year. I'm really pumped. You know, the tricky thing about Brett, and I hope he doesn't take this the wrong way if he's watching. In the offseason, he looks fucking humongous. But I think he just gets so peeled, he loses some of that, like, extra thickness. But I think it's just time because he's still building his physique, right? But in the offseason, when you see him, you're like, what the fuck is this? It's, like, huge. Wide as fuck and, like, just thick. But it seems like it comes down – I haven't seen him get ready for a contest in a while, so I don't know what he looks like contest ready now. And not only that, they are all, like, really good dudes. Like, hanging out together, they're just great guys. Like, Brett's such a – Brett is a solid human being. Brett's a beauty, yeah. Yeah. Solid human being. What – did Derek hang out with the crew, or was Derek kind of – Yeah. No, he was there. We were all shooting. Am I allowed to spread rumors on this podcast? Yes. That's what we do here. Yeah, we love them. We love that. Go ahead. Get that going. I heard through the grapevine who Derek might be working with next. Okay. That's not that great, but okay. Okay, I won't play you. Fuck you then. No, no, no. No, no. We want to – Wait, I'm – wait, I'm – hold on. I'm dying in suspense. I need to know. I tried pulling it out of him. I don't know who he's going to work with. I've heard a couple rumors, but I don't know if they're true. Do people really care that much, though, about somebody's coach? Like, I know how people make this, like, big, big deal. Yeah. Nope. Yeah. People do that. Anything – I mean, I care, but I don't think it's, like, this huge, like, I don't know, announcement. What did you hear, Seth? I think – I don't know. Again, I'll hear you say – I saw it on the internet on, like, comments and shit. Either AJ Sims or Aceto. I heard AJ Sims, yeah. Wow, that's weird. I wouldn't have called either one of those. Who does AJ work with? I know he's working with Justin. Right now, I don't think he's working with many people. I think he's kind of – AJ – listen, AJ has a really good track record. AJ gets guys in shape. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. AJ's got – I think, you know, Marco – is it Marco Rivera? Is that who I'm thinking of? Is that Marco Rivera? Yep. No. Marco – you're thinking of – His last name's Rivera, but what's his first name? Alexis Rivera. Alexis Rivera. That guy looks fucking phenomenal. Here, let me see if I can pull it up while we're talking. I mean, he got Justin Rodriguez in the best shape of his career. Oh, way better than everybody else. Yep. Alexis Rivera was fucking sick. Yeah, he was – And I think his amateurs are always fucking peeled, too. Yeah, he never has guys that are, like, in not great condition. No, he does. The reason I said I'm not sure – Oh, yes. I think this is when he worked with AJ. I don't know which one of these pictures exactly is the one. That go up one? No, those, yeah. This was Vancouver. Look at this fucking shit. And that's what he actually looked like in person. Those aren't, like, edited to the notes. Yeah. Yeah. The reason I was kind of shocked by it, though, is because – And I don't know for sure. So, again, this is just me just talking. But I thought AJ's protocols were a little bit more old school. Yeah. Which isn't necessarily a bad thing. I just thought – Unless he's changed his protocols since, like – I personally don't know anything about his protocols. But I think it would be good for Derek, you know, coming from Hany, to be with a guy that's not a big camp. Like, being with the Stefan, where Stefan's coaching, like, 275 fucking pros. Can we talk about that for one second? He's literally got, like, 10 Olympians. 10. He's got – No, no, no. I mean in open. I mean open. I mean open only. Like, he's got – In the show I was at when I was in Prague, he had 13 people just in Prague. Yeah, yeah. I'm talking about just open, though. So, yeah. I think three out of the four guys in the first callout or something were with him. Sean Clarita, the guy who came fourth, and fucking Martin. We're all with him. Martin, Clarita, Regan, Nathan, James, fucking – Sergio now? Who? Oh, Sergio. It's like the list just keeps growing. And I'm like, listen, I don't care how good you are with time management. That's got to come back at some point and be like – It's going to be hard, man. Yeah. Like, I don't know. I don't know. I know he's, like, autistic, admittedly. Like, he's very, like – No, he told me. Like, he's, like – He's with his time. He's very, like, on it, right? But I don't know, man. If you've got 10 – Let's say 8 to 10. I don't know how many. Open guys only. Like, at the last Olympia, he had 17 competitors. Yeah, he's going to have double that next year. At the fucking Olympia. He's going to have 30 people at the Olympia at least. Yeah. That's my biggest concern for, I mean, for the competitors is the fact that it's going to be so much. I mean, he's obviously doing it, but there were some people that nailed it, some of his people that didn't do so well. And it's going back and forth. Is it his fault? Is it their fault? Did something just go wrong? Was it – did you just miss? It's exciting because he does such a good job with his athletes, but it's also, like, this is kind of a ticking time bomb. You kind of – You know what I find interesting about pro bodybuilders is they all have the same – and I've noticed this on my podcast, like, just from interviewing different people. They will all say that they don't need to be babysat. Every single one is, like, I don't need a babysitter. I just need the X's and O's. And I'm, like – Until then, I'll gain the time they want. I'm, like, listen, I guarantee you the majority of them need to be babysat. And that's not a negative thing. It's not a negative connotation. It's just when you have a coach, you want that coach to worry about you. Especially – And I'm, like – Yeah. Yeah. I'm, like, I don't know how I could be at the Olympia and be, like, okay, my coach is in my room for 10 minutes. Right. And then he's going to fuck off. Yeah. And I have – and I don't have access to him because he's got 30 other people. Yeah. I wonder when the athletes might start presenting that a little bit or at least – then it becomes, like, if an athlete doesn't do as good as he could have, is that something where it's an easy thing to blame it on then? Like, you know, you weren't spending enough time with me because you had so many other people? Yeah. I mean, he's going to take the blame, right? Even if it's not his fault, I think people will be, like, oh, he's got too many people. Yeah. I think you need to set the precedent of, like, the time is, like – there's no time for fucking around. You know? It's, like, you come by. I look at you. I send you a program. You leave. Like, I don't need to hang out with you to assess how good of a bodybuilder you are and what changes. But, Ian, I don't think that's – I mean, look. You can set that precedent in every single bodybuilder before the relationship starts. No, I'm not saying that ones won't get upset. They will. Yeah, yeah. That's my whole point. I'm saying it doesn't – in terms of giving them good service, I think it is still doable. Listen, if it was a black and white situation where it was just X's and O's, yeah, he could fit them all into a schedule and do it. But you know as well as I do, you know from coaching and from being an athlete, that doesn't work like that. You want to be able to – From the coach's side, I agree. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, even from the coach's side because you could schedule something, but the athlete might call you and be like, hey, I need you to come back. Like, this and this and this happened. And that happened. Yeah, things happen. I agree. For sure. Yeah. So I'm like, I just don't know. Like, I'll put it this way. If I was an athlete, as much as I love Stefan and as great as he is, I would be hesitant to be like, I'm going to throw my hat in that ring. Yeah. So I love Stefan. I would love to work with him. But at this point, I would not, no. Yeah, especially like if I was someone like Derek who's got a chance at winning the Olympia again. I would be like, you know what? That's where this all spouted from is me saying, I understand him going to someone like AJ with a small camp, with a good reputation, getting guys into really good peaks. You know, I think that's a good pick for someone like him, for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Because I don't think AJ's coaching anybody else right now. Is he? Not any top pro that I'm aware of. I mean, maybe a couple guys here and there. Like, I think he maybe coaches like fucking Robert Timms or like some of these guys, but like I'm not sure who else he's coaching. What about Justin? He doesn't train Justin anymore? I don't think so. No, I don't think he's with, I think he left, I think Rodriguez left him a long time ago. Yeah. So anyway, Seth, after Absolute Recomp, you went to see Hany? I went to see him and then went to Absolute Recomp. Okay. So when you, so question, when you saw Hany, is Hany coaching you or is he just kind of advising? Or are you just hanging out? We were just, we just met up because he was in Texas and he's, he's not coaching anybody. It's more or less like, he's just like, Hey, what are you doing? Are you, are you just saying that? So you don't piss off Derek and Hany? No, no, no. You're like, I'll tell you later. He's secretly coaching me. I mean, with me, I'm like, I'm like, Hey, like, I don't really know anybody else. Like, I don't even, do you even want another, want to coach? I mean, you're fucking ready for the stage now. No, I mean, of course, like, if like there's phases like this phase I'm in now is just dabbling to see if the drugs work. My body works. I can handle it. Body's responding. Well, shut it down, get blood work done, clean out a little bit, and then go into an offseason phase, put on a little bit of denser muscle. My back is just not where it is. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I'm sorry. I need to back up a little bit. That's right. You're going to dabble with the drugs, see how it affects you, check your health, and then you're going to go into an offseason phase. I thought you were doing a show like soon. No. What are you talking about? We're all fucking waiting for you in Detroit. What do you mean? March 29th, baby. What the fuck? You know, there's 15 weeks, bro. You're 15. We're 15 weeks out. Listen, it's 14 this Saturday. Yeah. You're ready, man. No, but. Again, that big black guy's going on. I can't remember his name. Yeah, whoever that fucking guy was. Yeah. That guy, he's doing a show. Listen, but no, no. In all seriousness, I thought you were doing Pittsburgh. No. No. No. I thought you were doing a show. Oh, so you're going to actually take an offseason and like do something like in the spring or the fall. It's not this great but the fall. Yeah, probably in the summer. Again, it's all going to shake out because I want to. I need. My back needs to pick up. Like my back needs work. My lower legs. My legs. Yeah, but Seth, you can't grow your back at 40 years old. You're done. Like this is it. What you got now is what you're going to get on stage with. I miss you so much. I can't play more often. Bring me back to reality. But it's, I mean, it's that I haven't trained like this. This is the first time I've trained like a bodybuilder for 12 straight weeks and four and a half years. Isn't it awesome? It's everything is working. I just got to be. Did you did you miss it over like all the fucking CrossFit shit you were doing? Like, is this awesome to me back? This is this is it's it's it's who I am. It's who we are. Like, I love this shit. It's fun. Whether you do push, pull, legs or bro split. Doesn't matter. It's fucking fun. Yeah. Just because it's like you move whenever you get stronger. You're like, oh, man, this feels good to be strong. This feels really good to do this. When are you going to train? When are you going to train with me and Paul? I'm going to come up. We're going to we're going to do arms together. I don't have any fucking arms. I saw that. I saw the fucking video. See the peaks on this motherfucker? Peaks for the freaks. They were out. Peaks for the freaks. I want to hear something. Actually, I had I had a nightmare two nights ago. About Paul? Let me let me say that it was a nightmare. OK. I woke up or in my nightmare. I was like going to train or compete or something. And I had like who had Paul like flat dead fucking. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Nothing on the back. And I was like, oh, my God, what the fuck happened? You know, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Back up. It's not awful. Ian, that sounds awful. Yeah. It was awful. I woke up in a sweaty panic. It's not Fouad Paul. It's just Paul. Tricep. I had triceps. They just disappeared. I woke up where they had disappeared like yours. Oh, OK. Fuck. Give us a shot of those peaks, Paul. Hit a shot right now. Show us those peaks. Oh. Put it away. Put it away. It's only going that far up because then the rest of it just drops off. Yeah. Did you tear that bicep? I would like to clarify, though. I've got decent outer head on my tricep. It's my long head. There's nothing there. Yeah, that's the part that matters. The two-thirds of it. That's two-thirds of the tricep. I don't like my outer head. It's OK. That's why you never do a front. Never do a double bicep. That way you don't have to show the lateral. You just show from the front. Well, when I do my side tricep, I just do it like this. When you do your side tricep. When do you do your side tricep? Yeah, right? In the bathroom. After the shower. Yeah, I stay ready. You never know. Paul, let's be honest. How often do you do any mandatory poses? I like my side chest. I still hit the side chest. It's funny. Wait, wait, wait. I want to know when this happens. So, like, you take a shower. Like, when you get out of the shower. You stop. You look in the mirror. Usually right before the shower. Oh, so you're naked just before you go in. You hit a side chest? Let's hit a side chest usually before I get the shower. I do this, too. It's mandatory. It's the only shot I still hit. I'll be, like, naked. I'll be, like, I'll hit a side chest. I'm like, all right, I'm good. That's right. I only do the front relaxed with my arms down. Oh, you don't. Don't, sir. Don't. Stand up. Stand up and just show us. Like, keep your clothes off. Don't be the pose. Standing up. Keep your clothes on. Just the front relaxed without my foot. No. You just stand up and you just go like this. You're just like. Why? Because I'm just checking how if my stomach is still flat enough. It's really. If it's expanding constantly. Yeah. Basically, it's just a check. Can I eat more McDonald's or do I have to stop? Yeah. Yeah. Because, like, every couple weeks I have to, like, stop eating bad food and bring it back. And then. You're just checking your silhouette. Yeah. I just check the silhouette. I don't do any poses. Making sure you still got an X. You know what's crazy? There's literally no poses I can do anymore that I actually, like, can stand looking at my physique. None. Not one. Not one. Not even a side chest? None. Zero. Side chest is the last one to go. Listen. You know why? Because when you lose your arms, everything looks like shit. You can do, like, a most muscular, like. Oh. You know what I mean? Yeah. I still got a good. The only ones I don't mind doing is, like, if I'm wearing a t-shirt, I'll still drop my pants and show my legs. I feel like my side chest could still win, like, a national show. You know? You have the best side chest of the amateurs. Yeah. Maybe, like, a fucking Puerto Rico pro, like, you know? That's where you got your pro card, isn't it? Mexico. Okay. Anyway, Seth, what were we saying? Okay. So you're going to, when's your off-season start? Probably do something in February. How big are you going to get? Too easy. I just need, I need to, I need to add, I don't need to get too much bigger, but I need to add the density and the thickness and my lats and my legs. I know. I guess my question is this. Old school Seth would have got up to, like, 250, 260, a little bit fluffy. Probably two, yeah, probably 250. Is new Seth doing, like, kind of a new school way of bulking where you're, like, still 10%? Yeah. Oh, yeah. I'm going to, I'm staying in shape. I'm staying in shape. But it's going to just, I'm not, there's certain, I'm not going to dabble in the orals. I don't really. What? I don't think I need to. What? I love oral. What do you mean? Oral's great. I love oral. Like, I'm still, she's good at it. She's great. I love it. I'm personally not taking orals. Okay. You're not going to do oral. Yeah. I don't know. Receive oral. Okay. I love oral. I love oral. You're the fucking 41% bitch. What are you talking about? Yeah, no, I'll stay in shape for it. And I just got to, like, again, the back is going to be my main focus. And then just overall size in my legs. Hamstrings need a lot of pickup too. So you're going to go downstream with Hany regularly? Yeah. It's something that we talked about. He's like, I'd really like you to come down. He's like, you know, he's like, if you can afford the time, he's like, make it a point to come in once a month. He's like, once a month. So in other words, he's coaching you. He does not know. Hany and Derek, I would have a word with Hany if I were you. I don't know. Well, he was, we're down there. I'm like, hey. He's still coaching Hany too. I was like, what's it like? What's it like, you know, being retired? I was like, how's it feel? He's like, it feels really weird. He's like, I don't know. He's like, I like it. He's like, but he's like, I'm addicted to my phone. He's like, he took that vacation with his family. And he's like, I retired and nobody hit me up. And I was like, he's like, you didn't even hit me up. I'm like, bud, you said you're retiring. I'm not going, hey, dude, what's up? While you're on vacation with your family. No. Listen, can I, can I tell you guys something? And Ian, Ian probably has a, his own insight on this, but everybody thinks, and I went through this when I was competing. Everybody thinks retirement is amazing. Like, oh, it's going to be great. Like I've done this for so long. I'm ready to like stop. And then you stop and you're like, I don't think I should have stopped. It takes a few months, but eventually it catches up with you. And I said to, I forget who I was talking to. Was it Paul or somebody else? I don't remember. They're asking me about Chris. Or I think Ian was in the car too. We were talking about it. Maybe we were in Toronto. I don't know. But I predicted that Chris would come back because he's too young and too healthy. And I can't see him giving up that feeling. I mean, I could be wrong. I don't know him. This is all my own speculation, but like, I don't know. If he came back in a year, I wouldn't be shocked. Let's just put it that way. And the same thing with Hanne. Like sometimes, sometimes you don't have to retire. Sometimes you just need a break. Yeah. And that's why I was on his podcast. I said that. I was like, who's to say you don't come back? And he's like, oh, yeah. And I was like, you might all of a sudden be gone for five years. Yeah. You know, be with Cam growing up and, you know, big part of it and all and everything you want to do. But then you might come across some young amateur or this big time young pro that just turns pro that you could see being a big part of it and mentoring him and then coaching him and bringing it all back. And he's like, oh, yeah. He's like, but he's like, I don't want people to think like he's like, look at my gym. I have all this shit. I don't want people not to come see me. Right. I don't want people to stop coming down the train and work out with me and, you know, just be around. And he just doesn't want to be a full time coach. Yeah. Yeah. It's a lot. But I think if you look at his pattern, for example, he's got the top three best bodybuilders on earth minus Samson. Like he's got Derek, Hottie, Chris. Right. And he's got these guys for a number of years. You're probably at a point where you're like, I've done everything I have to do. I got 25 fucking Olympias. I train the best bodybuilders in the world. I think I've done it all. I can stop. But it's probably just the kind of thing where like I bet you if he takes a break for a year or two, he's going to be like. Like you said, somebody might just pop out of nowhere and be like, I'd like to fucking work with that kid. Yeah. Right. And that's good for that's good for like, you know, whenever you like you said, you retire and you go through it and you're like, oh, it's going to be great. And then you're like, should I have done this? And then you get the itch and you do all this. Like sometimes, like you said, you just need a break and also reinvigorate the love and passion that we have for the sport, you know, because it's something that, you know, that was what Jansen got critiqued so hard on. And it's like he just lost touch with it. You know, was that it? And then now you might give him a few years. He might come back and really light it all on fire. And everybody's like, he's the greatest thing in the world again. Yeah. The thing is, not everybody has that. Not everybody has that ability, like whether whether it's financial or whatever, like, for example, like Chris has Chris, honey, Matt, for example, you can use any three of the examples. They all have the ability to take a break and not need to work necessarily as hard because they have either other jobs or they have enough money so they can take a break and just come back. Like other bodybuilders might want to retire, but they can't. They don't have the means. They have to keep competing. So it's like I see these guys that have the disposable income that take these breaks. I just feel like any of the three I could would not be shocked at all if all three came back. Matt, honey, Chris, like this. That happens in every sport, too. Look, this kind of shit doesn't go away. I mean, Seth, you fucking haven't trained like a bodybuilder in 10 fucking years. And all of a sudden you're like, you know what? I'm going to do it again. Yeah. Sorry, Paul, go ahead. You were saying something. It's like in every sport, too. Like everybody has a hard time walking away. You know, a lot of sports guys come back after we've been retired for a year or two. And that's the thing. But imagine someone like Chris who's only 30. Right. Or someone like honey who like there's no limit age-wise on a coach. Right. So like there's no time limit really. Just come back a year, two years, three years. Like, hey, you know what? I miss it. I'm going to come back. And I wouldn't be shocked at all. Yeah. But it's the only thing you've done your whole life. It's hard to walk away from. Yeah. Yeah. Because there's a lot of criticism online from this about people that come back and, you know, like I'm just taking it slow. I'm seeing what I can. But the comeback or there's a lot of criticism from it. Do you think it's because a lot of people haven't done something like this or been at a certain level? I think for you it's because you were so adamant about certain things that people are like. Oh, yeah. They feel like you're lying. Oh, yeah. For me, for sure. Fuck. But it's a crazy thing publicly, though. You're not. Hi. Is that Doug or Peter? Or what's his name? Beatrice. Beatrice. Peter. I thought there was a Peter in there somewhere. Peter or Paul. She's adorable. Okay. I think, Seth, I don't feel like you're allowed to change your mind on big topics online. Your fans, like your hardcore fans, will always support you. They're like, you know what? Oh, you want to come back? I got your back. But the ones just outside of your loyal fans are like, well, you said this. Why are you changing your mind? It's kind of like when Ian was running and then he didn't want to run anymore and he was bodybuilding. People were like, oh, I thought you were going to run. And it's happened to me, too. I'm like, you know what? I want to run a marathon. Then I changed my mind. People were like, oh, you're going to run a marathon. You change your mind. I'm like. I can do what I want. It's okay. I wasn't as passionate about it as I thought I was. I'm retired. I do what the fuck I feel like. You're going to get in the ring for it. What's that? You're going to get in the ring. I'm still in. I still have that plan. It's still in my. Why did you turn your phone back? I'm trying to figure out how to get to see all you guys. Right now, I can only see you. Swipe. Swipe. Swipe. Wait. Left? Yeah. But turn your phone back. Oh, fuck. Here we go. What the fuck? Swipe the other way, Paul. Swipe the other way. Thank you. Okay. There you go. You got us now? Yeah. So you sat there for 45 minutes and didn't ask? It'll fix itself. It'll fix itself. Just a glitch. It'll fix. Mike and Ian, your birthdays came by while we were away. Yeah. How old are you, Mike? Old. 44. Holy fuck. That's it. You look great. You're on the downhill now. 44. Two fake hips and a fake shoulder. Things are only downhill. Ian, you're 35? 34. Me and Mike are 10 years apart. 10 years apart. Mike, you said you were making a comeback. I saw a picture yesterday. You're going to do men's physique? No. I just figured out Mike's name. Ford's short. You saw my name? Finally. Yeah. I just saw it. What's the? The soap? What? The cocks. The cocks. The cocks. The cocks. The cocks. The cocks. I don't get it. So Mike are fond of the penis. Oh, so fond of cocks. Yeah. i get it brandon don't clip that part you fuck what'd you get for your birthday mike uh anything good nothing but you gave me the you gave me a gift certificate other than that what'd your wife get you oh she didn't i don't want her to get me anything really she's got me like some creed cologne oh i got some of that she she felt like getting me so i was like okay i'll work but i love cologne i love i love cologne i have like a whole shit ton of colognes love it really seth is really adamant about his love for cologne oh yeah i love you guys have like a lot of you have like a couple of them that you go to or do you have like multiple so i have multiple paul do you have multiple or one i got two uh seth you got me onto the moroccan oil oh yes it's nice i love it i haven't fucking used i haven't used it yet oh even to me if you're not gonna use it i'm gonna use it i just i'll take it not to me i'm gonna fucking jesus christ this smells liquid gold beard everywhere everywhere yeah entire head just fucking baked and everything just get it on you does it leave you feeling does it leave you still smile slimy though i don't like slimy no no and beautiful fragrance yes okay thank you ian how many colognes do you have uh i there's two that i use i'm out of both right now though it's an unfortunate time no it's perfect christmas is around the corner just tell your wife yeah oh my thing i think my sister got me cologne my wife told me um seth you you brought it up let i'm gonna tell you something after but i want to ask you so are you a cologne sprayer every time you leave the house or only like to dinners and shit yeah i'm like my dad only to dinners and special occasions yeah yeah okay so so my brother-in-law came to stay with us okay oh so so anyway every fucking time he leaves the house doesn't matter where he's going he would walk through the house and i would go and i'm like that fucking smells good in here he's spraying cologne every time he leaves the house oh shit and i'm like you know i'm like you know what that's a great idea yeah i like that so now it's great now it's become a total uh normal thing for me i'm surprised you weren't already on top of this oh no that's it's italian they take no italians no but italians don't shower they just spray cologne instead you always know when i'll tell you shower yeah if someone walks by me i know it's a lebanese right away yeah why paul tell us why over the over the loan smell okay i'll give you that we may overdo the cologne a little bit i didn't know but but but not in place of the shower like italians no why you know why though it's because their noses are all their noses are all fucked up so they can't smell how much cologne they're putting on you know let's say that the arabs are a people of excess so if we do it we go overboard that's right that's everything we do everything we do i miss this so much i miss this podcast so much the racism it's just a fine sprinkling of racism um anyway mike what's your cologne what's your go-to cologne creed uh yeah i used to wear creed eventus a lot but i right now i have the louis vuitton it's called imagination okay pretty good i haven't spelled that also seth oh you have more mike go ahead bayretto if you guys are for the bayretto or bayretto bald afric that's good i gotta write i gotta write some of these down yeah i'll send you i'll send you a list i'll send you a list okay i'll post it i'll post it on my stories for you okay thank you seth what's your what's your go-to i can't remember the name of the one that i that i used it had like a king's crown on it but i can't remember what the hell the name is but then i also have the gucci guilty um i like that one it's a nice smell light um my dad was the green polo that was my dad's oh that's the classic yeah this time of year it just my brothers were uh my brothers were jacar jacar noir jacar noir jacar noir jacar noir that was for the clubs isn't it non-airdive guy that's ever bought that cologne paul what's your go-to abercrombie and finch fierce i had that when i was in college why did you say it like that that what yours yeah it was very deliberate like the way you like you were doing a commercial well make sure that that's the particular clone of there but i but i is there another one or is just that one i don't know ian i have uh the one that i used for the last little while is the one million paco rabanne i've heard of that i think like the gold thing fucking ben's got a really good one okay you wouldn't tell me i have another one baccarat baccarat's good or five or whatever oh what's that like a mont blanc is that what it's called the mont blanc mont blanc smells a lot like creed eventus yeah yes that's that's the other one i have the other one i had that's that i really i'm writing down creed eventus i want to try i want to see what creed eventus is nice creed's good i don't know what kind of pay seven pay seven hundred dollars a bottle is it nice is it very arab or no no no it's not arab no my what is arab what is what is an arab stink like so spicy it's a little close close to rubbing alcohol as you can get no i'm serious sting the nose and you go by it's like a little bit it's like the same reaction you have to smelling salts wake up what uh paul you love this hey you love you're the most racist guy in this podcast for sure no no i'm sorry but paul with patrol he's patrolling that border with racism paul is paul is um generational thing no yeah it's like that it's like it's like your granddad who's just racist he doesn't know i like calling the need most yeah yeah yeah yeah no no no it accused me of being a racist my wife is part black and my best friend is muzzle yeah you did that just so you could make fun of people yeah it just happened it's just so no one suspects you it's a perfect cover you're like the gay guy you're like the gay guy who gets married so no one knows he's gay you did it with race jesus uh well because you you were talking about having asian flu last week or the week before or whatever that's like that's you know you're fucking just killing everybody articles for you guys showing that there was an avian influenza avian avian not asian avian comes from asia right it means bird dude avian is not asian it's a baby doesn't mean does it yes it does well it doesn't mean a bird but it doesn't mean a bird but it's airborne it's airborne yeah like avion reward members yeah i was associated with asian out of the way because you're racist that's like you're being good for relations starts with a yeah they it depends on end here definition avian is a french word that translates to airplane or aeroplane in english a machine that flies it's an airplane nothing about a page there nothing about anything there sorry yeah avian flu was like a bird flu you know you're so lucky people like you because you're so you're so fucking you're so fucking racist um okay where i i uh sorry okay before we get off the cologne thing spicy or sweet or musky isn't that like kind of the the different sense or flowery i don't like flowery it's like soapy too a lot of clones are soapy i don't like i definitely i definitely don't like spicy i don't i don't do spicy i like uh eve saint laurent there's a eve saint laurent cologne i like a lot i don't know i don't know i know which one you're talking about it's not it's kind of mild it's not it but it's i don't know what to describe it as it's not spicy it might be sweet i guess i don't know i read about one that was getting popular that was smelled like mortar oil that's gross why would you want that it's masculine it's meant it's manly i'm looking it up there's a tom ford there's a tom ford clone that smells like no i actually heard an article about it i think it was casserole was like cocaine did you cast there's a tom ford cologne i forget what it's called but if you google that it'll come up what is it tom for tom ford cologne it smells like cocaine it's like tuscan leather or something mostly cocaine it literally smells like rock isn't that isn't that just isn't that just gasoline isn't that not that i would know what caffeine cocaine smells like but i heard if i was to speculate yeah um according to cognoscenti of that drug yes a bit that's what everyone says admits a counter boy at the ford store on madison who had adds that one customer even bought a bottle because he thought it smelled like coke oh let's get another yeah i have more that just smells like gasoline though what the do you want that for coke doesn't smell like gasoline if it's good coke it does it smells like gasoline yeah we're all just gonna have to go buy a bag and see ian that's what i've been told okay i don't know if every purchase is over 100 on the hostile website you get a bag you come for i've been i don't know about these things i just people tell me that's what i care um do the motor oil it's a thing paul's right yeah motor oil cologne yeah yeah i mean you get candles that smell like gwyneth paltrow's snatch so i'm sure you can get you can yeah that's the thing you didn't know about that no does it smell good or it smells like fishy i think have none of you ever heard of this no it's called vagina yeah who else do they go google this yeah gwyneth paltrow gwyneth paltrow vagina one second one second one second what is this male fragrances like motor oil a couple of indie brands yep scents have a motor oil accord i don't know what that means there you go wicked good perfume mike you can sell this shit yeah you gotta you gotta sue them that's your name yeah working um um gwyneth paltrow there you go candle literally right under it pussy stink no like at what time of the month is the is the scent goops infamous vagina candle what the fuck yeah yeah it smelled nice we also pointed out that it didn't actually smell like anyone's vagina then what's the one specific vagina it smells like vagina as a a collaborative there's no such thing there's every vagina has a specific smell i know it does but they're going for an overarching vagina smell what is overarching vagina smell like you guys smell that you'll like that about the freak that sounds like it's for black people what's that one say i can't same one as baccarat but it's a different it's called aramis okay wait can we go back to the vagina stink yeah can you get a clone like that what is the vagina what is overall vagina smell like i don't know what the general vagina smell is gotta buy the candle to find out man probably like a flower i'm really curious i'm really curious pennies oh my god depends on the time of month man that's the worst combination ever imagine like a cologne like that that's the first lick mike it's like putting your putting your tongue on a battery god i can't okay i'm gonna puke let's i'm trying to get paul to gag because i've got a weak stomach you're not there yet it's usually we're like poop and shit and i start on a throw up okay let's go to let's move on to bodybuilding um let's do tell us about how your riding was in texas yeah incredible incredible i went by myself you were yourself where'd you ride uh the twist is a three roads that kind of make up a square there's one that's not part of it but there's three other roads and it's a square it's called twisted sisters it's kind of a loop i've heard of it yeah it's like a hundred mile loop and i did it in like 45 minutes it was awesome man it was great you rented a bike the same as yours as well even yeah even the ride out there because i rented the bikes in um it's near san antonio so i went to san antonio i rented a bike there you're pretty self-right a road glide yeah i rented a road sorry i rented a road glide in the at the harley in san antonio and it's a two-hour ride out to the loop even the ride out there was beautiful like really nice roads i don't want to say really nice roads as far as paved but twists and turns are beautiful and elevation changes and shit and then i got out there i stopped grabbed a drink and then did the loop fuck it's awesome man it was not long like i wouldn't say it's better than our riding california but it was pretty sweet like i'd like to go back and do it again well if you do it again this winter i'll do it with you yeah i was thinking like february and all this fucking sick new gear you got me bro i'm ready to roll yeah yeah february let's do something february because that'll give us like a break right in the middle before fucking summertime comes back around but it was fucking awesome i i drove from dallas to san antonio on tuesday night that was a five-hour drive then i did the ride on wednesday that was a five-hour ride and then i drove back on thursday for another five hours i was fucking white wiped out but it was fun as fuck man and i almost died when i almost hit the deer yeah i saw that you saw that photo it was like fuck it so i don't know if i can show you on my phone seth look at this fucking wait uh where the fuck did it go there it is let's see if you can see this see that deer yeah it's like right in front that's like a foot from my front tire no shit i came around that corner doing fucking dead as shit i came around that corner doing 86 miles an hour oh my god oh i'm fucking i have my insta 360 on the bars right and it started to sag so i'm coming around a left hand sweeper and i see it sag so i reach up and i grab it and i i go to and i'm really i'm kind of leaning the other way now i'm going back the other way as i'm putting my insta 360 back up and then i look from my 360 back on the road and i see a fucking fawn standing in the middle of the road just standing there and i'm like i grabbed my bars as hard as i could and i literally screamed in my helmet i was like oh i like screamed as loud as i could and then i'm like i'm and in my head i remember saying i'm gonna hit it and i was i kind of braced myself in the last minute it just went and i was like holy i was like i almost my pants and then i slowed down for like five minutes and i'm like what's the chance it's gonna happen again so i got on it again and i finished my right finished my ride it was scary man i thought and i don't know what that's like i've heard of guys hitting deer like obviously not a large deer but like something like that and like kind of getting getting through it and and being okay really and i've yeah and i've also heard of guys getting totally mangled i would imagine the heavier the bite the bigger the chance that you're gonna well i think i think the way i was right i think the speed i was riding at but more the angle because i was kind of leaning i don't think there's any way i would have got away with that no you wouldn't i think if i was going like dead straight maybe i don't know potentially but i think in the middle of a fucking lean going that fast i think i would have been yeah i would have been fucked totally so anyway whenever you whenever you're riding down there like you have a full face helmet on that day i did yeah i don't you know what i don't really ride with beanies anymore i used to ride a full face helmet but he's wearing a t-shirt i was no no that's not true that's not that's not true that's not true because it was kind of chilly so i had i had my kevlar pants on so i would have been safe i had my riding boots i had a full face riding gloves and then i had about four layers i didn't have a riding jacket though i had like a t-shirt thermal and then a hoodie over top of that so i think my upper body probably would have got fucked up because that shit's just going to tear away once i hit the ground yeah yeah going that fast for sure i probably should have been wearing a vest i have a riding vest i probably should have been wearing but the vest i got the vest with the shit you got me is fucking sick yeah yeah you're gonna need to get your own vest with your logo on it so you can wear your shit it's funny i talked i talked to our manufacturer and he's like i can do motorcycle shit i'm like hostile motorcycle gear it's fucking fits for sure so uh so yeah i think that might be next but um anyway it was fucking amazing it was scary for that one second but other than that that's not this is fucking wild yeah i need to fucking ride man so we got to do another one i don't want to i i'll tell you something after anyway uh okay let's do hey so i got to bring this up bodybuilding stuff you want to mention it so at nationals apparently that middleweight was wild looking i'll show you the photo right now yeah yeah because i saw pictures of him but the guys were there and they said he was incredible in person they thought he should have won the overall yeah where the fuck is he got the pro card anyways all right yeah he got his pro card but they just said it was like just uh an incredible physique this kid yeah look at the fucking legs the arms again see i keep telling you guys it's the it's the limb dominant bodybuilders that look phenomenal yeah look at that waist too i know look at it but his back's pretty great too he's not he's not even pulling it out there oh yeah hamstrings fucking legs are flaring glutes are crazy peel tiny little fucking waist what's that paul first nationals the young guy looks pretty young i'm not sure this is him here tofiq tofiq he's arabic see paul that's all the fucking good bodybuilders oh probably probably what what are you gonna say probably probably what probably what what probably what probably just by marriage or something like that was a lot of great perfect bodybuilders i'll admit that you're an idiot uh let's see do we have any video this is before i think this is the only let's see what's in the tagged wait this is a video here no there we go look at that fucking physique man so let me ask you guys this i know he's a middleweight so i think that's like under 175 i think i don't know maybe can this i mean obviously he's got a long way to go but where does this stand in the pros like he's got to develop his back for sure to get that kind of work he looks small but wild physique nothing saying that he can't yeah yeah no i'm not saying that's what kind of where i'm going with it like if he was able to build up some front to back thickness he needs to learn to pose better too but yeah i think that could be a good 212 pro for sure yeah yeah next sean the rita who won the show a super uh this guy how'd this this guy win no this guy looked pretty good too he won lightly the they they said the light heavyweight looked pretty decent too yeah that's the guy that won there in the middle reagan king yeah the bodybuilding overall the center picture this no that's that's him oh that's imposing in a posing room somewhere no that's not him is this the only shot we have on stage there he's technically who's this kid oh that's our kid phenomenal kid second uh is that yeah that's the only photo we have of him here i wonder what um um bodybuilders without borders has let's see if he has anything here this was pretty crazy too yeah 300 300 300 pound veto jesus christ do you think he went into like after not winning detroit do you think he went into like this phase of like like he like kind of went home and freaked out yeah i mean but i also think but i also think seth i think that's kind of was his plan all along but i think before detroit didn't he have hernia surgery like in that offseason so he didn't have a lot of time to grow so i think this was kind of his like i think he's probably always wanted to be this big he just didn't have time to to put it on dude he's massive that's big he's lean at that weight didn't he have that knee injury too a year or two ago yeah i think when he jumped off the stage or whatever yeah uh same pictures they have some down further i believe what is profile he didn't have any in his profile what's this is the lineup what's this ah ah sideways got me again hey sorry i'll be right back yeah there's this one here this is again from his website from his uh his own instagram i want to see stage shots looks good go to his instagram i'm sure he'll have them there no we went there did we go didn't we go there no there we go well that's kind of with the trophy yeah it looks good yes good job um wait let's see yeah because he beat uh the one athlete we have is that john effer john effer look good yeah yeah what's his name big e-f-f-e-r yeah big mother effer effer coaching no no john effer j-o-n or j-o-h-n j-o-h-n i believe this one maybe it's maybe it's not now he looks great seth that's him that is him but that's obviously very old natural teen 16 years old that's not him is it it is him but these are like super old pictures go go it's it's not official it's j-o-h-n-e-f-f-e-r why is he not popping up on your yeah maybe he has me blocked close it yeah blocked he blocked me no way tell your without borders go down it's okay let's move on he blocked me i don't want to fuck him i'm just i'm joking there go bottom right there right side here yeah there uh yeah down the left tagged in the first comment he's tagged this guy which guy is he he's second with the one on the left he got his ifb pro card yeah this guy yeah oh he's tall yeah huge looks good well let's see if you're if you're blocked no there you go oh you have him blocked you idiot oh well he must be blocked for a reason i'm blocking jeez louise john effort why are you blocked what did you do to me what's happened i don't know he did something there was a string of there's a period where i blocked everybody for like i went through a phase where i was like fucking whatever anybody i was like block i've been blocked paul once okay yeah let's go to the reason i wanted to have you guys on tonight because we've already been on for an hour uh the rbp awards oh yeah all right these are some of them but we have a whole bunch of suggestions in here a lot of them are like best hair transplant best best looking like i like i like this idea that someone had the first comment there they're justin wyatt oh most complete crazy spotty part caucasian dry bro of course you like it it's named after you of course i do okay let's start with my list and then we'll go to the fans list most improved martin that's pretty good yeah okay yeah i don't think i can argue with that yeah i mean he came from like not doing a whole lot in bodybuilding to fucking being like the biggest star in bodybuilding right now so you know came fourth at the olympian his first year he won fucking detroit came push nick at that show i mean like how do you not use that you know hard to argue with that sure got a hostile contract that's a big fucking deal on it um the most improved is martin okay i'm gonna post these i think i want to try and post these tomorrow and see how what people think i want to see if i can figure out a way to do it on my instagram i haven't got the software figured out for it yet um okay most valuable i don't know how to quantify that yeah what is that are we talking about are we talking about most valuable to a company most valuable to the sport are we only picking from open bodybuilders here who had the best yeah let's stick to open for now because it gets too crazy for all the classes and also if we talk about most valuable it's like is that also same as best ambassador like if we're talking about most valuable to bodybuilding that also kind of is the same as saying best ambassador if we're talking about most valuable to a company then maybe that's different i don't know but that's kind of weird i think she would be who had the best season yeah that's like mvp of the year yeah okay okay yeah best best season mvp is best season okay who had the best season samson that's between samson martin dude you can't win the olymp you can't win the olympia not say you and didn't he no he didn't win the arnold he was second he was second second at two arnolds and won the olympia that's and he also won one two arnolds and game second the olympia so it's like yeah but the olympia is olympia is more valuable yeah and also samson put it out there like doing the france show beforehand like that was yeah that's right that's right yeah i'm gonna say arnold again i don't i know people are gonna say i'm biased but i'm gonna say samson because i said it before you did yeah plus i can't make a case for anybody else except for haughty like you said right i'd enjoy another one you could make a case for best season but like it's in a different context you know yeah you could make you could make the case for best season with martin because of the debut being so strong yeah and that's almost like a so he took second to nick he won what show do you win detroit your show sorry sorry he won detroit my memory is horrible it's like i'm a stoner just from being around paul um i he won detroit took second new york and then fourth at the olympia that was a season right i mean it's a it's it's a oh wait no and then he beat chris in prog oh yeah that was big so it's an mvp season man it's an mvp season in that he came from nowhere but i would put it that more in breakout star of the year then breakout star of the year yeah so mvp we're gonna give samson yeah yes that's what i think okay samson and then we might as well do breakout star since we kind of agree breakout star is martin but wait i want to ask you something before we caught before we nail that one down is breakout star somebody who's new or just breakout period it's not rookie of the year it's breakout star yeah i'm not saying new rookie but like is it somebody that nobody expected yeah i don't think people anyone expected martin to do as good as he did this season so i think you're gonna give it to him okay are we only relegated to open are we including no no we're just we're just doing open because then it gets to there's too many we can do other classes after but right now let's just go through we'll do men's physique next uh can't wait thank you uh best coach it's the fan obviously oh or mel you have to give it to stefan right you don't have to mel won the olympia with that i mean this was already coming like second no no mel mel mel won the olympia with the same guy that another coach couldn't get it done with yeah but he was already in the top three yeah but he was he didn't get in shape until mel got him in shape i don't know man stefan won like two-thirds of the fucking pro shows this year like it's it's tough to say he wasn't you know i just have to argue to argue but it is i think it's look i think we can go stefan with an honorable mention to marlena yeah um okay hold on we have to argue a little bit just because it's a podcast what about patrick because patrick won the olympia with oh that's a 212 i guess ski on yeah yeah it's 212 i guess so it has to be stefan i think stefan was such a like figure in coaching this year it's no i i know i'll just listen we have to have a discussion right of course um okay i got most improved most valuable break best okay this is like always good this is always a an argument starter best ambassador you guys know what you guys already know what i'm gonna say absolutely yeah it has to be the guy's all over the world he's been to china he's been to fucking germany he's been to italy he's been to fucking paris like if anybody's spreading bodybuilding in a positive way it's samson is there any other names we could even throw in there like will it give some other options to even ponder i'm like i mean derrick well let me traveling over derrick was doing some traveling he went over to korea um but i don't think to the same level that samson body is obviously extremely popular but like it's not this it's just popularity it's not necessarily best in bad well let's let's let's identify let's define what ambassador means and also promoting the sport of bodybuilding positive well i don't i personally i personally well actually you don't have to travel to do that anymore because social media is really powerful is there somebody on social media that has been able to promote bodybuilding more than samson martin i'll be on thank you but i'm not an open bodybuilder anymore you were and it's your podcast so yeah um we're gonna have samson martin winning every award yeah i guess samson's the go-to then i can't i only the only reason i wouldn't say martin is because samson's got 1.3 million followers and martin has like i think two or three hundred four hundred something like that he's growing they're both they both grew a lot this year but obviously samson winning olympia title he's done you know a lot of big things this year it's yeah it's it's tough i think i think the amount that samson has competed the amount that he put himself out there the amount he puts on social media too like the the back and forth of of training for a show traveling whenever he's in between shows like that's why i'd vote samson i hate having to use the same i hate to have to use the same people over and over again but it's really hard to like argue with it sure i mean we'll see like too like when people comment on this yeah people have other ideas there might be people that we're completely forgetting about that we'll say and we'll be like oh yeah okay you know best poser huh christ it's gonna be samson you could throw chris in that mix right because chris did an open show chris i'm saying chris did an open show can we throw him in this category now for best actually he did do he did i mean here if we open this up a little bit if we open this up a little bit i don't think that it's going to change any of the people that we just put at the top well it could other class it would be hard to not put chris's most valuable but like then it's like what are you saying you know but i mean his reach is so big it's hard not yeah then chris exclude chris he's retired he's out if you if you include chris because he did compete this year in an open show like best ambassador is hard not to give to chris yeah but i was i thought the way i was thinking his the way he posed in his open show he's great in that show i know i know that oh so you're taking just that show you're like yeah yeah yeah i don't the one thing i definitely agree with steve weinberger on and some he said on my podcast when i had him on he's never seen anybody pose better than chris ever and i totally agree with that and it's such a it's funny because when people think about posing they think of like the final shot and it's so not that when chris is moving on stage it looks like all of it has been choreographed from the transition to the way his hands look to the way his feet are pointing to like every last fucking detail the guy is like he looks so fucking polished on stage it's crazy like the thing is though i don't think it is but that's what's even more impressive about it it's not highly choreographed but that's just like he's just gone yeah yeah like i don't know i don't know how much time he spends posing but all i'm saying is like it's he poses a lot but i'm like i don't think he's practicing his posing routine so that in any large degree you know no but i think if you practice your mandatories a lot yes i agree with that yeah yeah i think it's you just know how to get in the positions you like and flow into things and yeah like the one thing like the one thing sorry paul go ahead i was just gonna say like he poses to enhance his physique to its max yes some people don't pose to make their physiques look better he does yeah a little bit to make that pose look he chooses the shots that help him whereas other guys just choose shots they like right yeah yeah that's all we could use crisp but in the context of that he did just do one show this year so i mean i think for then opposing we could throw him in there because his posing at that one show was probably one of the before we before we throw him in there even though his posing is the most crisp and like polished is there anybody else that had like an amazing routine that like i'm trying to think of the i'm only gonna and i'm only gonna say and i'm sorry if this sounds biased i'm only gonna say this because i was there and you guys were there too samson's routine at the arnold uk yeah yeah that was good that shit gave me that was the fucking the purple rain one purple rain yeah that was really good you're right yeah i mean i don't get mentioned much for posing but i think he's a great poser hottie but he's an amazing poser and he and he could pose all day long are we talking about posing routine or posing man just posing man yeah he's an amazing pose all day and get better the award isn't best posing routine it's best poser so you got to kind of no but i think that encompasses everything exactly it counts everything yeah yeah well hotties routines are phoned in a little bit yeah they're so so but his mandatories are probably some of the best so right right and i like the way he can he'll sit there all day but i think yeah but i think you have to have both like if you look at chris his mandatories and his routine are awesome i think i think it's it's chris and samson i would go in that order so between those two i would put chris there i mean i'd really like i mean i know he's 212 but keon was phenomenal yeah yeah out of control like just chris perfect like you could see how much time that dude put in to his routine and his posing it's also what happens to somebody's physique when they pose like keon like paul was saying about chris every pose essentially eats his physique even more what that's we got one new category yeah that's pose of the year why you have somebody in mind of course keon's front double bicep but then we're not using it men's open anymore yeah it's 212 yeah yeah yeah yeah we gotta open this up to everybody no don't we do we i don't know you mean we shouldn't do like open and 212 and classic we should just do everything i don't think we i don't think we know enough about all the other classes to really like but that's what i'm saying we can't do the awards for all the other classes where we can interject guys that were standouts in their divisions into the overall list i agree okay so if you're saying we add best pose award yeah but wouldn't that still go to chris man that that three-quarter twisting back shot it's fucking wild and and ian thinks he has the best side chest in the world that's i just a lot of people agree i mean i think that's what makes this also fun you know i mean that's where that's where the arguments okay so i'm gonna put for best pose i'm gonna put three people on front double and chris i'm gonna put key on uh front double i'm gonna put chris are we doing the side chest or three-quarter turn either or i mean like this classic pose too yeah this one with the fucking arm i like his three-quarter or i don't think anybody else hits the three-quarter as good as as good as i agree yeah okay chris three-quarter and then is there somebody else that has an awesome pose i mean like a derrick back double bicep that's a good one but that wasn't as light though this year as it was last year that's true we are doing we are doing we are doing this year yeah you're right he didn't he kind of yeah it was still probably the best back double of the season yeah yeah yeah but did we see a pose that we were like whoa yeah yeah okay anybody else just those two one we'll come back we'll revisit the whole list after most conditioned i'm gonna say a mirror magic yeah how you going just to see throughout the year or one show most read it doesn't matter or you know i hate to say chris again but fucking if we're adding other classes i mean chris in prog was yeah just classic guys get fucking hard as fuck that's why that's why i don't i don't think we should i don't think we should add other classes and that's why because you could take somebody like mike michael debool and be like yeah michael debool is fucking the most shredded guy yeah but those guys criteria is different than open criteria so it's not fair to compare them yeah well we can use chris in in the context of he did do one open show right okay so just from that one show so if we said most conditioned yeah but there's he's michael debool is still a big enough man it's these guys are still well known people no it's not about being a big name it's he didn't do an open show it's just it gets tough because there's so many people that we could now forget i don't i don't even think that's about forgetting i think it's not fair to judge open guys with the same same lens on the same lens as classic guys because classic guys are trying to make weight well then let's just do one for class let's just do yeah for open and then one for everybody else all right most conditioned open bodybuilding is it is it a mirror kind of got to be a mirror we'll put a mirror we'll put a mirror in there and see if we can think of anybody else was there somebody else that showed up and we were like holy i'm trying to think of the other shows earlier this year uh bruise came in fucking sure yeah wow oh no man bruises pretty fucking peeled he was nuts from the back of the condition you just like you just like his bum paul not that i like it as a judge for that i'm just yeah sure impressed with it sure paul hotty was peeled at the year first arnold but i don't know if i'd say that his condition was better than a mirror's but it was he was pretty nuts at arnold columbus yeah he could be in the mix for sure but i think his olympia wasn't as good as he'd been condition wise from the back so i mean a mirror is fucking shredded to the bone every time he gets on stage okay um okay we'll leave a mirror there if somebody else can come up with something with freakiest bodybuilder what's his name um quadzilla there next zilla that's right yeah that's what i was thinking too rubiel freakiest bodybuilder uh always still has to be in that conversation yeah yeah okay rubiel nick walker um most popular or you could put good veto in there because at that show his quads were pretty freaking freaky and he was pretty nasty at detroit i'll put him in there but i don't know if i'd go that way but i'll put him in there just put him in there people can say most popular well i mean what are we going if we're using chris then we're you know yeah yeah chris okay let's go to the fans list what they got here best hair transplant me obviously yeah that was great wait a minute is it best hair or best hair transplant well what does it say best hair period i think it doesn't matter how this says this says transplant how you got it but i'm like i kind of feel like we should do best hair transplant then it's basically me and chris and mine's better than it's not true jay's got a hair transplant i think that's true so are we are we dipping into retired pros then too yeah well then we got it i think i think for hair transplant we should use everybody yeah all time gary stridham yeah jay's is pretty good man i think he beats me i'm gonna give it to jay i'll give it to jay i'm gonna run it up on that paul went back to the 80s for that one 40 years did you pick gary striddle gary striddle yeah great hair piece who else has a great uh hair transplant jay ian chris arnold yeah that's not that's not that's not fucking real that's for sure anybody builder at 60s that here i mean jay's definitely the shoe in for that yeah that's the right time for jake nutler i don't know if he's open about his hair transplant but we can put it out there i hope he's i hope he is because i don't think he is he listens to the podcast and he's really angry jay i don't know if that's a hair transplant it doesn't look like a hair transplant that's why you're winning so we apologize if you're upset doesn't matter jay's one of the best looking guys ever take it easy take it easy paul simmer down paul i just make sure you guys are ripping on jay paul's got a fucking half chub right now we're not ripping we're not ripping on jay we're we're saying he's got great fucking hair yeah and we're saying if it is a transplant they did a really good job um okay let's go to justin wyatt's here i like some of his ideas most complete most complete bodybuilder martian but i mean that's not i would have open keon keon but that's not it's hard to argue samson to be mr olympia yeah i think well that doesn't be mr olympia doesn't necessarily mean most complete i don't know if like dorian was a mr olympia he wasn't the most complete bodybuilder no but right now haughty is hard to beat in terms of most complete well because oh so if you're saying martin i mean martin is i said martin because if you're talking about most complete you're kind of talking about most balanced yeah and conditioning has to play into that too okay martin yeah no i think i think what we mean most complete we're talking about body parts the balance yeah and how we'll put martin samson haughty is there anybody else we should put in there nominating most complete i think that's a good good list for now okay um justin wyatt also has craziest body part i like that so you go next though again with his quads yeah yeah or good vetoes quads or nick's arms or or bruises glutes the first one that stands out to me is well you could also say uh andrew's abs yeah first one the first one that stands out to me is rubiel's quads that's the first one that they're just it's i seeing it in person has got to be a spectacle okay is there is there is there a is there a runner-up or you're saying you be rubiel i go nick's arms next because nick's i mean dude's a fucking freak you see it like whenever whenever i saw him in texas i'm looking at him like yeah dude you are a mutant you legitimately are nick's arms reveals legs uh most anticipated i like that list i like that too like for the future or this year like no i think he means like for this year who is somebody we were all anticipating you know you know you know what'd you say mike carlos yeah carlos who thomas thomas why what show did he do early on no he did one last year though he did a show last year well that was he didn't do it the day of the year oh he did a show last year he didn't i would say veto veto was very anticipated yeah i was it was veto and then um caucasian dry is kind of the same as most conditions so we can't do the ian award we'll just give that one to we'll give the most most conditioned to ian the dick's gonna work i'll just wait to say that paul your all your percentage is going up do you have pants on right now paul or you're just sitting there do you have your pants on are you sitting naked all right let's do a few a few more of these um rookie of the year who was a rookie this year veto no you know yeah was it his no didn't he do a show last year no no i don't think so yeah veto i mean rookie of the year but he did but he didn't win i mean he gave second to martin who ended up coming fourth at the olympia and it was a good show between them so i'm just saying is there somebody else that was a rookie that did better i don't think so i'm just asking oh i don't think so okay uh comeback athlete of the year i don't really know they got they got john de la rosa there but i don't well samson didn't really make a comeback he just continued that was a comeback like he lost a hottie twice and came back with a new coach and won the olympia i mean that's a fucking comeback i think i think the way they chose the reason like they put john de la rosa i think they mean somebody who stepped away and came back and yet de la rosa yeah is there anybody else that even did though because we can't have a category with one person in it there's not really anybody else that stepped away and came back or at least maybe for for a year or two no all right let's i'm not gonna add that one let's move on um best coach most improved what else do we have here uh best judge and then it says obviously paul wins that one thank you that guy's that guy's corrupt and here it is uh hey he'll give you a good placing for some weed he's judging out too he's gotta be in the mix uh most hyped and can be bought too oh this isn't a good one most hype that did not deliver at a show let's not do that most handsome most handsome answer most most handsome paul you have to give us the answer that one theo theo wins it was cut it was color a second ago now theo wins every year oh we're going no color didn't compete we got to go with active pros yeah yeah sorry jay theo dude okay uh most shower like we said c bum c bum did do an open show so all right yeah it's hard to uh i don't know what do you like better paul theo or chris i see a picture of both what's your flavor i want to see them side by side what's your flavor tell me what's your flavor remember that song oh yeah for the comeback for the comeback that you we had with de la rosa there somebody mentioned bonak oh yeah bonak too between those two for a comeback on the streets is rollie's coming back and doing a masters olympia it looks huge i don't know paul okay okay i don't know paul like look at this oh my god look at that he's like talking magnum pi in this fucking picture jack tom sellick guy imagine when i breed with this guy's sister i have children i'm gonna have children with this bloodline oh man you are i don't think theo i don't think theo can compare to that dude well let me see theo let me refresh my memory you just want to look at him i like theo he's got his pants off fluffing under the table we already knew what's his name what's his name last let's look like gary there you go no no it was there close enough look at that young look at that young theo in the next one oh this is paul this is all you buddy yeah i would take why did you why did you sigh like that i would uh i would take young theo god you're just gross okay um let's go back to the more important ones okay uh let's just finish with one more uh most good looking we just did that one the paul award no criteria just no criteria just whatever paul is thinking just like it do you want to give somebody an award and paul pick just pick someone that you like just like pick paul's favorite you know who uh you know who who who season i liked who uh he got like his place things weren't great but for a first year pro he could he got better every show all right who he looks normal felix who barman okay yeah you could say that or i like that i like that i like jordan hutchinson too jordan yeah yeah you know what he could be a third for rookie of the year too yeah okay well uh big fan of jordan's physique yeah me too he's one of those guys that in a few years could win that like most complete kind of award he's very it's like yeah yeah stays in shape yeah good dude uh best fuck around and find out moment i think it's between me and mike i don't know what you're referring to um okay i'll let the courts decide that one anyway all right let's uh do some questions let's do some questions yes yes is there any other bodybuilding shit to talk about right now you know what we should talk about the olympia that arnold yeah yeah arnold lineup came out let's talk about the fucking list yeah what the fuck as if we wait this long for that wow come on what the fuck gotta keep the anticipation shoot shoot i'm a little rusty i'm a little rusty and i've been away for a while go to practice uh where the fuck is that list come on tell me you posted about it there it is boom that's a big fucking list the only person missing is the only person missing is um potty yep and hunter and nick other than that that's a deep lineup okay i'm gonna give you i'm gonna give you guys the placings right this minute let's go first second yep third correct fourth okay wait brandon wait first second third james can beat andrew i think he's gonna beat andrew fourth fifth sixth no sixth seventh who'd you have fifth curry curry uh seventh eighth i can't see your cursor clarita then i'm going de la rosa de la rosa nine carlos justin patrick are we just we're not including hottie in this he's not in there so the only thing i think me and you disagree on ian would be uh andrew and james i mean i i'd fucking have loved to see james beat andrew fuck i just this okay this is why i say it the only thing that holds james back is his clavicle width when he's next to guys like that okay but hold on this is i'm just gonna tell you why i'm saying it the best james has ever looked in my opinion which for whatever it's worth i think james has a different opinion but my opinion was when he worked with patrick i agree because when james is like a hundred percent focused and he has like a person above him kind of really guiding him he does really really well and i think he didn't have that for a bit when he's trying to coach himself he still looked good still did well but i think now that he's with stefan the most recent updates that he's been posting are fucking they look insane man like i'm and i know i say this all the time in the offseason and people like oh he changes but i think with stefan it's gonna translate to the stage man like this fucking update i thought he was i thought this was like a throwback like he looks he looks lean at like 300 fucking pounds dude big and then from the back is the one that even shocked me even more so i don't know man and then i think to myself andrew could be third andrew could even be second but it just depends on what andrew shows up that's the problem like i think andrew could beat derrick but i don't think that's going to happen because i think derrick's going to make an over correction from the olympia so i think actually it's going to be a two-man show it's going to be there now with a new coach so it's like i don't think it's going to be bad for him though i think it's going to be i don't think it will but well it'll be interesting to see yeah okay let me ask you this is it a two-man show or more because i see it being a samson derrick i see it being a two-man show yeah and then from there then i see another two with james and andrew yeah i think brandon you you have to put brandon that i mean for sure i think i think brandon he'll be better i think brandon will be in the call out just because he's brandon and they have to have more than brandon even coming and being third potentially at this show i'll take that bet oh i'm not saying i'm betting on it just saying well because i don't think i i definitely think the top three well okay my personal opinion is the top four is going to be samson derrick andrew james in some form i agree with the top i think it'll be james and brandon and bonak like fighting and and akeem will be that next group and i think that first three will be together okay i can agree with that too i i'm i'm gonna hold out my predictions could change as we get closer i think james is going to shock is going to shock some people this year i mean that's my favorite people and bodybuilders so i'd love to see him do well well i know on a personal level we all want to see him do well i'm just saying like objectively seth what do you think are we kind of on on the right track with that i agree i think that i think that if james comes into his best i think that's the only way he's going to beat andrew yeah of course i don't think i think but uh i think andrew's kind of in control of his own destiny in this show i think that he can push derrick if he showed up sharper than he was in texas i think that's whenever he could do real damage if he yeah if he looks better sorry i think derrick would also derrick if he if he shows up like he did in at the olympia then i think that's where and andrew shows up better i think that's where there can be that like wait a minute if derrick shows up like this last olympia he'll be fourth or sorry third yeah that's what i'm like third or fourth who knows but that's what i'm saying i think yeah but i am pretty confident that derrick's going to be it'll be the two-man show derrick and uh samson and then i think that um i don't i'd love to see james i love his physique i love you know just a big fucking dense monster yeah but um uh i think it'll be i think it'll go andrew and then james and then it'll be a battle after that mike do you think andrew can beat samson no do you think it'll be where he's i think it'll be samson derrick and then andrew i think andrew needs to be in a bit better conditioning i think he needs to not pose so lazy on stage too do you think there's a world like he lacks a days of cult the olympian it hurts him a lot yeah it does mike do you think there's a world in which andrew beats derrick i don't know if derrick's off like crazy off well let's assume they're both it's hard to assume they're both on because when derrick did the olympia his version of off in my opinion for whatever it's worth was he over dieted and it took away his leg his leg volume so his version of off isn't necessarily fat it's like can they bring him on stage peeled with full legs that's going to be aj to accomplish that so well i think if they get him ready early they can definitely do that i think if they try and peak him at the very end then we're all we're obviously all still making assumptions and me by saying that that he is even working with aj we have absolutely no idea if he is yeah i think andrew improved andrew improved a lot from the year prior to net to this year too so i mean i don't know he was he was a monster on stage this year and fucking absolutely shirted so if he has the time off to get ready and put the same emphasis in training and developing to the arnold there's just to say he couldn't be derrick right can derrick beat samson i mean i could he's beaten it before yeah so yes obviously it's a it's a toss-up right but i don't see samson i would only say that if i saw samson losing steam somehow which i it doesn't seem like he's doing anything with gaining momentum every time you see the guy he's bigger and better and like you know i mean like it's it's almost like this he's built this momentum that's like unstoppable at this point hey paul if samson right up there do that again paul show us your tricep like that again yeah that's it's that one he like leaned on the table trying to show that yeah but i can track it a little bit um paul yeah uh ken samson lose the show if he shows up like he showed up at the last olympia does he have a chance of losing or is that enough for him to beat everybody that's coming the last olympia yeah if he shows up the way he looked when he won is that enough is that enough to beat everybody oh yeah my opinion yeah in my opinion is samson's show to lose i don't think anyone that's uh i don't think uh it's definitely his show to lose because he's obviously the reigning mr olympia but that being said can he be beat by those guys listen it it's my opinion that samson hottie and derrick are still all very close bodybuilders yeah and i think for anybody to say otherwise is probably being a little bit disingenuous i think these guys are all like he beat hottie by a point hottie beat samson by a couple points you know derrick was in third maybe could have been fourth martin might have been third but derrick was also off so what i'm saying is if derrick is 100 able to bring the volume to his legs is it enough to pull back ahead i don't think so myself just because i always thought that where samson was losing the most to derrick that two years ago and hottie at that time too was a backed up a bicep and i think samson brought that pulls up enough now that i don't think unless he's really off i don't think derrick can beat him anymore even derrick got his best what if his leg volume is back and he has the same conditioning as the 23 olympia but i think it's closer but i still i don't think i don't i i still don't think he can beat samson now anymore though i think samson got good enough in the areas that he had to bring up to separate himself from derrick i think hottie's the only person that gets told it almost seems like a stature thing too like there's yeah there's still there's still room on samson's physique for him to expand yeah like you know what i mean like and like derrick derrick is not it's not the same case like yes his legs can be can match the upper body and fill out whatever but we that upper body's maxed out yeah like there's nothing there's nothing happening there like it's it's fantastic and it's there's not a knock on him but it's it's maxed out unless you're unless you're planning on going growing three inches and expanding that torso and like making it more like crazy to look at like samson has a lot of real estate to still put on like slabs of muscle and it looks i wouldn't it looks like from the olympia he's already gotten a little bigger yeah that's what i mean that's what i'm saying it's like you're this untapped potential which is wild to think of it's like you're on stage or whatever you're on stage at and you could still improve and come in even bigger that's fucking insane to say yeah and like the other guys they can't say that like haughty and howdy and derrick can't say that there's no room on that real estate to put any more yeah like you know you saying that i mean it's it's 100 true but it's also like whenever uh like whenever people that are listening or people that are a little unsure are not as knowledgeable or uh don't have as much forethought in the bodybuilding it almost be like then why are the other guys trying you know what i mean like no they definitely the thing is they can be they're they're fantastic bodybuilders and i'm not discrediting them i'm just saying that's like samson's reaching this realm of being like ronnie like oh yeah it's like it's like yeah man like you guys are all the color you're great like flex you're great you're all all-time great it's haughty you're all-time great it's derrick too but like samson's just taking that step of taking that step above and creating more distance and it's just like like it doesn't mean these guys aren't great and can't improve but they're just they can't make up the ground right it's like oh no i agree i don't i don't think i've seen anybody improve at the rate in which samson has improved i mean seven years ago the guy just started bodybuilding yeah but like like four years four years ago four years ago he couldn't even qualify for the olympia and now i was spanking him at four years ago like this the level of um the level it's almost like there's like a genuine excitement when you watch him train like you can tell that he really loves what he's doing yeah like he's just like excited to almost be in the gym whereas other guys like not they're not excited but like it's kind of like just kind of what they do right and they're and he's seeing so to see like you guys know to like see that much improvement in the mirror and to be like holy fuck like i've always said that that's like a fucking high man to like well we said it and it's so obvious but like and i i noticed this my career you can see it and what you just said is so evident like guys that are actually like excited to train and enjoying it like martin like samson always are the best the guys they progress yeah they progress the best years i had my life in my career like 2020 2021 i literally like couldn't even sleep i was so excited to train the next day for every single day i was like fucking just excited to get in there and like make progress and like i was so fucking amped for it and i was progressing like crazy and i think you see that when you watch martin and brett train together it makes me fucking excited i watch them train i'm like fuck i want to train with these guys you know or you watch samson train like the fucking hype that these you know i think that it's crucial for guys in continued development is you have to just fucking love this shit you know um i want to switch gears a little bit only because it could be a breakout star to me is carlos thomas jr to me he's the only guy in this lineup that has enough muscle to shock a bunch of people if he can get back is there yet i don't think the back is there yet but if this physique shows up shredded i could see it moving up up for five he worked with patrick now and i have more faith in patrick than i do anyone because of my personal relationship with him so i think he is an amazing coach that will get carlos in shape let's assume let's assume carlos even with you know the back not being exactly where it needs to be gets a hundred percent shredded how what's the ceiling here for him i think the ceiling is fifth six yeah i was thinking that too okay what about this question can that's a tall order man like for him to come and beat a previous olympia like winner like brandon curry yeah yeah yeah it's huge or sean clarita even like that's a fucking tall goddamn order man yeah yeah yeah what about akeem akeem was behind william and brandon but he seemed to look better at his last showing is a keem can akeem show up and pull ahead of somebody like a william yeah i mean the thing is like william is so goddamn good from the back it's like hard when you put someone like a keem next to him yeah yeah yeah layering variants and like imposes but then in that same thing obviously akeem fucking spanks william and like from the front yeah so the side shots yeah i mean but william is pretty strong in the side shot so i won't say that i was gonna say from the front like a front double yeah is as much like a keem's got a really nice front double it's got a nice he's got a nice x frame small waist on a guy that size so you know i i think that's that's that's a good comparison i think bonak um brandon and well i mean are that next group i mean at the at the olympia i think they finished eight nine ten did they not yeah i think so yeah yeah yeah okay well that's the start of our conversation we're gonna get the predictions if i started hammering the sauce now i could come not last yeah only because i don't think justin can get as shredded as you and you probably i might be small i think you could probably be wait one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven out of how many guys 12 13 so i could probably beat patrick and justin yeah maybe carlos if he's not shape should i try do it i'd like to see you do it fire it up you know what i told you today i 100 support this my sperm count is my sperm count is coming up nicely now it's starting to fucking motor up perfect time send it right back down but no it's good enough that i can i can freeze it and get a really nice there you go oh there you go listen i could freeze it hammer the gas right now shoot more shoot some sperm in a cup throw it in the freezer yep just my freezer home here call call brian powers be like i'm ready yeah isn't that how it works you just put it in the freezer yeah i think so yeah you just i mean i have AI have AI have a couple load in my freezer that's what i was saving it for right three years worth of jizz in there yeah my count like my count like 15x since my last count oh 15 yeah yeah i mean it's still low but it's it's made them yes it's 15 now it was 10 now it's 150. no but it's it's like starting to move in a good like that i think if i keep like this i think he's a lot of the times once you start to get traction it kind of goes like you know so i think it's like one of those ones where if i keep staying the course as i am like in you know another three months i could be up into like the 20 30 40 50 million you know so i think i'm in a good spot yep um so what are you gonna do are you gonna keep trying or are you gonna freeze i'm gonna do one more bout of three months of what i'm doing um and then see if it like look if i do another three months it stays just where it is or moves up fucking a thousand points well then yeah i'll fucking bust a load in a cup or go do ivf um if it's started to like now we've really got traction it's like made another big jump then i'm gonna stay the course until i get to a spot where i think uh natural conception you know what i heard uh works probability what if you do not i heard works if you do missionary position and then you bust a nut bust a nut inside her and then you hold her legs up like we do that you got to hold her up for like it's got to be like 10 minutes so you just gotta hang her over a balcony yeah like gravity michael jackson style yeah she just like there she just lays there and puts her like butt on two pillows so she's on like a slight no man you gotta like really raise that shit up you gotta like shake it like yeah you gotta put her in the you gotta put her in the sharpshooter like bret hart uh okay uh let's do some questions and then we'll go because we've already been on for a while if paul gives his dog a shower whose towel does he does the dog use the same shower towel as your dog or no i would never you blow dry your dog obviously yeah i would never shower with my dog so she naked what's the best thing you did for yourself in your teens 20s and 30s that's so hard okay the best thing for sure mdma and cocaine leap leap leap priest says i would say the same thing i do now in my 50s masturbate dropping dropping out of college to become a bodybuilder i'm gonna say it's probably my best in my teens uh what's the best thing i did off for me so i can say that 20s but the best thing you did for yourself like uh yeah i would buy a house i'm gonna say got married do you hear that honey yeah uh say it really loud so that's my second what were you saying down there nothing uh did anyone impress you at nationals yes the middleweight uh do you guys watch football did anybody watch football i stopped i stopped watching here and there i watched some this weekend yeah anybody like an avid football watcher just like picking up here and there i watched a good bit of it did you those are good this year man steelers are really good yeah yeah oh the eagles eagles pennsylvania is blessed this year lions aren't bad this year either yeah i'm a big lions fan too i i i love it i love them in a long time since they won the title uh what's the best christmas present you guys hey man what am i gonna get my wife oh i'm having an impossible time thinking about what to get my wife for christmas oh i gotta ask her what she wants and order it online i did that she said nothing it was like expensive i bought it done yeah summer said summer said nothing so i'm like fuck you know what she said she said she wants the bath she wants the bathroom done maybe i'll do that maybe i'll go to the fucking renovation place tomorrow and be like just book the bathroom yeah yeah you booked yourself what'd you say paul i've been looking i want to buy a sauna i think you know i was hoping somebody would get me one for christmas hint paul to my wife um what'd you say paul and ian cut you off uh but doing the bathroom that now you got yourself a week of fucking headaches to deal with oh i'm not going to fucking do the bathroom what are you crazy i know but you're still your house is going to be up you know 19 other bathrooms what are you talking about two yeah that's 12 yeah there's so many bathrooms in that compound two you have one of the basement one on the main floor and like four upstairs yeah yeah then there's the house that's the the main quarters you have two on the main floor one downstairs you guys are fucking assholes which one do you like taking a dump in the most can we move on please the one by your front door is a good one to take a dump in yeah that bathroom the one by the front door has a toilet and i bought this toilet that the toilet seat it slants a bit so you have a really good shit angle it's like when i go take i've never seen nothing like that i've never seen one live slant once and said you don't have to touch the handle to flush it you just wave wave your hand by it and it flushes oh that's nice i don't have to i don't have to get my hands dirty yeah there's no germs at all um no for real though what am i gonna get for christmas what are you guys getting your wives for christmas i'm going on vacation that was my those are that was your that was your present to each other for taking the other kids say i like that i could do that yeah i'll start doing it every year i'm gonna tell her let's do that we're just gonna spend our money on a vacation that way we bought it for us each other yeah that's a great idea yeah hannah needs me she likes new slippers once a year so that's like a guaranteed nice slipper thing the little things with the kids but then you know throughout the year we just we do one vacation every year which we start looking at like right now yeah it's like we start doing it together we're gonna book it regardless but like little things is your wife high maintenance though does she like is like slippers good she's like oh thank you and it's like the end of the christmas yeah the slippers she likes earrings she wanted a new pair of earrings so i got her some new earrings that can be oh really that's her they can get up there but it's it's okay she's i'm i'm horrible to live with um you're like she doesn't she does other things really well so it's worth it yeah i'm good i'm good but no the the the the ugg slippers the tasman ugg slippers are like impossible to find this other ones really huge deal yeah they just cut track the fuzzy ones no they're like they're they're slippers with like a little back on them like your foot goes in then just like a little bit comes up on the back side like t-a-s-m-e-n yeah they're the tasman big deal okay let's check it out i'll grab a pair right now they're that big of a deal oh deal my ass i'll buy three pairs i'll buy these motherfuckers all day quick quick quick side note uh we're having a posing clinic stop we're having a posing clinic shut up for a second christmas party this is important look at my tree is it beautiful it is nice i like the colored lights lights up here lights it's like a christmas pony is that a pine it's such a dick look at all the presents are you done for fuck's sakes you want to see my outside lights too show us i want to see it and tell me i do paul this is ian's fault who put up the lights here ah oh those are nice you just threw those in the bush lights are up okay are we good now is there anything else you want to see here no sit down shut up all right what's the date paul today pose no not today 16th man posing clinic what's the date january 18th january 18th we're having a posing clinic for anybody uh well it's for everybody but anybody registered to the anybody registered to the detroit pro will get in free um anybody not registered to the detroit pro i believe it's like 50 bucks but 15 that goes to the gym for a day pass and the rest of it goes to martin and alexis me and paul are kind of doing this just as a way to help out anybody competing at the show and then anybody else that wants to come is also welcome welcome oh i'd love it if you guys came we figured you guys were going to be in the us then anyways january 18. i'm going to get to do my butt work anyway so i'm going to try and get um something up on the website so that people can book in advance but if not you can book at the door uh one more thing real quick if you guys want to check it out if you guys are interested in coming to detroit.com code in there's no code there's no discount there's no discount there's no discount i'm going to be one of our men's physique poses at the show all right why am i not following what the it doesn't it doesn't follow you either that's so weird uh detroit pro posing martin and alexis are coming paul's going to be there ben's going to be there remy who is also an ifb judge is going to be there thanks um edge fitness club war in michigan january 18th 50 bucks if you're not registered to the detroit pro and uh it's going to be from two till six so uh follow detroit pro detroit pro on instagram and then you guys will see the updates as they come through thanks guys okay let's move on paul will be naked showing how to do a side chest i'll have no pants on i'll have a shirt on paul will be showing his peak his peaks yeah i'll have a short sleep shirt on uh okay uh nope why has there why is there a lack of meaty rectus for morris in the open what what a weird question i don't squat anymore you know yeah because people like looking at a hat hat squatting sissies not getting under the barbell these days um who of the group do you think would most likely be able to go through hell week of navy seal training that's actually interesting for sure that's we do it yeah mirian i think it would be like set then me then mike and full oh i'm last i'm uh i am a federal agent as it is i've been through i'm honestly i'm right behind seth yeah right you'll see you'll see you can do the running i am too competitive i will get ready you're gonna lay in the oh sorry i'm saying the waves hitting you holding a log with yeah content i'll do that i'll do that i'll do that i was under the context of we were doing it how we are now oh no oh i thought i'm gonna i would have i thought i get a chance to train for it okay well if we get to train for it then obviously that changes everything but if we're not training training for it then yeah i would say i'm probably fourth i could beat paul yeah listen paul i only say that because i know you don't like cold water so you'd be i don't like water i don't like getting woken up early in the middle of the night at all you're not worried about drowning you're just worried about getting up at 4am can we start this around 11 i don't like getting up early you don't want to see me at 4am um let's see when ian eats a hot dog does he start from the front or back first what's the front of the back it's the same on both sides how do you hold it like this he holds it like this that's what they mean do you eat it like this way or this way if we had a bodybuilding show right now with the guys on the podcast what would the placings be i think i think i think i might be i think i might be last yeah i think i might be last my my arms are destroyed so it would be in the middle or i wouldn't it'd be seth in the middle all right that's in the middle ian on one side mike on the other me and fluid on the flanks yeah yes it'd be a good show it'd be a good show why it'd be a good show for you because you'd fucking body out so you'd kill it i'd be that i think i think embarrassed so hard by fucking stuff right now would you rather fight one mike or two poles that's why the butt of all these jokes i'm just reading i'm just reading what they wrote i don't know right you you pick you pick who i don't want to hear your answer are we talking about paul now or paul in his prime oh no i'm gonna i'd rather fight two pauls yeah i don't blame you for that i'm not mad at you for that uh can you ask paul if he's ripping a cycle he's looking big but must be must be get the anadrol off set i'm ripping a cycle i could never handle anadrol anymore i get so much heartburn from that what's your what's your favorite speed limit max max speed limit um yeah what does that mean like the fastest one like what is that looking at favorite speed who drives the speed limit though seriously yeah oh i get so mad at people who drive the speed limit so mad at people do this neighborhood no because have you ever have you ever consciously looked at the speed limit and then looked at your speedometer and be like oh i better keep it around here i've never done that i've done that but i'm always 10 over at least only if only if there's a cop yeah the only time i do it is i know there's like some school zones here that actually have cameras that'll hammer you for being like five over so there i drive the speed limit everywhere else minimum 15 over yeah we have an we have an area near our house where it's like 30 30 kilometers an hour like there i well they are your top of food too when people get picked off all the time i see them so i always get really careful down there has anybody ever been to the autobahn no i want to i've never been i you car guys so i didn't know if you were like when you've traveled maybe the 401 is similar to the autobahn the hl the hlv lane on the 401 is the 407 the 407 would probably 407 at like tuesday at like 10 a.m you know uh yo we should do that we should hit bikes on the fucking autobahn i'd love to can we like rent like fucking 1000 rr bmws and rip down the autobahn yeah yeah yeah i'm in 100 okay oh my god that's a summer that's a summer trip though you guys are out of your fucking minds what's the most amount of caffeine you've had in one day fuck man for me it's like 1500 milligrams oh no we did when we drove home from oh my god i think we calculated like 2000 milligrams that day it was more than that it was like 3 500 yeah seth me and ian drove back from florida without straight straight straight so we're just like drinking fucking coffee and bread bowls or whatever energy drinks and smoking cigarettes let's say if your drink is 20 hours yeah averaging 150 milligrams to 200 milligrams a drink we drank way more than 10. so like you're probably double that so you're probably like oh 500 to 3 000 milligrams i think i think i crushed a pack of cigarettes that trip too yeah my body was like dead when i got old how was how wait how long ago was this last year after the olympia yeah we drove home after the olympia straight back from the olympia he needed help moving so my stuff was still in florida so we packed up a u-haul and put it behind my truck because my truck was still in florida and we just fucking hoofed it yeah we went i flew down to the olympia and then i drove with him from the olympia to his house to get the rest of his stuff yeah from orlando to and we drove all the way fucking home it was driving so fast with this trailer that the trailer was starting to be like i look at the rearview mirror right there's a speed limit right on right on the wheel well of the trailer max 55 we're doing like 85 miles an hour just flying home i'm like dude this fucking trailer is gonna fly off did you guys have like a favorite energy drink that you went with i'm always i'm always a white monster yeah white monster's the go-to but for me for me i when i'm driving i actually rather have coffee just because it's hot it keeps me awake yeah but i did switch to energy drinks at some points and they were like usually uh white monsters were pretty good yeah yeah lots of stims no carbs minimal water yeah and if i if we remember remember if we ate we had to eat no carbs so we're eating like we're eating like we're eating like pepper pepperettes and cheese like i still have in my truck actually in my glove box before i got rid of it like because that was i have a new truck now but that one when i brought it to the dealer to trade it in there was still a fucking cheese string of yours in my glove box the guy was eating fucking cheese strings you know anything but carbs carbs i would have been knocked out for sure yeah no carbs and i was i didn't even sleep either when fuad drove because fuad drove probably 70 of the drive but he was driving so crazy i was too scared to sleep so i didn't yeah i want to know when i'm gonna die at one at one point i had to stop i think we were in like louisiana or no kentucky maybe louisiana kentucky kentucky we're in kentucky i think i think so i i think i remember it being kentucky anyway it was really nice drive like the problem is it was like it must have been like 11 o'clock at night by this point or maybe later and you've driven the whole time so far and i had been driving the whole time and i think i the reason i think is kentucky because i remember the roads being really really nice it was like elevation changes and a lot of like sweeping fucking highway and i was like i kind of started falling asleep i was like i could see him going like so i like open the window and like smoke more then i'm like i'm like bite your nails bite your nails that'll keep you awake so i'm biting my nails i'm driving finally finally i just pulled over i'm like fucking i just drive man we're gonna die i'm like just yeah you'll you'll hold out to the very last second the trick is though and i've done this and i think we've talked about this before if you're alone it would have been a bit weird oh i got an awesome trick for alone go ahead if you jerk off while you're driving you'll never fall too yeah you told me that i don't know yeah but then when you come you're gonna pass out no no you don't come oh you don't you edge it you edge it for hours i can't do that like that just stop for like 30 seconds and then you fucking start by the time you get to the place you're at your nuts are like this the second you get home just fucking boom that'll get her pregnant yeah um no i got a real fucking trick not fucking jerking off sunflower seeds oh yeah oh yeah with the shell with the shell like if you eat because you're constantly it just keeps you awake man i did it for like six hours one time yeah i wasn't tired at all you're getting all that salt too so you're not gonna probably not gonna piss at all yeah you're just absorbing all the water i mean i was proud of myself this the other day i drove back from the u.s drove six hours zero stops zero like not just piss not to get gas nothing and i wasn't even tired that's a pb for me did you piss in a jug or anything no i like by the time i got home i had to piss very bad but i made it the whole way to hold it for six fucking even i can't like for me i pissed right before i left and i drank water and and two energy drinks during the drive and i was fine when i got home i was like hurting but i made it the whole way one time i was driving home from the show i wanted to get home that night for whatever reasons couple years ago i remember this yeah so the last stop before you get to windsor is uh tillbury chatham about 45 minutes from windsor so i knew i had to shit but i didn't want to stop and shit yet and it was late at night so i was like i get i get to the to the to the on route and i just was like okay i can make it till i get home and then i farted and i shitted myself in the car that's like 40 minutes of the drive i farted and shitted myself i would have just at that point i would have just taken off my underwear and thrown out the window you know you know you know you know you know i realized about this podcast paul you've gotten so comfortable that you're telling people you shit your pants everybody's gonna be like i've been there too paul been there too um that's the all of a sudden now if you run out of toilet paper while on the throne what's your go-to move shower hand scoop towel hand scoop is that what indians do i don't know i don't know i'm not indian just because i'm brownian don't ask me don't ask me man what's your go-to okay get in the shower for sure yeah definitely if you got no if you don't have any more okay let me ask you this i mean i do that wait wait wait i have to shower i get in the shower anyways and don't wipe wait yeah okay let me ask you this glorified bidet let's say the shower head just all i don't want to do a for an hour let's just one i just want to put a button on this let's say your your toilet paper is not within reach you have to get up to get it oh i'll walk hold on a minute hold on just let me finish the question you're done taking a dump do you walk to the toilet paper or do you walk into the shower and if you walk to the toilet paper do you walk with a squat so that your cheats don't rub together squat walk squat walk right yeah i like i'll walk but i'll like jump my shit is between your legs you can't stand up if you shoot your you can't take a shit and stand right up i stand to wipe anyway so it's fucking hold on a minute mike what are you fucking hershey squirting my my shit comes out wrapped like it's in saran wrap it just flies right out of there well i mean i can like to wipe that uh okay i haven't i haven't had a wiper in 10 years mike doesn't even i'm just gonna roll the paper he only just one wipes i don't know yeah but i don't know but mike but mike also doesn't check so we don't know if he's actually clean yeah you can check i check you said you said on a previous podcast you don't check no i check i do the peak and i throw oh okay before before you think i'm just out here winging it yeah it's like oh that's good enough feels clean it starts to feel like there's like no traction you know oh no oh my god they're a little slick still like you follow a high fiber diet yeah i think fiber lice code van wick uh okay last one when you are sponsored by a company do you ever or are you allowed to use products from other companies not the small stuff like vitamins but like protein powders or pre-workouts well you allowed to use it yeah but are you allowed to post it that's different you know i mean i'll just say this i would hope that my athletes like my shit enough that they don't want to use other stuff well why would you but but have i have i had an athlete say to me like oh i tried this other flavor from such and such a company i really liked it i'm like yeah i'm like cool and then we'll try and like see if we can come up with something similar or something like that that they look i think any owner and seth can speak to this too would be naive if they thought their athletes didn't try other stuff from time to time that being said i can say for sure martin hasn't been with the team long enough so i don't know for sure but i can say for sure samson like really enjoys our stuff so i don't think he usually uses anything else other than our shit but i wouldn't be mad if he said hey i tried another protein i like the taste so i don't know seth any thoughts yeah sorry god no i agree i think it's i it's the whole reason that we all got into bodybuilding and we all that it was for the love of it and then like oh my god look at i mean dude other companies do really good job with their marketing and then they like oh they come out with a new flavor and it's fun um but from a from i mean of course they're going to try it or take it but then from a promotional standpoint i mean you would hope that they would post about your company like you you said fulad like authentically like people really like our products right people really like your products right there's a lot of people that do a good job with it so it's you know like we're on this podcast we do stuff you know we get together we um you know promote the shows together people know we're in a competitive space so i know that people have taken hostile supplements and i'm sure people that are with hostile that have taken access i do like the honesty when i see with people that you know not a competitive product like say another brand that they're like hey i really like this product and the post and be like honest about it i do like saying that as well yeah listen i want my athletes to be authentic but i also don't pay them to promote other companies no no but like it's a product you didn't make you know yeah that in that in that sense then i don't mind at all like i see like martin drinks um ghost energy drinks we don't have energy drinks so i'm like you know go fucking have at it um so yeah but you know i just want to make this one point and i hope it doesn't take in the wrong isn't taken the wrong way but i noticed something over the last three weeks while i was away i and i'm sure you guys got it too i got dozens of fucking dms every day from people who are like where's the podcast where's the podcast where's the podcast and i'm extremely happy to do the podcast i'm extremely happy that people watch the podcast but i would hope at the same time that people are supporting all of us on the podcast because these guys are giving their time and i'm giving my time and like mike's got a brand with wicked ian's or ian's with braw you can use his code don't use it at miracle use mine rbp and um ian so my mic is actually a bigger discount than his no it's not it's less it's only five percent anyway seth has got ax and sledge so i just hope that like you know all i'm saying is i hope that you guys would support us because we're giving back to you guys and all that so i just want to get that out of the way real quick um okay let's do one more just to tie it up and then we'll find a couple good ones uh where are you going on vacation paul mexico where mexico can't go again nice yeah i like i like judging didn't you you gonna hit the club judges from all america you're gonna go to the city or what uh the resort area are you saying the city is a club oh no i'm going with the family i'm going with the wife and kids yeah when they go to bed hey one night i'll sneak out when they're all sleeping there's a picture of me on the wall in this at the city nightclub really i have some of my best memories of my entire life at the city me and flit went there back in what was that who year was that like 2007 or something but i don't remember what clubs 2005 i think 2005 we went nuts but i don't remember the clubs i remember back in the day when they had like daddy o's and fucking you know all those clubs um what the fuck was i gonna say did you did you ever work concerts there mike there what did you ever work a concert there no no no i got a friend who said they have AI don't know if it's a resort i think it's a resort in costa rica they want us to go there done you guys if you guys are in for a guys trip we can go to costa rica nice on the private jet shoot our way shoot podcasts and fucking hang out okay are you guys in for real sad yeah you're gonna get away for real if i can yes oh that's that's the line i don't like if i can that's like let me just tell my wife i'm not going to go to any gymnastics meets all through the spring yeah just say look i'm going to be on for a week you can deal with it okay last question i want to hear mike's theory on the drone sightings in new jersey me too damn it i fucking knew this happened sorry mike you're the you're the resident conspiracy expert i've been following this i don't i don't i have no idea what's going on with that but i just have one question that everyone should be asking if you're so concerned about what's in there and if everyone was and the government was why aren't we shooting them down why are they not being shot down that's the most obvious question i like why are we so obviously it's something some fuckery going on so no one knows what it is but it's like if there's that much concern and there's a breach of an issue of national security why are you not shooting these things down you know i always ask them i was always i was back to i'm curious too because i saw like uh an expert talking about it and he was saying why do they have all the same lights that the f i think it's faa uh requires them to have like they have one green light on one side one red light on the other like they have all the same lights that they require planes to have maybe ufos follow regulations too yeah it's like it's almost like conditioning it's almost like conditioning getting people used to seeing things in the sky they're not used to yeah what's the deal with and i didn't follow this at all what's the deal with this dude that shot this guy at the health insurance yeah what's the deal with that the young italian kid i don't know what connection the kid has i just know that he shot him i don't know like what did paul you know more about this don't don't you you saw a lot of story that close but uh but i know like there's apparently there's all these like millionaires who are offering to pay this kid's defense bill yeah well you know you know what health care health insurance ceos are doing now they're taking their pictures down off their websites united health care they have like a 30 some percent denial rate yeah okay so united health care ceo he was going to testify at something that morning or that day at like 10 or 10 or 11 o'clock and then that fellow luigi took him out at like 6 a.m and then he took off and apparently that hearing still went on at that 10 or 11 o'clock that he was supposed to go to and testify at so there's a whole plethora of conspiracies that go along with it because uh united health care got their uh this is again this the tin foil hat but it's it's okay i like i like tin foil hats yeah it's not but it is uh so united health care in february of february 22nd of 2023 got hacked and 100 million people like their their information got got taken yeah okay and then uh so nancy pelosi who speaker uh big politician she uh she bought millions of dollars worth of palo palo alto oh no and then in march in the the beginning of march palo alto was the company that came in and did all the cleanup work from that breach jesus so she ended up making big money from it how is this even legal so that's why they were saying that the conspiracy behind that would be that this dude got whacked because he was going to testify yeah yeah that had to do with that occurring so you never know like there's just all these things with luigi and then he has a whole entire you know he had i mean listen if you're going to commit a crime like he's going to like murdering somebody you think you'd leave the weapon there and you wouldn't take it with you you think that you'd get rid of all the things and change what you look like change your jacket have a plan you don't just wear the same exact fucking thing you have on with the gun with everything and travel to altoona pennsylvania which ain't too far from us and get caught at mcdonald's that has everything your manifesto the gun the whole nine kind of like man something's not adding up here it's like it's like when i shouldn't say that that would give me a lot of trouble these days have some weird so what were you gonna say for that i was gonna say it's like when um two massive buildings crumble to the ground but somehow they find passports the passports are found crystal clean with not a scratch on them a little weird beer there's a lot of they can get down to some fucking rabbit holes it's a lot of stuff i don't know man the people say there's conspiracy theories but that's not a conspiracy here the fact that she made that money is not a conspiracy theory she's been known she's been known for insider trading for decades that's how she's that's how she's that's how she's a half a billionaire well almost a billionaire if that's what you call it um and i'm like you make 150 000 a year how the fuck are you a 400 500 millionaire remember that that weird thing with her husband but the crazy sorry the crazy thing about it is hammer is it there's not it's not fucking illegal there no it is insider trading is illegal she's not she found some fucking loophole because i thought they tried to nail her for this shit and she was like then somebody got killed yeah yeah that's called friends in high places you know yeah yeah i'll probably get a party before i lose office and i mean you look at you nobody's talking no i mean there are places talking about that i mean i i'm this is just you know my surface level of a yeah you know potential or whatever but um like uh i mean whenever you see the amount of press that that that that he's gotten with it all it's kind of like the hearing still occurred it still went on nobody's talking about what occurred from it um you know like at that point you're like man i don't really trust anybody because what do we all care about we care about luigi and how handsome he was and all this health you know his you know his jacket apparently is sold out i believe the denim the denim hoodie jacket that he's wearing apparently it's sold out you can't buy you can't get really yeah i mean i i'm i'm i mean i'm with with how the health care system yet united health care and it being 37 percent an hour rate like dude it's it's that's ungodly like you're fucking with people's lives you're killing that's but that's their job right that's the insurance company's job that's what i mean like this has been going on forever like it's not yeah that's not a new thing i mean the insurance company is in the business of make money i mean look if you want to go down a real rabbit hole the it's not just the insurance company the like the food companies the drug companies they're all in the same business they're like how can we get over on the public well that's why the food in america is absolutely dog shit i know but that's what i'm saying like this is kind of a it's across the board it's like if you look at any big industry they are all in the business of lying to the public to sell their product yes and they're all under massive corporations that are yeah blanket corporations over everything there's only a handful of corporations that control everything right wow we really went down it conspiracy yeah thanks mike thanks mike you know and you know who killed gfk i'll tell you we're gonna release the same people okay before we go well now fuck it we'll get away from politics okay um um boys it's good to be back thank you for coming on we'll get together next week and do this again yep hey guys paul no don't go oh look that i'm losing connection guys paul i almost forgot it was time for your prayer i know you almost forgot i was gonna remind you yeah yeah i knew somebody would all right well it's been a little while so it might be a little rusty it might be might be better you have more stuff to talk about it's never gone that smoothly so let's not think of the things think about this it can't get any worse just pretend you're frozen paul just sit there all right come on let's go lead us off let us bow our heads dear leader it's almost christmas um time of year to spend some time with family and friends and um eat some food and celebrate a little time off work going to mexico um started off so good man i'm looking forward to that and uh just the season and uh happy holidays it's the season christmas merry christmas everybody see you next week see you guys