 naringin, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in, {\in,青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青青 down here is still 50% off. It is 2650 for a 20 serve, all clinically dosed, amazing pre-workout, but we got to get it out so we can get new flavors, new labels, and a whole bunch of new stuff coming. So to your advantage, pick up the bloodshot at 2650, no code needed and no limit to how many you can pick up. Thank you guys very much for the support. What's going on, everybody? Welcome back to the Real Bodybuilding Podcast. I'm here with one of the greatest coaches in the IFBB, Mr. Neil Hill. How are you, sir? I haven't seen you in a while. Long time, to be honest with you. Very, very long time, but it's good to see you looking well. Yeah, things are going pretty good. How are you out there in sunny, warm Vegas? Yeah, it's beautiful. Yeah, the weather here at the moment is amazing. So I know that different parts of the US and obviously Canada are experiencing very cold weather, but we've been very fortunate to enjoy some amazing weather at the moment. So it's been great. It's actually freezing here and I'm very mad at you that I have to, that you're in the sun and I'm in the freezing cold. You know, it's funny, my last year around this time, me, my brother and my nephew took a trip to Vegas for a motorcycle trip and he was just asking me about that a couple of weeks ago. He was like, hey, we should go to Vegas again. So we've actually been thinking about it this whole month, like maybe just going out there for a short stint. But anyways, Neil, I wanted to get you on. I haven't, you know, we have never really talked about bodybuilding or coaching or anything like that. So I kind of wanted to get you on and have this conversation and kind of pick your brain a little bit about your athletes and about your systems and just about life in general and the IFBB and what you think of it. All right. I appreciate it. And also just let me just say massive congratulations, what you've done in the past as an athlete, obviously as a supplement brand owner, you know, yourselves are very worldwide recognized and respected. And also what you're doing on your podcast and contributing to the bodybuilding community is very refreshing. So much respect. Thank you very much, Neil. Thank you. I appreciate that very much. Neil, you're out there in Vegas. Are you working with Mike Sommerfeld right now out there like one on one? Let's say one on one. Mike normally comes out to wherever I may be during certain preps, normally from about six weeks to four weeks out from a show. We normally train about maybe once or twice together per week, sometimes more, sometimes less. I mean, myself and Mike have been working now together for pretty much eight years. Oh, really? Yeah. So pretty much eight years. So I'm very fortunate to have got to know his body, you know, pretty well over that period of time. Yeah. And I also obviously I have other applications with other athletes. So, you know, I need to make sure that I'm very fair with my time, the way that I obviously distribute it. So we normally train about once or twice a week, sometimes a little more, sometimes a little less. And depending on peak week, we tend to be together pretty much for the whole period of peak week. Right. Go into shows. Yeah. What did you before I get into more of your clients? I want to just stick to stick to Mike for one second. What did you think of last year's Olympia showing versus the Arnold? I know there was the whole, you know, the weight height situation. And I just, I don't want to, I don't want to preface the question with anything. I just want to know what you thought. What did you think of Mike's overall presence at the Olympia versus his Arnold look? I don't think you can necessarily compare them because I think that the situations we were faced created different obstacles, so to speak. Right. Right. But what I will say is with the timeline that we had in front of us, I felt that we brought a pretty remarkable look to the stage, to be honest with you, in Vegas. I do feel that our conditioning in Vegas was actually better than it was in the Arnold. Yeah. I felt that, I felt that the condition that Mike brought actually to 2025, Mr. Olympia was probably his best to date when I'm talking about the finest refinement. Yeah. But we, you know, but we will lose in those few, those number of pounds of fullness. Right. You know, the question is, is that would we have been able to attain the same level of like intricacy with that detail in, with more fullness? It's impossible to say, and to be honest, you will never necessarily know, right? Right. But I think that they were, you know, there were two different looks. There was a fuller, a very full, complete look at the 2025 Arnold Classic, but there was an incredibly, incredibly detailed physique, which brought a second place in the 2025 Mr. Olympia. So I think that they're different, but I feel that they were very standout within themselves. They were, you know, slightly different. You know, it brings an interest, a really interesting question that coaches have to kind of play the game their self of realizing what is the best peak for my athlete. And I don't know if people really understand that all the time, because I think people think the best peak is the most shredded peak. Yep. And even though I agree with you that Mike, you know, probably had more intricate detail at the Olympia. Yeah. Do you think that's the best version of Mike? Because some people like the fuller version of Mike. Yeah. So what do you as his coach think is like the real sweet spot for him? I think it's probably a combination between the two. And that's not me sort of giving you an answer, which is a get out out answer. I think that it's, I think a combination between the two, if we were able to bring another four pounds of fullness to that stage, or, you know, four, three or four pounds of fullness to the stage, but with that same level of conditioning, would we possibly see even more conditioning because the muscle will be fuller? It's a question mark. Right. If that wasn't something which would take place, then I just think that those extra pounds of fullness would have just added to the illusion of his structure, which is just so incredible, like some amazing classic athletes on that stage. Right. But with the timeline between weigh-ins and prejudging, you can only do so much. But this has never happened with one of my athletes before. How much, how much weight do you think that we gain from, from weigh-ins to the morning of the show? Because this has never happened with me with an athlete before. I, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna guess. I don't, I don't think much personally, but maybe you're gonna tell me something different. 10 pounds. You gained 10 pounds? We gained 10 pounds. Because to make weight was so extreme. Right. You know, and it was, and you know, it was very extreme through the process to make weight that there's a fine line of losing muscle tissue when there's an extreme measure of, or an extreme amount of weight that's got to come off in such a small timeline, right? Right. And then the only, you know, the most sensible way to do it, well, actually most sensible, not necessarily sensible. One of the very few ways that you can do that, but also maintain that muscle is to lose as much fluid as you possibly can. But you, it's, as you can imagine, it's a very, very fragile, dangerous environment. Right. So, you know, we lost, you know, a lot of water and water, which wasn't really present on Mike's physique, which made it even more difficult. Yeah. And I feel that what that did is actually preserve the muscle without us losing muscle tissue over an extended period of time. Right. We lost the fullness within that muscle belly. So there was a huge amount of intracellular drop off as far as hydration is concerned. Sub-Q water, but there was, as I said, there was very little on Mike anyway. And I feel that we were able to rapidly hydrate straight after the after prejudging, which brought weight back up. But we had a very time, limited restraint, time, restraint timeline as far as getting intramuscular fullness back as far as carbs are concerned, because you're obviously in a very, you're in a big deficit anyway. Carbs tended to be very low with Mike at certain stages of prep. And then if you were just to push too hard on the loading phase, then you'd run the risk of not necessarily just, of just spilling, but the spilling wasn't really a concern for me. It was more the fact that you start compromising digestive health. And once that starts happening, inflammation and all other factors take place, the physique is possibly going to start running away in different, in different directions. So, but I will say that it was, it was an incredible learning, a learning process for us. It was, it was, it wasn't an ideal environment for us to be in, but we learned so fucking much. It was, it was very exciting. It was pretty amazing to be honest with you. See, I always thought that the reason I said not a lot, well, first I'm coming from an open men's bodybuilding background, which has a totally different, you know, carb load, but, and we don't have time constraints, but I always thought that the harder you push the muscle down and the more you, the more you depleted that muscle, the harder it would be to bring back. So if you're trying to bring it back in such a small amount of time, it's just the fullness is not going to come back and you're going to, the physique might run away weight, weight wise, where it just kind of like starts to speed up on you. So that's kind of why I thought that. So I didn't like, how do you combat that when you're trying to reload somebody? Well, go back to what the beginning, like I said, because we had such a short timeline for us to make weight with the announcement. There's no way that we were able to lose like 12 pounds within four days, because it was pretty much four days, because I think the announcements took place on Saturday. We took time to sort of process it. Weigh-ins was on Thursday morning. So you've only got Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, you've got four days. How can you lose that kind of, how can you lose that kind of like weight as far as body fat, muscle tissue in four days? It's impossible. So the thing is that, you know, sort of 90%, 80% of that weight, where did it come from? It comes from fluid. Yes. So the difference being as in what you just said just now is, yeah, they're very, very different because you've, you know, when you were going into an event or most athletes, when they're going into an event as an athlete, and it's not just relatable to open class bodybuilding, it just happened to be this timeline as far as making weight. We have to do things very differently. So we basically just had to get that fluid back in, but just make sure that fluid stayed within the muscle. So, you know, I was doing a lot of testing with Mike to see what his intracellular hydration was like, his magnesium, his potassium, what his, you know, zinc was like, you know, just making sure that sodium was staying very present in the muscle wall and not coming out of the muscle. So in most cases, if I had an athlete and I was going in and going into a phase of loading and drying out, the weights tend to stay relatively stable. Exactly. Yeah. They stay relatively stable. You may gain two or three pounds. You might be actually two or three pounds lighter, but the weight is irrelevant. It's about the look. Right. But in this case, we'd never been put in this situation before, you see. Right. So everything changed. Everything changed. Right. So, and that's why I said it was actually, it was pretty amazing because we've learned so much about Mike's physique, which we would never have learned before because we'd never be in that position. Now, you know, hopefully we're never going to be in that position again, but it's something which was, which was an incredible learning curve for us both, so to speak. Right. Right. So without divulging too many of your secrets, how do you keep the water in the muscle and not spill? Like that's something completely foreign to me. I have no idea how that works. I think it depends on where that's what that person is as far as a deficit of where they are, how much of a hole they're in at the time when it comes to say intracellular carbs, carbs, how present you are and how full you are when it comes to glycogen, et cetera. And of course there's a fine line between carbohydrates and hydration through the form of fluids and also essential minerals. I try to keep fluids as high as I can through all prep, whether it's through a drying out phase or whether it's going through a loading phase. What is that? Can I interrupt you, Neil? Sorry. What is that? What does that amount of water look like? Like I have no idea because in my era, we were still doing the cut all your water, you know, when you're getting, when you get on stage. So I don't know what that looks like. Okay. So I would say maybe 70, 80% of the athletes are probably consuming, let's say the drying out phase and the loading phase is the last three days. Show is on a Saturday. Loading drying out starts on a Wednesday. Water on Wednesday could be nine liters. Water on Thursday could be eight liters. Water on Friday could be six liters. Really? Yeah. Water on the day of the show, morning, the show could be a liter. Wow. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I was doing like 250 milliliters on a Friday. Well, I mean, but that wasn't unusual by any means. But what I've just spoken about just now is not necessarily something that I've only done in the last two or three years. It's what I've done pretty much for my coaching career. But obviously things are going to change and manipulate from person to person. So I would probably say the least amount of water I think I've ever given anybody the day before the show is probably three liters. Really? Wow. Yeah, I would say, I mean, I would probably say, and I don't know if there's trends anymore. But what I'm doing now, it's not because I don't want to learn. And it's not because I don't want to become better. But the complexity of the human body and how people will respond from one person to another person, from the load into the drying out, can be quite a big variable from one to another. And that's another reason why I love my work is because I love the challenge of figuring out a person's body. There isn't a coach which has peaked every athlete 100%. It's not possible. It's no different than an athlete not bringing his best 100% of the time. And sometimes you can't even look back and say to yourself, I should have done this. You know, when you look at sometimes like, I can't see where this went wrong or I can't see where I made the choice that I probably shouldn't have chosen. And I think a lot of what a lot of coaches will be able to relate to. One of my really close friends, one of my best friends was actually over here staying for seven days. He went back to the UK, back to his, to basically back home to his wife and children. He's a great coach. And we were talking about this a couple of days ago. And I said to him, I don't know how many times you've been in this situation. It could be the day of the show, sorry, the day before the show. Your athlete looks great. They could probably step on stage now. But you're like, I think that we can, we can prove a little bit. You decide to make a judgment call. But in the back of your mind, you wake all night, you're thinking, did I push it a little bit hard on the drying out phase? Did I? And then you're just waiting for the client to wake up the following morning and send you pictures and a check in to say, coach, this is what I look like. Right, right, right. But the sense of accuracy is so fine that what appears to be a very small decision can be very broad and dramatic with the outcome of the look on the day of the show. Right. Now, when you're getting Mike, and it's the last kind of last question I want to ask on Mike and then kind of move on. But when you're getting Mike ready for the Arnold now, and you know his weight, and you know his height cap or whatever the weight cap is, are you, in my mind, I'm thinking to myself, Neil's going to get him ready early so that he has him kind of at the weight he wants so that it's easier to carb load. Is that? Yeah. That would be exactly what it would be. That would be the goal normally. Okay. So I saw a clip with you talking to him. Somebody said it was old. I don't know if it's old or you told them you were a little bit behind. Oh, this is presently. And I was going to bring this out. This is a completely different where we are currently because even though that question relates to where, to this year's Arnold, everything about this prep is very different. So Mike is, Mike a hustler. He works incredibly hard. And not only do I think that he represents the industry really well as being just a great role, an ambassador and role model for the athletes, you know, the present and the future coming up. He likes to work and he likes to earn money. He wants to progress. He wants a better life like most people, right? Right. And he tends to do a lot of seminars and travels after shows. The problem with that, you're exposed to different environments. And on multiple occasions, he has picked up really bad food poisoning. And in some of those cases, it's actually, you know, turned out there's some very bad bacteria taking place and parasites. So he got very, very sick after Olympia when we went to Mexico for a week. And then he traveled to Asia and that sickness continued. Then he went to Bali and he picked up another type of bacteria strain. And this has probably been happening over the last, I would say, like three years with Mike, to be honest. It's not unusual for him to pick up food poisoning. But, of course, there's underlying things which tend to stay dormant. And then they obviously expose themselves. Right. So what happened is he then went to Dubai because he's got property over there. And he had very intensive testing done with his digestive health. And by the time they got the results back, it was about 14 days, maybe 21-day turnaround before they get the full tests and results back. It showed that he had, I think, six or eight different bacteria strains as well as parasite. So then the physician recommended or suggested the medication, which was very, very strong medication. But that indirectly kills all your microbiome. Everything, yeah. Everything. So, you know, we were like contemplating, shall we start this before Arnold? Should we not start this before Arnold? Arnold. And, you know, there's a part of us where we like this. We need to make this. We need to start this after the Arnold. But his body just wasn't doing well as far as his digestion. So we went through a very intensive three-week phase with these antibiotics. And everything changed because we needed to keep carbs incredibly low because carbs, you know, directly convert to sugar. And that then starts feeding bacteria. We had to keep fats low. So he was in a massive deficit of calories. So we couldn't do cardio the way that we would normally. We couldn't. We had to be mindful of the intensity and the effort that we were putting into the gym. Into the gym. And it was more so just trying to preserve what was taken on his physique at the time. So for like three weeks, I said to him, I said to him, Mike, for the last three weeks, I haven't even been able to coach you. Because you're not coachable because of what we're going through. So now that finished probably like a week and a half ago. I sent him a message yesterday. And I spoke. We trained together on Monday. I'm sorry. Yeah, we trained together on Monday in films. And I said, listen, you're not behind with your fat levels, but you're very, very behind with your look. We've got to work really, really hard now. So what does. Sorry, Neil. What does that mean? You're not behind with your fat levels, but you're behind with your look. So his fat levels are probably about. Maybe seven or eight percent. OK. But you don't have that, you know, that unabolic, hard, dense look about the muscle. Is that because, is that because I'm not a pharmacologist, but your supplements, we'll call them. Maybe don't work as well when you're going through intensive antibiotic treatment. Yes, but also more so because we were basically like in a very harsh, depleted state for such a long time. Right. With calories. Right. Right. And then we were very mindful about compound choices. Right. It didn't make sense to use a certain type of protocol, which was associated to certain phases because that didn't make sense. It was just at the time it was just about let's preserve this muscle tissue as much as we possibly can. Right. And and see if we can slowly, slowly reduce body fat. So when I say anabolic, that anabolic look, I feel there's just two or three different stages of that. So I think that an anabolic look, a healthy anabolic look to me has nothing to do with the substance. It's got nothing to do with PDs. It's to do with the physique looks like it's recovering. There's fullness. It looks healthy. And you can see that everything's clicking. Yeah. And then you'll go into a phase as you get leaner where it's not necessarily compound changes. It's the fact that body composition changes is taking place as far as fat levels. And you start to get that more density to the muscle. Right. All right. And then you potentially go into another phase where certain things are introduced. Certain things are removed. But those things which are introduced and those things which are which are removed isn't just the reason why the muscle starts from going from a very, say, say, a denser, harder look to a more grainy, drier, separated, harder, harder look. It's a combination of a compound change, but also the fact that the athletes get in leaner and leaner and you're able to control that sub-Q water. So water, there's water present. There's water under the skin. Right. But the majority of that water is very deep within that muscle. Right. So you're seeing a lot more hardness taking place. Because I could look at Mike at six weeks out from a show and I could say, Mike, I could put you on stage next week. Like I can put you on stage. I could dry you out and put you on stage next week. Right. We're not close to that at the moment. But triceps are feathered. Glutes are feathered. Thighs are feathered. But he probably needs to lose. And also, I still feel that there's a little bit of water taking place just because of everything. But more so just because of, obviously, medication, even though that's out of his system now. How long that half-life is as far as water, et cetera, and inflammation, it's still, you know, I don't know because I'm not an expert in that field, even though we've done some research on it. Yeah. But let's be honest, when research is looked into those things, they're not looked into with bodybuilders. Yeah, yeah. They're normal people cases, right? Right, right. So he's definitely behind. But I'm not concerned, Fuad. I'm excited. And I know what Mike's work ethic is like because he'll want to run and I've got to pull him back most of the time. Yeah. Because he's just got that desire, right? So he's just got that desire to bring his best and represent. Well, and this is why I asked. Look, obviously, you guys are going to work together and you're going to bring him in and he's probably going to look amazing. The question I had was because of the correction from the Olympia, I thought to myself, Neil's going to have to bring him in kind of like almost two or three weeks ahead. So that the body weight can just stay light. Yeah. That way it doesn't maybe seem as depleted. Yeah. I don't know how to explain what I'm saying. I know exactly what you're saying. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah. What you're basically saying is because you had to make such extreme measures last year for the Olympia in so many days, would it not be better to bring that weight down to a lower amount over a consecutive period of time? That makes sense. It's preserving the muscle tissue, which means that the harshness and the sense of being in a very negative catabolic environment is going to be lesser. And then you can, you know, fill them out. I would say no. Yeah. And I tell you why, because like I said, we've never been in this position before. Right. And I've thought about this. I've thought about this because Mike has said to me, hey, coach, are we going to talk about peak week? I said, Mike, I never tell you what we're doing on peak week until peak week because I want to see where your body is. It's not because I don't want to talk to you about it and say what we're going to do because we go from day to day with how your body is. Right. What you're saying makes sense, but it won't work with Mike. And the reason being is because I've had this rational mind. I've had this rational conversation so many times where I was like, okay, all right. So what I'm going to do is going to bring Mike down, lower, lower, down to this weight roughly. We'll just dry out a little bit for weigh-ins. We'll lose three, four, five pounds at the most. And then we can go in from that straight into the show. I don't think that's going to work because I will have to lose muscle if I bring him into a lower, lower weight. So if I bring him down lower and lower and lower, there's no way I'm going to be able to keep that water off him for extended, extended, extended periods of time. Right. I'm going to be losing muscle tissue. We're going to lose muscle tissue. But to me, I thought to myself, and I'm not challenging by any stretch. No, no. I like to have the conversation. So to me, I thought to myself, how does it – I always felt like a body cannot carb load properly. You cannot load the muscle back if it's been kind of crashed into a weight. Yep. But you seem to be able to do it because you're using more water. Is that why? Yeah. But remember I said that we lost that weight purely more so from the water, not because of the muscle. Right. Do you understand? And that's why I – you know, that's why in my mind it's like, no, it won't work, man. I can't bring Mike down further and further over extended, extended periods of time because I know I'm going to lose muscle tissue. And I'm never going to get that back. And the other thing is they've changed the timeline for the classic technique category for the Arnold's. If I knew this, I probably wouldn't put Mike in the show. What is it now? They compete on Friday. Yeah. When's the weigh-in? Thursday morning. So you got 24 hours. Yeah. A little bit more. A little bit more. Whereas before we had 48 hours. Right. Wow. I didn't know that. You're losing a whole day. I'm losing a whole day. Yeah. That's a big, big difference. That's a big difference. I think, you know, when I saw the, when I know it, I was like, what? Because it was always on a Saturday. But I think what they've probably done for, they've changed the open men. I think the open men now are only on the Saturday. They're all one day. Yeah. So what they do, they need, they need a main category. The classic guys. The classic to basically headline the Friday. Otherwise the Friday show possibly won't have the numbers as far as audience. Right. So that's why they did it. So I understand. And it's, it's a very professional decision for the Arnold to do it that way. But, um, but for us, it's just going to kill us. But let me ask you this and set aside your feelings about your athletes. Yeah. Don't you think it's more fair to make it one day? Uh, for the athletes. Yeah. I think I like the challenge of seeing if I can hold the condition of an athlete for two days, but I much prefer the one day because I feel that it's less complex. It's far healthier. Yeah. Let's just, let's, let's just look at this first. First of all, let's forget about ticket sales and let's forget about entertainment. What should be the first fucking criteria? The health and the wellbeing of the athletes. Right. Right. So having them on stage for one day potentially is far more healthier than a, but I didn't, I'm sorry. I didn't mean that. I meant, no, I know you didn't, but I was just touching. Yeah. Yeah. That way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What I'm saying. I know that's what you wasn't saying to me, but what I was, I was going to say that besides what you were trying to indirectly ask me, I was also saying the health of the athlete is more important. I think it brings, it's fair on the athlete because it's less stress. It's less, it's less, it's less, um, um, it's, it's, it's, it's a healthy environment. I think the excitement and anticipation stays present within the theater with the, with the, um, with the audience. But the problem is, is that when you have multiple, multiple, multiple categories, how do you put them all on, on the stage at the same time? It's not possible. That's why you obviously have Fridays and Saturdays. Right. And I think sometimes it's very difficult for the promoters and the organizers to find that happy medium. But I would much prefer athletes go on stage one day only. Right. Right. Um, but, but to the point of the weigh-in. Yep. I feel like if it's only a day away from the show. Yep. Or even the closer you can get it to the show. I know that's not an advantage for Mike. Yep. But I feel like it's the more accurate representation of what that weight is. So like, if you say, if you supposed to, if somebody's supposed to weigh 220. Yep. But they got two days to load and they end up on stage at 235. Yep. It's not really fair. Yep. So I'm like, if you move the, if you move the weigh-in up to as close as possible to the show, you're going to, you're going to get a more accurate representation of what that weight cap actually is. I've said this for years. Do you know what my preferred choice would be? Huh. And I don't know why they don't do it. You weigh them on the morning of the show. Weigh in and then go on stage. Yes. And if you don't have the timeline, you don't put the show on. If you as the promoter and the production do not have the timeline to do this, the show shouldn't go ahead because that is a true, true figure of accuracy. And also I feel it's more healthy. Why would it be more healthy? Because it won't work for the athletes at the top end of the weight cap. So for pretty much all of my athletes, it would be a disadvantage. Right. But I look at it as what's fair right across the board. I try to disconnect myself. So, of course, sometimes you're upset with certain decisions, but you have to process and understand why they may have taken place, for instance. Right. You know, I was frustrated that the decision was made short notice that they were going to re-hide. But I also embraced it and I also thought it was 100% the right thing to do. Right. So I understood that. And I would have been probably disappointed if they didn't re-hide, to be honest with you. I just wish the timeline was made, the decision was made earlier. That's all. Yeah. That's the only reason. And it wasn't, and it's not because, oh, because you're just trying to protect Mike's ability to bring his best. No, my first priority was his health. Sure. And I can, and I, and when I 100%, I say that because, because what we had to do was really extreme. Yeah. But anyway, for somebody like a Mike and someone like a Ramon and someone like a, well, most of the top guys, they're going to struggle with this. It won't work for them. It won't work for them, man, because they won't have time to fill out and dry out because they're already at the top end of the scale before they do any of that. But it's 100% fair and even then, right? So let me, let me ask, let me ask you this question. Just, I'm just playing around with this idea because I kind of, it's kind of interesting to me. Let's say they took, let's say they took your advice. You know what? We're going to take Neil Hill's advice. We're going to weigh everybody in just before they step on stage. They're going to, just as they go on. Yeah. Or the morning of, whatever. Yeah. What is that? What happens to Ramon and Mike and a lot of these guys that are like bringing down their weight and then refilling? Do those guys ever get back into classic or are they just coming on depleted now? They're going to come on depleted quite possibly. Huh. And that changes, that changes the entire landscape. Yeah. It changes the entire landscape. Yeah. And of course, I'm trying to be very neutral with this because it would be very wrong for me just to selfishly think about my athletes. Yeah, of course. Yeah. I love the fucking industry and I love, I love, you know, I like growth and development and people can agree and disagree on certain things. And that's understandable. I think the most important is that we're open-minded and respectful enough to listen to some of people's views and opinions. Right. For me, it would be a terrible decision because I think as every single one of my athletes would struggle. They wouldn't be able to bring their best. Right. But I would also say, Fuad, that all of those athletes that I have at the top end of the scale, remember, there was a number of years ago that they were midpoint in. So in other words, they were six, seven, eight, nine, 10 pounds below the weight cap or even less. Right. So what have they done over a period of time? What have they done? They developed their physiques. Right. They built that quality muscle. And I think that's another reason maybe why we see the classic guys just looking so, I know, just the level of conditioning is just there because what's happened is that they'd be nurturing and protecting that physique by not being able to add too much muscle too quickly. Right. And that muscle has just got harder and denser and more refined. And, you know, you just bring that quality that you don't see in the open division. Right. There's very, very few athletes which are able to do that because ultimately it's also a mass building competition. You have to have enough muscle. And how many times have we seen athletes step on stage within 12 months, 18 years, 18 months later, you look and think, what the fuck? He's like, he looks like he's putting 15, 20 pounds. It's not 15, 20 quality pounds. Yeah. But I got it. I have a theory. I have a theory about that. And you know what? We'll take a little sidebar just so I can ask you about this. When you see, I see a lot of this happens and you've been in the industry a very long time, just like I have. And we've seen a lot of athletes come into the IFBB with a lot of detail. Yeah. Like I'll give you a perfect example. Let's take, just take Ian Valliere. Right. Ian Valliere, first year as a pro, second year as a pro, weighs in 240 pounds, maybe 235, 240. I don't remember what he weighed. Stripped out top to bottom. Like just detail everywhere. Striided glutes, striided whatever, whatever. He's just striided all the way up and down. Yeah. Because, you know, Ian's known for his conditioning. Yeah. Fast forward to 2021, whatever, when he's winning all his shows and he's seventh at the Olympia. He's still the same. Weight? No, he's still the same body fat level. Right. Okay. He's gained 15 pounds of muscle, but he's lost the detail. Like in his glutes, for example, his glutes are no longer stripped out. Now they're like, it's kind of like almost like the detail is like mushed together because there's so much muscle. Yeah. So I guess the question I'm asking you is, is it that the guys are not putting on quality or is it that like when a body gets too big, it just starts to blur the lines? Um, I think it will be a little bit from case to case, but the thing is, I like Ian. I think he's, I think he's a great role model in the industry. I always have done. Um, I like the fact that, you know, he's a strong character and a personality and he's a personality with himself. And I admire that a lot. Um, I don't know what, what he, you know, what he's exposed himself to and what they've done over the years. Um, I think that certain compounds are going to potentially, um, they create, they create a false illusion to the muscle, so to speak. Okay. If we go, if we, if we think about, um, okay, maybe this person is a bit of a genetic freak, for instance, but, um, I'm not going to, there's two athletes I'm going to talk about. But when Flex Lewis did his first, his last Olympia in 2018, I honestly think that was his best ever look. That was the most muscle, fullness, density, and conditioning he's ever had compared to any past Olympias. If we look at Dexter Jackson, Dexter Jackson just kept there getting better and better and better and better for so many years. You could say in the last number of years, he maybe went backwards slightly, but he still maintained those shredded glutes and those shredded muscle groups. But he also appeared to gain a lot of body weight. Sorry, a lot of body weight over a period of time. I think it's case to case, but I think it's also a compound, compound to compound. But I think you're also talking about, I think you're also talking about guys who are a lot, no offense to them because it's a bad, bad word of bodybuilding, but they're smaller guys. Yeah, they are smaller guys. Because if you took like, let's take, take away from Ian, let's just look at Kai Green, for example. Yep. Kai Green, another guy. 235, 240, strided head to toe. Yeah. As he got much, much bigger. Yeah. He lost a lot of that detail. Now, I don't know. Does that mean that it's not quality? Or does that mean that when a body gets too big, that you just, it starts to blur separation? I don't know. That's what I've always, I've just always, I've always wondered that. I'm not really taking a position on it. I just don't know. I've always, I've always been curious because you see guys as they get bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger. Yeah. Yeah. And if you take a look at their physiques when they turn pro. Yeah. They actually, some of them, not all of them, but some of them had a lot more detail and separation. Yeah. In quality, the appearance of quality. Yeah. To the muscle that kind of like went away as they got like really, really big. Yeah. So I just always wondered that. And I thought maybe you might have an answer or thought on it. I think that if you look at Ronnie in his past years, he obviously lost certain conditioning. Dorian did the same. Yeah. That extra mass didn't equate to the same kind of detail. And I don't know. I think it's exposure of certain compounds. And maybe, I'm not saying they become a little bit miscomplacent. You'd be very surprised that sometimes the smallest things that you can introduce into your prep at different stages and not compound changes. Yeah. Those little changes make a difference. It's like doing that extra cardio, doing that extra pose in rounds, really focusing on the isometric work. Right. You see a fat level saying, okay, I'm ready. My stage ready. I can see that I'm stage ready. I'm maybe not as tight in this area, but I'll dry out. And it just doesn't come through because they gain those extra couple of pounds over a period of years. And those extra couple of pounds over a period of years equate to 10 pound or 15 pound or 20 pound. But they potentially lose that intricacy. And maybe they don't notice it in the first two or three years of putting that muscle on because they find a really good combination of everything. But as you just keep adding more and more, I feel that they potentially just start losing that attention to detail in certain places. I don't know. Could be. I do know that like, I do know one thing for sure. The classic guys spend much more time posing. And I do think, I have a personal belief about posing and the role it plays in the quality of the muscle and how it looks on stage. I think the guys that I personally, it's my own belief, the guys that take more time posing and more time doing that, it actually presents a different look on stage. Yeah. So I'm not sure how you feel about that. It could be like. 100%. Years and years ago, when I first started competing, I started training when I was 19. I did my first show after 12 weeks. I did my second show probably like four, five, six months later. And for what I can remember, bearing in mind, I'm super naive. Even though I'm 19 years of age, I live in a tiny little seaside village in the middle of nowhere. I don't know anything really about, well, I actually don't know anything about bodybuilding other than what I've learned from two different people who have not been exposed to competing. So their ability for me to learn from is very little. But I can remember the first show I competed in and I can remember the second show that I competed in. I can remember waking up the next day. And of course, I didn't dry out. I didn't do any of those things. In fact, I probably water loaded, right? I probably water loaded and took a ton of vitamin C and asparagus. I can remember waking up the next day and the day after thinking, fucking sore. Why am I sore? I didn't really pump up much. And then what happened maybe six months later, 12 months later, I had a really bad cold. And I was coughing and I was coughing and I was coughing for weeks. And I can remember seeing my midsection getting like what appeared to be just more conditioned. And then it dawned on me thinking when I was posing on stage, my muscle soreness is no different than what it would be after a really bad dom session. And they made me realize posing and doing isometric work because I didn't even know what that was back then. Posing potentially has the ability to create stimulus within the muscle. Most people will have their favorite side on certain areas. So, for instance, you might have found that your right leg was slightly a little bit more separated or your tricep on your left arm was more. So what would you do? You would keep showing that side. So what would happen? That separation would just become more and more prominent. So when I was about 22, 23, I started doing my own isometric works and all my athletes do that. And that's another reason why a lot of my athletes are in fucking incredible shape because of what we do and not just the pose imposing. So posing in itself is sometimes nearly as hard as a workout or certainly as hard as a workout if you're really putting 100% into it. Most people fail because of the cardiovascular impact. But the great thing about hard posing, it's aerobic and it's also anaerobic at the same time. So you could be anaerobically fit and strong in the gym, but you put somebody through a posing round. They're not exposed to that level of type of environment before, so they potentially struggle. A lot of people say, I'll pose as I get close to the show. No, posing early allows you to burn more calories. Posing early potentially starts to drive more hardness and refinement and separation into the muscle. Well, posing early allows you to potentially keep your calories even higher. But you've got to be really careful that you don't overtrain because between posing, isometric work, and training, it's a high stimulus of muscle engagement. So I think you've just got to navigate and know when to pull back, when to push, and when to refuel because you create yourself too much of a hole and you can't get out of it. Yeah. Going back to, you started when you were 19. So I started around that same age. I always felt like it was a little late because a lot of guys that you talk to start when they're 14, 15 years old. Yeah. When you started, why did you start? What got you into it? And also, I don't know exactly your timeline. Are you around the time of Dorian or before Dorian? Just after Dorian. Just after Dorian. Yeah. So Dorian was competing. No, Dorian was at Mr. Olympia at the time. He was probably an amateur or he had just turned pro. So I was speaking to my partner, Alexander. In fact, Zach, my friend, when he was over here. I got into bodybuilding by chance. I grew up in government housing most of my life. Government housing is just low-income housing. Yeah. I went to three different, like, sort of developments over a period of time and became really good friends with one of the guys or one of the boys who was a year younger than me on one of the housing developments. His name was Philip Sine. And Philip was super muscular. So even at a super, super young age, I can remember feeling intimidated during the summer when he would put his shirt and vest on because everybody would be out on shirt and vest when the sun is out, right? Yeah. Playing. And everybody played outside back then. There was no computer games, right? Right, right, right. So Philip was really muscular. And I can remember his legs and his cast were, they would probably be like flexes. But I'm only probably seven or eight at the time, maybe younger. Okay. And, of course, over a period of time, you start to notice more his physique. Well, what happened is I left school a year before him. I did an apprenticeship as a technician. I was a motor vehicle technician. I was in that industry for 16 years and I did, yeah, 16 years and I did five years as an apprentice. But he left school a year later. He joined the army. And Philip at the time couldn't drive. And then what would happen? He would come home from army leave maybe every six months. And his mom, and I was living in a different place there, but in the same time. And his mom would say, hey, Neil, Philip's coming home. He wants to know if you guys want to meet up. And I said, okay, thank you. Yeah, ask Philip to contact me when he gets home. Okay. Well, on this particular occasion, he came home from leave, on leave, which wasn't planned. One of the exercises in the army got canceled last minute. So they basically had maybe a number of weeks off. So I just happened to bump into him. I can remember walking back from my nan's house. I remember the road. I remember the corner. I can remember just there was a bus on the corner. I was like, Philip, I didn't know a home. He said, I got home last night. I said, oh, cool. Where are you off? He goes, I'm going to the gym. He said, what? I said, what? He said, yeah, I'm going to the gym. I've started bodybuilding. And straight away, I thought, I've got to start bodybuilding. He's fucking already big. That's how I – and I was 19, so I wasn't a child. Yeah, yeah. Right? Yeah. So I ran home. I got my bike. And then we cycled to this gym that he had found. Yeah. And then he was home in our area for about two or three weeks. And he wanted to go to a bodybuilding show, but I said he didn't drive. So he said, hey, do you fancy going to this bodybuilding show? And I'm thinking, I want to go to a bodybuilding show. Oh, these guys are going to look a bit gay and puff on stage because I didn't know anything about it. Right, right. I know I wanted to look like a bodybuilder. Yeah, yeah. But I didn't know. But so I went. We got there. The juniors were on. Back then, juniors was under 21. I remember we walked into the auditorium. It already started, but maybe we're five, ten minutes late. The juniors were on stage. And straight away, instantly, I saw these guys. I was like, I want to be a bodybuilder. That's exactly how it happened. Yeah. To the T. That's awesome. And then, obviously, I exposed myself to training. And I just fell in love with it. I just loved the challenge, the process, the discipline. I played, you know, sport, a lot of team sports over the years. I excelled in swimming. I was an international swimmer. So for like eight, nine years, I was an international swimmer. And it's not a team sport. It's an individual sport, right? Yeah. But I love team sport. And I just love the fact that my efforts and my commitment would reflect my progress. Of course, genetics play a massive role in bodybuilding. And you have an amazing physique. Thank you. You know, hard work and consistency. But also having that genetic greatness, it obviously helps. Yeah. And it kind of went from there, to be honest with you. I just love the lifestyle. So did you do your first show with any help? Like, did you? First of all, like, sorry, I don't know if this is too personal, but were you natural? Yeah, it was completely natural. So I started when I was 19. Yeah. And juniors was under 21. Yeah. I didn't start taking substance until I was 21 or 22. Okay. And I can also tell you exactly what I took for my last, my first course. And also for what people will say they don't believe me. Yeah. If you're a response, if you're hyper responsive, you're going to respond. Yeah. And I can tell you this is gospel. In 1999, I went to Rimini, Italy to watch the 1999 Mr. Olympia. I was dieting. I was dieting. I was four weeks out from the Welsh Championships. And I went with three of my friends. And back then, it was very common knowledge that Ben Johnson had lost his Olympic gold. You know, anabolics had a very bad reputation or name attached to them. And I grew up in a tiny little seaside village. So I was exposed with people saying people which take anabolics, they're cheats, they're this and this. So I had that mentality because that's what I kind of grew up in. Yeah. Well, what I didn't know is my three friends, they were using. And I had no idea. And then what would happen from time to time, I would just mention something and they would think, oh, my God, I can't say anything to Neil because he really doesn't like this. Right. Right. What happened is that we went to watch Olympia. And I was sharing a room with one of the guys, Mark Poole. And then Simon and Nigel, they were sharing another room. We went on like this all-inclusive sort of trip to Olympia via Flex magazine. Right. And I went to, I knocked on Simon's door because we were maybe meeting the guys to go somewhere. And Simon opened the door and then he went to close the door. And that's why I pushed the door open. And he was like, he was purposely trying to stop me coming. I thought, what the fuck are you guys up to? Right. So I thought, oh, they've got girls in there. So when I pushed the door open, I see all these boxes on my head. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm thinking, I'm thinking, fucking all these Durex, who the fuck are you fucking? That's what I'm thinking in my head. Yeah. The boxes of tests and everything else. You could just buy it over the counter. Oh, man, I lost my shit. I went so, I was so pissed. Yeah. Oh, my God. And they were like, well, we didn't want to say something because, you know, whatever. And so anyway, when the dust settled and I sort of calmed myself down, I asked them what they were doing. And they said, and they were very naive and innocent to it to a certain extent, right? Because they were just doing what they led to be believed to do from athletes in the gym. Anyway, what happened is that they bought different things. And then about 12 months later, I bought something off them. And it was a two milligram Winstrel tablet. But two milligram Winstrel tablet. So nothing, pretty much. I took five a day. That's 10 milligrams. 10 milligrams, yeah. Put 18 pound on in eight weeks. No way. I put 18. I could literally, I was just one of those genetic gifts, streaky guys, which I could smell that and I would grow. I was just a hyper responder. Why did you? Okay, let's. Okay, sorry. Go on. I got. Yeah. I was just a super hyper responder. And the only reason I'm bringing this to the audience attention is because unfortunately today, people are not patient. They think that PDs are just the answer to everything. And if you really do have that genetic gift and you do have that ability, the milligram that somebody would need to take is very, very minimal compared to really what people are doing today. And it's really sad. I think what I'm trying to say to you, and it's also patience is another thing. Back then, I think that a lot of people were training and in love with the lifestyle for different reasons today. I think a lot of people train for the attention of social media likes and comments. And I know that it's a way of making a living. And it's great because also I think that there's a sense of expansion which is taking place with social media as well. But I think that to a certain extent, I think that a lot of people, a percentage of people today who train don't train for the same reasons as what I do or what I did. But that's okay because we're all very different. So I understand that. We can't force everybody into a box that they don't want to be in or they don't fit, for instance. It's a lifestyle and it's a sport for everybody. And the pro league has done an incredible job of growing it, right? Yeah. Well, I feel like my era was kind of similar to yours. If you wanted to make a living, you had to get a supplement contract or a magazine contract. And that was really it. And it wasn't really popular to be huge. And men's health was kind of the thing. It wasn't like that was the magazine that everybody read over here. Were you with MuscleTech? My first contract was with MuscleTech, yeah. I remember seeing pictures. Yeah, that was my first. So it wasn't like a thing people aspired to because the barrier to entry was so big. Yeah, yeah. Like nobody would sign you unless they saw some sort of potential. Yeah. And now I think there's really no barrier to entry. Yeah. Like if you are entertaining, if you can create a good social media presence, you can get paid a lot of money. Yeah. So the barrier to entry is so much smaller now that I think people come into the sport looking at it more like, hey, this could be my career. Instead of what we did, which was like, hey, I really love this. I'd love to make it my career because I love it. Not the other way around. Yeah. I think now people are like, I'm just going to make this a career and it'll be my career. It'll be what I do. I make videos and I work out. And it's like, so I think there's a different. But like you said, it's okay. There's a different people get into the sport for different reasons. But so you started at 19. You did a couple of shows in your first year. We have very, very similar beginnings, to be honest with you. I want to show a couple of photos. This is Neil's Instagram. Those of you who aren't following him, if you're listening on audio, it's Neil underscore Yoda underscore Hill one. I wanted to show these. These are from what year? That was me winning my pro card as a light heavyweight. So that black and white picture at the very beginning, even though it transitions into a video, that's me as a light heavyweight. So I won my IFBB pro card back in 2002. So three years into your career? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. That took me quite some time throughout because I nearly spent more time out to the gym than in the gym to a certain extent. So the first probably three years, I loved everything about bodybuilding. Right. And then I remember waking up one day feeling a little bit sort of depressed or sad, thinking like, all I seem to do is I train four days a week. I'm working. I had two full-time jobs. Yeah. So I was working a lot of hours. And I remember, you know, at the very beginning when you buy the magazines and you'd see the athletes and, you know, all those athletes were all pros back then pretty much. Unless they were obviously exposing some of the top tier amateurs which were coming up through the ranks, et cetera. And, you know, I wanted to be this professional bodybuilder. And I remember going to a number of pro shows and I'd be watching the show. And maybe I didn't have an eye for it, but I think I knew what I was looking at. And I would look at some of the athletes and thinking, God, that athlete looks amazing. Why is he not placing higher? And I'd be looking, looking. And I'm thinking, I don't know if I want to be a pro now because if I was to be a pro one day and I stepped on stage and I wasn't competitive or if I wasn't looked upon, why would I be doing all of this effort and all the sacrifice? But also, you know, I was a father and I had two full-time jobs. So I became more of a lifestyle bodybuilder where I loved the lifestyle when I had a goal that I was striving towards. But I also liked the ability to say, you know, I'm not going to go to the gym today. If I don't want to eat six meals today, I'm not going to eat six meals. And I'm also glad I did that because even though I feel that I could have probably turned pro at maybe 23, 24, 25 instead of 32. But when I was born, I was born with a hereditary sort of defect on my right knee. So instead of my ligaments being really tight where my knee would be indirectly doing this, my knee would float. And because I swam for Wales from the age of like seven or eight to the age of 15, and my main stroke was breaststroke, your knee doesn't do this. It does this throughout your hip. So I had a lot of bone-to-bone contact from a very early age. I also played a lot of sport, football and rugby. So my knee was very unstable. And even though I had the ability to build that muscle tissue very rapidly, if I would have turned pro earlier, meaning I would have just committed more so just training, training, training, my career would have been ended way before because I've got a huge amount of bone-to-bone contact on my right knee. And as I was putting quality weight on, what would happen? My knee would become even more fragile. It would just impact on me on a day-to-day basis. I'd be waking up in the night six, seven, eight, nine, ten times. My knee, my knee. I'd probably take a minute to compose myself before I got out of bed to walk down the stairs. Like if you had a bad back, you've got a really bad, say, degenerating disc. Any extra weight creates more trauma. Also, with me being an open-class bodybuilder, because there was no 202, there was no 212, there was no classic. So I knew I had to put about 15, 16-pounder muscle on my frame to be competitive. And I knew I could do that probably within two to three years at the most. Right. You know, impacted, I would say, the quality of my physique. My strength, I wasn't naturally strong, but I've become so strong in the gym, especially on leg days. So the combination of extra weight on my physique, that level of intensity in the gym, and I had to train that way. And there's different levels of intensity. Intensity isn't just based on Mike Mensadorian, Yates style, for instance. It can be based on different, you know, different stimuluses from myrophibia to sarcoplastic hypertrophy. They can both be incredibly impacting and beneficial for building muscle tissue. It just didn't make sense to me, because I kind of remember thinking, I want to be able to enjoy my boys and do stuff with the kids. And it wasn't that I didn't believe in myself. I knew that I really believed in myself, that I can do this. And also, I had some very complimentary compliments from some pretty important people from the U.S. who said, hey, we really like your physique. Yeah, yeah. We really like your physique. Lila Brada has just retired. You've got these lines, et cetera. But as I said, I mean, I would have had to have stepped on stage at about 210, maybe. And that's like nearly 20 pounds of extra muscle. And there's no way that I could have built the muscle. There's no way I would have been able to maintain the – I would have been a very unhappy person inside with the pain I would have been in. So what happened eventually for you to lock it down and turn pro? Like what made you finally decide to say, you know what, it might not be my career, but I want to do it anyway? When I competed in the show that I turned pro in, I competed in that show a number of times before. So I was fortunate to win the Welsh Championships and the overall Welsh a number of times. But what happened is there's a gentleman called Paul Grant who was very iconic in Wales. He was in Pumping Iron. He was the president of Wales. Basically, he decided maybe back in maybe like 1998 that he was going to bring this open division to the Welsh Championships. So the open division in the Welsh Championships was one class. Any athlete from any country, any organization can compete in the show. So what would happen, you would have like NABBA professional universe champions compete in it. You would have world champions from all around the world which would travel to the UK to compete in it. Right, right. Because they were at that pro card because at that time there was only one pro card given out in the UK. You had to win the overall in your nationals, right? Yeah. You had to win the overall in the nationals to win your pro card. So this show gave the ability to have a second chance or a first chance because the Open Wales was four weeks before the British Championships. So anybody who was anyone in the British Championships, where were they going to compete? They would compete in the Open Wales because it was only four weeks before. Yeah. And it was actually harder to win the Open Wales than the British because in the British you're competing against British athletes. And of course you've got to win your weight class and then the overall wins the pro card. But with this show, you were competing against maybe three-time world champions from other countries. Yeah. Universe professionals competing in from NABBA, etc. Right. So the depth of talent was crazy and there was no weight cap. It was just one winner. So what happened is that the reason I did that show, it wasn't for the pro card. It was because there was prize money. And I wanted the prize money. What was the prize money? It was either 1,500 UK pounds at the time or it was 2,000 pounds. That's awesome. But that 2,000 pound back then was probably worth 6,000 or 8,000 US dollars now, right? Yeah. Also, the year before, it was a brand new car. Oh, nice. Yes. That's always cool. Yeah. I mean, cool. I don't know if you ever remember a gentleman called Grant Thomas. There was a gentleman called Grant Thomas from the UK who won that maybe the year before me. He was incredible. He could have gone on to be an exceptional pro, but I just don't think he had the mindset for it. So it wasn't the pro card. It was the money. So what happened is I've done the Welsh Championships in the past. I've done the under 80 kilo class, won the overall, done the same in multiple other shows around the UK, came third in the 1999 British Championships as a middleweight. And then because of being Welsh and being prideful, I wanted to step on stage again in the Welsh Championships. So I did the light heavyweight class in the Welsh. I won that. I won the overall Wales. And then I competed in the open, which is the same show. It's just another category. And then I won the overall with that. And then I wasn't going to take my pro card because I actually wanted to do something different. I wanted to do something which had never been done before. I then wanted to go to the British Championships, win the light heavyweight British, win the overall, and turn down my pro card. And then go and compete in the amateur division at the British Grand Prix, which was sponsored and put on by a gentleman called Kerry Caines. I don't know if you haven't heard of him before. So what they did is they did an invite only. They invited the top three athletes from every division, men's division from the British Championships, to compete in the amateur. And then the overall winner of the amateur then competes in the pro show later on that night. So I wanted to basically win the pro card, turn it down, win the pro card, turn it down, then do this because it had never been done before. Right, right. I knew I could do it. But the reason I didn't do that and I took my pro card is because Kerry then sponsored me after the show. And he didn't put pressure on me. But he said, listen, Neil, we really want you to be a part of the team. And, you know, there's no pressure to take your pro card, but I think you should take it. Because he was very complimentary. He said, what if something, just say that you win the pro card twice, but you don't win it in the last show. You know, you missed your peak. It's all that work. It was like, yeah, but I know I can do this. He said, yeah, but you want to think about it. So I felt a little bit pressured to take the pro card more so because Kerry was sponsoring me. You know, he did say, listen, you don't have to take this pro card. We're going to sponsor you anyway. We want you to be a part of the team. And Dorian was a part of the company at the time. So Dorian was kind of a part owner with Kerry with Chemical Nutrition back then. Right. So that's basically what happened. And then I competed then like 12 weeks later in the British Grand Prix, which was my first and only pro show, which was an incredible experience to me. And I learned a lot from my body as well in that show. Why did you decide not to compete again? Was it just the knee? Was it just the size? Because what happened is that after the Welsh Championship, so after I won my pro card, I went to see an orthopedic surgeon about my knee because there was a lot of exercises I couldn't do. I did what I had to do to get through my leg workouts, but I couldn't do what I needed to do at the same time. Right. Right. So I knew that my knee was, it was very exposed. So what happened is after the, after I competed in the pro show, only about a week later, I went in for lateral scopic surgery. Okay. And I can remember going in for lateral scopic surgery. I remember, you know, being in the ward, the surgeon came out and I remember crying actually, when he told me, because he said, you need to give up your bodybuilding straight away. He said, because within a number of years, you're going to have to have a complete knee replacement. He said about a fourth of your knee joint is completely missing. Yeah. And, um, I can remember like, are you sure? And like, there's, there's nothing we can do. You're too young. You're 32. Like, you know? Yeah. So, um, I kind of like emotionally sort of like, maybe it was a bit fragile for a little while. And then I remember being back in the gym thinking, I'm just going to take it easy. Let me just go through. But my body was responding forward. It might, my body was just building muscle tissue. And as I was putting weight on, I could see the development of my physique, which was pretty remarkable. But the quality of my life was going backwards because I was in more pain and more discomfort and more pain. So I made a decision probably in June, 2003 to stop bodybuilding, to not compete again. And then I didn't train. I didn't train for over six years. Didn't train at all. Walked away from it completely. I just walked because I was so heartbroken. Did you walk away? Did you walk away from all of it? Like magazines, shows, everything? No, no, I was still very heavily involved with it because, um, um, I became the president of Wales for Welsh bodybuilding. Um, I had an amazing team of people who were working alongside me with the, with the federation back then. Um, Ali Abba from, um, Wales and Mike and Lisa of Gelsie. So we took, we took over the Welsh championships when Paul passed away, unfortunately. And, you know, my, my passion was bodybuilding. So I was the president of Wales. I was promoting other, uh, other amateur shows, but associated with IFBB. Obviously. Um, I was coaching. I started coaching probably when I was 22, 23. I met flex in the same show that I turned pro in 2003. So I turned pro in 2002. That's where flex met me, but I never met him. He saw me. He saw me. And then I, I was judging him the year after. Yeah. At that same show. And that's when we spoke and that's when we started working together. So let me ask you, so we kind of skipped over a bunch of things. A couple of questions came to mind. When did you, when was your first son born? Like how old were you? Were you, were your kids born already when you turned pro? So Chad, no, they were there. So Chad, my oldest boy here, well, actually both of my boys were born when I was an amateur. Okay. Yeah. So Chad, my oldest boy is 26 now. And Kurt, my youngest boy is 24. Okay. So I was still an amateur back then. So they weren't, so they were still really young at that time, but they were, yeah. They were still very young at that time. I mean, you know, Chad actually came to, he came to the world championships in 1999. He was only 12 days old. And that's when I won the, like the, that's when I won the middleweight class and the overall in the world championships. I remember being vivid memories in my mind. So he was only 12 days old. Okay. And he was at that show with me. And you started coaching at, you said 22, 23 though. Yeah. 22, 23 is when I started coaching. So I started training was 19 about 22, 23 is when I started coaching. I didn't charge anybody. Right. And I think what happened with that? I know I'm talking over you, but. Oh, it's okay. I think what it was, people sort of develop my physique and think, Oh, how have you got this physique? It's such a young age. So they were just asking me. So I would coach them. And I do, I didn't coach a lot of people because I lived in the middle of nowhere. There was no computers back then, but people would travel down to the gym that I train in. We would train together maybe once a week and I would do their diets and prep them for shows. And that's, yeah. Did you enjoy the coaching aspect of it back then? Yeah, I did. I loved the coaching. Did you love the coaching more than the training? Like you're almost, did you love coaching people more than coaching yourself? I guess is what I'm asking. No, I liked coaching myself and I liked my training side. I think that they were both very different. I coached athletes and also prepped, you know, in the same show, for instance. Right. And for, I think sometimes some people will think that if I'm, if I'm training conflicting athletes, then I'm going to put all my attention into the athlete, which potentially could bring the greater result. I'm not that type of person. Right. The difference, what separates me with some athletes and others is just because the emotional or the friendship side that you built up for many, many years. So for instance, you know, like you have athletes, which have obviously been a part of your team. All right. So Samson, you guys would have created, you would have built a really personal friendship over the years. Right. Yeah. So that relationship is going to be different from person to person. It's a course. You can't help, but be proud and cheer and be happy to see those athletes success, succeed on stage. But I'm sure you'll also agree that, that, um, that sometimes the athletes, which have the greatest success on stage are not always the athletes that you have the greatest friendships with because people are personalities are different. So, um, it's not personal, personal. As I said, I've, I built a relationship with Mike over eight years. Um, I was coaching flex for 19 years, basically 21 years, because even though we, we competed for 19 years as an athlete and coach together, we, you know, he was going to be obviously competed later. So basically he was going to be competing. Um, you know, what would it be in our 21st year? And then decision was for him to make the decision. He decided to retire. Um, and it's just human nature that you, you know, that you relate to certain people. But if I'm going to prep somebody, it doesn't make any difference. If I'm prepping Mike for the Olympia or you're a new classic guy, I'm going to put a hundred percent into you because it's not about the place. It's about the look because it's a prideful thing to me. And if you, if you beat Mike, I'm going to be just as happy as you win into him. Of course, I'll be sad for him because, because he's going to be disappointed, but he is also the type of person who would be happy for somebody else's success. Not everybody is like that. Um, I brought this up recently on a podcast with somebody that, um, Mike was very upset, not upset, not annoyed, not upset in a negative way. I just think that last year in 2025, Mike was exposed to a lot of negative hate and negativity on the internet. And I think that it all came from, it came from people being insecure of the quality of his physique. He potentially has the ability to win. And, um, I felt it was just very unjustified and very unfair. And I think that, you know, you can imagine when you're constantly, being criticized and, and people saying hurtful and totally wrong and, uh, disrespectful things consistently, consistently day after day, day after day, day after day. And then the end result isn't what you ideally want. Of course, you're going to be disappointed. But if you look at his face, when Ramon was, was, uh, announced first place, he was ecstatically happy for him because he's that type of person. He's a good person. He's got a good heart. You know, he wants to win, but he's happy for other people's success. Right. Yeah. So, um, you know, for me, um, with the coaching, I coach myself. Um, I, I get the same kick now out of coaching as I did all those years ago. That's good. Uh, it's good that you still love, it's good that you still love what you do. I don't, I haven't lost that love for coaching in any way whatsoever. I wonder how much it's changed though. So over the course of your time from 2002 or, you know, you started even earlier than that to now, there are so many changes that have taken place. There was, you know, anabolics led like regular PDs, I guess I'll call them kind of anabolics ruled everything for so long and they still do. But now you've seen the introduction of, you know, there was SARMs for a little while. Now there's a lot of peptides and like a lot of these things are happening. Are you, are you well read up on all these things? Are you believer in like my time tested, you know, methods are still going to work now? Are you adding these new, new things that are coming out? I think that some peptides could be beneficial. I've never done SARMs with anyone in the past. Didn't know enough about it to feel that I should be given advice on that. Sure. I think that some peptides can be beneficial, but I also feel that maybe to a certain extent, some of them is just a phase and a craze, you know, it's the next, the next thing. I don't think that necessarily that in my time or your time, it was better back then. But what I will say is the depth of quality within the open class, the real quality in the open class was better back then. And I think it was for a number of different reasons. I think that, I think that it was harder to win a pro card. So what happened is those athletes were being nurtured and protected. Right. To, to, to build and build and refine and refine. Like it might take some people four or five, six years to win a pro card. Right. They could be in that, like they could be in that pro card winning circle, but they miss a place and they miss a place and they miss a place and they just become better and better and better. But if you look at the, the, the conditioning of the amateurs, if you were to ever pull up any footage of old pictures of amateurs, which were winning light heavyweight divisions, middleweight divisions in, in most continents and countries around the world. And especially if you look at something like the IFBB world championships, these guys would be absolutely shredded. I mean, they were absolutely off the chart. I'm going to, I'm going to play devil's advocate just because people who watch the show know that's what I do best. Yep. Does it really matter? No, no, no, no, it doesn't. No, it doesn't matter. I'm just saying, I'm just saying like when you, when you said the depth of depth of talent was better. Yep. And I say to you, pick any, pick any Olympia from any air, any year. Yep. And let's put it against the top 15. Let's take the top 15. Yep. Put it against the top 15 from any time in the last five years. Yep. And outside of the top, one person like, cause you know, in my opinion, and maybe you share the same opinion, Ronnie and Phil are probably one and two of the best, the best ever to step on stage. Yep. Totally agree. So if you took those two out of the equation. Yep. I bet you the depth of the lineups is similar. No, I agree with you. I agree with you. You're saying the debt, you're saying the depth of all pros period. I'm talking about, if you look at the quality. So for instance, if you were to go back 20 years, 15 years ago, and you look at the quality of the conditioning and the quality of like the quality of an athlete, win them in a pro card 15 years ago in amateur divisions. It's not the same today. No, it's not the same, but I think it's because I think it's because the IFBB is adopted a policy of it's almost, I compare this to boxing a lot and boxing. You don't, there's no barrier to entry. You just have to declare that you're a pro boxer and then you can start boxing in the pro ranks. So they don't care. They're like, yeah, you want to be a pro boxer? You can be a pro boxer. Cause you know what? The cream is going to rise to the top. And I think, I think the IFBB is adopted. Not quite that policy, but something similar where, you know what? We're going to let a lot of people into this federation because let's get them in so that they can have this thing on their resume that might allow them to make a living. It might allow them to get sponsorships. It might allow them to allow them to do all these things that will keep them in bodybuilding. And then they can grow as bodybuilders and they can rise through the ranks from men's physique to classic to open or classic to open wherever they are, which I think is a really good strategy because it's brought a lot more people into the sport versus give a lot of guys that were in the amateur ranks. Maybe they tried to turn pro one, two, three times didn't happen. And they just left. You know, I don't, it's too hard. I can't, I can't beat these guys. I can't beat a Kevin Lavroni. I can't beat a flex wheeler. I can't beat, you know, a Desmond Miller. Like these guys were all way too good for some amateurs. So they would just leave the sport completely when now the way they've opened it up, because people can make a living when they have that title on their resume, it keeps people in the sport and allows them. And because we have classic and men's physique and other categories, it allows people like Ours, you know, you see Ours go from classic to open. I suspect we're going to see more guys go from classic to open. And I think it, I think they've done a good thing in growing the sport because more people stay in the sport instead of being disheartened because it's too hard to turn pro. But I also think though, there's so many people which are going to leave the industry and not leave the industry or leave competing. If it takes them four or five times to win a pro card are potentially going to leave anyway if they do win a pro card, because in the pro ranks, it's even going to be even more difficult to be competitive. I mean, nobody's going to be able to answer that question because data has never been done on it. So to me, I kind of think if they're going to leave the sport because they can't turn pro within four or five times of attempting to win a pro card, if they awarded a pro card, well, now the depth of talent just goes to a whole new level now because the depth of talent is exposed to all these other pros. Or maybe they stay present because they use their pro card status as a means to build their business. Now you're talking. See, I think that's the difference. And I'll tell you as somebody who was not a top tier bodybuilder, I can say, you know, I'm very self-aware as somebody who is more of a second tier, probably bodybuilder in the pro ranks. You don't necessarily have to be winning to make a good living. No, I made, I made a very good living in bodybuilding. You know, in my highest placing at the Olympia was last, you know, I qualified for the Olympia four times. I think I had a pretty good career. I won a few shows, but I made a good living. And that was really my only objective. I wanted to make a, I wanted to get paid to work out because I loved working out so much. So that's kind of what I did. Now, I think if you can allow more people into the sport to get their pro card and have that title on their resume, especially with social media. Now there's guys building coaching careers. There's guys building like, you know, they're just doing, they're just doing videos on YouTube and getting paid on YouTube. Like it just, I think allows people a little more opportunity to do what they love for a little longer. And I don't think it hurts the sport at all because the Olympia is still the Olympia, you know, regardless of whether the guys turn pro, you know, when it was really hard or whether they turn pro and it was easy, the best guys are still going to be on the Olympia stage regardless. So I think, I think it's a, my own personal opinion, it's just, it's a good way to make the sport bigger and more inviting to more people. Rather than have kind of closed door ranks where it's like, Hey, you got to be the best of the best just to enter this club, which is nice for the guys that turn pro. Cause then you're like, I'm in this special club that nobody else could get into, but it's not great for the sport as far as growing numbers. And I kind of, I think of it like in a business sense. Yeah. So anyway, I'm touching on your coaching. You coached flex Lewis for 20 years. What was it like to go on the ride to seven Olympias? Like, how did that, how did that feel for you? You know, not being, being somebody who retired and wasn't able to compete and then kind of being with him, do you kind of feel like you go along for the ride with the athlete? No, I'm not that type of person. No, why not? No, what I, what I, when I'm emotionally invested into a client, whether it's somebody who's competing in their first show, it was just, I saw him on stage. I was judging him. We spoke after the pre-judging. We spoke after the finals. I offered to help him. Um, um, if he was going to do the British championships, because he didn't feel he was good enough to do the British. And I said, you're good enough to win the British, not when it looking like you, you do at the moment, but if you can improve between now and the British championships, um, I feel that you can win the British championships. That just started as just an, an innocent, naive, uh, conversation between two people, somebody who, who wanted to see this young gentleman kind of protect him to a certain extent, because back then as well, things were, people can make some very bad choices, right? In life. And, and also you're exposed to certain things. Um, he went on to win that show. And for me, I, I love the relationship that I built with flex. It's not a normal relationship, you know, best man at his wedding, godfather to his daughter. Um, I indirectly moved to Vegas because flex was open the gym and he asked me, Hey, would you come to Vegas? I'm going to be open in the gym. We only live four minutes away from each other. Um, but for me, when I commit my, when I commit my time and my passion and my experience to, to an athlete, I am there for the, for the, for the full duration, whether it's a one year coach relationship or whether it's a 21 year. Um, and of course, maybe, I don't know if, if, if it was maybe different to flex because obviously when he started winning shows, which he won, he won shows from his first show. Um, it wasn't so much that he was exposed to victory, victory, victory. And it just become, he became this complacent far, far from it. Um, every, every show that he competed was a step up the ladder, so to speak. Um, every step, um, every show that he did was a step up the ladder, so to speak. Um, it came with maybe more pressure and more responsibility. And, um, um, it's also a bit of an emotional relationship with flex because it's not, it's like he became like part of the family, so to speak. Um, and we were always chasing the look. So the, the, the expectations, uh, that we put on ourselves was always about self-development, self-development as an athlete, getting better, proving yourself. Um, he represented that, the pro league, I think absolutely amazing. I mean, he traveled all around the world. Um, he was exposed to so many different countries by his, by his sponsors and a positive way, good sparring, nutrition, BSN, you know, et cetera. And he was an incredible role model and people gravitated to him because, you know, he, he, he was just, uh, he was an example of his hard work. And, um, I think that his parents had a massive impact on, well, actually do. They have a massive impact on him as a person. They've got, you know, they're, they're very family orientated, um, hard work in blue collar family, um, had to sort of hustle and bustle through life. Don't come from, you know, didn't come from a middle-class family. So I think, you know, the smallest things that you, that you experience the most, the smallest and simplest things that you experience when you're, when you're in that type of household, they make you realize that those things are more important than the other things. And then obviously don't forget, as you become a champion, especially Mr. Olympia, think about the pressure on your own responsibility that you then carry for the whole pro league and the whole division. We would go on the road after Olympia and we would do as many shows as we could. And it wasn't really chasing. There was a part of it where you're chasing a new title, but it was also because you wanted to, um, you wanted to have the opportunity to meet people that would probably never, ever meet you because they didn't have the financials to travel to America or another country. Um, I know I don't, I haven't really answered this question, but it's, it's just a, it's a very special relationship with me and with, with me and, uh, with Flex. And I was just very emotionally invested into helping him, um, be to, to become an incredible bodybuilder, represent the industry. Um, and also, you know, I was incredibly happy to see where he is in his life now, obviously with his children. He's an amazing father, like absolutely, absolutely incredible father. Yeah. I, the reason I asked you the question is when I look through your Instagram, it looks like you're very close with your, with your clients. Like it looks like you have very, some of them, I don't, I don't know all your clients obviously, but it looks like some of your relationships are very, very personal. They're not just coach and client. Yep. And so that's why I asked, do you rise and fall with them? Because, you know, like, for example, I was very close with Samson. We had a very personal relationship. I felt like he was a, a close friend of mine. And, you know, when he, when he was defeated, I felt defeated. Yep. And when he won, I felt so happy for him that he, like I would, I would ride that high with him. Not that it was like, I felt like I was Mr. Olympia, but I would feel so happy for him that he won, that I would get to experience that same joy that he was, feeling. So I just kind of look at your client list and I'm like, man, this guy looks like he's really invested in very close with some of these people. So that's why I asked the question if you kind of rise and fall with them. Yeah, I don't, I don't think so. I think when flex stepped away, would you maybe lose a little bit of your identity? I don't think that's happened because I've been very fortunate to, to, to have athletes which have gone to win other Olympia titles, but just because, if somebody wins a title, it doesn't, it doesn't, it really, it doesn't mean anything more than what it is because it's going to be another person winning that title the following year, the following year. Yeah. I think that I've worked really hard to, I don't know if I would say stay relevant in the industry. I just love what I do. And I think that if you love what you do and you're passionate about what you do, then, then that's going to bring success. And what is success? For me, success is that I wake up on a daily basis and feel blessed and fortunate of where I am. Yeah. And I'm not trying to be humble. I tend to keep myself to myself a lot. I don't put any of my personal things on social media. Right. Um, I like the simplicity of the simple life. For instance, um, I'm looking forward to retirement one day. Yeah. Um, I'm definitely looking forward to retirement one day, but I'm not, I'm also somebody who would never not be able to work. I would be quite happy having a little coffee shop, just working away in a coffee shop, you know, meeting people, talking people. And, um, and then sort of, um, and, and then maybe spend some time from time to time, just looking back and thinking, you know, how lucky have I been to, to experience certain things? Because I've been very, very lucky. Yeah. Um, and I'm sure that you have had some very personal conversations with Samson when there's very few people in the room. Maybe it's, it's, it's a personal conversation of his success. And maybe it's two tiers of a place that wasn't really what you were looking for. Right. Yeah. Um, and I think you, you experienced that with most of your clients, even the clients, which are not, have not been with you for many, many, many, many years. Most of my athletes have been with me for a long, long, long time. Cody Drobot from, um, from Canada. Yeah. Incredible bodybuilder. Yeah. Absolutely. Incredible. And the exciting thing about him, he has the ability to put another 10 pound of muscle in his frame since his last show. Yeah. Crazy. Right. Yeah. And I think Cody and myself have been working together for eight or nine years. Yeah. Yeah. And you're also working with, uh, Raphael who's doing the, yeah. There's a, there's Cody there. No, I thought that was going to be a, here's, here's a shot of him. Here's Cody. They're a very good bodybuilder. Very complete. Very nice. Very nice structure. Yeah. And then, you know, Brandon Hendrickson, Brandon started working with me 12 days before the Olympia. He won the Olympia. I wasn't working with Brandon. He won the Olympia. He lost the Olympia. And then when he was going into the Olympia the year after, he reached out to me 12 days before the show and asked me if I would take him on as a client. It's like, Brandon, I don't know anything about your body. Like you're asking me 12 days out. And he, he, you know, told me where he was at the time, physically and mentally in his life. And it was like, Oh, okay. Um, so basically I took his prep over 12 days out from the show. Um, and he was fortunate. He went on to win that Olympia back. How many, how many Olympia wins do you have? Um, 10 or 11 in total, seven with, um, yeah, 10, um, seven with flex two with Brandon. And actually if you count the masses, Olympia, 11, Alex Camberra has won two masters Olympias. It counts. It counts. Yeah. So, uh, 11. Yeah. Three different categories. What do you think about, I want to touch on the Arnold quickly. What do you think about, um, Raphael going into this Olympia? I know. So we talked about Mike a little bit. I know, obviously he's the front runner for the show. Wesley might present the challenge, but obviously Mike is the clear front runner for the Arnold. What do you think about Raphael? Where do you see him fitting? I know a lot of people aren't talking about him in the top four, but he does have a very, very beautiful structure. Yep. And he's a big guy on stage, takes up a lot of space. Uh, he has been as high as seventh at the Olympia. So where, like, where do you see him in this mix with these guys? I don't know. Um, not necessarily. Sorry. I don't want to, I don't want to say like, where do you see him placing? That's such a, that's such a, I just see him. I mean, like comparison wise, who would you like to see him stand next to? Uh, Martin, um, uh, Martin, I think that Martin does have a bit too much depth on him at the moment. Right. For what he is. And I think Martin's an incredible bodybuilder. He like what he's done. Um, uh, Martin, um, I don't know if I'm mixing my name up. Is it Muhammad? There's Mo Fuda. Sorry, Mo, Mo, Mo, Mo, Mo. Yeah. Um, I actually just want him in that top call out. Right. You know, that's where, uh, that's, that's where, um, obviously we're ideally wanting to, um, be put. I do think it's going to be a hell of a dogfight in that Arnold though, to be honest with you. Has Ref, has Ref, has Ref put on the size he needs from last year to this year? Do you think he's improved? Um, he's put some muscle on. I think that, uh, we started prep in a very bad way. Um, he, um, he was building muscle tissue, um, at a, a very acceptable rate. Um, and he decided he wanted to do the Arnold. Um, and then what happened? He traveled, he had to work obligations and then he picked up blue. So that had a big impact that, that, that, that just, that just did. Right. And, uh, it, it just did have an impact. Um, I do feel that Raf, half was behind on prep, um, but he's catching up on himself. I saw him on Monday and I was very, very, very, very happy with the changes that he's made in that timeline, but the same timeline has to continue. So what I mean by that is, um, probably like eight weeks ago, I said, half, you look like you, you look like 11, 12 weeks out. And then maybe at seven weeks out, it's like half, you look like you're 10, nine weeks out. And then now when I look at him, it's like, now you look like you're about six weeks out, but we've only got four weeks. But if you continue to make the same improvements, you're probably going to catch up on yourself. Right. The reason why I'm just being like this is that I, I'm very transparent. Yeah. Uh, people become compete, you know, like, um, I could say like, listen, prep has been perfect with Mike. It's not being perfect. I'm not saying this because we need attention. I'm not saying this because it's an excuse. I'm not saying this because of any other reason other than the fact that it's important. People realize that these athletes are human beings. Yeah. You know, sometimes some things just click and click and click and clicks. And some things they don't. Um, am I concerned with where Mike is? No, but like I said to him, um, I will have concerns if in, you know, if your Friday's check in doesn't show notes or changes compared to last week. And it's not because I'm concerned. He's not doing what he's supposed to be doing. He is. Yeah. But I said, his body was fragile. The same as half L. It took like three weeks to get over half L's flu. Lots of workouts missed. A lot of cardio missed. Uh, wasn't able to consume the calories just to maintain his, his fullness and his muscle size. And, um, but things are really clicking now. So, um, I am excited about what I saw on Monday. That's legitimate, but, but we have to continue to see the same progress. But the trouble is, is that if you force too hard on that progress, you're going to lose muscle tissue. So you want to be, you understand it's like, you've got to hold onto this. So, you know, step by step. But, um, I, I, I, I'm, I'm very happy with what I saw of half on, on, uh, on, on Monday, but there's still a lot more progress, which needs to be made with him. Yeah. Um, Neil, I want to get your thoughts on a couple of things before we go. I know we've been on for a little while now. Um, what are your thoughts on PMMA? I didn't know too much about this, the whole thing until like, it just came up recently. I don't know if you have a lot of knowledge in it. I don't, I take my view on it though. That's what I want to know. I'm curious how you feel about, cause you know, athletes, you know, now that I know a little bit about it, you know, athletes are going to use it just like their athletes use it. There are some athletes use synthol and athletes, you know, do different things just to look the way they want to look. So where do you stand on this kind of, you know, just in the way in the sport itself, like, how do you feel about it? Um, probably a little bit emotional about it, to be honest with you, because life isn't always equal and life isn't fair in a lot of cases. Right. And, um, one of the things that I think is beautiful about bodybuilding is that, um, you're, most people are exposed to the same abilities that hard work and commitment and love and devotion will help develop and self-develop and with the human body develop muscle tissue. if we're going to go down the road of just enhancing a muscle by sticking an injection in and just filling up with some form of artificial substance, which does not equate to anything as far as hard work. I think it's toxic. I said this the other day. I think it's a completely toxic road to go down. We're going to reward athletes because they're not willing to put the work in. That's not right. We're also rewarding athletes because they just don't have that genetic. And like, where does it stop? Like, I mean, I can, I see, um, I've seen athletes step on stage in multiple shows where I can see people jacking up muscle groups. And I'm like, if I was judging, I was allowed, you would be marked down straight away for it. Because I do understand that it's frustrating when you're, you put the work in and you put the development in and you just don't see the, the return of investment. You know, the muscle group is still lagging. I get it. It's upsetting. It's frustrating. It's like the same judges, who do an incredible job, right? We'll say, Hey, listen, you look great, but you know, you really still need to focus on your arms. And you're thinking, I've been focusing on my arms for the last six years. They don't change. But I just don't think it's right. I just don't. I'm very much anti all, every that simple or anything, which is artificial, whether it was, yeah, I just am. And, you know, some people are going to be offended with what I say. What is the answer? I don't know. I think, what do you, what is the answer? I think, I think the only way to actually really crack down is this, is if the pro league were basically to do some form of hard ass check-in when it comes to ultrasound, there and there to see. And if you are found to found any, any muscle group, which has anything in that area, you're marked down. You'd lose your places or you'd lose your place. Yeah. That's how I see it. And I, and I think it should be a non-tolerant, um, this, you know, it should just not be tolerated at all in any capacity. I actually agree with you. And I think the majority of people would probably agree with you because we all love the sport for what it is. Yeah. I think the problem comes in, like I promote a show. So I promote the Detroit pro. It's not a big show. We only have two classes on purpose. I have bodybuilding and classic. Yeah. And in my show, I could probably do it because we only have two classes and there's like 10 guys in each class. I could probably ultrasound all 20 of them and it wouldn't hurt the show. How do you, how do you do that at the Olympia? Yeah, I know. I know. And I don't disagree with you. Like if we could, if there was a portable ultrasound, you could run a wand over somebody with a mock off stage. I don't know. I don't know how invasive that is. I don't know if that's like a, uh, an offense of somebody's personal space. I don't know. I like if they're going to agree to that. I don't know what that is. And I just, it would be amazing to be able to do that and find out who's doing what and like actually crack down because it's again, this goes to the same conversation of weighing guys just before they walk on stage. We're getting to like the most level playing field possible where genetics matter the most. Like your hard work, obviously, but like it's going to be your genetics. Cause if you don't have arms, you don't have arms. Yeah. So I agree with you a hundred percent. I just don't like, how do they ever do it? Yeah. But then listen, I look like this, you're talking about the, you know, the, you know, when you look at the, the events, which are a pinnacle events, listen, you may have only put the Detroit show on. This will be your third or four show year, right? Third year, third year this year. You've already built a very established name and reputation, but part of that is because of your love for bodybuilding. Yeah. Right. That's part of it. People come because they want to support you and then people are coming because they see production. You know, I've heard what you've said in the past about black stage, et cetera, et cetera. Right. You want to, you want to highlight and showcase the best of the athlete. Right. And show them for their best. Right. Right. If the Olympia doesn't have the money to ultrasound, everybody don't put the Olympia on as simple as that. Yeah. And at the end of the day, you say that, um, you know, you're, you know, you're, you're basically stepping into people's privacy. People wouldn't be happy with that. For those people, which are not enhancing themselves like that, they would all be probably happy to, come forward and say, Hey, yeah, test me, man, because I'm 100%, 100% me. Yeah. And there's nothing in me, which is, shouldn't be there. So the only people which are probably going to complain is the actual athletes, which are enhancing themselves like that. Right. And I think it should be instant. I don't even think you should be marked down. I should be, I think it should be instant disqualification. Yeah. Because how do you say, Oh, well, this guy has got his arms jacked up and this one's got his lats jacked up and this one's got his shoulders jacked up. People, you know, he came fourth. Let's give him fifth. No, no, no, no. You can't qualify total disqualification. Yeah. Total disqualification. Keep it 100. And then you'll have people say, well, when people use an artificial enhancement, they still have to put the work in. They still have to put 100% effort in. It's not the same. It's completely different. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Using steroids and just filling in a substance is not the same thing at all. No, it's not. It's completely not. Yeah. And then, you know, going back to, you know, weighing the athletes on the morning at the show, et cetera, as I said, for my athletes, most of them would be, they would be heard by it. So for me, I could say, hey, I don't think it would be good because of this, that and everything else. You know, I'd love to say, hey, why don't we put an extra five or six pounds of body weight onto the classic? Let's just keep filling that, that let's add that would work well for my athlete or athletes. And that would work well for a lot of the athletes, but for a lot of athletes, it wouldn't work well for, but remember with Mike and some of my other athletes, they were at a different stage a number of years ago. If I go back to the constructive comments that the pro league have given to Mike, and they've always been super, you know, very transparent, very supportive. It's been consistent. Mike, you've got a great shape. We've got a great, you've got a great shape, balance. You just need that added muscle. You need that density. You need that refinement. You need that, you know, you need that time. And we, we, we had those four years or five years to add that muscle and muscle and muscle and muscle. And that's where he is now presently. Right. Right. Right. The thing is, is that, you know, how do you develop beyond that particular point? It's very limited. On a selfish point of view, I'd be like, keep the weigh-ins exactly the same. Don't bring them on the day of the show because selfishly, I want to keep Mike in that division as well as some of my other athletes. But I try to be very neutral. I got to try neutral, but I don't think it would be fair to height and weight some shows on the morning and some shows which aren't. No. Yeah. That's not the right way to do it. Yeah. And then there's the other argument, which is all based on health and wellbeing is if you really want to look after and prioritize the health and the wellbeing of athletes, you weigh them in and hike them two days before they step on stage. Yeah. Two days, because that's the healthiest way to do it. Right. If you want to 100% prioritize, because when weigh-ins take place at night, the night before the show, that's a really... Yeah, but wouldn't... Sorry, let me interrupt you. Wouldn't it be the healthiest to weigh them the day of the show? Because then they're not going to play any games. For the majority of athletes who weigh in, let's just say it was two days before a show, most of those are probably stepping on stage roughly the same weight as weigh-ins. So, for instance, you know, flex, seven years, you weigh in at 211 points something, you step on stage at 212. People would say he's heavier. He's not. He's the same weight. Yeah. Because by the time you dry out and fill out, it's relatively equal. It just flips. Yeah. Yeah. It's relatively equal thereabouts. Yeah. The reason that was so dramatic with Mike last year is because we had to lose so much weight, weight, weight to make weight. Right. Right? So, it was a completely different situation. If you were to weigh athletes in two clear days before, that means they have time to hydrate really well, they have time to fill out really well, and they potentially have the best, they have their best ability to bring their best ever look. They're probably not going to be a lot more than what they did at weigh-in. They might be just two or three pounds. Even though Mike's weight increase was dramatic, it was because of the intensive dehydration phase that we had to go through for those four days. That would not take place in normal surroundings. But I guess my point is, and I'm not actually debating or arguing, I'm just curious. I guess my point is, if it's the morning of the show, there's no more weight, there's no more messing with weight and water fluctuation. You're just going to, that's your weight. And you're going to, I feel like that's the healthiest way to do it, because there's no manipulation at that point. I think the healthiest, you think two days before is healthier. I think two days before is far healthier, because let's just say you had somebody who, let's just say for what, you had somebody who needed to fill out quite a bit, and they knew they had to fill out. They may be more extreme on the drying out process. And when are they going to do it? They're going to do that extremeness probably the night before the show. Yeah, but I guess what I'm asking is, if let's say you have somebody who's 10 pounds over the cap. Yep. And they're like, okay, I got to get to 220. I'm 230. Yep. If they got to weigh in the day of the show, they're not going to deplete to 220. They're just, they're going to find a different way to get to 220. They're going to do it earlier in their prep. They're going to come down slower, because if you try to just, if you try to just dehydrate yourself from 230 to 220, the day of the show, you're not going to be able to rehydrate and fill back out. You're just going to end up scrawny on stage. So what I'm saying, what I, so what I'm saying is if the weigh in is the day of the show and that guy knows he's 10 pounds over, he's going to find a healthier way to bring it down to 220 so that he can weigh in and not have to like do any manipulation of any sort. The only way he's going to do that, if he's going to sacrifice all his muscle, he's going to have to sacrifice some muscle. Yeah. Yeah. Because, because if he's going to be, because if he's going to lose that, if he's going to lose that muscle, it's got to come from somewhere. Yeah. And it's going to come from somewhere and it's going to be so, so empty. But I think that's, but I think that's my point is I'm like, you know what, if you can't make the weight, maybe you need to be embodied in an open class. I think the disadvantage of that is that there are some athletes who've taken years and years to get to develop and become competitive in that classic. All right. What if you said, what if you said, you know what, we're going to add five pounds to every class, but the weigh-ins are now the day of the show. Yeah, that would, that would be, I think that would be. Because then you're, then you're like protecting all the people that have tried to get to a certain weight. Yeah. But now you're also leveling the playing field for everybody moving forward. Yeah. That would, that I think that would be very fair. And I also feel that the way that the height cap has been set, and this isn't me criticizing the pro league because it, you know what? I've said this so many times and I've defended them. So not even defended them. I'm just passionate and I appreciate, and I respect what they do. Doesn't matter what they do. There's always going to be somebody complaining. There's always going to be somebody saying they could do it better. Right. The same as the judging, right? These judges sit on a chair for hours and hours and hours and hours. They give up their time from their loved ones, their partners, their family, their, their work commitments to sit in front of an audience and critique them, judge them with their own eye. And even if they appear to have the perfect scores, there's always going to be somebody criticizing them. But I think, but I think, but I think Neil, like, so I have, I have conversations with Jim or Tyler sometimes, and I really, really respect what they're doing with the pro league. Yeah. But I don't think it's wrong to have these conversations where we say, Hey, what could be done a little bit better? No, no. Agree. Like that, that I think that's a, I think that's a very productive way. Like, like the black backdrops. Yeah. People said it for so long. I think we were one of the first shows to do it in Detroit. It went over really well. And then now we've seen some shows kind of get back to it. Like, you know, when Tyler put on Pittsburgh, he did like a little bit more of a darker backdrop. The Olympia, the Olympia now is getting back to a darker backdrop. So I think like these conversations that we have that kind of start to spread amongst the, amongst all the people watching and the fans. Yeah. I think they're productive for the sport in general. They are. But unfortunately for a lot of this criticism comes from people on the internet, which are just making a, just saying things because they're not happy with the result that one of their favorite bodybuilders. Yeah. That's not useful. I think it's, it's different when, and I wouldn't say it's a sense of authority when it comes from a sense of authority. But I think when it, when people are given feedback like yourself, who, who are given, you know, constructive feedback on something, on how things might be better. That's, that's good. The negative, the negativity I'm talking about is the negative noise on social media. I know it. Yeah. And that's why I'm very, that's why I'm very proactive and very protective towards the pro league and the judges. When I see these negative comments taking place, I've not always been happy with the decisions or should I say, I don't always see the same result with my own eye. I'm like, right. I don't see where that place came from. Right. But I respect it. I take it on board. Right. And also constructive comments are really important because there's been many times that I've asked for feedback from the judges. They've given me the feedback and I'm like, I don't know if I would agree with all of that. Yeah. You know, I wouldn't, I don't know if I would actually agree with all of that, but I agree with that. And I agree with that. So my point is, is that of course it's important that we have the confidence and the ability to speak and relate. And listen and be respectful to one another's input, for instance. And then, you know, I would love to see an increase in the weight cap for classic physique. I think that it's, it's probably time to do that. Not just for Mike, because I think that it, it's a time to do that. I don't think that they should ever take away the weight cap completely. I think it would be detrimental. I think it would be devastating for the division. At the end of the day, there are still athletes which are placing well with their conditioning, which aren't classic physique athletes. They're not, they're not classic physique, but the, the, the win points on places on their conditioning. So I, I, I'm open-minded on that, but I do feel that the weight cap tends to sometimes favor more. The, the taller guys. Yeah. I think that the guys, the taller guys actually get more weight. And I think that I, I, there's bound to be a way to do this. You look around, okay, for every inch of height is what you're allowed to have as far as body weight. And you do the maths on that. And it could be the fact that a six foot athlete only gains three pounds. Yeah. A five foot, six athlete is able to gain six or seven pounds. Yeah. But that guy's going to look a lot bigger. You know that, right? Um, who now the smaller guy? Well, yeah, because like Mike, for example, like if you added five pounds to Mike's weight cap, geez, he would look huge. Um, not if, not if you weighed in the day of the show, cause then he couldn't, yeah, you couldn't, you couldn't manipulate anything that way, but, but like Mike's, some people think Mike's an open body, open class bodybuilder, like physique wise, not that, not that he doesn't have beautiful shape or present it really beautifully. He's just very dense. Yeah. You know, he's got a very thick quads, got a really big back. Yep. So I couldn't imagine Mike being heavier. Um, I think that edge for muscle, if you look at say Mike at the 2025 Arnold classic, okay. Arnold classic. And you look at that look and you look at that front of a bicep. There's nothing about that, which is class, which is open class bodybuilding. No. And I know what you're saying, but that density is the areas that we were. Mike always had great quads. So we don't put a huge amount of focus. The comment constantly, always from Tyler was more back development, more shoulder, more chest. Keep adding that quality, keep the waist small. His shoulder to waist ratio is smaller. It's smaller now than it was five years ago. Why? Because he's added more depth to his, his waistlines are small, the same. He hasn't bone. He hasn't grown his, his, uh, his waistline as far as his hip, uh, his skeleton structure. Right. Overall aura is even more impressive. And to me, when I think about classic body, well, then I don't think the pro league have ever come out and said, what exactly is pro is classic body? Well, then I don't think they need to, but to me, classic bodybuilding is just an absolute beautiful work of art. It's something like a Francis Benfato. Yeah. That to me, like Francis Benfato, you know, you could say Lee Labrada, but Lee's physique was not so as dramatic as Francis Benfato's, but there wasn't a show that, that, uh, Francis ever beat Lee and Lee was, you know, was, was always, you know, better because his density and his conditioning was, you know, was always there for instance, whereas Francis Benfato was a little bit softer, et cetera. I think like, you know, you could even say back in the day, flex wheeler was a classic bodybuilder, just a beautiful work of art. Oh my God. Amazing. Amazing. Tomato to me, it's like, it's, it's, it's wide shoulders, small waist, just flary, complete full physique. I think when Mike stands, if Mike was to just walk normal, just normal, he doesn't look like a classic physique, but as soon as he pulls himself into this position, it's like, where the hell did that come from? Yeah. And then when you look at his front of a bicep and his front lap spread, they're just mind blowing. They're absolutely beautiful. And yes, he has, he has those round full dense muscles, but how can you, how can you mock somebody down for that? When, when, when they, it's, it's been asked for. Yeah. Over a period of time. The thing about Mike is he, you've said it perfectly. If he just walking around, you're like, that's a, that's an open class bodybuilder. It's a two, it's a two 12 guy, maybe, or whatever. The way he presents his physique is what makes it classic. Almost. He just, the way he moves on stage looks very classic. He, he makes his physique look classic, but he could, it's interesting. He's kind of got the physique that could go the other way. If you really wanted to. Yeah. I think my concern is, is that, um, and I've never had the conversation with Tyler or, or, um, or, um, Steve, um, you know, both of these have got, you know, a very much risk, you know, voices of therapy. same as bill, you know, bill, um, Steve, um, Tyler and, and the other judges. My concern is if I ever put Mike into a class, into an open class bodybuilding show, or are they going to, they're going to say, well, now you've transitioned into, and now you're an open class. It's like, what, we're going to get hurt and penalized because we step into that. Um, no, that's, that's my concern. I don't think so. I mean, if you look at Urs, Urs transitioned and. No, but I'm wondering about the fact that we did a show and then, but we said, look, let's do an open, see how we get on, but we go, but we, but we're staying in class. Oh, but we're going back. I see what you're saying. Yeah. Yeah. That's my concern. I don't know. I feel like, I feel like Tyler's really, uh, he's a very progressive type leader. And I don't think they, it's a little, I don't want to say anything about the old guard, but I feel like the, I feel like the pro league is a little bit more like malleable. I guess is what I want to say. Like they allow, they're open to new ideas and different things. And I think it would be, I don't know. I think people would love it. And I think they're also, they also are interested in things that make the fans happy. Yeah. And, and the fans would, I think they would go crazy to see Mike. They always love that. You know, when a two 12 guy jumps into open or a classic guy jumps into open, they always love that kind of thing. So that would be really interesting. I'd love to see that, but obviously that's a question for you, Mike. I think that Mike could definitely go into the open division. If I ever took Mike off the stage, I'd probably take him off stage for 18 months. Some people would criticize that because Mike's also a very, he's a hyper responder to a certain extent. And I know what he looks like, like last year's Olympia, when he was quite a few pounds over the weight limit. And six weeks out, I thought, I could try you out. I could try you out and put you on stage and it would be very impressive. But my point is, is if you added another 10 pound to that, right. Or 12 pound and just work really, really hard on the density and the density and density and density, he could probably step one stage about 12, 10, 12, 15 pounds heavier than what he would be as a classic. He doesn't have to be 240, 250 or 260. No. Um, because, you know, even though William, you know, I coached William for many years and, um, William's density and muscle bellies was crazy. The best look, I feel that the sweet spot for William, I think was like two 32, two 33. Yeah. Two 32, two, two 33. A man, he could stand, he could stand against anyone. I can remember Phil Heath being super complimentary about him basically saying, this guy's density and muscle roundness is, it's, it's, it's crazy. It's crazy. And the intricacy and the detail with, with William. And that's another person like, you know, um, just crazy finest detail, cleanest skill, skin, every single muscle group is, is, it's not artificial. It's a hundred percent. It's, we saw him last year in Detroit. Uh, he won Detroit last year and I know he was bigger, which is strange because people, you know, he's, you know, near the end of his career and his, maybe limbs are getting a little smaller and stuff. When he walked on stage in Detroit, we were all blown away. It looked like he just re grew all his old body parts back. Yeah. And there were some, people were putting side by sides from when he won the Arnold to last year, to last year in Detroit. And it was like, he looked phenomenal. It was, yeah. And he's such, so crazy to see in person. I don't think people, nobody will really understand Williams dimensions. Yeah. Yeah. Until you see him in person. It's just, just crazy to see that physique. Um, anyway, before you go, so we figured out, me and you figured out classic. Now they're going to raise five pounds. Well, we hope they do. And they're going to raise, if you're listening to IFBB, raise five pounds and weigh in the day of the show. Um, okay. Two questions. I want to ask you before you go, who, in your opinion, current bodybuilding, open men's bodybuilding. Yeah. Has the best back double bicep. And I'm talking as a, an entire pose. I don't mean just like the back itself. No, no. Okay. So we're talking about re, re, double bicep, back double bicep. Yeah. Rear double bicep. Um, to me, it has to be Derek. When Derek, Derek's 2025 Arnold Classic look to me was just mind blowing. Yeah. That's my opinion. Um, my personal opinion, who I think is. the, the, the, the athlete that I feel. If he brings what he's able to bring, I feel that Samson is still the number one bodybuilder in the world. Open class bodybuilder. And I like his shape. I like his lines. I, I like his dimensions. I was sad to see what he brought to, uh, the, the Olympia last year, but I, I saw his physique. I saw exactly what was taking place with physique six weeks before the Olympia. Yeah. I, he did a guest pose. And I think it was about six or eight weeks out. Um, maybe it was four weeks out, but I think it was six weeks out. I think it was in, um, Romania. And I can remember everybody saying, Oh my God, Samson looking amazing. And I, but straight away I was drawn. I thought, I know he's on his own. I know that he's not standing any next to anyone, but he looks like he's losing muscle. And I said on a podcast, which was probably done about two or three weeks before my only concern with Samson is whether he loses too much muscle, because I think that the constructive comments is being more conditioned and more conditioned. I don't feel it's a matter of the fact that he's, he's, he's got to lose this extra 10, 15, 20 pounds of body fat. I just feel that manipulation in that peak week has just got to be, you know, they just got to figure out that missing piece. And, um, I was so upset. Well, I was just disappointed and upset for him. And I'm disappointed as in like negatively disappointed. I wouldn't even like, and I don't even know Samson. I just like, and I also felt that he was an absolute incredible Olympian champion. How many shows did he compete in? How much did he tour around the world? Yeah. Like that's what a Mr. Olympia is all about. It's giving back and, and, and be in that face and that brand ambassador. Yeah. I got to tell you, I take a little bit of responsibility, even though I shouldn't, because I'm not, I'm not his coach at all, but he was sending me photos and videos probably four weeks out, three weeks out. I don't know. It was three or four or five weeks out, but it was three or four weeks out. I think three and four weeks out. And I remember thinking to myself, he just looks phenomenal. Like he would say, he would send me photos and I was seeing lines that I didn't see before. There was lines in his glutes. I couldn't see before. And I'm like, man, he is on track to just shock everybody. I take a little responsibility because I think at the time, maybe I should have told him to pull back a little bit. I didn't see it. Yeah. To me, he just looked so good. Yeah. And I, I remember competing myself and being flat. Like, you know, you, you know, when you're three weeks out, four weeks out, you're, you're really grinding. Yeah. You get flat and crispy looking. You get like that really like fine line look. Yeah. And I know you got to fill that back out before you get on stage. So I thought, you know, the last set of videos or photos I got from, I think we're three weeks out. So I thought to myself, okay, they're going to fill out like normal and he's going to get on stage. He's going to look absolutely mind blowing. I think the problem, and I, and I'm only assuming this, I don't know this for sure. I think the problem was Samson carb loads very, very fast. Like in previous shows, I remember them telling me like they loaded in one day. Yeah. And to me, that's mind blowing. Cause if you weigh 300 pounds on stage, you know, you need two or three days to fill out. Yeah. Well, I think I'm guessing, and I don't know this, they might've took the same approach. Yeah. And maybe when you're that depleted, you just need more days. Yeah. Yeah. You know? So, but also looking at it, you know, even in Prague, he still wasn't really filled back out. Yeah. So then I tend to agree with you in that maybe he did lose some tissue. Yeah. And he didn't, you know, it's taken him time to bring it, put it back all. And I just, I guess I take a little bit of responsibility myself for not, you know, saying to them, Hey, you're, you're going a little too fast. Yeah. Um, but I guess, you know, I don't have the experience you do. And, you know, I was just mind blown with the new detail I was seeing. So I was like, yeah, go for it. Yeah. So anyway, it was a learning experience for them and I'm sure they're going to correct it. Like, you know, he's something like 345 pounds right now and he looks absolutely phenomenal. So. Well, this could be one of the best things that's ever happened to him. Do you understand? Cause he's learned, like I said, last year's Olympia, you know, what a situation to be in. But I'm also selfishly happy that we were put in that position because we learned so much about Mike's physique. Right. You know, where we are with Mike's digestive health, it's been, it's been very negative for his prep. Terrible. Yeah. Yeah. And we're not where we need to be, but there's also something positive that comes from it because you learn so much. so, you know, this could be one of the best things. And then if we go back to about Mike and you said, are you going to basically, are you going to lose that weight earlier and you bring that weight down? No, because you'll do exactly the same. What happened to, to, to, to Samson. Yeah. You cannot get that muscle back in a couple of days. It's not possible. Right. What he probably should have done is just slow down, prep, pull back, cardio, eight up, eight up, eight up, preserve, preserve, preserve, and then slowly go into a deficit. But we can all say that as athletes and coaches in the past. Right. Right. You know, it's, it's constructive comments. I'm sure that he's going to learn a lot from it. And I would love to see him win that title back. I, I, I'd like to see Derek win. I'd like to see, I'd like to see Hady win. I would like to see Martin win. I'd like to see any of these athletes. Cause I have huge respect for every single one of them. Right. Um, it's just that with Samson, um, I, I just, it, the, just the physique itself is just, it flows. It's beautiful. And I like how he's represented the industry. He keeps himself, he stays away from drama. He's very respectful. You know, he's quiet and, and, and I'm sure he's very calculated. I'm sure that, um, you know, he uses his, his, uh, emotional frustration when he sees comments sometimes and puts them to good use. And that's, and that to me shows the strength of a real, uh, and character of a real champion. So, uh, I wish him and obviously his team and all the best, but the same with all the athletes, you know, not, not just in the Arnold coming up this year, but obviously the Olympian or the other shows in 2026. Uh, last question. Who is your Mount Rushmore of bodybuilding? I don't even know who that is. You know, Mount, Mount Rushmore is, the, I guess you're from the UK, so I don't know. It's a stupid question. I guess Mount Rushmore is the, uh, I guess, I don't even know what to call it. So in the U S they have Mount Rushmore, which they put the four most important presidents. Oh, sorry. Okay. Okay. On, on Mount Rushmore. So I'm asking you if you had to create the Mount Rushmore of bodybuilding, what would that look like? Um, for different reasons, I think, um, for different reasons. Can I add five or not? No, you can only have four. Arnold, uh, Ronnie, Chris Bumstead. Ooh, interesting. Because I, what it is is I think they all have qualities within, you know, and then it will be a toss up between Dorian and Phil. That's the one I want to know. That's the, that's the curious. So the Chris Bumstead one is very, very valid. And actually some other people mentioned it when we had this conversation on my other podcast. Um, most people went with Ronnie, Ronnie and Arnold were a mainstay. Yeah. Phil was in and out, you know, flex was in and out. Dorian Jay were in and out. Yeah. not a lot of people on the podcast mentioned Chris, but a lot of people in the comment section mentioned Chris. And now that, you know, the more I thought about it, the more I'm like, well, he was really like, if you think about important figures in bodybuilding, Chris kind of, I guess, elevated the entire sport in his own way. He brought an entirely new generation into bodybuilding. So I would agree with that, but I have, I need to know between Dorian and Phil, because that's a, that's a big one. Um, Oh God, it's a tough one. The trouble is, is that I think that each, each of these have qualities, which can be very different and have, um, the ability to impact people in different ways. Um, I think, you know, for me, Dorian's just self belief and, and, and doing it his way, 100% and staying away from what appeared to be traditional way of life of bodybuilding that stands out to me. And, um, one of the most iconic bodybuilders of all time. So that's why I would say him. And then with Phil, I just think that he oozed everything that bodybuilding was, man, his shape, his structure, his conditioning, his consistency. He could talk. He was, you know, he was just incredible. But then, you know, there's also, you know, Jay, Jay in himself, um, deserves to be on there because between him and Ronnie, they're probably the most liked and respected professionals of all, all time. So they've all contributed into different ways. Man, I kind of, it's a tough one. I'd rather say, do you know what? I'm just going to tap out and be a loser on this one because, because, because it's not about the fact that I feel like I would be disrespectful, um, to one because they have, they each have their own qualities. I feel that it, I just can't, because what, whoever I decide, I'll be going back in the back of my mind, back of my mind, back of my mind, back of my mind. And I can't, I can't, uh, so I'm going to say, I'm sorry, but I'm going to bow out. I'm going to put the white flag out. Okay. That's fair. Uh, Neil, you know what, man? I had a great time talking to you. It was really nice to finally get to really like talk some, talk some bodybuilding. I wish you and your guys at the Arnold, I don't know who else are you coaching yet? Mike and Braff, Mike, Braff and Brandon. Brandon. Brandon. Brandon's got such a nice physique. You know what? Good luck to you with three of them. Um, they're all awesome champions. So I'm sure you guys are all going to do well. I'll take some hardware home, but, um, I hope we get to do this again sometime. I appreciate it. And I remember many of a conversation we started in expos. We spoke quite a few times at expos and, um, it's really good to see what you're doing. Yeah. And, um, um, we don't really know each other, uh, for what, but just know, I am proud of P, you know, it's, it's great to see people progress in the industry and give back, but also stay relevant. And you've done that and you're, you're very much respected around the world. So, um, good luck with everything. uh, hopefully I get the chance to speak to you, you know, in the future. Thank you very much, Neil. Okay. Take care. Thank you. Okay. Bye-bye. Thank you.