 and aromasin,urança, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz, nariz nariz, nariz nariz, nariz nariz nariz nariz nar and then apply and that's going to give you one of these for free and then you check out. So guys, get to Hostile.com right now. Get the Samson Doubt of Bloodshot, either flavor the pineapple or the grape. Put both in your cart. Use BOGOSD at checkout and get one for free. Thank you guys for the support. Hello, Mr. Lozon. Hi, Fred. How are you, Meatball? Not bad. Not bad. I had a little hummus this weekend. You had some hummus? I did. I like hummus with chicken. No. Don't say that. You just destroyed my... You just hurt my heart. Actually got that idea from a Lebanese restaurant that used to serve chicken pitas with hummus and pickles. Chicken pitas? Yeah, but that's different. Why is it different? Because if it's in a wrap, it's different. Because see, hummus could be used as like a dish or it can be used as a condiment. Okay. Yeah. Right. That's what I use it as, a condiment for my chicken. Right. But if you're using it... Okay. So how did you use it with the chicken? Like you took a piece of chicken and dipped it in the hummus? No. I spread it on top. I put a healthy scoop on top and spread it on top. Yeah. I mean, look, anytime you're using hummus, I think you're doing a good thing. It's versatile. It's very versatile. It's a very versatile food for sure. It just shouldn't be a main dish. I think in my... Well, it's never a main dish, but it is... It's never a main dish, but it is an appetizer. Or a signature dish, let's say. It's never a signature dish. It's a signature dish for Lebanese. No. It's never a signature dish. I think it's a signature dish for Lebanese. It's not a signature... I'm telling you it's not a signature dish for Lebanese. What are you talking about? God damn it, Paul. It's not a signature dish. Well, what do you think of, Mike, when you think of Lebanese food? That's not... Hummus is disgusting. I literally hate hummus. Really? You like baba ganoush? Yeah, I like baba ganoush. Yeah. It's a little sweeter. Okay. It's not... What do you mean when you say signature? You mean like... Like you're known for it. Okay. Hummus is definitely... An Arab... Part of Arab cuisine, for sure. Yeah. But when you say signature dish, it implies like the main course. No. It implies what you're most known for. Well, I wouldn't say it's most known for. Lebanese is not most known for hummus. Cuisine-wise, I think it is. No, it's not. That's what you think. What is it? Kebabs. What are those people? Probably kebabs. Probably kebabs or some type of kibbe or something like that. Kibbe? Kibbe, grape leaves, kebabs, something like that. Probably more so than hummus. Yeah. I think of hummus. Yeah. That you do. But that doesn't mean that's what it's known for. Well, I got it from somewhere. So I probably... So basically, whatever Paul thinks is fact. Usually, it's mostly right. So instead of trying to learn something, you're like, we're just going to go with what I think. Yes. As long as you say it with confidence, people usually believe you. That's Ian's technique. Yeah. What we've learned. Yeah. It is. It is a good technique. Because as long as you believe it, then it's true, right? Yeah. To you. Well, it's your truth, Paul. Right. Exactly. It's my truth. It's your truth. It's your world. We're just living in it. That's right, Mike. Thank you. Mike, where are you? What is this lamp in the background? Just throw me on. My girlfriend has severe ADD and keeps changing where I do the podcast. Why? Now I'm in my room. I don't know. That's a good question. I told her she's an agent of chaos. Does it drive you crazy? Or do you just let your wife or girlfriend do whatever she wants and then just live in it? I do until it doesn't make sense. And then I'm like, why did we do this? Are you guys in Calgary right now, Mike? Are you still in Toronto? I'm in Toronto. Yeah. But at least my dog's at eye level now. Just staring at him. The bad yes. Yeah. What's going on, Paul? How are you? I'm good for it. Yeah. What's new? I've been working a lot. I've been working a lot. I got stuck at the border today. And only because of you, I got through without a hassle. Clipping cavity searched. Half of them. They're about to cavity search me. And they're like, you know, Paul, don't you? I'm like, yeah. And they're like, oh, it's okay. They told me to put my... Do they call you Lozon at the border fault? Do you have a nickname? Or just Paul? I'll tell you one of my nicknames. A lot of the truck drivers. Bruiser? Bruiser? No. No. The truck drivers, you know, they're usually a certain descent. They always call me... What Indian truck drivers? Okay. They call me Mr. Paul. Mr. Paul. Mr. Paul. Yeah. Do they touch your shoulders? No. Well, they can't touch you the window. But if they could, because I think I talked about it before. You get a lot of comments. And things get lost in translation, I learned. So, like, they'll say something to you. Like, they mean to give you a compliment about your physique, but they'll be like, sir, you have a very nice body. And you're like, fuck, man. I wish you wouldn't say it like that. But, yeah, I get to tease a lot about Mr. Paul at work. Mike, what's going on with you, man? Nothing. Same old shit. What do you got planned for Christmas? Nothing. I don't do anything, really. No? I was going to go see Avatar, but I went to see Avatar yesterday. So, that's off the table. What do you mean? Avatar what? Is the new movie out? Yeah, it's number three. It's fucking shit. Don't go. Really? Are you talking about the blue guys, Avatar? Yeah. I never saw the second one. They went to the well one too many times with this fucking shit now. Is this still James Cameron? Yeah. Mike, you go to the movies a lot, eh? Yeah, not as much as I used to now because I have a box at home. But, yeah. And a lot of movies are shit, so I try to wait to see if it's, like, actually something that's worth seeing in the theater. Yeah. I feel like there's a bad era for movies right now. Yeah. All the good content's on streaming services, basically. Yeah. What did I watch the other day that was good? Ooh. I watched the movie the other day that was pretty good. The new Predator. The new Predator's good, if you can find it. Really? Oxford. Yeah, Carter Badlands is good. Yeah, I've heard that's good. Hi, Ian. Hey, guys. How are you? Good. You? I'm good. Well, see you later. You look bigger. Yeah? Yeah, I think so. Nice. Thanks. Your lists are going up, Ian. Yeah, a little bit. Yeah. I'm serious. But the space between your chest and your chin is getting smaller. Thanks, guys. Yeah. I got sleep apnea now. Back. Just started just wearing the V-nex again. Seth. Gentlemen. Where have you been? You know, hanging out, playing Nintendo. I'm going to guess that Christmas at your house is a big deal. It's like a really... Yeah. You start decorating probably like middle of November. Not middle, but yeah, maybe late November. Yeah. Yeah. First week for sure. Is it like... Is it something you really love to do, or is it just like to make everybody else happy? Oh, dude. Just dad shit. I just... I love the kids all fired up. I get fired up because of the kids. That's it. Really? Oh, yeah, dude. Paul, how come you're not like that? When my kids were small, I would get really excited. They don't give a shit anymore. They're only 10. Yeah. They're like 10 years old. No, no, no. They're 11 and 15 now. Yeah, the shines were off for them. Really, eh? My 15-year-old, she's got a busier life than me. She's constantly out with her friends. You know, she doesn't care. It's tough to... The only reason that it's still alive so strongly here is because of SJ. Him being five. Yeah. Yeah. Otherwise, it would get like... Do you guys do a lot of gifts? Yeah. Yeah. Around Christmas, we do. Like, throughout the year, I don't know. We don't keep it as simple as possible. But Christmas, yeah, I like going overboard. You do the whole leaving cookies out for Santa, and then you got to eat them before you go to bed so the kids think, What do you mean? I don't even pray. What are you saying, Paul? I have been eating a ton of cookies lately. I love them this year for some reason. Just eating way too many of them. I love Christmas cookies. What is your guys' bodybuilding life like around Christmas? Mike, you're on an eating plan now. Ian, you're serious again. Seth, you're usually not a fat fuck. What's it like this week? Today's the 22nd. When does it go off the rails, or does it ever go off the rails? Maybe on the day of, the day after. Like the 25th? Yeah. Not too... Because I won't do anything, really. But if I would, I'd be smashing chocolates and anything else that's fucking delicious. If I had it around, but I don't have it around. So 25th... I like gingerbread. Yeah. I know you like cookies, Paul. Give me a minute. I'm talking to people. I like gingerbread. I'm talking to the people who are really serious about their nutrition. Give me a second. The real bodybuilders here, Paul. Ian, when you... Do you ever just go off? Is there a day where you're like, fuck it? No. Not at all? Well, like, no. Yeah. Like, I always still will eat all my normal meals in the day. But then I'll eat Christmas dinner and I'll eat as much as I feel I want to then. But like, I don't, you know? So if there's a whole bunch of chocolates and shit, you're not partaking? Honestly, man. And it sounds so fucking gay because like, I know good food is good. But I've just like lost my sweet tooth. Like, if the stuff's around, it actually just doesn't entice me at all anymore. When you're constantly like always kind of eating, I just have lost the idea of like, ooh, I want something extra because I'm like, I'm already satiated from all the other food I've been eating, you know? Are you taking ozempic? No. You're just not hungry? Well, I'm hungry. I eat my meals fast and great. But like, then I'm good. I'm satiated. And I'm like, I don't know. I remember what that was like, though. When I was eating like a lot of food in the offseason, I wouldn't really pig out or snack that much. No. You don't have a sweet tooth, though, Ian. I've been around. I definitely lost it over the years. Like, when I was younger, I used to love like candy and fucking ice cream and shit like that. And I still do enjoy it. But like, it's just in the quantities. Like, I can't. I don't know. I just don't really have like the capacity or like the mindset to like eat that. It just doesn't like do anything for me. Like, I don't like eat it. And I'm like, and I don't get that like feeling. Yeah. You know, when you're hungry and you like you eat good food and it like makes you feel good. Yeah. I don't get that. So then I don't want it more because it's not giving me that like rewarding feeling of eating good food. Yeah. But Paul, you know why he's like, like, you're not Ian. What are you eating? 4,000 calories? 45 around like 4,200 or something. Yeah. Okay. So when you're eating 4,200 calories, you know, yeah, I remember eating that, man. I didn't really. Yeah. I actually didn't eat very much shit at all when I was eating like a full, like solid diet. My biggest cravings used to come when I used to compete and compete in bodybuilding because your calories are so restricted. You don't have that freedom of. Sure. Yeah. No, I get that. But like, um, that's, you know, not where Christmas is usually in like offseason time for all bodybuilders, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Like it's almost always, you know, Paul, think about it. Like you were binging like a few weeks ago, but it's cause you're eating fuck all for carbs. I know. But I started eating more carbs now and my, why are you eating so little carbs? I know. You know, I didn't really realize how low my carbs were until I started counting them one day. And then I was like, wow, they were like 200 a day. So what, like, give me an example, like what your meals and like how much rice or potato carbs were we eating? I was having like half a cup of rice twice a day. Half a cup. Yeah. I was having more fats and I don't know. I just felt okay. And I was having a lot of protein. Okay. He felt okay, but he was binging at night. Yeah. I didn't track what I ate at night. Right. Well, then when I started writing things down and I was like, oh, I'm hardly getting any, eating any carbs all day. No wonder I'm binging. I started eating more carbs. I feel, I feel better. It must have been good. Okay. So this is what I'm trying to get to with Ian. That's why he's not, doesn't care. Right. Cause he's eating fucking 500 grams of carbs a day. Yeah. Yeah. Seth, what are you doing? You're not bulking. So what is, how does that work for you? I stick to the same fucking thing every day. I know. Become Christmas time. Become Christmas time. Then what? But now like, I mean, the kids wanted to make Christmas cookies and I was like, Hey, I haven't had cookies in like a year. Cause I don't eat, I don't eat a lot of sweets. I eat salty shit. Right. And then I realized how good cookies are. And I, I've been eating like one a day for probably for solid, like nine days. I had three packs of Mars bites yesterday in the movies. What movies did you see yesterday? Avatar was shit. Was it shit? Yeah. I heard it's like the exact same as the second one. Yeah. Yeah. The exact same. Yeah. That's what I heard. Yeah. And I didn't even love the second one. I loved the first one when I saw it like in IMAX 3D, I was like mind blown. And then I saw the second one. I'm like, eh, it's okay. But like, you know, the first one I've rewatched a few times. The second one, I've never had the inclination to rewatch it once. I didn't even go see the second one. Cause I was like, I don't want to ruin the first one. Even when I'm like bored at night and like trying to find something to like put on to go to sleep, I'll see that on my like Netflix or Disney or whatever. I'm like, nah, you know, fucking next shit. That's, that's, you know, low. Cause I'll watch some fucking shitty stuff that time. You watch anything. You watch anything. I'll watch anything, dude. I'll be watching like fucking like Caillou, you know? I'm, uh, Ian, are you, you, you look like you're back into it. That's what I said. Is my face look that fucking fat already? Jesus Christ. You just look like you look like old Ian with a couple of years on you. That's what you look like. Yeah. I'm excited. It's like the beard just looks meaner. The beard looks mean. I've grown the beard out a bit. Yeah. If you're going to get bigger, you got to let the beard go a bit. That's like a tradition in the offseason is like letting the beard go a bit. You know? Yeah. I'm just going to let the beard fucking do its thing. So fucking you're making me want to get back on the sauce. Yeah. Look, man. One big arm, one collar. That'd be sick, man. Everything huge and then just one arm. Just, you know? That'd be so sick. I'd go nuts on TikTok. Yeah. Holy fuck. Seth, what's going on with you? What's new? I was busy with closing out the year and then having a bunch of fun with the kids and just kind of taking some time. It was a lot of work this year. So I was just enjoying time with the kids. SJ is into wrestling now and he's not. He doesn't pick up wrestling like he did other sports. Football and baseball, dude. He's fucking. He caught on like this. Yeah. Yeah. Wrestling. Taking a minute. But yeah. Is he not aggressive or just what? Yeah, dude. He's five. So he's not like aggressive. But if you. Okay. Western PA is full of fucking. It is wrestling country. Yeah. It is the wrestling capital of the country. Yeah. And bro, there's, it's like lineage. Like if there's like a family of wrestlers, like three boys and that youngest is five, that youngest is one. And it's his first year wrestling. Yeah. Bro, there's a kid that just fucking ruined SJ. Really? He just, he had him in a pretzel immediately and SJ's fighting for his life, trying to get out of it. And he, this kid's just wrapping him up, grabbing his ankle, throwing a half. And I'm like, this is a five-year-old. Yeah. So, but that's, I've just been doing a ton of family stuff and really enjoying it because I know the beginning of next year is super busy for us. So I'm like, just soaking in everybody I can. So what's going on? We got the 2026 is around the corner. What's new for everybody? Anything? Any, any new shit? I don't know. I need to get, so I, I'm, I'm going to start pushing very hard on YouTube again. Are you? Because, oh yeah. I have a plan. I want to go hard on YouTube with a bunch of like all the stuff that I love doing because over the past year, it's just been work and work and work and a bunch of fucking every meeting under the sun. But now I'm like, Hey, I really like like educating the meat heads, right? People that aren't like, so everything has to be so perfect. I'm like, dude, there, this is such a beautiful art form. I'm like, I just want to be me again, educating the masses. Cause there's fitness is bigger than ever. Yeah. And more and more people are just screaming for more information and education and anything, any little bit along the way. And that's what really, you know, literally kicked off my social media career. So maybe it's a, maybe it's, maybe it's time to break out the whiteboards again. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I love it because I saw C bum did a, he's doing that Jack Lee thing. Yeah. And it's a way fucking better name than functional and fuckable. Yes. That was what I, that's literally how I, you know, transitioned doing the functional stuff. I'm like, I just want to look good, fuck good, feel good. And like be functional, you know? And then I was like, once he retired, he started going in. I'm like way better name, dude. What'd you think of that? I just, I went for the, you know, the handsome fucking dickhead comments, but it's cool because that's going to be, you know, I do push, pull legs and functional training just to look good, feel good, fuck good, that concept. But I want to do way more collabs this year with people on just training philosophies, training styles, make it fun again, because everybody in 2024 and 2025 was just fucking dickheads. Yeah. It was a lot of science crap. Talking shit and not backing anything up. It's like, let's go and all right, let's, I'm going to show up and I want to do cool shit with people. Yeah. You know, it's funny. I was talking to summer about buying a, I've been looking at class B plus motorhomes. No, nice. I found a really nice, listen, don't laugh, Seth. This is awesome. You got to see this thing. I'm going to show you. It's fucking amazing. If I didn't have kids, that's what exactly, I'd be everywhere. Yeah. So I'm thinking like, it'd be cool to take the podcast on the road. And I was like, what if I took a fucking, like a tour bus kind of thing and did like actual in-person podcasts with all these different people in different States. I'm like, Steve, road chat tour. Yeah. Like Steve-O does in his fucking van, but like in a nicer van, not that, not that little shitty cargo van. He drives, rides around it. But like, this is what I was looking at. What do you think? This is like a. The wanderer. Yeah. Basically like a big bus. Yeah. Like it's like a, it's like a short bus. It's got retards, but not retards. For retards, but not retards. Yeah. I got a, but it's got like a fucking, it's got everything in it. And I'm like, I think I could fucking live in this thing. Yeah. These are sick. I love RVs. Like, look at this thing. Oh, it comes out of the side. Yeah. Yeah. That part like comes out. But if you get this one, it's got like the bed in the back and shit. Anyway. Do you think getting into RVs is like, it crests a certain age when you start to think they're cool. Okay. Well, hold time out. I'm 35 and I fucking love RVs. I thought they were cool. I thought they were cool since I was like 25. This has been like. I go. Yeah. It's been something I've wanted to do, like kind of my whole life. They're the best, man. I like grew up with my dad had one and they're fucking the best memories ever. I'm curious what the people watching think. I'm like, if you guys think. I'd like to hear like comments. If people think a traveling in-person podcast would be cool. Yeah. Obviously it'd be cool. I originally want to do it like travel and work out with people, but I can't really train the way I used to. So I could just do the podcast. Podcast food, that kind of shit. Big barbecue. Yeah. I thought it'd be fun. Yeah. I think it'd be sick. Oh yes. If you expand into different types of people as well. Like if you show up somewhere for people, oh, they're definitely in. Have you ever seen, have you ever seen, uh, comedians in cars getting coffee? With like Jerry Seinfeld shows up. Yeah. Anyway, I thought it'd be something along those lines. Oh, you do it. Like you do the podcast while it's moving? Like while you're driving? You can do that while I'm driving or just show up and like, you see part of their life, like kind of like a, a cribs. Like let's say if I showed up in fucking New York with a keen, he could show me his cars. Cause he's a car, he's a car guy. Like the Jags. Show me the Jag, you know, shit like that. Could take and go to Burning Man. Why would I go to Burning Man? I always want to go. You want to go to Burning Man, Paul? Why? What's in Burning Man? You never heard of that festival? No. The Burning Man festival? No. No? I think it's in the Nevada desert. They do it once a year. It's this massive festival. Oh my God. It goes on for like a week. Yeah. This is where like, it's like an EDM. Yeah. This is where like 18 year old girls go to do fucking Molly. Well, not just 18 year old girls. Dance in the desert. Some middle-aged men go too. Sometimes. They trip balls in the desert for fucking three days. Yeah. And they barter for all their, there's no money or something like that. They barter for everything. This is what you want to do, Paul? I think it'd be cool to go to. Yeah. We could do some drugs and do it. Yeah. I guess. I don't know. Stick or bust there. You fit in there, I guess. Imagine Paul with this. The guy in the dress there is fucking killing it. I'd wear a robe like the guy on the right there. That looks comfortable. I mean, I don't know. It doesn't really seem like you're kind of people, Paul, but I think they'd love you. So I think it's a wide mix of people. I think they'll do some jobs. Everyone is Paul's people, you know? Yeah, I know. I guess. I think they would all love you regardless. You just have to wear something kind of fucked up. Oh, yeah. There you go. That's for you right there, Paul. Anyway. Anyway, just throw it out there. All right. I'll go with you, Paul. Okay, Mike. We should all go. Mike, anything new for 26? No, just maybe moving to Calgary. Haven't decided yet. So other than that, nothing. That's exciting. Okay. Anybody else? Ian's competing. Yep. Ian's making his comeback in 26? Ian's making his comeback in Detroit? Maybe March 14? Oh, my God. That's way too soon, bro. March 14th? He's what? What are you? 10 weeks out? Something like that? Is that 10 weeks already? No, before that. The Arnold was 12 last time we did the podcast, I think. Right. For about 12. We'd be like 12, 13 to Detroit. You're good. Just step on the gas, man. Let's go. Blast it. All right. Let's get into some bodybuilding news. What have you guys been seeing? Have you guys seen any of this fucking shit about PMMA? Yeah. And all these different things. I know we talked about this, Ian, but I want to talk about it really quick. About what? Have you? See? I didn't know about this shit either, Seth. Have you heard? My question is, how are they differentiating between that it's PMMA or if it's just synthol? You know? Well, they're saying it's... Or sight injections. Metaformin. Or metaphor. Or like, how are you deciphering? Just picking one? Yeah. This is my limited knowledge. PMMA is a, I believe, an injection of a type of... It's filler. Plastic filler? Yeah. It's a filler you would use in your face. But it's plastic-based. And it's very much more permanent than like a... Like, you know, if a girl was doing a typical lip filler, you can use it in your face for like, you know, loss of volume and hollowing. But it has a much more permanence to it versus like a semi-permanent, you know? Is this what a lot of girls are putting in their asses? Is this like in Brazilian? Some people are putting in their asses. They're saying the girl, that Sarah girl, is accusing Natalia of using it in her quads. Wow. That's why she won the Olympia. Is it most common in Brazil? Is that some of the... I guess. And there's people accusing Derek of it because Derek's coach... One of Derek's coaches... Sorry, Derek's got a couple coaches. One of coaches, his training coach, Fabrico, whatever his name is, got... Preachew. No, I actually think it's Fabrico. Anyway, the guy actually... Call him up! The guy got it done... He got his chest done there. And he's actually posted like images of his chest being done there. And there's pictures of Natalia and Derek at this place. Oh. So people are like kind of putting two and two together. And they're like, what the fuck? So I don't know what's... It doesn't look good. Yeah, it doesn't look good, right? But this place probably does more than just whatever this PM... That's what I said. And somebody commented and said, no, that's all they do there. Oh, okay. Well, I shoot down that argument. Oh. So I'm like, it's kind of fucked up, right? Sorry, what's this place? Do you have the details? Yeah. I'm planning to come back here, boys. I need all the help I can get. Rankin size. So apparently you can test for this with like using an ultrasound or anything like that. But obviously that's like a logistical nightmare. So my solution was judges should just be informed about it and should be judging harder on things like detail and shit like that. What do you guys think? 100%. Yeah. Yeah, no, I agree. Because we talked about this last time. And I think people got the wrong impression of what I was saying. And I'm not like an advocate of SEOs at all. My point was like, one, the morality thing. But two, it's like, like you were saying before, it's like, how can you ever, you know? Like I saw Sarah talking and shit in some of the threads. And she was like, you know, you should give people a three-year ban if they're using it. But it's like, well, how do you know they're using that? How do you prove it? All that girl does bitch about everything. Yeah. Well, especially when she loses, but no, I mean, I'm saying, really, she needs, like, there's no way. Because, like, it could be any, you know, you see people with, like, these things in their quads. I've had fucking big lumps of my quads from just shooting gear in there. Yeah. You know, it's like, now am I going to get a three-year ban because I'm using the same substance as everybody else's, but I'm getting accused for PMMA. Like, you know, you could say the ultrasound. Sure. If you want to go down that, you know, that's a slippery slope. It's going to be impossible. Logistical nightmare. You have hundreds, thousands of athletes. You're going to be doing this. It's going to be insane. It's impossible. So it's just that there's no way to really, like, test for this. And, you know, it's like, where do you, you know, like, how do you really do anything? And I don't think you should just, I agree with you that, you know, if it's noticeable, like anything, like anything that's detracting from the physique, you know, loss of detail, weird lumps. If you have a lump in your glutes. If you have a lump in your glutes from a bad shot, if you have bad gyno, you got bad shots in your delts, even if it's gear, whatever, these things detract from the physique and they should be scored down. But just like to just guess and say it's this substance versus this substance is, it's impossible. You know, interrupt you for one second. I want to use a specific example. So a lot of people take like Derek, for example, and I'm not, honestly, I'm not, I'm not hating on Derek. Like, I really don't think people should be like that as hard on Derek as they should be. But I want to use him only because he's the most prime example right now because his arms don't show a lot of detail. So one of the things I want, one of the things I want to ask you is this, like, let's say we're going to start policing these kinds of things, but there's no way to actually determine if it's SEO, if it's PMMA, if it's whatever it is. Do you think they should just start saying like, we are going to start marking detail a little bit higher on the criteria of bodybuilding? Like as we judge. Yeah. I mean, look, I think detail should always be high on the scoring list of a bodybuilder. I mean, like some of the greatest bodybuilders in history are so great because their detail. Phil Heath is so great because his level of detail. Hold on. But then, sorry, my question is. Look at Hottie and Derek, right? You've got two different, one's bigger, but one's got way more detail. So what I'm saying is like. But Derek's got more detail from the back. So it's like, you know. I know, but I'm saying like, right now, I don't think you can make it that objective for what I don't. What do you mean? Like by saying like, we should need to put a little bit more on the detail side, because we never know how everyone's going to show up. Well, what I mean right now by that is like for my limited knowledge about bodybuilding judging, I would say that like in open men's bodybuilding, muscularity is the highest of the pillars. Like it's scored the highest of all the pillars of scoring, right? After that probably comes symmetry and conditioning and they're even. So what I'm saying is like maybe detail should be bumped up a little bit so that you. Yeah, I'd be fine with that. So that we're eliminating people walking in there with PMMA or synthol or whatever. And they're just smooth, but really round. I think that goes. I think that would be something that would just be unspoken to the public and done through the judging criteria. That's fine. But that way, because then and then in that case, I think Hottie would have beat Derek. Right. That's my point. And I know it's give or take, but I mean, I personally think that if you would have went by that criteria, Hottie would have beat Derek this year. For sure. This year. Yeah. But I don't think like announcing it to the public, like everybody wants this to be so public. Bodybuilding is so subjective. And the thing I'm just learning about this. What is it? P-M-M-M-A. Or P-M-M-A. No, P-M-M-A. He is in penis. P-double-M-A. Penis. Oh, P-M-M-A. Penis. Penis. I thought it was P-M-A-A. I'm getting confused about the Pam Pan thing here. Maybe I can help. Pam. Pam. He's fine. P-M-A. P-M-A. P-M-A. P-M-A. Oh, the N is silent. Oh, is it N too? No. No. So we're doing the stepbrothers thing. Okay. And one last time. It's P-M-M-A. That's N. I mean. N. I didn't know. I mean, I didn't know that this. I knew about the Sarah and that thing, but I didn't know the accusations. I did. I was not aware of this. But Seth, I think it's important to be like more transparent. I think it's better. Like one of the things I've been actually. Do you think like, okay, so we've known sight injecting, like Ian was saying, dude, like, dude, there's times whenever I've taken a shot in the quad or the glute whenever I was loading up fucking 12 cc's. Right. And it's like. 12 cc's. Hell yeah, brother. Let me see that barrel. It's a rocker week. Man. Oh. I like your style. Oh, the whole week. Okay. The whole week. Yeah. The whole week. Not at once. One day. But you've got your lats, your glutes, your quads. You're sticking, you know, a cc and a quarter. Biceps. Triceps. Inner head. Outer head. I never did the biceps. Never did the biceps. Couldn't do it. Outer head of the biceps. Tricky. But whenever you look at like Hottie, like his shoulders, like there's times when his shoulders look so much better. And then you're like, bro, you put a ton of gear in those shoulders. Right. And it's. And then you see guys that just get bad shots. So I think that the subjectivity, like Ian was saying, of just saying like overall, like that stuff, just needs to be scored down. Yeah. I agree. Because for years, what was it? Escaline. Back in the day, that was something that everybody wishes. Right. I agree. I agree. Yes. And then like, I think about Ernie Taylor back in the day. Yeah. Wow. That's just the most absurd triceps of all time. Yeah. I'm sorry, man. That's like. It was crazy because his arms still looked like kind of hard, you know? So if he just eased up on it, but before he went ham with it. Right. Um, but I think that I agree with what Ian was saying, how it's more or less, if it's there in general, no matter what it is, it just needs to be scored down or marked down and saying, yeah, judge flaws harder. Okay. Let me, let me just say this. Okay. So in 2014, when Arnold was like, the guts are out of control, you motherfuckers need to do something about this shit. The judges made it public. Public, they said in an athlete meeting with the press there, we are going to start marking down the guts. We don't want to see that shit anymore. Keep your guts in check. That's what I mean. I think the more transparent, the more public those things are, the more legitimate the sport is like, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm an advocate behind that. Listen, sorry to interrupt, but I've all, I've been at many, many pro shows. I don't know if Paul can attest to this where I've been at the athletes meeting and they have word for word said that any like apparent SEOs abuse or use is going to be, you're going to be fucking tossed out. Like they're, they've said this to the athletes for sure. I've been at multiple shows before. Hey, this has been an issue lately. If we see this shit and anything's looking a bit fucking funky, we're fucking, we're fucking you up the end, you know? Right. Yeah. But the difference now, Ian is Tyler has a very big microphone. Yeah. Everybody watches Tyler do his wrap ups and things like that. And he's very involved publicly. Yeah. And I think like one of the things I advocate for is like, I'd love to see real time scoring on the fucking screen while the fucking poses are happening. Like that would be an amazing thing. I don't think you should do that because I think you eliminate the kind of like ooh and ah for the finals. It like takes away a bit of the like mystique going into finals. You're just, yeah. Because if you see like this guy's winning by, but like you see this guy's winning by perfect score going to the final. It's like, who cares to go to the final? No, no, no. That's not what I'm saying. You should score. What if you had like in boxing, you know how like you watch a fight and they're like Letterman's unofficial judge. Yeah. Yeah. That I, that I could get on board with. I would love to see on the screen, like if you had like four side chests, you could score them like 10, nine, eight, seven, whatever. You're not giving total scores though. So you're not giving the show away. But that's also just not how bodybuilding is judged, but I understand what you're saying. Yeah. I know it's not. I'm talking about just like the entertainment of it. Right? No, I agree. That would be cool for sure. But those are just transparent things. And also it's kind of in line with that is it'd be cool if Tyler would said like, look, these things are, these new things have come out. You know, people are using, we've been told people are using X, Y, Z. So we've changed the criteria a little bit to increase the, uh, go ahead, Seth. Go ahead. I was just fucking around. But do you think, uh, I mean, with Derek's arms, that being like the biggest, like the most, like what the fuck is going on with his arms? Yeah. But he was rewarded with the Mr. Olympia. Right. Do you think that that's going to be too far of a walk back? No. Or like, do you think that his arms, like, what do you, I mean, I, I, I don't know anything about this stuff. Where's my arms are full of shit. Just my question is, is, and I, and I guess it's an easy question too, but are we just scoring this because we think there's potentially bad things in there or what about guys that are just less detailed? That's what I'm getting at. That's my point. No, no. That's my point is I think. Which I think should then, yeah, that could be worth less because a more detailed physique is just worth more in bodybuilding, which I agree it always should be anyways. Sure. Right. That's it. That's something to work for. You should constantly be pushing for that. That's how I, that's how I feel about it is it doesn't matter if it's. I think it is already. It is like a more detailed physique is more valuable than a less detailed one. Right. But I think they should lift that up a bit. Okay. You know what I mean? I'm on board for that. Because I just think that would eliminate a lot of the, because right now there's like this like black cloud kind of hovering over bodybuilding. Like all these people are using fake shit and there's a lot of talk and I'm like, that's easily fucking squashed. Yeah. All you got to do is say, look, if we don't see any detail, we don't care if it's your fucking genetics or if you, or if you, or if you put a bottle of oil in there, you're not going to do as well anymore. You're not going to do as well anymore. We want to, we want to see more detail. Yeah. No, I think that's fair. So I think, I think that's a conditioning would increase a little bit as well. Conditioning would increase. I think, I think, I think that's, that's good. Yeah. I'd be on board for that. All right. Well, we just figured out to hopefully Tyler's watching. Tyler, get on board, buddy. That's that problem. Anyway, what else is going on? What else is in the news other than Samson left hostile? That's in the news. I guess we had to talk about it. Yep. Um, there's nothing bad, nothing bad there. We just like decided to kind of go our different ways after Martin left companies kind of putting more of the money into the company and into products and into like new launches and things like that. So there's no, I know people want to hear like a whole bunch of drama and everything, but I love Samson. I hope he fucking, I hope he wins the Olympia again and I hope he goes on and does amazing things. So there isn't really any drama to be had, but go ahead, Seth. You're going to say something. No, I was just going to say, I saw it. And then, you know, all the, all the fun comments, there's the good and the bad. And there's people who are like, Oh, this and all that, like people saying, taking shots at Samson, taking shots at you. And it's kind of, it just goes back to that thing where I'm like, man, you can never just like, like, even though he put out a great press release and said what he said, and it was a classy thing to say. Right. But it's like, you know, Oh, I knew this wouldn't last forever. And it's like, Oh, bud, do you know that things happen in life and they change and they evolve the same motherfucker you were five years ago or 10 years ago? I know that's not a good thing. You're supposed to continue to evolve and work. And, and if something just doesn't work out, doesn't work out, especially whenever you can both say from both sides, still love you, dude. Let's just continue on with our lives and continue to support one another and whatever endeavors we have. Yeah. So I know, you know, that's part of the news. So I just wanted to like, bring it up. I don't know if anybody has any questions they want. They think I should address. I don't know if there's anything you guys saw that I think I need to address. It all seems pretty. What's the beef, bro? I heard there was beef. Tell us about it. Break it down. Anyway, that's, that's all that. Anything else in bodybuilding we need to cover? UK Arnold lineup. Yeah. UK Arnold. Yeah. Six guys in it right now. Yeah. I think they're hoping to get some more though. I'm sure they will over time. Yeah. But so she has more guys see that the lineup is they're like, oh, maybe I could do good in here. You know, maybe you can get a paycheck, go to a fun show. I mean, guys, the Arnold UK is a fucking dope show. Yeah, it's great. Like, go do it. It's fucking sick. Like, it's a great venue. Good prize money. It's a fucking, you know, already the guys in it. It's a good lineup. Like, you know, get it, get out there and fucking get on stage. I have never heard anything bad about the UK Arnold experience. No, it's good. We went the one year. It was great. Yeah. A couple of years ago. Guys, listen, if you're doing the Arnold Classic Columbus, this is what you do. Just drive to Detroit. Knock out the Detroit show. It's fly from Detroit to London. They got, they got burning lights from Detroit to Europe too. Best lighting in the IFVV is in Detroit. Then you get on a plane, straight shot to the UK. That's it. Easy win. Knock out all three shows. You win a million dollars, a million and $30,000. You win all three. One million and $30,000. That's it. Hey man, that extra $30,000, you know? Yeah. $1.03 million. I know some people are like, oh, that's disappointing that the UK only has six guys. I'll tell you guys, I was at the Arnold. Oh, fuck. Well, look who the six are. We were all there in 2024. And they only had, I think at that show, there was seven. Nine. Yeah. It wasn't a lot. And in Detroit, the one year when. First year? The one year Martin won. Martin and Vito. We only had six guys. Yep. Great show. But when you have a show with like two guys or three guys or four guys that are really close together, it makes for a fucking awesome show. Yeah. I think the crowd experience is even crazier because they really get behind those guys. Like, remember the UK a couple years ago? That crowd was crazy. Yeah, it was awesome. So even though there's only six guys, I think it's going to be fucking awesome. Yeah. I think people also, they don't go to bodybuilding shows, so they don't know. Right. Yeah. Whenever it's not like whenever there's those six guys on stage are going to get fucking worked. Yeah. Yeah. It is going to be a cool experience. It'll be unique in itself of just being like, all right, we only got these people. Let's do some different shit. Yeah. That's part of the fun of going to an event. Right. You know? And it's, I mean, that's what Detroit in the empathy to Detroit. It's just, it's a, it's a different atmosphere. I think it's one of the most unique shows of the industry. Detroit's going to be really fun. We got, um, nobody is guaranteed yet. There's only a couple of guys confirmed, but there's a bunch of guys that are maybe. So I think it's going to be, I think it's going to end up being a fucking really awesome show. All I can say is Nick Walker is not in the UK show and neither is Tonio. I don't know if those are, if that means they're going to go into Detroit, but all, but all I can think to myself is if Nick doesn't win Columbus, he's got to qualify. Right. One week later. Yeah. So he might come to Detroit. Nice and close to home. I want, I want to, I want to, that would be a wild extent. That would be the time that Detroit crowd would go nuts for the fuck. Imagine Nick in Detroit under those lights with that crowd. Fuck. It'd be crazy. And that close you're that close. Yeah. It'd be nuts. Same with Tonio, man. Tonio's physique under those lights. Holy fuck. So we'll see how that goes. Anyway, listen, for anybody watching, um, ticket sales and registration are both open at Detroit pro.com. Um, it's going to be fucking awesome. All these guys are going to be there except for Mike. Mike is busy that weekend. And I just can't travel. I'm busy being locked in my own country. Can I ask a, can I ask a Nick question? Yeah. What's everybody's take on him coaching himself right now? Cause he looks pretty great right now. Oh, you know what's that? This is the problem with that, that I've always thought. And the good thing is Nick has people around him that can help. Yeah. The trickiest thing about bodybuilding is not the fucking 12 weeks leading up to the show. It's late at the plate. Yeah. It's the last, it's the last three days. Right. So the nice thing is though, he's got a lot of people with experience around him that can help him manipulate things. But I just, man, I'm, I've been a proponent of coaches since I started bodybuilding. Sure. I've always thought that having a coach is the right way to do it. And I guess, you know, things are kind of changing. People are starting to think otherwise, but I always think it's better to have a coach than not. But that doesn't mean I don't think Nick could do well. I just think you can say, look, he can look awesome every single day up to the last day and then fuck it, fuck it in three hours. So like. That GBT could do the whole job for you now, man. Easy peasy. I was going to say, why don't you coach him, Ian? No, thank you. Nick is, Nick is way too famous. And I absolutely do not want that fucking stress on my plate. That is a lot of stress. The fucking optics of that. Like it's just. That's a lot of scrutiny. I would need to be getting paid a million dollars a year to want to coach someone that high at this point in my life. You know. That's something you don't think about. It's a lot of scrutiny on the coach. Well, it's just, I don't. The thing is like. I don't. I don't. Winning titles as a coach is meaningless to me. Right. You know, like if I was to go win the Olympia men's open Olympia as a coach, I wouldn't be like, I'm so proud. I'm an Olympia winning coach. Like this is some lifelong goal to be a coach that coaches Olympia is like. Right. It's. I helped Chris do that. And the, you know, the, the role that I had, and I'm happy because that was Chris. And it meant something to me from a family dynamic. Right. But like, I don't feel, and I've never like touted myself as an Olympia. Like that doesn't mean anything to me personally. You know? Right. Yeah. I like that. That's not like a meaningful thing to like, you know, I, you have to actually want to be that and strive to be the best as a coach for that. Like to take on someone of that, you know, popularity and at that level, you know, I'll fucking do it. I'll fucking do it for free. Hit me up. Hell yeah. I don't feel any stress at all about it. I said that to, uh, I said that to Kyle, Paul, when Kyle, Kyle came on my podcast, I think after Pittsburgh, it was, yeah, it might've been before. I can't remember if it was before or after Pittsburgh, but I said to him, I said, it's a lot of pressure. You know, I know that you, you took on Nick as a coach, but like, it's a lot of pressure taking on somebody that could potentially win the Olympia. Like, why'd you do it? And he was like, I'm confident that I can do it. Yeah. So I guess you just have to have that same, like the same, the same self-belief that an athlete has to win that coach has to have the same self-belief in their, in their knowledge. For sure. And you're going to be okay with it. Cause you know, you're going to be scrutinized like hell afterwards, especially a guy like Nick that's just changed coaches a couple of times, you know, someone like Derek, same kind of thing to a new coach, taking him on. Yeah. But it's like, you know what? You take the good with the good and the bad with the bad. If you're his coach and he wins, you're the smartest guy in the world. For sure. I just, I just never thought about that side of it before. And if you're someone that wants to be like one of the best coaches in the world, you need to take those risks just like anything. I mean, you know, you have to, but like, that's where it would be different for me is I don't care to be a good coach. So it's like, it's a meaningless like thing for me. It's like, it's like being the best fucking like cricket player. It's like, that's not like a rewarding thing to me. It's like, what's wrong with cricket, bro? Cricket's fucking awesome. But being a good cricket player, isn't something I want to be. So I think cricket's like the biggest sport in the world after soccer. Yeah, I know. And there'd be a lot of cool things, but I'm just saying it's like, that's not, like, I'm not ever like, Oh, I really want to be good at this. You know, like there's a lot of things I would like to be good at and being a good coach or winning Olympia titles, more Olympia titles, isn't something that is like rewarding to me. You know? Well, you kind of do like, you like having that under your belt. I like having it under my belt because it's Chris. And it's fun. It's fun to make jokes with. But like, I, that's not something that in like my, when I look back at my life of like things I've accomplished, you know, I'll be happy that I was part of it because it was part of Chris's journey to success. But it's not something that I look at in my life as like an accolade of things that I achieved. You know? Chris achieved Olympia wins. I didn't achieve Olympia wins, you know? Right. Seth, is there anything in your life you've achieved that you're not proud of? Like Ian? Wait, hold the fucking phone here. I'm just saying what you said. I don't know. I'm proud of it because I love Chris and I want to see Chris succeed. All I'm saying is that I'm not driven. Like that's not something that excites me in my life or makes me feel fulfilled is being a good coach. When I was bodybuilding, being a good bodybuilder made me, I want to get up. Every day to be a good bodybuilder. I didn't get up every day because I'm like, I want to help my clients be the best. You know, you have to want that. You know? Is there something in your life that you were good at by accident? I don't think so. No. I don't think so. So Ian's just good at, Ian just won an Olympia like by accident. I know he did. He did. Whatever. Fuck off. I mean, overall with Nick doing this on his own, that was kind of where I was going. I was like, because the dude looks great. I think him like he looks a little toned down from the fucking blowout he had at the Olympia. He looks cleaner. Everything looks great. And I don't think, I mean, I think Kyle's a fucking great coach. Yeah. You know, I think that they just missed a mark together. It was them. You can be. You can't blame just one fucking side. The best coach is missing. It's not that. It's not that. You know, we've taught. We've said. I think I've said this on this podcast a fucking thousand times in the last five years. You can have an amazing coach, an amazing athlete. It doesn't mean they always fit. Yeah. That relationship is like a puzzle piece. They have to. They have to fit together. And it doesn't mean either one sucks. It just means they don't fit together. That's not the right combination. And he was. They fit together. Once in a while, you miss the mark. Yeah. It was disappointing because they nailed Pittsburgh. You know, I think that was the. That was the big letdown. They nailed Pittsburgh and then missed at the Olympia. But I mean, I'm. I don't. I'm curious just to see how it shakes out for Nick as the show gets. Whenever they're a week out, it's like, all right. That's. I don't even. Do you guys even think like looking back in retrospect that the Olympia was that big of a miss? Yes. Prejudge. I don't think. I think it was a miss, but I don't think it was like some catastrophic failure. I mean, he still came six. Then I think it was still. He was still fucking huge. He was in pretty good condition. Like, I think it was good. Like, I don't. It wasn't the best we've seen Nick. You know, I don't mean a miss. Like six is the worst placing on earth. I mean. Yeah. Miss as in compared to Pittsburgh. He looked completely different. Yeah. I think it wasn't as good as Pittsburgh. Yes. But I don't think like in the scale of misses, I think it was a minor miss. You know, I think that it was. I think it was more drastic because of the other competitors. Exactly. And then like. The lineup was crazy. Yeah. No. Wait a minute. The prejudging. The prejudging was not good. Guys. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. There's a big difference between being sixth at the Olympia and third. Yeah. Pittsburgh, Nick. Might have been third place. Yeah. Or fourth at worst. Sure. Yeah. No. No. I'm just saying. I'm not even talking about the placing. I'm just talking in terms of like physiques that Nick has brought. I think that physique in a different lineup, we might not have looked at that as if he showed up at New York pro and wiped the floor with that show with that physique. I don't think we would have looked at that and be like, oh, that was a bad Nick. I don't think so. Do you think we would have? Yeah, I do. Because when he beat Martin in 2024, he was off. And we all said he was off. He beat Martin. Yeah, that's true, actually. Yeah. So like, I don't think like that was not to me, that might be the worst version of Nick we've seen on a pro stage. Yeah. I mean, maybe actually. Yeah. You know what I mean? I would need to go back and look at it. Because like, I remember when he first came out, I didn't even think he looked bad. You know? Like when he first came out, I was like, damn, Nick looks pretty good. You know? I didn't. It was when I saw him in the lineups. I saw his color was a bit weird. And you know, some other things. Like, I thought in the detail wasn't quite as sharp as it could be. But like, I didn't look at that immediately. Like, sometimes guys come out and you're like, fuck, they fucking missed it. I didn't see that initially, like immediately when Nick came out. When he came out, I felt the skin texture was thicker than normal. Yeah. But I think the quality of the lineup exposed that more so. Yeah. At a weaker lineup, it wouldn't have exposed it. Yeah. Like, I still agree it was a miss for sure. But I think, like, I'm just saying, I think it was exacerbated by the lineup and the quality of the guys there and things like that, you know? Yeah. I don't know so much. Because he, like, he was against Martin in 24. Yeah. This is a way better Martin. Martin's gotten better. Martin's gotten better. Yeah. Martin's gotten better. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Andrew got better. Martin got better. Yeah. I mean, Martin did beat Samson a fucking week later. You know what I mean? I'm not asking Paul about Nick. No, you know what? You know, the recent shots I saw of Nick. Paul's anti-Nick. No, I'm not anti-Nick. Just my things, his front shots I've never loved. But I will say, in the recent updates that I saw, I thought it was the best his front shots have looked yet. I don't think Nick's front last spread has ever been good, but I think he's got a good front double. He's hit it different ways at certain times in his career. And I like it better than he's hitting it right now. He's a little bit more opened up. He's not quite as crunched down. I like that look on him better. You like the elongated waist. It's like a halfway between elongated and crunched. I don't like it when he fully crunches down. I like it fully crunched down. Yeah. Me too. A lot of people do because it shows more detail. I understand that. I will say this though. When he was younger and a little bit smaller, he could do the crunch down abs and still open the top up. That's what I find he's doing again right now. Now, when he crunches the abs down, the shoulders kind of come down. He gets too compressed for me. Yeah. But that's the thing he's got to work on. Because when he was younger, he had enough flexibility and mobility in his shoulders that he could crunch the abs, but still bring that back. Right. And he can't do, and it doesn't look like he can do that anymore because he's bigger. It looks like he's been starting to in some of his recent updates that I've seen. Well, that's what he, sorry, go ahead, Ian. No, you pitch. No, no, I was going to say, that's what I think he has to do is learn to go back to the 21, is it 2021? Anyway, the first New York pro. Yeah. Yeah. Why I think he needs to crunch down is because Nick, when he pulls up, he's got kind of like a low sweep insertion, which is what makes his legs look not as good as they could. And I think when he pulls up, you have a very long straight line. Yeah. From his, like, lat all the way down to where that sweep inserts versus a guy where it inserts more at the hip. So I think when he crunches down, you close that space a bit. You shorten that up. Your legs don't look as short as they usually do. The waist doesn't look as long with this kind of dead space. Your sweep looks a bit better. So I think overall for the flow of the physique, I do think that the crunching, I don't like what he was doing last year. And I know he did it under the advisement of the judges, like Paul was saying, like, where he's kind of like crunching down, but then coming up a bit. Cause then I think it just looks washed out. You're not seeing the detail and it looks like he's trying to crunch it down, but it looks like he can't get it down versus like, okay, if you're going to pull it up, pull it up, if you're going to crunch it down, crunch it down. And I think for a style of physique, like Nick's and shortening that torso, I think the crunching down is the better option for sure. The way I feel about it is I think, I think Nick, I think Nick has a lot of detail already. So I don't think the crunching, I think the added detail, I think doesn't make up for the lack of shape that it, it takes way too much shape for the little bit of conditioning. I don't think his shape looks better pulling up. His shape is worse when he pulls up. I agree. I don't think it to me, it doesn't as like when he opens up just like, not as much as he was before, but what he's kind of doing halfway between the two, like I said, when he's crunching the abs, then he just has no D it just kind of looks washed out. Then it's midsection. What Ian's saying is he's got a waist like this. And when he pulls up his waist goes like this. Right. Right. But then there's a middle ground. But then his legs look stumpy. Yeah. So it's like, and his sweep is too low. So it looks weird. Yeah. And what's happening is, is everybody that thinks he can do halfway between the two. It's not fucking working. He can't do it. I don't think it works. He can't fucking pull it off. Then it's a stupid idea because he looks like a fucking idiot. So it's like, Hey, how about you either crunch it down or elongate the motherfucker. Yeah. Stop trying to please everybody and pick one and fucking roll with it. Yeah. I mean, I feel for him because I know that the judges are the ones that told him to do this, but I think sometimes you just need to be like, it just doesn't look right. You know, it just doesn't look as good. And I need to just do what I need to do. Yeah. I've been wanting to ask you for like five minutes now. Okay. If, if Pittsburgh Nick shows up to the Arnold, does he beat all, does he beat everybody? I don't know if he beats Haughty. But he's second. I mean, I think that, I think the Pittsburgh Nick would be, uh, I mean, I can't do, you know, me, I'm so indecisive motherfucker. I'd be between, I I'd say like, I think that I think Haughty is going to come for blood. Yes. Um, I think the dude's super fucking pissed even more so because he looked gnarly at the, uh, Olympia. I think Haughty is going to be very difficult to beat, but I don't think Martin's showing up. Martin's not going to be a slouch. I think Andrew's the man on the rise too. Yeah. Andrew's stock is fucking sky high. Okay. But I didn't get a straight answer here. You're not going to get one. I know Mike, Mike will give me a straight answer. If Pittsburgh Nick shows up, where is he? One word answer, Mike. No, no. He's not winning the Arnold. I didn't say he was going to win. If he shows up looking like Pittsburgh, where is he? Where does he place? Is he, is he beat any of those top three? No. So he's still fourth. Even if Pittsburgh Nick shows up. Yeah. I don't remember. It's not like Pittsburgh. I don't, you keep saying Pittsburgh Nick, like it stands out in my mind so much. Well, I'm saying Pittsburgh Nick, because that was a good version of Nick versus the Arnold, the Olympia Nick. So like if, if a good, let's just say this, if a good version of Nick shows up, one that's on conditioned, peaked properly, does he beat anybody in that top three? I mean, I can see him coming. I can see him coming third. Okay. But I mean, I don't think he's going to, I don't think he'll, I don't even think at his best that he beats Hottie to be honest. Okay. And I think Andrew is going to beat him too. Oh, do you think Andrew's going to win? If I had to pick, if I had to pick right now, I'd say no, but it's, if maybe closer to show, I'll change it. But I think Hottie's going to win right now, but I think Andrew will be second. Hottie's going to win. Andrew's second. I think it's a tie thing. It's like those two are completely interchangeable, like depending on how things are looking. Paul, is that what you think too? Andrew brings the same package. He did a lot. I don't know if he beats Hottie yet, but it's going to be close. I think he's the closest guy to beating Hottie in the lineup. Yeah. If he brings his best package, I think he's the guy that can beat Hottie. So you think also? I mean, if Andrew continues to stay on, if Andrew's conditioning is off, he's, he's, I think he'll get moved out. I agree. I think that's where Nick, that's where Nick moves in. I know, but I'm asking you to, I'm trying to pin you down here to an actual statement. It's not going to happen. Well, I I'll be the lone wolf then. I think, I think Nick can challenge Hottie in this lineup. If he's a hundred percent on, I think he can beat Andrew and Martin. Yeah. I think, I think if, if Andrew's improved from the Olympia, I think that's a tall order for anybody. Um, I think if, you know, Andrew's improved Hottie's the same, I don't think Hottie's going to be improving much at this point in his career. I think he's a bit older. I think we've kind of seen similar versions of Hottie year after year. I said, Hottie, I said, Hottie peaked. Everybody freaked out. I'm like, Whoa, I'm like, he peaked. I still think he's amazing. I know. That's what I said. I got fucking killed. Hottie's fucking sick, but I don't think that Hottie's making as much improvements as we're going to see year to year. As someone like Martin, who's younger and fresher in the game, Hottie's been bodybuilding even before he was in the pro league when he was competing over the Middle East. Hottie's got fucking legs in this game. You know, like he's got skin in the game. Like he's been being a long time. He's done like 70 some shows. Really? Yeah. So I don't think we're going to see, especially in this short of a timeframe, if this was the next year's Olympia. Okay. Well, maybe we can make an argument that he's got some time, but we're talking about a quick turnover. It's going to be a very similar, maybe a bit better conditioning from the back, something, but I think a comparable physique that we've seen in the last couple of years at the Olympia. I think if Andrew's a little better, he could challenge, but I do think a good version of Nick, if we get kind of all the same as the Olympia and Nick is a much better version. I do think Nick can challenge up there for sure. But that's assuming everyone stays the same and just Nick improves. So my thought on it is this. Those four guys, nobody's going to improve between the Olympia and the Arnold. It's like, it's only a few months. Most of these guys are prepping most of those months. But Nick needs to improve the most. The only difference that changes is the peak. How do they peak? Yeah. Well, Martin peaked as good as he possibly could in Prague. Hottie could probably be a little bit fuller than he was at the Olympia. And Andrew could be a little bit more shredded. Nick has the biggest change. More ceiling. Yeah. Right. So in my opinion, if anybody's going to shock people, it's Nick. Yeah. I mean, we know how good a good Nick can be, you know, so. I'm going to fucking go against all of you. Fuck you. I think Nick can win. Nice. You know, in the recent pictures of Andrew, it looks like he is getting bigger since the Olympia. I haven't seen anything. Is he posting pictures or just like training and stuff? He's training. Nick. Okay. But his arms look stupid. Yeah. I mean, he's got stupid arms, huh? Yeah. Let's take a look. Stupid is as stupid does, you know? They look more ridiculous. PMAA. Where's that video of him doing shoulders, I think, Fred? I mean, this is what I look like right now. Come on. What a fucking freak this guy is, right? Yeah, he is. Jeez. And I don't think people like realize too, if you've never seen this guy in person, that he's fucking so much bigger than you think. Yeah, he's huge. He's fucking tall. He's wide. It's like you see here, but you have no context of like a normal human standing next to him that he's fucking like six to 300 pounds here. You know? What do you mean? Well, yeah. Okay. This guy is this guy. Yeah. But Vitaly Lillettin is fucking the biggest goddamn monster ever. You know? I didn't realize how big he was. We went to dinner after the Pittsburgh a few years ago, and he sat with us at dinner. Like he came in late, and then he's fucking huge man. Bro, that dude is a fucking monster. Yeah. When I, when I, the first time I competed against him, when I, my last Olympia did in 22, I walked backstage. It's like, you know, all that dim fucking backstage Olympia lighting. You know? It's like so dark back there. I just see Andrew getting glazed up, like fucking just in his posing trunks. I'm like, I'm in the wrong place, bro. Like I'm way out of my depth here. You know? If this is what this shit is now, like what the fuck am I doing here? You know? Like fucking hell. Crazy. Well, all right. We're going to have to see what happens. What about the rest? Does Brandon and Raphael, who wins out of those two? Those are Antonio. Antonio is in the fifth. Is Antonio fifth? Sixth? Yeah. Antonio and Brandon, I think are fighting for the next spot. I mean, a good Raphael is definitely dangerous, but I mean, it's hard to place Raphael because he hasn't been up there in a while. So I'm like, I'm, I, you're taking a shot on him, you know? All right. The competitors, the, this, this Arnold lineup is deep with people that show up. Yeah. Continuously show up. So it's, it's like, it's, it's, you hate to say it's already chosen for the top four. But then again, like you saw Brandon at the Olympian, we were all sitting there saying Brandon should have been in front of Nick. Yeah. Yeah. And Antonio with how he's looking at, if he improves, gets just a little bit, you know, puts on that size and keeps that same detail. You're like, well, he has a chance to really move up and, and go in front of Brandon. And Raphael didn't compete last year. So you don't know which one's showing up this year. Yeah. He's tough to place. Cause a good, a good Raphael has been what? Sixth, seventh at the Olympia. You know? So, I mean, he, he can, he's definitely capable of beating a lot of those guys like Brandon and Antonio. But are we going to see that version? It's, it's tough to say with a year off stage. I mean, maybe he'll be super fresh. You know, he's got his gut issues fixed or whatever he had going on. I mean, his body's rested, you know, a little time on fucking less gear and shit. And, you know, stomach's all healed up. You know, maybe it was issues with the stomach that were going on even longer that he, you know, wasn't responding as well to the food and all that as, as he could have been. So it could even be a better Raphael than we've ever seen. So the craziest part about all this is all of those guys are being paid by the Arnold sports festival to go to Detroit on March 14th. In the Detroit pro. Get your tickets at Detroit pro.com. It's going to be awesome. I'm looking forward to seeing Anthony Williams debut too. See how he stops up against some of these guys. Anthony Williams is impressive. He's a big, I love his physique. And he's been a couple of years. He's been on stage or at least a year. I think he's also kind of be in Detroit and that one I'm not joking about. Yeah. He's going to look great on that stage. He's going to look amazing. So, okay. Anyway, let's do some questions. I feel like we need to like play a game or something, you know? We haven't done that in a while, eh? Yeah. All right. Let's play some trivia. I'll get a chat GBT to give us a game. What's going on guys? I just want to break away to show you one of our sponsors, David protein, a sponsor I came across by accident. I was eating their bars, actually enjoying them. They contacted me because they saw me enjoying their bars. And so we are now partners. If you go to their page, David protein, you see here, if you buy four boxes, you get the fifth one free chocolate chip cookie dough is probably my favorite guys. If you want a good snack, their taste really good. 20 grams of protein, just about 30 grams, 150 calories, zero fat. It's like it fits into your macro count almost perfectly to help you top up that protein count by the end of the day. Davidprotein.com. Buy four boxes. Get the fifth one free. So Ian's going to pick a saying. Then he's going to mute his microphone. He's going to say the saying. We have to guess what the saying is. You have to try and read my lips and guess what I'm saying. Okay. Go ahead. Okay. Wait a minute. So we can do it in pairs though. Like Ian and who I can go and then Seth and Paul and then me and somebody. So it's like whoever we can compete who gets the word faster. Okay. So me and Ian. So I'm guessing first. Okay. Go ahead. Okay. So just you as trying to guess my word. Just me. Yeah. Go ahead. Okay. Got to mute it. Okay. You ready? But how do we? Okay. Wait, you got to tell somebody else. I don't. You got to text the saying to somebody so that we, they know we're not cheating. Well, no, I'm going to be honest when you get it. Okay. Go ahead. Okay. Go ahead. Not a piece of shit. Yeah. There's no money involved here, guys. You all have integrity. Okay. That's a long saying. You said to slow down. Yeah. I lost my shoes. That's what I thought. I lost my shoes in the ocean. In the river. In a snowstorm. Do it again. Do it again. Would you guys shut up? It's my turn to guess. It's more fun than we all guess. We all sound like idiots. It's way more fun. All right. Well, are we all guessing then? Fine. Yeah. Go ahead. Yeah. Yeah. In the toaster? I lost my shoes in the sushi. He said he got it. That doesn't make any sense. Say it again. Paul, say it. In the toaster. In the ocean. That doesn't make any sense to you. Paul got it. It's I lost my shoes in the toaster. Well, you kind of said yes when he got it. Well, because he didn't say the whole saying. I was like, say the... He just said toaster. But you didn't say that I lost my shoes in. Oh, I thought we already gave that. I thought we established that. Well, you didn't say it. So you had to say the whole thing. Because maybe you don't know that that's what I said. But that's not even a saying. You have to say the whole thing. It doesn't need to be a saying. I'm just saying words. And you have to say... Oh, I thought you had the actual saying. I've never heard of that. Yeah, I think that makes sense. No, I just went to chat. So whoever's going to guess words next, I just went on to ChatGPT and said, random saying generated a play that can't hear game. And then it just gave me one. So just go type in that exact same thing on ChatGPT. I got it. I got a lot of sayings in my head. I got it. Okay. Well, he mumbles. Maybe he can't hear a word he said. It's hard with the mustache. Enunciate. Yeah. Wait. What? What? Sorry? Oh, my God. I've never... This is impossible. You got to slow down. Do it again. And you got to talk like you're normally talking. Like, say something and then pause and then say something. What? Okay. One more time. What is this Arab mouth doing? Is that... I'm sorry. Say it again. Do it again. Do it again. Do it again. Do it again. Enunciate. Open your lips. Make your mouth big. Make your lips bigger. What? 25,000? Row 5,000, Harry. 25,000. I didn't get anything. Oh, man. I am Harry Arab. Do it again. Get one word at a time. You. Louis. Lost. Fat. I don't know. Louis lost five kilos. I don't know. Louis lost five kilos. His mouth makes the same shape. I know. I know. Did mine look like that to you guys? Or was mine a piece? No, it was clear. It was clear. Okay. Unmute it. Try a different saying. You guys give up? Oh, my God. That was impossible. What were you saying? I said, you don't find clarity. You earn it. Oh, my God. Never win. Yeah, you got to pick something more simple. What do you mean? You said pick a saying. You can't have multiple syllables and words like that. You need to have. What are you talking about? You got to have to have. Don't you know the rules, man? Don't you know the rules? I know. Paul's like, I don't know. Do the random saying generator on ChatGPT like I did. I did. I did. That's what it gave me. Because it gives me ones. Mine are all ones that are like, purple monkeys eat pancakes. I have ones that are like that. I picked the wrong words. Yeah, you picked too hard of one. That's too hard. Okay. Yeah. Okay, go. Mike, go ahead. Mike, go ahead. Put in Chat, random word generator? Yeah. Random saying generator to play the can't hear game. All you got to do is put random saying generator. That's all I got to put. But I said to say the can't hear game because it knows for that. Okay. Oh, that's why. Yeah. You ready? You guys suck. I'm going to mute myself now. Okay. The frogs. The frogs eat pussy. Pussy. Frog. Owns my. So the frogs. Say it again. The frogs. Owns. Owns. Owns. Owns. Me. Me. Money. The frog owns me money. Oh. Guys, you can't. But that makes it too easy to do one word at a time. But you're trying to win. No, no. No. No, because we're all guessing. There's no winning because we're all guessing. I'm going to be the best deaf guy, though. Or saying guy. Okay. Okay, Paul. Paul, go ahead. Okay. He's just going to take him to say. He's going to make his own, yeah. He's going to make it up. Okay. I don't need to use Justin. This doesn't really. Yeah, go for it. Go for it, Paul. I felt sad last Tuesday. Okay. You need to think of words. Like the ones I have. It's going to be like rhyming like that. No, you don't kind of make up words. Spaghetti wears sunglasses. Like words that have like enunciation to them. Because if you say I am this, that. Like it's. You need to like have words. You can't have like eyes and this. And like it needs to be words that are, you know, enunciated. I don't agree with Ian. Just pick a saying. Go. Well, we saw what happened with yours. It was fucking impossible. We were just like. Come on. Go. That would have been the same with Mike's if he didn't do one word at a time. No. Mike's we could see at least the frog. Like it. Like. Oh, my God. Shut up. Go. Go. Go. Hey, if you need a random word generator, please get one because it's a podcast. We don't have time for you to sit here and think of a saying. Talking to me. Yeah. Yeah. What are you so pensive? Just pick a saying, bro. I'm trying to think of something that wouldn't be too complicated. Why don't you. Well, that's why you use the generator. Use the generator. I don't use chat GP2 very much. Type it in Google. All right. You want me to go? Just say something. Yeah. Let's go. Then I'll find something. Let's go. All right. Pussy. All I heard was pussy. Oh, sorry. No. Okay. The dogs. Sniff something. The dogs. I will not sniff your ass. The dog stole my something. Do it again slower. The dog sniffed my balls. Dog. Yeah. Stole. My sandwich. The dog stole my sandwich. Oh, wow. That was good. I'm not good at this. When I look at this, if you guys weren't here, I would get nothing. I know. I feel the same way. Like I look at this. I'm like, I don't. When I hear you say sandwich, I'm like, oh, I see sandwich. I'm like, but I would never get that before. I couldn't pick it. I can't pick it up on my own. I'd be a terrible deaf person. Paul, come on. Okay. Oh, this is going to be fucking great. I just found one on Google. On Google. This is going to be so like Shakespearean. Are you ready? Yeah. Mute. You ready? Go. Mute. I don't know. I'm just going to do the words. No, no, no. Mute it, Paul. No, no. He's just going to air it out. Go ahead. It's on your thing. Bottom left. No, no, no. I want him to air it out. Go ahead. Oh, my God. Okay. You get that one? No. No. Just mute it, dude. Okay. I'll mute it. Hang on. No, no. Don't mute it. Just stop. On your Zoom here, just it's the bottom left. You'll see there. Yeah, I see it now. Okay. Go ahead. Want me to mute it? Yeah. Go ahead. Okay. Say the whole thing. Don't say one word at a time. Okay. I will when I mute it. I can't do that if I don't mute it. Okay. Mute it. Say the whole thing. I can't hear you. No. I can't hear you. We can't hear you, Paul. You're good. I can't hear you. He doesn't believe me. This. What? Start from the beginning. Start from the beginning. Say the whole thing. Please. Don't say one word. Say the whole thing. One, two, three. This. What? Stop moving your head so much. You're like this. We can't see your mouth. Yeah, you don't got to move your head. Just move your lips. Stop moving your head. Just your mouth, Paul. Just your mouth. We're looking at your mouth, not your fucking nodding Italian head. Okay. Steve sucks. What? No, no, no, no, no. Don't do that. It was close. No, just. No, please. Okay. It can't be close. It's got to be right. Okay. Jesus Christ. Okay. Go ahead. This. Steve. Go. Say it again. Steve. Steve. Steve. Steve. Steve. Steve. Steve. Steve. Steve. Steve. Steve. Steve sucks. Okay. You guys are getting close to the first word. You're on the right track. Okay. I'm going to go back to it. Do you remember that from fucking. Give us. Give us how many words. Well, yeah, yeah. Three words. Three words. Three words. Okay. Three words. Okay. Okay. First word. Steve. These. These. These. Steve. Steve. Leaves. Leaves. Peas. Peas. That's fucking seas. Peas. No, seas. Seas. Seas. Seas. Okay. You're stuck at this. Okay. We're going to go back. Okay. Now you ready? Okay. Second word. Second word. The. The. Seas the day. Seas the day. Seas the day. Mike got it. Mike got it. Oh, Mike got it. I said do one word at a time. Yeah. And tell us. Mike, come on. Holy shit. I'll do one more here. Holy shit. This is fun. The head movement. Steve. Steve. Steve. You're fucking throwing the words at us. You kept saying Steve. I'm like, seize. You ready? Steve. What? Wait, hang on. Go again. Today. Don't tell. Wait a minute. One more time. What? The maid. The mop. Of purple. Something purple. Don't tell the maid. You're gay. You're gay. You're gay. You're gay. You're gay. You're gay. Fouad's gay. Tuesday. Don't tell. Tuesday. Tuesday. Okay, Tuesday. Tuesday smells like. Like. Pussy. Purple. Poo poo. Poo poo. Poo poo. He was right. Tuesday smells like purple. Okay. This is tough because they make no sense. Ian's got very enunciating lips. That's why. He's good. It's because of the words. The words I'm picking. The thing gave me the right ones. That's not why. I got a good one. Are you ready? Okay. Yeah. They. Them. They. That. Chose. They chose. Do it again. They closed. They closed. They closed. They closed. They closed. The hockey. The movie arena. What? Where'd you get arena from? Movie. Booty. Arena. Okay. One more time. The. They closed the. The cinema. Moon. For. A year. Year. A year. They closed. I don't know what to say. T. Start over. Start over. They closed the moon for T. Whole thing. Let's see it. Okay. From the beginning. What? They closed the moon for. Go ahead. Ian. C. Seating. Seating. Eating. Stirring. Churning. Mopping. Cleaning. Cleaning. They closed the moon for cleaning. They closed the moon for cleaning. They closed the moon for cleaning. Mopping. They always close the moon for cleaning. All right. Do you know what? Do something Christmassy for it. Paul's feeling festive. Okay. Let's go. I got to go in for you. Wait. Okay. Go ahead, Paul. Okay. You ready? I'm going to go on mute. One second. Now, any of you guys are Christmas movie fans, you should know this one. Okay. Can I go? Yeah. Mute. Don't move your head. Why is he moving his head? He's like, ba-ba. Ba-ba-ba-ba. Ba-ba-ba. Ba-ba-ba. Ba-ba-ba-ba. Ba-ba-ba-ba. No. Your lips just do the same thing. What? Ba-ba. Don't do one word at a time. That's too easy. Go the whole thing. Say the whole thing. The chair. The chair. The chair. He keeps doing it. The night. You're close for it. You're close. Do it again. Do it again. Paul. The chair. What? The chair. Chair. Share. The shitter. The shitter. Who says the shitter? You just made that up. It's a Christmas thing. The shitter's full. Yes. Yes. Mike got it. What's that from? National air moons. Christmas vacation. Oh, yeah. Seth just did a commercial about it recently. That's a great scene. Shooter's full. Okay. I got one for you. Okay. Is it festive? Yes. Yeah. Sick. Good. Yep. Yeah. Santa Claus. What? Santa Claus. Is coming. To town. Santa Claus is coming to town. Santa Claus. Is it real? Santa has. Santa has. Sex with. Leather. Leather boots. Santa has sex with hookers. Elves. Is that right? Was Ian right? Ian's right. Is that actually what it was? Yeah. Santa has sex with hookers. I guess that's Christmas, Ian. I literally just made that up. Okay. That was good. All right. Let's move on. We'll do some questions. Oh, fuck, Paul. All right. Ready? Yep. What's one show you wish you could? No. Let's pass. Pass. Pass. After how many workouts with a friend is your, is your friendship considered pretty serious? Not so much. How many workouts? How many? It'd be more time. It'd be like, if you're a good six months into a workout relationship. Isn't that the same thing? Well, I don't want to put a number on it. Some people train four days a week. Some people train five days a week. Maybe you can't make it every day together. So you're saying if you train with somebody for six months, now you're pretty serious. Like you hit a leg day every Wednesday or every Saturday. For like six months consecutively? Yeah. I think that's pretty solid. You know, Paul, that if you say this and he's saying how many workouts, that you could literally just calculate that to how many workouts. Yeah. You're saying like six months, but it's like one workout a week for six months. 24 leg workouts. I could give you a range. Okay. How many? Okay, please. Well, for legs, it'd be about 24. 24 workouts. You think it takes that long? No, no. Just legs. So you have to have 24 leg workouts before you're considered serious friends. If you're only going to be leg day partners, then yeah. So wait, the question is serious friends? It says, after how many workouts with a friend, is your friendship considered pretty serious? That's a really fucking gay question. You decide to train with somebody. You know? Like, what do you mean? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I don't think it's a good question. I think it's very valid. But like, yeah. You'd have to be pretty good friends with someone to want to train with them, no? Yeah. No, that's not true. Not true. No, that's not true, but I don't know. Weird. I don't know. I wouldn't want some rando joining my workout and getting to know him. Pretty gay. Well, how do you become friends with somebody if they're not friends at first? I would just train alone, but if I had like one of you guys and I was like, hey, man, I don't want to work out. Like, because I know I like you already. So you would never. Then I'll find out. Then I'll find out if you're a pussy or not. So you would never work out with somebody. You would never work out with somebody you're not friends with already. No. Why would I do that? I've definitely done that, but like I don't train with them consistently then. Like I have my consistent training partner, you know? Well, like when I. Weird. If he had a good time, but you didn't have a good time. Yeah. It's not you. It's not you. It's me. I've had that happen. It's me. I've had that happen. Yeah. That happened with me and Paul for 20 years. No, I wasn't referring to you. If me and Paul first trained together, we weren't friends. Really? No. No, we became closer friends. I was like, I thought we were. That's okay. No, we became closer. I thought we were. Yeah. We became closer friends. How did it start? Because we trained longer together. No, but how did you start like. It got more serious. I asked who I to train me. They got serious together. That is how it started. We didn't. We weren't friends. We became friends. No, but like, how did you. How did you guys say like, let's go to the gym together today? Well, I think we saw each other at the gym and then we were like, one day we were like, let's just, let's train together. Yeah. That's how I started training with Mark too. I literally just asked him to start training with me. Yeah. You started training me first. You started to give me diets. I was good. I was, I was making my comeback in the bodybuilding. I asked who had to train me for it. And I was like, you want to, you want to load, unload my bars for me and hang out. I'll let you probation. No, I'm not trained with them. Like as in like training partner, I asked them just do my diets and stuff. And then that just turned into us training together. Yeah. Yeah. So you got to be like, you got to kind of like start somewhere. The thing is, it's like, yeah. I mean, obviously the relationship will progress, like being serious, not saying it's gay, but like obviously the relationship will, you'll get better friends as you go, but you probably wouldn't continue training some with someone if you didn't feel that they could be your friend in the first place. Like I would have one workout. I train with people singularly semi-often. People will message me like, Hey, can I come train arms with you or something on Saturday or whatever? I'm like, yeah, sure. They'll come train with me and Jay. I let people do this all the time, but like, I don't consistently train with them, you know? Right. So I don't know. I like that. I have a swinger. Bring in a partner. Um, so are we putting it together? Putting a number on this. How many workouts, 10 workouts, 20 workouts. I think you gotta be at least 20. If you do 10 workouts, I think it's more of the, the consecutiveness. Cause if you train with someone say 50 workouts, but it's one workout every six months over years, that's not like serious friendship. Yeah. But 10 workouts is three weeks. Yeah. But I'm saying if it's 10 workouts in a row, then that's starting to get like, you know, you're, you're starting to get a training partner there. I would say it's gotta be higher than that because people come and go. I would say upwards. Have you ever trained with someone three weeks in a row? And then never again. Yes. I never have in my life. I mean, longer than three weeks, but, uh, but people come and go. Yeah. People come and go. Like, you know, I lived in Florida. I trained with like Kyle Wilson or Brett or these guys that train with them for three, four months and stuff like that, you know, but yeah. It's asking me, Seth. Yeah. Like, are you still, yeah, some of them? Yeah. It just didn't turn out, you know, they weren't good training partners. Yeah. You're still friends though. Yeah. Stop being friends. Yeah. But it's not serious. Yeah. It's more of a, yeah. Serious friend. I don't, I don't look at them the same way. We're friends, but it's nothing serious guys. I don't really like them. Well, you're making funny, but there's serious friends and not serious friends. You know that. It was just the verbiage that I was making fun of. I think the verbiage is gay, but also. Yeah. That's why I was making, I understand the concept and I do agree with it. The joke I was making is just how they like serious is how I refer to like my, my like partner, you know? Yeah. Oh, that's fucking gay too. Cause you don't call it partner, but my girlfriend, wife, whatever, you know? My life partner. Yeah. Me and my partner, you know? My binary partner. Yeah. It's getting serious. You know, how serious are you guys? What are the top 10 gayest things a man can do? Example, hold your nose when you jump in a pool. Like shit like that. Saying that your friendships are serious. Wondering what the status of your friendship is. Well, according to Ian, going for breakfast with a guy is gay. Just one guy. Strongly contest. Just one guy. I disagree with that as well. I can go for breakfast with a guy and it not be gay. I love doing breakfast. I mean, I've done breakfast. I've done breakfast along with Paul more than anyone in this group. And that's pretty gay. We were totally heterosexual all the time. We talked about guy stuff. Seth, you can go for breakfast with a guy who's gay. No. What about grocery shopping? I would say grocery shopping with another man. And if you're not a bodybuilder, it's definitely gay. Okay. So that's what we get to pass for. Well, it depends. Like, are you meeting each other or do you live together? We drive together. Me and Paul have gone to go grocery shopping together. So it's like you go pick up Paul and then go to the grocery store. No. It's more like me and Paul go to the gym and then on the way home we stop at the grocery store. Not gay at all. That's fine. Okay. What about this? If you bring your friend with you to do clothes shopping? Depends how bad your friend's swag is and how much help they need. You know? Okay. I have horrible style. Then, yeah. I think in Paul's case, like, I think Paul should always have accompaniment when clothing shopping. I think if you walk outside and do this, you're gay. Oh, yeah. Ooh, it's chilly. There you go. Yeah. Out of the top ten Olympians, who wins a sumo wrestling tournament? Current top ten? Samson. Probably Samson, yeah. He's the heaviest. Just by biggest and heaviest, yeah. Is it Andrew Martial Arts? Oh, Andrew maybe, yeah. But Samson's just like a little, he's a little bit shorter, a little bit thicker. Like, he's got a steady base for sumo wrestling. Andrew's got flexibility. Andrew's longer, though. He's longer. We're talking about martial arts. We're talking about sumo wrestling. Yeah. I think Hottie or Derek would be good because they're, like, lower. Low squat, yeah. Double legs. Yeah, I don't know. But I think they just wouldn't have enough weight. Like, if Samson tried to push them, they're fucked, you know? Yeah, Samson's too, yeah. He's too heavy. Weight moves weight, man. Like, I think he'd be fucked. Yeah. I agree. Even if you're shorter, yeah. Nick would be hard to move. Nick would be hard to move, yeah. Weight moves weight is a good shirt. You should put that out. Weight moves weight. Weight moves weight, boy. I need to be way thicker to wear that fucking shirt. No TV. No TV. No driving anywhere. No flying anywhere. No music for the rest of your life. Which one are you going to pick? Sorry, repeat them? No flying anywhere. No driving anywhere. No TV. No driving anywhere. No flying anywhere. No music for the rest of your life. Which one are you picking? If I could have a driver, I would take driving. Because I don't like driving. You can't have a driver. I would take no music then, because it's the least inconvenience to my life, for sure. I'd take no TV. I'm keeping the TV. Because you're using the loophole of your phone. No, I'm not. No, no, no. That's counting as TV. You can't watch Netflix on your phone. No, no. I would just take no TV. I want to drive. No, that's TV. Okay, I don't think you could do that. Well, I'm telling you. That's what I would do. That's what I would pick. I'm picking music, for sure. Paul's like, I'm like, this is what I want to do. This is what I want to do. You're like, no. I know how much you like TV. But he also likes driving. I know that. But look at the rest of my choices. What are you picking, Paul? You're picking flying? No, I like to fly. I don't like to fly. I like to go places. What are you picking then? I can't have a driver. If I can have a driver, I'd go driving. No, you can't pick that. Because that's the same as flying. Find the plane yourself. That's true. Yeah, right. Okay. You could go without TV, I think. Nah, I could go without music. Yeah, me too. That would suck, Paul. I can't go without music, man. That's great. I don't listen to music enough for it to matter that much to me. Even in the gym, not? No, because I train with a partner every day. I never listen to music in the gym. Yeah. What do you listen to, podcasts? Nothing. I'm training with my partner. They listen to each other. They listen to each other. What about what you're driving? What do you listen to? Podcast. His thoughts. His thoughts. I listen to music. I listen to music some days on the way to the gym, depending on what I need mentally to fucking get me amped up. But 99% of the time I'm driving, I listen to podcasts. Really? I don't know that much. Do you listen to music when you have sex? No. No. Seth? No. 90s hip-hop. Then I feel the need to go to the beat of the music, and that fucking throws my whole game off. It's EDM. You're like, this is better. I can't do that. The beat's beating up. Slow this one down. Have you ever tried to eat pussy to music? I probably have done it, but I've not tried to. It's almost a little easier. Really? Like you get a rhythm going to it? Yeah. I just feel awkward when it's like she's hearing the same music and can feel my tongue going to the beat. Is he making the beat with his tongue? It's like, what is he doing down there? She's like, what are you doing down there? Are you going to the beat of the music? No. I am. Mike, which one are you picking? Yeah, just because of the inconvenience. I'd have to pick music. TV. TV. TV's so good, but fuck, man. I can't. Yeah, like, can I still stream stuff on my phone or no? No. No. Nothing. No visual watching on screens. I just really like music. Yeah, I can do it without TV. You can watch music videos. Music, I can't do without. No, you can't watch music videos. I couldn't do without music. Seth? I think I'm on the TV boat. Yeah. I watch way too much fucking YouTube TV. No TV. No TV. Ian, you said no music. Mike, no music? No TV. No TV. Paul, what did you end up picking? None decided between those two. I don't make a fucking decision, Paul. God. We're not going to hold you to it. Don't worry. Okay, I'll go TV, though. That's it. Your TV's gone. Get it out of there. Imagine that. Go on, plug it. Throw it at the door right now. Imagine everything we picked happen. Who are the closet gay bodybuilders? Let's start that conversation. I can tell you a couple of closeted gay YouTubers, that's for sure. Must be bodybuilders. Can Paul sing a Christmas carol? No. Oh, yeah. Sing us a Christmas carol, Paul. I don't have a mom. Are you going to do the prayer kind of festive tonight? I'll dedicate it to Christmas. Can you sing a little hymn fucking Christmas song in there? My voice is very melodic. It doesn't need to be. Just sing it as Paul, you know? Just do it spoken word. Spoken word. Jingle bells. Oh, silent night. What a night. Yeah, do it like that. Holy night. Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer. Yeah. And if you ever saw it. Would you rather get one? We could just go around saying our parts. Yeah. We could make that a clip for fucking Instagram. Would you rather get one massage per week or watch one movie per week? But whichever you choose means none of the other. So if I watch one movie a week, I can get zero massages. I don't get massages anyway. I'm taking the movies. Yeah, I don't usually either. Movies. I mean, I get massages every week, but if I could never watch movies again, I'm fucking those massages real quick. Yeah. Mike? Movies or massages? I could use a massage. Yeah, I can't. Well, I can do shit. I can massage myself with shit. Like rolls and shit. Okay. What if you couldn't do that? Well, I can do it. So when I get scenarios, I get variations. Best non-Olympia qualified bodybuilder of 2025. Quint? Quint, Joe Palacios. Who else didn't qualify this year? We're definitely going to miss someone relevant here. Quint is the one that pops into my mind. Well, I mean, Raphael. Yeah, but he was out. He didn't compete. So was Hunter, so they don't count. Hunter didn't compete. John Jewett's in there. But I think Joe and Quint would beat him. Oh, yeah. Did Jewett do the Olympia this year? No. No. He didn't qualify. Jewett's up there for sure. But I don't think any of those guys beat Quint. Yeah, I was going to say. Well, Joe did beat Quint. Yeah. At the last show they did together. Oh, they did, right. But Quint also beat Joe in one show. So they're like one and one. Right. And I think Quint has beat John a couple times. Right. Right. So, yeah. I mean, it's close between Joe and Quint. Trying to think. Was there any at the beginning of the year? What about that Russian dude? That won France. Well, he's qualified for the Olympia, so that doesn't really count. Oh, I fight him at just guys who didn't do the Olympia. No, no. Guys who didn't qualify. Oh. Will Samson and Martin make appearances on the podcast again? Also, do you wish Martin leaving Hostile could have been handled differently, either on your side, his side, or both? I'm going to assume they're both going to be on the podcast again at some point. Everybody who's left ends up coming back at some point. Right. The thing with Martin. Yeah, I don't know. I wish Martin wasn't bummed out, but he is. So there's nothing I can do about it. Things happen and everybody moves on and that's really the end of it. I've had like five athletes come and go from this company or more, maybe five or six. And I'm okay with all of them now. So like it doesn't matter. Like, you know, when you part ways, sometimes you get bummed out. You might say something you regret. Everybody who's left has come back and apologized to me. Or we've apologized to each other. And we're all kind of fine now. So like, I don't know. At this point in time, after like, after so many athletes coming and going, like, I actually messaged Martin soon after. And I was like, look, let's avoid all the drama and let's just be cool because we're going to end up being cool anyway one day. And then more stuff came out after that. So I don't know. But like, I still believe that like time heals all wounds. So no matter who's bummed out about what, it all ends up going away after a little while anyway. Yep. Anybody, Seth, you were going to say something or somebody said something? I was just going to say, like, you know, that's how everything goes in life with relationships and business. Right. Like, my God, on the back end of business, if people knew the of actual how big business works, they'd fucking be like, oh, my God. Yeah. I can't believe that you talk to people this way or this is how this shook out. And then it's also like, dude, after sometimes after a contract comes up or something happens, it's just how it goes. And then the people, they also, you know, say things. It's like, are you fucking perfect? Yeah. Did you did everything, any relationship you ever broke up in or got fired at work or quit a job? Like, dude, shit happens in life. Yeah. It's just that we're so public with stuff. Well, I think Hostiles a little bit under the microscope, too, because I'm on a podcast every fucking week. So every time an athlete comes or goes or whatever, people are like, you know what I mean? Like, where is he and why is this? And then I got to answer. So, yeah, because you're one of the one of the brand owners that's more in this bodybuilding scene still than most others. You talk about it. You talk about it openly more than any other company. Like, anyone can put out a press release about some bullshit or it's just time to part ways. And it's like, hey, the athlete can say, can say, hey, we parted ways. But it's like, whatever. It's people get so worked up about it. I just think I think because I'm on a podcast every week. So people have questions and I kind of have to answer because like Ian said, there's not many owners that are as engaged with their audience. In this industry. Yeah. Yeah. So it's like, but if people knew, like the people that have left my company, they've all been aside from Samson, they've all been with like three, four or five companies each. So it's not like the hostile was the only company they came and left from. Yeah. But it's the one that's the one that's most public. Five years of one company is a long time. Oh, Samson's fine. Me and Samson. I'm talking about everybody. I'm talking about like some of the other people that were here for like a year. A lot of those athletes. Now it's typical. Yeah. Nowadays, it's not like for Samson to be here for five years is like not normal. Yeah. Um, but, uh, the other ones that were here for a year, like I said, those, those athletes have all been with three, four or five companies each. Yeah. So, but the thing is, I'm like my company's public because the podcast is a little more popular. So, or because I'm more easily accessible. I don't know. Um, are you a hand wave or head nod person? And if you're a head nod, do you head nod up or down? No, always up and down. No, you're not a waver. I don't think many men are. Imagine Mike. I think it's all like context. Like it depends on the situation. Like sometimes like, you know, if I'm like walking by someone catching with the side of my eye, I might just be like, you know, like kind of like a, you know, I've done this. Yeah. I've done like, you know, just like catch him by the side. Like I'm walking over to the gym and I just like catch him as I go. I'm like, oh, you know, if I'm on my motorcycle, I'm a wave. Well, not anymore. I got one. I got one hand now. So now I'm like, I know. But even if, yeah, you guys, I think the up, up or the down. What about the weight? You guys agree that like up, up or down is a different context. Like if I see one of my boys at the gym, up is negative. No, if I see one of my boys at the gym, it's like, yo, what's up? And if I see someone that's like, you know, that I don't know super well, if I see them at the gym, be like a nod. Like, hey, up is like, you're my friend. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But up can also be the fuck you. Like, what's up? Down. Fuck you. Fuck you. Fuck you. Down is like, hello, sir. You know? Yeah. But up can be mean and nice. I've never used it as mean. I've used it as mean. Yeah. You're like, yo, what's up? Like before up or down. Up is only bad if you roll your eyes. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Fucking guy. Yeah. Because like, if I see one of my buddies, I'm like, yo, what's up? Yeah. What if you see someone you don't like, you give them one of these? I just don't do anything. You know what the ultimate is? When they nod at you, you don't do anything. You're just like this. Stare at them. You're stone faced. Yeah. I think it depends on how deep your relationship is with that man. For sure. Yeah. If you're serious friends or not. Yeah. If you're serious friends, you're going up. Yeah. I don't down nod my close friends. Yeah. If you're serious friends, Eric. Yeah. Real tree or fake tree for Christmas? Seth's going real tree for sure. You cut one down. You probably cut one down this morning, didn't you? Listen, we went fake this year because SJ is like ungodly allergic to pine trees. Really? Yeah. Fucking everything up. You have a tree up in your house for a while? Yeah. Yeah. Why not? I don't know. You're Aaron. Fucking freeloader. I don't know. I can't picture a Christmas tree. In your house for some reason. What are you talking about? I post pictures like every year on a Christmas tree. I've never, I never noticed. Are you fucking serious? No. I'm going to find one and post it. I'm going to post one tomorrow when this goes up. And tag me. I'll tag you on it. Tag me. Yeah. No, I got Chris. We put, we take Christmas. I fucking posted pictures before, man. I will tell you, I will tell you, I tell you, I'm a cheap fuck and my wife is so mad. When we were at our, the first house we bought together, had this like little living room, but had a vaulted ceiling. So we had like high ceilings, but the living room was fucking tiny. And I bought this fake tree from Costco for like fucking, I don't know, 600 bucks or something like that. And I'm like, fuck, this tree's expensive. But it was like 12 feet high. So I brought it home and I put it up. I'm like, look at this fucking tree. I got you Christmas. And it took up the whole living room. We've had that same tree ever since. No shit. What's wrong with that? My wife's pissed because it's all busted up. It's all you can see. You can see through it in some areas. I'm like, just put stuff there. I'm like, or turn it. Turn it. Did she go on and look at the balsam hill? Yes. And she's been busted. Why can't we get this? I'm like, this is like $3,000, man. Fucking. What's so special about it? Primo. They're really full, Paul. It's like really full. It's like really. They look real. They're really nice trees. But they're expensive as fuck, dude. It's a real tree or a fake tree? Fake tree. Wow. It's a fake tree that looks real. It looks real. I have a fake tree up this year. Last year, I think we did a real tree. Like we've had a fake tree for a long time. But some years, like if we're going to have a lot of people over here and stuff, and Christmas is going to be situated in our home, we'll get a real tree. But like this year, we just put up our fake trees. I didn't think anybody did real trees. Does anybody? Mike? Oh, man. It smells so nice. It's so nice to have trees. Mike, do you have a tree or no? You don't have a tree at all? No. You don't celebrate Christmas? No. Gave up on that. Are you fucking with me? I don't do anything for it. Do you exchange gifts or anything? No, not anymore. Oh, good for you. What do you mean good for you? Why? I get a lot of stress when it comes to shopping. I went shopping today. It's just become about like this pissing contest of who gives the better gifts and gifts. No, that's why you put a limit on it. You're like, look, limit's a hundred bucks. Fucking that's it. You're stressed out still though. I mean, I don't mind going to like Christmas dinners and shit like that. That's fun for me. But I don't need a tree really. Like I liked it when I was little. I loved it. But as I get older, I'm just like, if I had kids, I definitely have a tree because it's like, you know, exciting for them. And, but me living with Kat and my mom, it's like, what are we doing? I think the reason, I think we're doing it, I think we're doing it more for Summer's family more than anything. Well, yeah. That's like, yeah, I don't know. I've got no one coming here and no one's coming by. So it's like. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. See, like we have Melissa's parents coming here for Christmas and like we'll open presents and like do that shit. So we put up a tree and then she's got fucking decorations and wreath on the door and all that kind of stuff. All right. Mistletoe. You got mistletoe up here? No mistletoe. I got them everywhere. Just put your crotch in front of it. Everyone hanging off the hat. I have my hat all the time. How big is too big? Fuck, I wish I had that problem. Yeah. For dicks? Give me that problem. How big is too big? Yeah. I'd like to know whether it would like wins the limit. I think anything over eight is too big. Too big for what? I'm talking about a fucking dick. What do you mean? Yeah, but too big to do what? To fuck a girl with. Well, I don't know. You have to ask a girl. You have to generally enjoy. What do you mean? To jerk off with? You have to ask a girl. I've never been entered before by a penis. I wouldn't. You've never asked a girl? No, I've never asked a girl before. Take it or leave it, babe. It's right here. There's no other options. Nobody else has to get into that like nine pennies. If you want it to be bigger, use your imagination. You're starting to fuck bitches up at that point for sure. Yeah, you will. Seth knows. Seth's like, yeah, you will. Yeah, you will. Yeah, I do. Just trying to be in the ER a few times. What is the lowest amount of money you'd take to knock your mother out cold? Carefully. Your mom's watching. I should just text her and be like, how much money would you need for me to knock you out cold? I don't know if there's any. We'll just split it. I don't think there's any amount of money I could do that. Like, I physically don't think I could do it. Well, you could kill your mother. It'd be a tough hit. Yeah, like, how the fuck? Tough hit. Mom, I say this. It wouldn't have to be that hard. It'd be like that, maybe. I would do it for. If we're getting 10 mil, five each, I'll knock her out. Yeah. Oh, for sure. I think she'd be okay with that. Mom, you'd be okay with that, right? Five mil, you'll take that? Just tell her to take a dive. Tell her to take a dive. Roll with the hit. Yeah, I mean, a 10 mil hit would probably be worth it. I'd probably say that's a solid number. I give my mom five mil. She can fucking. Tax free. Tax free. Yeah. Yeah. 10. How much money would you do? How much would you let me? Money. How much money could I take to knock you out? How much money would we allow me to take to knock you out? A million? That's it. Summer's good for a million. Okay. Summer's good for a million. Hey, mom, you're getting one. I'm keeping nine. Sorry. If you make it through, you're going to get one. I'm a bodybuilder, not a boxer, guys. I'm not going to fuck her up that bad. Hey, speaking of boxer, what did you think of the fucking Jake Paul fight? Jake Paul, Anthony Joshua fight? Oh, it was great. Brooke is dry. I think he could have fucked him up even more. I mean, not the fight was great. It was kind of boring until it actually turned into a boxing match. Yeah. I mean, he ran around until he got tired. He ran around and fell down a bunch of times. Yeah. I mean, he was fucking gassing himself. He's got this big, heavy guy fucking pushing on him and shit. Anthony Joshua. Yeah. I mean, you know, he got tired quick and obviously he was fighting a bigger guy. So he probably came in a bit heavier than he normally does. His cardio probably wasn't priority in his training. You know, it was probably trying to be heavier and stronger and hit harder. And yeah, I mean, he felt what a fucking real heavyweight world champion boxer hits like. I thought that was fucking great in that it's like that, you know, everybody like when they're growing up, like, how long do you think you would last with Mike Tyson? Right. It's like you finally found out like, okay, well, he didn't people are like, oh, he lasted six rounds. Like he didn't really last six rounds. He ran around. He ran around for five and he lasted one. Listen, he got cracked in the fucking jaw and broke his jaw in two places, but didn't come down cold. Like that dude took a fucking hit. Yeah. And he like lands. He's like, oh shit. Yeah. Like, look, if you want to say like he's tough for getting in the ring with him. Cool. But like, but like, I think we all know what, you know what I mean? Like now, you know, like, okay, how long would you last with a pro fighter? Yeah. Not long. As long as you can until you run out of gas. Yeah. As long as you can run around. As long as you can. As long as you stay alive. So in my case, maybe around, you know, I don't think I could even keep running around that long. You know, how much did he make? Like fucking 90 million. 92 million dollars each. It's worth a broken jaw. Each. I think Jake made 90 and Anthony made like 92 or 94 or something. No, no, no. Well, it was supposed to be A-50 50 split. And then, and then, uh, there wasn't something for winning. No, no. I think, uh, what's his face got taxed though. Like $40 million. Yeah. Yeah. He got taxed in, I think they said the UK and the U S. Oh, really? You'll get some of that back though. Yeah. So, and then there was the, uh, Andrew Tate fight. Did you guys say that? God, that was brutal. Yeah. He got fucking laid out and he's supposed to be like, but like, and laid out by like the worst fighter ever. I know. Like this guy's a big, strong, muscular guy. So like, you know, he can do something, but like, he doesn't know how to fucking box. You know? I know. I know. And Tate's supposed to be world-class kickboxer. I know he's been out of the ring for 10 years, but he's always like part of his shit. But when you do watch his kickboxing back, he can't box, you know? Well, it's funny. Cause Joe Rogan's like actually like put his name behind it. Kind of, he's like, he's a good kickboxer, but not a good boxer, you know? Right. But, or was a good kickboxer, decent kickboxer, but his punching and boxing ability was never good. You know? Well, obviously that was on display. Yeah. Holy fuck. Right. I don't know. Not good for the, uh, it's not good. How much, how much would it take for you to get in there and get fucking your job broken by Anthony Joshua? Like what's we're talking about knocking out wives. Now you're taking it from AJ. How much you taking? I get in the ring for $92 million. I don't know. I'm saying what's the minimum. Obviously we'd all do it for 92 million. I do it for way less than that. I do it for a million. Yeah. I said a million today when I was having the conversation. Yeah. I do it for a million dollars. A million is good. Part of it for me would be fun. Yeah. Like, yeah, I get my jaw broken, but it'd be fun to like find out. Yeah. You know what I mean? It wouldn't be fun. It wouldn't be fun. Hold on a minute. It would not be fun. Hold on a minute. Am I getting my jaw broken for sure? Or just how much would it take to get in the ring with it? Yeah. I mean, just get in the ring and see what happens. Yeah. Yeah. I'd do that for a million. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I'd probably get my jaw broken too, but I'd like to find out. Yeah. I think it would be fun, Mike. I mean, it would not be fun as far as pain goes, but it'd be fun finding out. Oh, yeah. It'd be rough, but it'd be worth a million for sure. It'd be for the money for me. Yeah. Just let them hit you right away and drop. Yeah. No, I'm not going to try to run around. First jab down. Because especially later in the fight, when you're more tired, you're more exposed to worse shots. Yes. So like, if I just take it off the fucking hop and like, at least I can prepare for it, just get knocked out clean and that's over with. I could do that. Yeah. Paul, I'm getting fucked up no matter what. Yeah. I would do for a million. Yeah. But we just purely about the money. I wouldn't be curious whatsoever. I think you guys are selling yourself short. It's got to be a few million. A million is good for me. Well, it covers my medical bills and I still fuck up with some money in my pocket. No, no. Medical bills got to be covered. We're Canadian poets. We got that. You got shit healthcare. All right. We'll do one or two more. We'll go. Is Ian coming back to stop Regan from becoming Canada's number one open bodybuilder? Literally the only reason I would come back. Yes. To defend my crown. Yeah. Is Taylor Swift hot? No. Like hot enough to fuck or just hot? In like a porcelain doll kind of way. Like a... Like fucker... He's in a satanic demonic presence kind of way. Yeah. Like I'm sure we've definitely all banged way uglier chicks. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not going to say anything. I just picture her being like the fucking devil. Yeah. Like you bang... You have sex with her once and she's calling you. Do you miss me? Let's make it so long. That's kind of hot though, you know? Where are you? Where are you? Who are you talking to? Oh, fuck. Would you rather be eaten by a shark or an alligator? Shark. Yeah. I'd say shark. I'd die faster. Yeah. Shark. Alligator's going to rip you in half. Yes. It's just going to fuck with you too. Yeah. Try and swallow you whole. Yeah. It's going to grab you and it's going to roll around. Like grass around. Yeah. Twist your arm off. Yeah. Fuck that. I'm just going to bleed out when the shark bites my arm off. Yeah. Bleed out. Just drown. Pizza and cookies or burgers and ice cream for the rest of your life? Burgers and ice cream. Pizza and cookies. Pizza and cookies. Me too. Day number three of asking Fuad to wish my five-year-old son, Callan, Merry Christmas on the podcast. Callan, Merry Christmas, buddy. Merry Christmas, Callan. Merry Christmas, Callan. Yeah. There you go. Okay. What's Paul's red maxing protocol? What? What's your red maxing protocol, football? What is that? Oh, red maxing. The redness of my skin. It's like looks maxing, but red maxing. But red maxing. Usually white. I wear white. Have you guys seen this kid that's like popular on social media now? This clavicular kid? That's like chewing like fucking. The looks maxing kid? Yeah. Oh my God. He's fucking wild. Hilarious. He's baiting everyone. Huh? Baiting everyone. Oh yeah. Why? What do you mean? Yeah. What is this? Oh, that's his whole thing. He's just. This dude just knows how to push buttons and when. Yeah. Push him. He is. Really? He's not dumb. He is. He is killing social media. Yeah. He knows what he's doing. He's funny. Yeah. I got to look into it. Nice. Have you ever tried caffeine pouches? Are they good? Yeah. Raw. Raw's making them now. Really? Raw. We're going to make. We're coming out with a caffeine cognizant. Zin. Yeah. Nice. Yeah. How rough is too rough? Depends on the circumstance. I guess. I'm not going to answer this one. Yeah. Yeah. Tell us. Tap out or black out. Thoughts on guys in their forties and fifties wearing young LA. Well, you're not young. You ain't living in LA. Just yet. Do you, man? Is it Jay with young LA? Jay gets a pass. Jay can. Jay can do any generation. Jay can do whatever he wants. Yeah. Okay. Last question. I got to find a good one here. Would you rather every time you see a pregnant lady, you have to play with her stomach like the bongos until one of her other kids cries or anytime you see someone with a mental disability, you have to copy it. Oh, I'm doing it. Copy it. For sure. Copy it. 100%. Yeah. For sure. Yeah. Because that's fucking funny. Like a lot of the time they're like on board with it. So like, no, they're not. Yeah. They love it. They love that. Don't they love when you make fun of them? A lot of times. A lot of times. A lot of times. Retards like it when you make fun of them. Yeah. It's like, they feel like you can relate to them. You know? It's like, hey, he gets me. He gets me. How many retards do you know? I don't. Yeah. No. Right. Like he's got a fucking. There's five on this podcast. Yeah. Imitating you guys all day. What the fuck? Okay. No. It's like. Yeah. Paul. Yes. Get us off. Yes. Okay. Let us pray. Let us join hands and pray. Dear leader. Well, it's Christmas time. We pray that you fill everyone's hearts with joy. This holiday season. May the magic of Christmas come into your lives and your homes. Your bedrooms. Your offices. Wherever you may dwell. And fill you with joy and presence. I don't want to get filled with joy. You have to make it's Christmas. Oh, God. So in that spirit, you'll tie greetings to all. It's not the best time of year. I'm not that big fan of the winter, as you know. I am. But I am. I do like Christmas for the most part. Working this year, though. That kind of sucks. But doesn't mean time and a half, at least. So a little bit of salt. A little bit of redemption there. But to all those who celebrate Christmas or Hanukkah, whatever else is out there that you might celebrate. Festivus. Festivus. Yes, yes, yes. That's a. Yeah. May you all have a Merry Christmas. And be filled with joy. All right. Merry Christmas, everybody. Filled with joy. Fill you right up. Filled with joy. See you later, boys. Covered in joy. May you be covered in joy and peace. In filth. In pieces. Amazing. . You