 subjected to subjected to grateful. A couple of points. Although the webinar is free, if you can donate, that would be great because it will really help us continue working and continue campaigning. There will be a link at the end of this webinar. You can go straight to our website and go to the donate button at the top of the page, or you can use the link at the end of the presentation. I would be really grateful. However small the donation, it really helps us continue. About us, these are some of the things that we have that go out. We have an information pack people can purchase that has lots of information about thyroid. Our Health Unlocked Online Community is really, really helpful for a lot of people. You can get lots of questions answered. And if you're already experienced in thyroid health, you can help other people. And it's really good that we all help each other. We have social media where we put on various things to help you and some things where you can help us like buying things online and that we might get a little donation from for the company. We have a membership that allows you to have four magazines a year which has articles from various writers, including Melissa. We have an e-news that goes out when there's new things to tell you about. We work with private testing companies so that if your GP can't do particular testing for you, then if you can afford it, you can purchase your own. Melissa is a registered and degree qualified nutritional therapist and registered with the British Association of Nutritional Therapists. She's also a graduate of the Institute of Functional Medicine and a senior clinical supervisor at the College of Naturopathic Medicine where she is currently completing a diploma on naturopathic medicine. She's been practicing for over 15 years which is a really long time and integrates with a medical team that enables her to give a fully integrative approach for all her clients including prescriptive, medical, functional and nutritional medicine. Melissa has a keen interest in hormonal and mental well-being and attends numerous postgraduate courses to keep up to date with the latest scientific findings. She practices in Marilabone and St John'swood as well as over Zoom. She has a wealth of experience providing consulting services to well-being clinics and top health spas looking to set up a nutritional and functional medicine offerings in their packages as well as providing services to their clients. Melissa is able to provide testing for genetics, hormonal and mental well-being along with comprehensive stool testing for microbiome and gut health support. I really believe that the future for thyroid health is genetics and microbiome and nutrition. I always suggest people to test their vitamins and minerals because the thyroid really needs these to be able to work properly and if your gut isn't working properly that can cause issues for your thyroid as well. So I'm really pleased that Melissa is speaking for us today and she has a lot of experience in this and I'm sure it will be helpful for a lot of people. So over to you Melissa. I'm really looking forward to this. Lovely to be here and Lynn thank you for inviting me. So a little bit about me, I have contributed to Thyroid UK for quite a few years now writing different articles and I think Lynn introduced me very well. Thank you very much and more and more I'm seeing lots of clients with thyroid disorders and they're getting very fixated on their thyroid levels and iodine levels and the bigger picture as Lynn explained is not just the thyroid but it's the vitamins and the minerals and the gut and how you live your life and how you respond to stress. Blood tests are very limited so we can't test for everything. So I'm going to discuss genetics today. I believe it's a huge part of a jigsaw and it understands what makes you thrive. So we all want to thrive, we don't want to survive, we want to enjoy life and we want to be able to have the best quality life as possible. So hope you can see this slide just shout out if you can. So this is like a balancing act and it's all about making sure you know everything in moderation was what I was brought up to be told but I actually think you know if you know what to indulge in and enjoy that's better than moderating everything. So one part of the C-sauce especially for thyroid patients is consider other health markers besides the thyroid balance. Yes get your thyroid levels checked regularly but also understand what else is going on as well so it can empower you to make life changing decisions. So swapping foresight for hindsight by studying your genes. Hindsight's a wonderful thing only if we knew that at the time but with genetics now we can. I like to see the analogy is if you're driving in a car and it's all very well looking in your rear view mirror to see what you do differently but let's say for example you're driving in your car and you want to avoid the crashes in life knowing your genetics you can divert them. So that's what I'm going to explain today. So it's not just about genetics it's how you eat, how you live, how you think, how you move, how you exercise, how you sleep. So an example of that would be you could be expert, you could be genetically predisposed inflammation. Knowing that means that you can put yourself on an anti-inflammatory diet, consume certain protocols that will lower your inflammatory response. That's just a quick example but today I'm going to be looking at neurotransmitters so a lot of the time with thyroid it can impact on mood, it can impact our energy, make us feel quite low. So now we have the power to look at what our nervous system is doing. So in other words dopamine is our, we'll talk about that is our reward system, adrenaline, serotonin, garba, sleep, vitamin A and methylation are all essential for vitality, enjoyment, reward from life. So this is what I'm going to be talking through. So there's a newspaper article here from the New York Times and I loved it because it almost looks old-fashioned, it actually looks older than, it looks like say 50 years ago. So genetic code of human life is cracked by scientists and this was just under 20 years ago, just over 20 years ago. The human genome was understood so what makes us, and based on those last 20 years the scientists have been really working out okay, what makes you have blue eyes, what makes you predispose to depression, what makes you predispose to thyroid issues, what makes you predispose to low mood etc. And this is a really fascinating way to look at yourself and understand what makes you different than everybody else which is really important to be celebrated. I think years ago we all wanted to be in the same box but now we understand that there's no such thing really as in the box, maybe for a few people but the variety of differences in personality, in metabolism, in the way we think, in the way we have to thrive is so different and it's just worth celebrating. From my experience when I first started to look at genetics which was about 10 years ago, I really recognized myself and my genetics when I looked at my results and it's really enabled me to make some good lifestyle changes and nutritional changes and really made me understand me much more effectively. So the genomics is the study of DNA which is a really horrible word which means deoxyribonucleic acid. So what happens is in every DNA is your book of life. So in every cell we have chromosomes and they produce DNA and DNA code. They are basically writing our story. They code for genes and genes code for reactions in the body such as creating thyroid hormones, absorbing vitamin A, creating digestive enzymes to help us absorb dairy, to help us get vitamin D into the cell, to help us speed up detoxification. Yet sometimes our genes might be coded differently so rather than incorrectly, differently from everybody else's. So for example if my gene is coded that I'm slow at detoxifying maybe I can't get away with drinking caffeine or alcohol or possibly living in the city. If I can't move out of the city maybe I need to supplement and support my liver much more effectively. How would I know I can't detoxify effectively? Well I might be getting headaches a lot or I might be getting dry skin or dark circles under my eyes or I might get easily stimulated by eating certain foods. It's just one example. So the last 20 years, nutrigenomics has become much of a buzzword and it's all about how genes interact with the environment. What does that mean? The environment could mean nutrition, alcohol, caffeine, drugs, pharmaceutical drugs, recreational drugs, it could mean exercise, so it could mean sugar, it could mean carbohydrates, it could mean fats in our diet. So you could say why can you eat that and look like this and why can I not get away with eating what you eat and look like how I am. And that will unravel all of those factors. So the old fashioned view was I've got a slow metabolism and I'm not disputing that but knowing these facts of what you can do about it is really empowering. So we have two copies of genes which make sense because we come from mum and we come from dad. And if we have two copies of genes that are predisposing us to let's say for example elevated cholesterol we have more of a chance of getting elevated cholesterol versus one copy or we might have a normal gene, normal, I don't like to use the word, let's say a non variant gene, that means that we are not predisposed to elevated cholesterol. And 99.9% of us are the same. It's that 0, 1% difference than each other. That's what makes us unique. And I like to say that's what makes us fly, that's what gives us superpowers. We don't want to be the same. We're all in this world to achieve different mechanisms and that's what creates community. So I think it's really important to embrace our differences rather than see them as a weakness, see how we can optimize them. So I'm going to be talking now about neurotransmitters which is fascinating. So I really enjoy looking at this because sometimes we are a consequence of our neurotransmitters which are basically electric in the body and they fire into these gaps in the brain that creates reward and clarity, drive, motivation, energy and neurotransmitters are essential for influencing mood, memory, relaxation, etc. So I'm going to go through this. So the orange circle, the red circle, the dopamine is really important for reward in life. So that could be a walk in nature and seeing a butterfly and feeling completely unuttered bewilderment and happiness to somebody that just walks through nature and doesn't see the little things or doesn't get the reward from producing a really good project at work or doesn't get as much reward as they need from a loving relationship, for example. So that possibly could mean low dopamine or the opposite of that could be high dopamine where you cannot relax and almost creates a psychotic way of being. So we all need a balance of these three hormones. So I'd like to talk about adrenaline, that's the yellow in the yellow circle. Adrenaline is our fight or flight. It gets us going. So before this presentation, there was a little bit of adrenaline, there's some now because I couldn't get my presentation working. And so utilizing that adrenaline to put into my presentation for my energy, with I had very little adrenaline, I probably would be very low in resilience to stress and might not be able to perform as well due to the technical hitches that I experienced earlier. So adrenaline is really essential. As you can see on that slide, it's good for endurance, but too much adrenaline can lead to anxiety and obsession and inability to sleep. Adrenaline increases cortisol, which is our stress hormone. So if you see on the slides, I'm just going to circle here, you can see long term adrenaline equals cortisol, that equals inflammation, autoimmune and thyroid disorders. And I've done a little research on this. So cortisol can impact hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism by different mechanisms. And then cortisol is our natural steroid in the body. And if we actually decrease our cortisol through too much activation, so too much worry, too much stress, not being able to cope with stress, this creates a fire in the body. Cortisol is an anti inflammatory modulator. So when stress goes up, when cortisol comes up, immune inflammation comes down. So what I tend to see is autoimmune disorders and very low cortisol. So really important, we can't choose our stress in life, absolutely not, but we can choose how we respond to it and we can fuel it through really good sound nutrition. Lastly, in the blue circle, we have serotonin. Serotonin is our happy hormone. It's our relaxing hormone. It helps with sleep, it helps with pleasure. And that's where a lot of the allopathic medicine comes in and antidepressants, SSRIs, serotonin reuptake inhibitors help get that serotonin into the synapse, which is a space in the brain that creates electricity, keeps electric pulsation of serotonin that keeps it in an area to keep us feeling happy. Is it as simple as that? Let's have a look. So this is a confusing pathway, admittedly, but just focus on these blue stepping stones here. These blue stepping stones get you, so this is tryptophan and tryptophan comes from turkey, chicken, banana, oats, avocado, and we need tryptophan to get us to this happy hormone, serotonin. So just focus on the blue for now and interestingly, serotonin breaks down to melatonin. Melatonin you might have heard of too. It's essential for sleep. So if we're not getting enough serotonin, we're not getting enough sleep, which makes sense. So if we're not happy, then usually we haven't disturbed sleep. So here we have a pathway moving away from all of those lovely neurotransmitters to something called chai-eronic acid. And this means this is a real-life client example and this means that you're more predisposed to not getting the serotonin and just moving away from all those lovely hormones. So that's a genetic predisposition. So in this case, this lady was on antidepressants and this is to increase the serotonin. She was on serotonin reuptake inhibitors and she has got, this is a gene here, HTR1A and this means that she's desensitized to serotonin. So it means that she's on this serotonin and it's getting into the circulatory system, but it's not getting into the cell. It's not firing because she's got the predisposition of not being sensitive towards that. So I wanted to share with you some research. So I went off and thought, well, let's look at this gene and let's look at the scientific research which is dated back to 2014. And the reason I'm sharing this with you is how powerful genetics is. Rather than relying on, this is my blood test, this is what I've been recommended, this is what I'm going to do. Sometimes the missing part is the genetics. So 2014, the scientific research concluded people with the exact same genetic variant that I've just shown you on that HTR1 gene next to serotonin are more inclined to have the following side effects when taking antidepressants, specifically serotonin reuptake inhibitors. A greater dry mouth, decreased sexual desire, more instances of diarrhea, increased duration of sleep, which you might think is a good thing, but I'm talking about huge amounts of sleep and exhaustion. And if you can imagine what that would impact, like going to bed for like 15 hours and waking up exhausted, you're going to be craving all the wrong foods and the signaling in the body would be all back to front and addictive tendencies. So this was quite empowering for my client. She took this to the doctors and they had a discussion and she's now on different medication. And interestingly, she is also hypothyroid. Okay, so moving on from that, vitamin A deficiency, is it genetic? Hugely, people who have a genetic variant, this is the gene, so don't worry too much about it, they all have funny little letters and numbers, might have up to a 70% reduction. So if you notice, if you go into the shops later, if you look in your cupboard, if you've got any multivitamins to support thyroid well-being, the highest nutrient usually is vitamin A. Why? Because vitamin A is needed for DNA replication to produce thyroid hormone, to produce the thyroid protein, thyroid globulin in your hormone. And vitamin A deficiency affects up to 30% of us worldwide. Research has found that vitamin A deficiency increases goiter, reduces iodine uptake, reduces conversion from T4 to T3, and increases inflammation such as Hashimoto's. So it's just as important as iodine. So don't be fixated on the iodine gene, not being able to iodine eyes, and don't be fixated on have I got enough iodine. Is my medication working effectively? Maybe look outside of that and look at vitamin deficiencies that actually are needed to build the thyroid, which means that you might be able to reduce your medication or let your medication work more effectively for you. And interestingly, sorry about the typos here, vitamin A is required to absorb vitamin D, magnesium, I can change these slides and send them over, is actually required to absorb vitamin D. So you need vitamin A and magnesium. So here are some of the plant-based vitamin A foods. So what does this mean practically? So the BCO1 gene means that it can't activate these beta carotene, which are almost preformed vitamin A. So what is fully formed vitamin A? Fully formed vitamin A is what the body can utilize and activate. And this is from animals. So this is from found in liver and oily fish mainly. So vitamin A is huge in the liver and huge in oily fish, little bit in nuts and seeds, but mainly you're talking about organ, meats, and oily fish. So if you're a vegetarian and a vegan, and have thyroid issues, then you may want to consider this genetic test. And I'm not saying go and eat a whole load of organ meats, but you might want to supplement with vitamin A rather than beta carotene, which is your plant-based beta carotene. And these beta carotene foods have lots of good properties, which I'm not going to discuss today, but carrots, you all know that old sort of saying carrots improve eye health. That's because of the beta carotene, but if you have this genetic variant, you have up to 70% reduction of producing that vitamin A factor. If you look at eye care products and eye supplements, they all have vitamin A, but the active vitamin A, the retinal. So you've got carrots, cantaloupe melon, apricots. If you think of oranges and yellows, you can't go wrong in topping up your beta carotene or vitamin A. If you eat meat and fish, get some organ meat once a week, some liver, and some oily fish two to three times a week. I want to just introduce you to methylation. It is quite a complicated subject, and a lot of people are more aware of methylation. Methylation for anyone scientific out there is a carbon in three hydrogens. If anybody remembers chemistry or anyone's in the scientific industry, methylation, we all methylate. If we didn't, we wouldn't be here, we wouldn't be living. But if you can imagine, it's a superhighway, that's what I like to think about, that runs through all our body systems, including hormones, the nervous system, detoxification, and cardiovascular. So to put it into context, for thyroid health, sometimes that can switch genes on and off, that makes a difference between converting to T4 to T3, clearing out hormones, producing thyroid hormones, and methylation is essential for protecting us against disease, for example. So because there's so many variables and so many genes, it really helps to understand what pathways need to support us. So this consists of the MTH of Rg, and so this is to do with folate absorption that you get from dark, green leafy vegetables. That's essential for energy, essential to prevent anemia, essential for detoxification, essential for lowering the symptoms of the diagnosis of gout, for so many mental health, and also for thyroid. So methylation is a huge genetic test run across lots of symptoms, and they're linked to Hashimoto's, low vitamin D, low energy, increased allergies, sensitivity, so I know that's me, I sneeze a lot. If I'm in the pollen, I'm in the summer, the pollen and the grass, I'm sensitive to. If I have a lot of high histamine foods, I can get headaches, I can get rashes, so knowing this, I know what to supplement myself with and what foods to increase and what foods to decrease. Also methylation can be linked to inability to clear out cholesterol, inability to absorb magnesium, and much, much, much, much more. So to wrap up, I have discussed the genes that are essential for mood and wellness, and if we're not controlling adrenaline very well, we're going to be increasing cortisol, and that's when it can impact our hormonal health. We have looked at vitamin A and how essential that is for thyroid. People with a vitamin A genetic variant have up to 70% less vitamin A, and that happens to 30% of the population, which is quite a big statistic. And then lastly, methylation, which is our superhighway that switches on and off genes and through nutrition and supplements. Really personalized supplementation where we can check the dosage will help to change the way these genes are expressed, which is really important to state. We can't change the genetics, but it's the environment. That's where you're empowered to change your environment. So breathing exercises, yoga, walking in nature, reducing that stress, changing your diet, taking some key supplements. This can be so life changing. So genetics is just a two minute cheek swab. You get the results in weeks and a couple of weeks, and what you get from myself and my team are precision nutritional support. Coaching is essential. Coaching is everything. We all know what to eat on the whole. And if I provide a report, it's crystal clear, but it's pushing ourselves out of our comfort zones to implement all these fantastic changes. So my contact details, you can find me on my website here at Melissa Cohen.com. I practice mainly in Marily Bone and St. John's Wood. You're welcome to email me and you can find me on Instagram. And I'm offering a 15% discount for all Thyroid UK members for genetic packages for the month of March. Thank you so much for listening. I can't see any of you. All I can see is my presentation. I'm happy to take some time to answer any questions. And thank you, Lynn, for inviting me. Yeah. Okay. That's an excellent question and a very appropriate question. So the deficiencies sometimes, by the time we check them, we're really deficient. So sometimes bloods especially. So the bloods manage homeostasis balance really well. So if you can imagine, for example, magnesium, most of us are women in here today and I'm assuming most of us use magnesium at some point in our lives. Magnesium is one of these minerals that are needed for hundreds of functions every second of the day. Magnesium stored in tissues and bones for bone health helps the muscles, the relaxation, the contraction, the heart. So by the time the magnesium is really low in the blood, we could be osteoporosis, losing magnesium out of the bone. We could be low in energy. So we're really in a bad state. So what genetics gives us is the foresight. So why wait for the deficiency? Let's check in on our symptoms and the symptoms are really important. So let's just say, for example, I'm living in a farm in the Mediterranean, away from pollution, and I've got some genetic variants that means that I can't detoxify very well, but my diet's really clean. Then there's no point testing for that. But let's say I have the genetic variant and I'm getting lots of headaches, which I explained before.  or, and, um, I've got gut issues and, um, I've got cognitive issues, let's say. Then I might want to check that because there's no test really that's that accurate for detoxification. Or let's say I've got low energy and low mood, the classic example that I gave you earlier, you can't really check for neurotransmitters very well. The reason being is because when you, the main check for them is through the urine. So anything through the urine looks at metabolites, which is breakdowns of nutrients. And that's just a snapshot of what's coming out of the system. You don't really know what's active, i.e. what's got into the cell or what's not. Whereas genetics gives you that broader picture of, right, this is what you're predisposed to. So for me, it's inflammation very much. I'm predisposed to inflammation. So I know that if I eat certain foods, I'll get eczema, I might get joint pain. And I don't particularly want to avoid that route or my liver needs support generally. So does that explain it? It's a very precise protocol where don't waste deficiencies. Let's work on ourselves right now. And we can't test everything. I do. And you can get a discount, I think, through Thyroid, UK, Genova. Do that. So what you would want to do, I do do that testing. But you can go through. I don't think that's the be all and end all though, if I'm honest with you. I think don't look at the IO2 Thyroid label. Look at the bigger picture. Look at what your symptoms are rather than your diagnosis. It's so important. Because that's one factor. Just to focus on T4 to T3, you know, is not everything. You want, you know, mood, energy, metabolism, skin, hair, bowel movements. Because the body works in synergy. So DIO2, I'm happily able to help you with, get the test and assess it. But you're only knowing a tiny part, T4 to T3. So yes, you have the genetic variant that you can't get the, you can't access, access the iodine to create that conversion. Also, that gene will say that you can't get T4 to convert to T3, or you might get elevated thyroid hormones in the blood. So your thyroid hormones would look good, but it won't be activated into the cell. So that's what that genetic test is telling you. So based on those results, you, what do you do? You take some T3, or you get off your medication, speak to your doctor and do an iodine test to see if your gene's expressing low iodine and supplement with iodine to see if that normalizes your thyroid. I'm generally, I think, endos don't do the DIO2, but I had somebody come to me last, this week, yesterday, to say that her endocrinologist, her NHS endocrinologist had asked her to do the test, because he felt that she needed some T3. So it seems that possibly some will do that. You need to make sure that you find an endocrinologist that will actually test the DIO2. If that's the answer to your question, is that right? Yes, yes, it does get, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, thank you very much. Would you be so kind to provide the list? I purchased the pack a while ago with the private endocrinologist. You provided that. And I couldn't find any of these contacts to get back or to make the connection. No, we don't put that list in the information pack, because we don't actually deal with the endocrinologists themselves. No, no, no, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. I've said the endocrinologist, GP's. The private GP list I thought was perhaps not. If you can send an email to infoatthyroiduk.org and ask for the list, then Carol will send it to you. Yeah, lovely. Thank you for your time. Much appreciated. Thank you. I will certainly come for the test, Melissa. I will come for the test. Pleasure. Pleasure. Thank you. 100%. Yeah. So this seems to be very much located. Dopamine is our reward center. So people with low dopamine are more inclined to be addicts. And people with elevated dopamine are more inclined to be psychotic. People that have imbalanced very high, very low dopamine tend to be bipolar. So the genetic test that I did an overview of is definitely worth looking at, because it's not only serotonin, but it's dopamine as well. So sometimes it's not just the production of these neurotransmitters, but just how effectively the body is it clearing them out, because we don't want too much. So yeah, that would be a big eye opener, I think for you or any members of your family that would be able for them to understand, well, how can I support the clearance of these neurotransmitters, because I've got so much of them, I'm feeling psychotic or I'm on psychotic medication. It would certainly help. Okay. Charyoenic pathway and thyroid issues possibly because that can be linked to inflammation, which is linked to Hashimoto's. Charyoenic pathway and low mood, definitely, definitely. That's exacerbated by stress. I have a client, a few clients that have long COVID and we look at methylation. So why is it that somebody has long COVID and somebody doesn't? You know, why have you got that? So rather than look at COVID as a respiratory virus, but just look at your, how you're methylating across all the different systems. And that really helps. So rather than try and understand, well, what is the reason for that? Well, just accept that you are different. We're all different. Methylation is really important to be able to help turn genes on and off to support your immune system. The impact of long COVID is trying to do very little to get through the day and trying to make your life more full of vitality. So very much supporting your energy, your mitochondria, if that means anything to you, which is your powerhouse in your cell. And being able to support the metabolism, basically, if that happens to convert micronutrients into energy and all the cofactors that you require, methylation is essential for all of that. So the answer is, yes, the chyrenic pathway 100%. Very much if you're prone to that, stress will exacerbate that long COVID is stress. And why have you got long COVID methylation might unravel and help you get to your get to your healing much more quicker, much more quickly. I'm just going now to the chat, I think, so we can have a look at any questions within the chat. If that's okay, Melissa, we just see how many we can get through. Yeah, lots. Yeah, I'm just trying to. Are you able to insert? Yeah, sure, I'll let you speak. So Valerie is saying, I have already done a 23 and me genetic test. Are you able to interpret it for me regards nutrition advice based on those results? The answer is yes. Quick yes. Okay. The next one is which genetic test company do you recommend or use. I use life code GX. So would we, Andrea says so would we use any genetic tests and Melissa interprets them. So would you would you interpret tests from other companies I think that's what she made. Yes, of course. Of course, yeah. So LH says I agree on the DIO2. I don't have that genetic issue, but I know from a mother who died at 56 from levo and my vastly improved health from being T3 only. DIO2 is not the only issue. Annoyed me that the researchers were all ready to dive down that route as being the answer to the 15% who don't respond to T4. Couldn't agree more. LH I could not agree more. DIO2 is just part of the picture and it's such a bigger picture to do with T4 and T3. We can't just focus on thyroid. Thyroid is important, but it's the bigger picture of what makes us what makes us unique or genetics. DIO2 is just one asset. I think when we when we first saw that research we were thinking, oh, good, this is going to be great. You know, this will help a lot of people. But as time has gone on, I've realized, you know, as I said before genetics, nutrition, microbiome is actually the starting point to look at. I think we are actually going to be working with a generous on a different test and they're going to be doing all of the genetic tests. I think there's about 100 of them. They're doing something like that rather than just the DI. I think they're doing all the DIOs. So, okay, the next one. This as a vegan supplement retinal palmitate. Yes, I find it very confusing on how much is the correct amount. Currently I take 673 micrograms per day, just below the RDA of 700, because I know too much can be toxic, but it's hard to know if this is actually enough or not. What are your thoughts on this, please? My thoughts are you need a test to know for sure. I would say get a genetic profile because if you're not converting, then you might need more than the average person because you might be 70% reduced. But an optimal dose, you've got to be careful with vitamin A. But I would say you're looking at more than 700 micrograms a day. Some people are on 10,000 micrograms a day. So it all depends rather than suggest that I would say definitely get your genetics tested. Don't again just go down the BC01 route, which is the vitamin A conversion route, just like the DI02. Maybe if you can, if budget allows, do a whole genetic test of nutrition and what you need to support your thyroid being a vegan. I think that's really important. Thanks. The answer to that is you're well within range in the fact of you're well below toxicity. I mean, you could get up to 1000 micrograms quite easily and not be too concerned. Okay. So I think that's all there are no hands up. So thank you. That was really, really interesting. And as I say, I'm looking more and more into this. So we may well be doing more articles for our magazine and helping people that way. So thank you so much, Melissa. I'm really good to see you again. It's been a long time. We're hoping to do a conference possibly next year with any luck. Hopefully. You'll be one of the first people I'll be contacting. That'd be fabulous. Love to support you. Okay. People are saying thank you now, which is really nice. Because it was interesting and I think it's going to be helping a lot of people. So thank you very much. And look forward to seeing you again soon. My pleasure. Thank you, everybody. Take care. Bye. Bye. So hopefully everybody found that really useful. Have a good rest of the afternoon. And I look forward to perhaps seeing you again. We're doing another webinar for World Thyroid Day in May. So perhaps we'll see you there. Okay. Thank you very much, everyone. Bye. Thank you.