 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected When I was first diagnosed, I think it was 12 or 13 years ago, I was very lost and confused. I didn't even know that I had Hashimoto's and I came across lovely Lynn and the Thyroid UK website and the forum and it has just changed everything for me. I got all the information I needed to properly, you know, take charge of my health and work out my next steps in my own healing journey and none of that obviously led me to what I do now. So Lynn, thank you for that. I'm very excited to have you here today. Thank you very much. If you can perhaps I've done a little bit of an intro but maybe you can start by telling us a little bit more about yourself and Thyroid UK. Well, Thyroid UK started really because I was so poorly. I was really ill for 15 years. I was diagnosed with fibromyalgia at the time and I had a lot of pain, painful back, painful legs, painful hips, painful everything and I also had a lot of vertigo which was really, really horrible, horrible, horrible and I didn't know what was wrong. The doctors didn't know what was wrong. I was sent to all different kinds of specialists who said there was nothing wrong. So one morning I woke up and there was a lump in my neck and I thought, oh, that doesn't look good. So rushed to the doctors and they then sent me to the hospital and it turned out it was a lump in my thyroid and at that point they didn't know whether it was cancer or not. And even the test I had pre-the operation was inconclusive. So I didn't know until after the operation that it wasn't cancer so that was good. They then put me onto 200 micrograms of Levoxeroxine. Well, by that point I started reading and sort of understanding that I felt I've had this all this time. I've had an underactive thyroid for 15 years and I thought I don't want to take 200 because I think that's going to be too much for me. So I didn't take 200, I took 100. But then when the nurse came she made me take the other 100. Oh my god. After three days I went thyrotoxic. I was so ill. And it was at that point I think I thought, okay, not sure they know what they're doing with my thyroid. I'm going to take control and that's what I did. I cut it right back and slowly, slowly my symptoms went away, not completely because I think too much damage was done. But I've always said I was about 95% better than the things I can't do because of my back. But it was amazing. And I started writing letters to people and then I found some people to help me and I went on to BBC Health Watch programme and they came to my house and filmed me here. And when that went out I was absolutely inundated with people who were having the same issues. And then it just snowballed from there on and it became, we had a committee first and then we became a charity and then somebody donated money for the office at the bottom of my garden. And it just went from there really and it's just been so busy. Word of mouth, you know, we did a website obviously and people found us. I'm still surprised though some people have never heard of us before because we've been around a long time. And that's how it started really. So I'm really glad I did because I think we've helped a lot of people, you know, they've got self-included. And it's really, I love the fact that, you know, people find us and actually get, if only partial health because of the things I'm going to talk about later, they do, you know, they do improve somewhat and in some cases completely. So yeah. Right now you are doing, you have been doing an absolutely invaluable job and I think so many people have been helped because really what we all need as a start is knowledge, right? When you to know what we can do. Yes, perhaps a little bit more would be good, but then knowing the awareness of what could be done and what potentially could be behind your diagnosis is key. So yes, thank you again on my behalf and everyone else because it's just an amazing and important work that you're doing and you're right. It's interesting that people are still struggling sometimes to find you because I do speak to all my clients about, you know, resources available and what's out there and your charity comes up quite often and some of them, yes, have heard of you, but some of them just know, but I think that might be due to the overall information overwhelm. There is just so much out there. There is and not all of it is really good quality information. You have to be careful when you go and some organisations, I mean, I remember at the time, the Bish Syroid Foundation had very basic information. They didn't dig down into nutrition or other treatments and things like that. So whereas we do, we have a lot of information that we usually tell people to take one article at a time, you know, because you get brain fog in the beginning. We have an information pack that has separate articles and I say just with one, get that first understanding first and then read the next one. So how do you, if you can just give us an idea of how you help people, what sort of, when someone finds you, what sort of help they can expect? Well, as I say, we have the information pack that has a lot of information in it. They can purchase that and that has sort of things in there that you can make notes with as well. And people like to have paper to, you know, tangible to look at and make notes on. We also have our website, but we're in the process of redesigning that to make it a bit easier for people. Every day I go on to social media and I answer all the questions that are on there either directly to me or I read the comments just to make sure there are no queries in the comments. So that's how we help people like that. But we also do, we have, have some lot forum, which is our online community. There are hundreds of thousands of people on there. Yeah, this is where I first kind of started. Before even I read any articles, I was just reading various posts and the threads were like so long and so much invaluable information about like, and obviously like NDT, so the natural thyroid options and supplementation options and like all sorts of else, just like my mind, just, just, it can, it can, there's a lot of information on there. So again, you have to take it easy. Yeah. We also help people by letting them access private testing and private doctors and practitioners because the next test is so strapped. And I know not everybody can afford these things, but for those that can, it's been a lifesaver because they get better quite quickly then. Private doctors tend to look more open-minded at thyroid disease and understand how she motos more and understand that different treatments work for different people. And obviously the practitioners that we have on our list look at the nutritional side of things because people don't understand that we really do have to eat properly to, for your thyroid. It's really, really important. Yeah, I was about to ask you one of my questions was about your insights and because obviously that's what I specialize exclusively now and I'm very, very proud to be on your recommended practitioner's list as well. And I just deal with women really with thyroid issues at this point. And obviously I can see they end out what, how lives get changed like literally. And but from your experience, would you think lifestyle, do you think nutrition or do you think medication is more important? What are you? I think first of all, nutrition is really important because if you don't eat properly that can then go on to autoimmune diseases and not care for them. Hatchimoto's is about 90% of the cause of an underactive thyroid. And people obviously there's a lot of vegetarians that come to me on vegans and they think they're eating properly. But in fact they need iron more than they think. The thyroid needs iron and lots of other things as well. Yeah, protein. Yeah. Yeah. So that's really, really important to make sure that you eat properly. And I know a lot of people, it's cheaper to buy the processed foods, but they don't help your digestive system, they don't help your thyroid because there's so many chemicals in a lot of them. Yeah. So it's better to eat fresh fruit and vegetables if you can and more than probably you're eating. Yeah. Yes. Not for a five a day is enough to be honest. That is very true. I always go on about green leafy vegetables. And to be honest, naturally we wouldn't be eating those because even when we follow recipes we know it's not there. But I always say just check it in. Whatever you're eating just add a handful of greens and that all you know. Yeah. Yeah. I make sure you get good quality as well if you can. I know the supermarkets, we don't know how long they store these things in fridges. You know, I don't know about you, but I can buy some fruit and it's rock solid and you think it's going to ripen and it just doesn't and it goes off while it's still rock solid. Yeah. Especially, no, I agree. And I think that it's a very valid point that you raised with vegans and vegetarians is and obviously if someone is eating like that for ethical reasons, then you know, that's a completely different story. But so many people come to me saying they switch to veganism to fix their thyroid. And that is like, you know, the opposite of what you should be doing. I'm not saying eating meat three times a day, but you need to really have a balanced diet because that is the starting point of anything. Yeah. A lot of people don't realise that soy, the thyroid doesn't like it. It's not good too much soy. So if you're eating all soy products a day one, that's not going to be very helpful. Yeah. Soy milk as well. You know, they do have to be careful. So, well, there's that and there's, you know, you need to be aware if it's in your family. The older generation didn't tend to talk about their thyroid condition. So families don't know that their grandmothers have it. It's never been a big deal, right? It's always, you know, kind of, there's nothing really wrong with you. Just take it. In those days as well, they were given natural thyroid hormone. So they weren't ill with it. But nowadays, you know, liver, thoraxin doesn't suit everybody. People particularly who've had a thyroid accident, you like myself, you need the addition of the other thyroid hormone in my family. So there's that kind of thing. I deal with a lot of people who don't feel well on liver, thoraxin. So I have to explain all about the other hormone that might be useful. Well, perhaps it's a good time now to maybe chat about that. And I wanted to ask you about NDT in particular, and your views on that and also T3. And I know that you have a little campaign that you're quite, quite excited about at the moment than I am also. So if you can, if you can tell us more about that. Yeah, I mean, years ago, when I first started out, one of the things that I found out was that private doctors were prescribing T3 or some private doctors. And it was really helping and NDT too. And the NDT was originally given. And so I worked hard to get GPs to prescribe it and they were. And then the manufacturers put the price way up. So it went up by 6,000%. And then like Jesse England stopped it. Yeah, they stopped prescribing, allowing prescriptions of it. Even though the guidance did say for some people, it's useful. The CCGs then ignored that part and put a ban on it. So everybody, including myself, I was on NDT and T3, I was taken off just like that. And so were a lot of other people. And so we've been campaigning even harder. We've been working with other charities as well. We've had meetings with NHS England. But it still didn't work. CCGs were still stopping or they were reducing the amount people were allowed to have. So this is ongoing. And we've just had more meetings because they're going to refresh the guidance. And we are hoping that this will make it plainer that it's not CCGs anymore. I don't know if people are aware, they've changed to what's called integrated care boards now. And they're going to take over the same roles. So we're hoping that they will allow prescribing of T3 because it does really, really help a lot of people. There's a gene that stops people's bodies being able to transfer it over into thoraxine. So there needs to be more research done on that. There is one in the background, they're trying to get funding for it. So good way. But NDT works for an awful lot of people, but it's very, very difficult to get it on the NHS now. Because NDT has T4, T3 and other things we've been in as well. And that comes from pig slimes. And that, so maybe we can just, maybe you can just repeat that for everyone, just what exactly it stands for and what it does as opposed to. Yeah. And NDT stands for natural desiccated thyroid. And it comes from pig slimes, although you can also get them from cows. And it's all processed into a tablet. So it has all the things that go into a thyroid, everything that's needed. And that comes in what's called grains. And one grain is roughly the equivalent to 100 micrograms of ligothoraxine. Some people do really well on it. Some people don't. It's all trial and error, I'm afraid. Yeah, I was about to say that although for some it might be a life changing switch to switch to NDT, but for some it's not that holy grail of the medicine. I tried, interestingly, I tried NDT myself and I felt the same. But then when I tried it, I was already at the point when I felt okay, I managed my own symptoms more via diet and other means lifestyle change. So I just felt exactly the same. And I just thought I was buying it privately and I was like, well, there is no point in spending all this money. But I know that for some people, especially for the energy levels, it's just such a game changer. Like it literally changes. Yeah, but you can't get it on the NHS at the moment. And that will be our next campaign. Yeah, we're only a small group here. We can't take on too much. Definitely. But so where are you now with the 3T3? Is it something that you think is likely to happen We hope so. I mean, we've put in with some other groups, we've put in feedback to this guidance. And we've actually explained to them that it's costing them more money now. Because the price has come down, what they did was they made it so that GPs can't prescribe it initially. You have to go and see an endocrinologist. Okay. And so then the endocrinologist can either prescribe it or pass it over to the GP. The CCGs aren't allowing it to be passed to the GPs mostly. And an appointment with an endocrinologist is far more expensive than an appointment with a GP. So now that the price of T3 has come way, way down, that's cheaper, but it's costing the NHS more money because they're sending everybody to an endocrinologist. And sometimes patients have to see them four times a year to get an epistepistons. So that's what we're now feeding back. GPs were happening prescribing it before all this happened. And so I think they should be allowed to prescribe it again. And if they don't want to, then pass the patient to an endocrinologist. And also, were they also saving money? You know, people when they don't get their answers, they don't feel better, they keep coming back, they keep trying something else. So there are referrals to other specialists potentially, right? Because there is just a similar variable. Like there is, you know, it could be literally anything when we think about it. So fortunately, there's no data. We tried to find some data on how much it costs the patient who's been taken off of T3, but is now ill going back to the doctor more often, but they don't collect that data, unfortunately. Yeah, of course, they don't. So yeah, that is very frustrating. But you know, well done for getting that far. And I think it sounds like definitely there is hope and hopefully the same for the entity, because at the moment, the only way to buy it is on a private prescription, isn't it? And they're very expensive. Still potentially for those for whom there is obviously in the budget and available worth trying. But would you agree that that would be like a second stage in the journey? So first, so tell your nutrition, find out food intolerances, work on all of that. And if you don't feel better, then consider private treatment. Yeah, yeah. You know, in that order. Because that's what I think. From what stage you're at, really, I mean, if you've not been diagnosed, then definitely check your nutrition. Yeah. If you've already been diagnosed and you're on leave like the Roxin, check your nutrition, but also get tested for your T3, which the NHS can't do. So you would have to pay for private testing and a test for iron ferritin, all those other things that make a difference. Yeah. For me, the models misdiagnosed, not not not not diagnosing Hashimoto's or not even some GPS recognizing that as a as a thing. It just mind just blows my mind. I would say most people that I see have hypothyroidism and a lot of them just statistic confirms itself. I would say up to 90% of them do have Hashimoto's. But they have no clue. And if they do, it's because obviously they've done private testing or they've done it for me. That's right. You know, sometimes they take it to the GP and then GP is very dismissive. And some of them, I have to give credit where it's due. Some of them are excellent. And I've even had GPS testing for antibodies and T3. Funny enough. So, you know, some of them. That is good. Yeah, which I'm always impressed. But that's always an exception. Most unfortunately, even some specialists are just like, well, you know, I was never tested. But I think I did because my sister had gravesties. So I think there's probably a connection, an autoimmune connection there within the family. Yeah, yeah. But even if like, say, patients go to their GPs, say, well, I've got Hashimoto's and I'm still poorly, can I just go? So yeah, I know. It's just like someone at one point, I don't know if it was a specialist or a GP, but said to one of my clients that is the same. Hypothyroidism is literally Hashimoto's. So it's you can use it interchangeably. It doesn't change anything. And I know that on some level that it's true because they don't have a cure. There is you need to know what you're dealing with. You need to know what is happening in your body. Yeah, it's absolutely crazy. But then, you know, I mean, stress is quite a big thing for kicking off the bone you see. So try and calm stress down if you can. Yeah, that is something I've been recently talking about a lot. The nerves, the impact and past traumas and stresses that our body still holds. That can be a trigger, but also can just drive the whole unfortunately going through this condition in the UK can be stressful in itself in terms of frustration. And you know, and also the areas that literally some areas will allow prescribing of T3. It's a real postcode lottery. And that's what we're pushing with NHS England, because there's not supposed to be a postcode lottery in any condition. Yeah, any treatments, but there is. So we're pushing for that. Fingers crossed fingers crossed. I really hope to, you know, we'll see it soon because that is definitely definitely needed. So if you want to tell us what sort of in terms of like, who you help obviously we've talked about Hashimoto's hyper, but also hypotry, but also hyperthyroidism, right? So people with disease would find some helpful information on your website. That's right. Yeah, we have some information on hyperthyroidism. People ask me why there's not so much information, but that's because most people who have hyperthyroidism eventually end up with hypo. And that's when a lot of the issues start, you know, you need to T3, you need to make sure is that your nutrition is right. So we do help initially, we have information about people that have hyperthyroidism. And some other, there are other conditions. Yeah, people to Choro vanes thyroiditis, there's other thyroiditis is that's on our website, you know, if they want to look at that. And we help basically, we don't really help children, but we have information about congenital hypo thyroid. But we help the age range that we help is right from 18 to 80, really. It can affect anybody, any age, any gender, yeah, and any people from any country, you know, but treated better in some countries than others on a stone. I think so in Europe, generally speaking, I find that it's just a little bit better. It's more the information is there and the awareness is not necessarily, you know, ideal, but not everyone is treated and diagnosed as they should be, but it's definitely more common than in the US, I think the awareness seems to be better, but still people struggle so much. So it's a bit of a rumbling. And what sort of topics if someone wants to go on to your website, what sort of topics do you talk about? Is it examples of issues that people can find answers to? Well, our website, especially the new one, it comes under different topics. So there's an area for people who haven't been diagnosed yet. There's an area for people with hypothyroidism, one for hyperthyroidism, and there's one called related conditions, and that includes the other kind of thyroid diseases, nutritional, especially B12 deficiency. Yeah, no, so. Because the link there is autoimmune disease, because when you've got one, you're likely to get another one. So there's quite a lot of information about B12 deficiency and commission's synemia. Iron. Yeah, yeah. There's information about iron and ferritin, and what they are, because iron is one thing. Ferritin is your iron store. And you think if you've got some ferritin, it's fine, but you know, there is a level that you really need to have as a backup. So people have never heard of ferritin before they come to our website often. And there's things like that. There's odd articles about things like ADHD, and there's a possible link with that. It's very interesting. I've got a, not like a very developed one, but I definitely have a mild version of ADV. And I was, again, mind blown when I read about thyroids and ADHD link. It's pretty, yeah. There's information on there about Candida. There's not an awful lot of information about Candida out there anyway. Yeah. They used to be in the 70s and 80s. There was quite a lot of information, but there's not so much now. So we couldn't write very much about that. Things like that, just odd bits of information. I've seen quite a lot as well on ADHD and pregnancy. That's right. We have an area in the new website. There's a whole area about fertility and pregnancy. And I mean, it's really, really, really important. As soon as you, if you're hypothyroid, as soon as you think you're going to become pregnant, there's a possibility that you're just a couple of weeks, you need to get your levels tested because you need, baby needs more, so you need more. Otherwise, there could be repercussions for the fetus or the baby when it's born. So that's super important to read that if you're thinking about becoming pregnant. Yeah. Thank you for sharing that. A lot of doctors aren't aware, unfortunately. I know. And they definitely, there is now not enough information out there. So, very important. Okay. So I was wondering if you could maybe give some advice to lovely people watching on how to speak to their GP about perhaps, I don't know, adjusting their dosage, for example, because you know how we talk about TSH, for example, when it's in the norm, but actually it's like four and a half or something, or like three and a half. How, because obviously you deal with a lot of GP's, you campaign on all of this amazing stuff. How a person that's been, you know, they've been still feeling not great, that the blood results are not ideal. What can they do? Well, that wasn't an endocrinologist. He's retired now. He's not working now. Dr. Toft, he wrote something in a little booklet that's really old now, but he maintained that most people don't feel better until their TSH is down at one or even below one. So that's what we tell most people. The thing is, when you don't have thyroid disease, nobody knows what your TSH level was or your FT4 level, it's quite possible that it was down at one. Then when it goes up, you're diagnosed, you're put on treatment, and a lot of doctors will only make you go to the middle of the range, and therefore that is not your normal. That is very true. That's a great way. Nice state in their guidance that GP's can treat patients anywhere within the range to resolve their symptoms. So usually what I have is I've highlighted particular areas in the nice guidance and there's another set of guidance for T3, highlighted areas that people can print off and take to their GP and have a discussion. But whatever you do, be firm, but don't be aggressive because that doesn't get you anywhere with GP's. Sometimes it helps to take another person with you, like your partner, who knows you all the time and can say, well, she's still not back to normal. What can we do about this? Is it possible that an increase would help? Be very diplomatic about it, and in most cases they'll try with an increased dosage of T4. And that's in the actual nice guidelines because if it is...  to the point that resolves the symptoms, that means that people can use that as an actual leverage there. And there is also something that's worth noting on the same subject of something being as a nice guideline, as a recommendation, and that is testing for Celiac. If people have been diagnosed with Hashimonos, GPs, they should be testing for Celiac as a standard, so we shouldn't have to do it privately. That's fine. We shouldn't, but I think with Celiac you have to not have eaten anything for so many weeks before you test, so be aware of that. If you're going to go to your GP and ask for the test, it's quite difficult to get a GP appointment anyway at the moment, isn't it? So try not to make it so that you've got to go back again. That is very true, but it's just amazing how much stuff is out there that is actually in the guidelines anyway, but because we're aware of it, we're not asking for it. I'm sure that's not the case anymore, but T3 was available on something that was called patient-named basis, and they could prescribe it, but is that not, do you know, if that is not the case anymore? It's not really the case anymore because CCGs are there to make the decisions, well, it would be ICBs now. So technically you are supposed to, but it would be a long, long fight to do it. It's better to try a different way if you can. Well, hopefully that will soon change. Okay, so just dropping up slowly, but we've covered a lot, but if you were to give one final piece of advice for someone, let's say someone who's just been diagnosed. So let's say they just went for the regular blood test and the T4 came up as elevated, let's say around five, what obviously got put on you with the ROC saying immediately, what advice would you give them? I think definitely research, don't accept that this pill will change everything because it may not for you. So, and then if people think that and then they're still not well, it causes depression and then it's a whole thing going on. I always tell people, get a notebook, write down what your previous test results were for your thyroid that caused you to be diagnosed, and then what they'll do is when they put you on medication, then ask you to go back in sometimes six weeks, sometimes eight weeks, sometimes a bit longer, and then to do another test. Write down every single test, they can go onto our website and print off, there's a massive list of symptoms. That symptom list isn't to say everybody's going to get those, but you might get some of them, tick them off, and I always say, mark it, rate it as 0 to 10. And then when you have your next test, do the same, mark it again, you can see which ones have disappeared, which ones have got better. So it's like a diary of your thyroid symptoms. That's a really good idea, especially with the brain fog. Yeah, yeah. It's easy to forget. Yeah, and then you can go back to your GP each time and say, well, these ones have improved. These ones haven't. If they continue not to improve, then you need to start looking at T3. Yeah, yeah. Have a chat with your GP first and ask for a referral because that's the only way at the moment you can get T3. So we're going to take in those guidance on our website and it's called Remox. So it's RMOC guidance for lyothyramine. And you can come to me and I'll send you the highlighted ones. Take that and have a discussion with your GP might help to take someone with you. Yeah, depending on how helpful your GP is. So that's, you know, just make a note of everything so that you can see at some point where you feel best in your levels. Yeah. And then because some things can come along, you know, you may be put onto a different type of medication that interferes with your thyroid medication and your TSH might go up. And then you might need an increase in dosage to go back to where you felt best. And if you know where that is, then it's a fairly simple thing to do. Yeah, it's very true. Thank you. That's an excellent, it's like an excellent plan really step by step. So yes, sharing that in comments we might put that resource that you've mentioned. Yeah, people can easily easily find it. Amazing. Thank you so much for that. So if people wanted to support your charity, how can they, how can they do that? Well, they can support us by donating. That's how we really need funds because people don't realize we look very big out there. There's just three of us in the office. I thought you were going to close the whole, you know, huge office someone. Yeah, we have someone doing the finances. Then there's me that does everything, all the writing and everything. And then there's my PA that does everything that I can, if I can manage to pass it on to her. And that's the social media as well. So we do need funds. And you can just simply go to our website, which is www.fyroiduk.org. And on the top right, there's a donate button. Okay, just simply need to push the button. And then it will come up with different amounts that you can donate from very small, and then you can choose another amount. So that would be really helpful. We're trying to raise funds to move to a proper office because the office at the moment is the bottom of my garden. And I need to retire at some point. I'm 68 now. Sorry, it's just not. Unfortunately, no. I don't plan. I'd like to retire or cut back at 70 really. So we need a proper office that I can travel to to work rather than have people. Obviously, I've got people in my house all the time because they have to use my facilities here. So that would be good and, you know, donating to us would really help that. And it would help us to help other people, you know, at some point in your life. There may be someone that's really close to you that gets thyroid disease. A friend, a relative daughter, do you know. So helping us will eventually help them. It's very, very important message. And you have a magazine as well, right, that people can. Sorry, I forgot about that. We have a membership. Yes. And if you join our membership is classed as a donation. So for those people that are working, we can also add gift aid to that. You can take a box of gift aid and you get four magazines a year. All different kinds of things in especially about nutrition. I think some articles for you. Definitely nutrition advisor. Yeah. We keep you updated about the T3 campaign. And lots of other things as well. Is that is that something that's. There is 22 pounds, 22 pounds a year. It's not very much if you spread it over. Or there's if you're not working. I can't remember. I think it's 17 if you're not working. Yes, affordable for people. Yeah. And also you get first tips if you like for when we do a conference so you get the first opportunity to join a conference. Oh, lovely. That's that's amazing. And tell us finally how, lastly, how, how, how people can find your visit there is a website. So go to the website. And there's a contact us page on the website. And there's different areas for depending on what you want to ask, you know, if there's queries, it's one thing. You want to join it's something else and various things like that. Or you can send an email to enquiries at thyroid UK.org. Okay, yeah, we're going to put that in comments as well. There's a telephone number but because we're so small and so busy at the moment. Unfortunately, it gets put on a pile for me to bring back so it's much quicker to get answers by email. Okay, that's good to know. And there is also Instagram page where people can. Yeah, we have Instagram, we have Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and obviously our forum. It's on health and locked isn't it? So yeah, yeah, so that's quite a long so it's. Health and locked up com slash. Yeah, I would you. But I think it pretty much comes up when you Google if you just Google thyroid UK forum. Yeah, brings it up. I find it highly recommend the forum. Just to get a little bit of the community feel because this is what I obviously aim to create as well of my programs and the mailing list and my Instagram page, the sense of, you know, you're not on your own. There are other people going. Same exact same thing as you. And I think that's for just serves to wonderful, wonderful role in just. We also have an emus, but again, I mean it's regular but it's not all the time because I don't have time but we will be sending one out as soon as we know what NHS England are doing about the T3 thing. And again that's on the contact us page on our website to join the news. All right, well thank you so much. Thank you so much for having me all information that you provide and everything that you do. Thank you for joining me today it's been an absolute pleasure and an honor to have you here. Thank you so much for having me. Thank you so much help you survive the rest of the day in this crazy. Okay, thank you. Bye.